-- Morgan Stanley, ‘Anonymous,’ Dynegy, BofA, GE in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-12T10:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/morgan-stanley-anonymous-dynegy-bofa-netjets-in-court-news.html
William Bryan Jennings, the  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-underwriting chief accused of stabbing a  New
York  cab driver of Middle Eastern descent over a fare, pleaded
not guilty to assault and hate-crime charges.  Jennings’s lawyer, Eugene J. Riccio, entered the plea on
his client’s behalf March 9 before  Connecticut  Superior Court
Judge Robert L. Genuario in Stamford. Jennings wore a blue suit,
white shirt and patterned tie to the proceeding, which lasted
less than a minute. He and Riccio left the courthouse without
speaking to reporters and drove away in a pickup truck. His next
court date is April 12.  Jennings, 45, is accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed
Ammar, on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade and using racial slurs
after a 40-mile ride from New York to the banker’s Darien,
Connecticut, home. The hate-crime count brings the same five-
year maximum prison sentence as the assault charge.  Jennings, who had attended a bank holiday party at a
boutique hotel in  Manhattan  before hailing the cab, refused to
pay the $204 fare upon arriving in his driveway, the driver
said. Jennings said “he did not feel like paying” because he
was already home, Ammar, 44, told police. The banker offered to
pay $50, he said. Jennings told police Ammar demanded $294 and
he offered to pay $160.  Ammar, a native of  Egypt , said that after the banker
refused to pay, he backed out of the driveway of the $3.4
million home to seek a police officer. Ammar said he had tried
to call 911 but was hampered by poor mobile reception in the
wealthy Fairfield County suburb.  The banker called him an expletive and said, “I’m going to
kill you. You should go back to your country,” according to the
police report. A fight ensued as they drove through Darien, and
Jennings allegedly cut Ammar, police said.  Jennings said the driver cut his hand trying to grab the
knife from him, which he said he wielded because he feared he
was being abducted, possibly back to the city. Ammar denied he
tried to take Jennings back to New York.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, said March 2 that Jennings has been put on leave.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  For more, click here and here.  ‘Anonymous’ Hacker Won’t Face Prosecution for Gun, Marijuana  Hector Xavier Monsegur, the hacker cooperating with a
government probe, won’t face prosecution for several alleged
offenses, including attempted drug-dealing and computer crimes
dating to when he was a teenager, according to his agreement
with the U.S.  The plea agreement, made public March 9, says Monsegur, 28,
won’t face federal charges for hacking the website of an online
casino, trying to sell four pounds of marijuana in 2003 and one
pound in 2010, receiving stolen property, and gun possession.  The U.S. also said Monsegur won’t be prosecuted for using
an employer’s credit card to make $15,000 in unauthorized
charges. The government said Monsegur’s hacking activities date
back to 1999. Some of the alleged criminal acts are too old to
be charged or are outside federal jurisdiction, according to the
agreement.  Monsegur, a former member of the Anonymous, Internet Feds
and LulzSec hacker groups, began secretly cooperating with U.S.
investigators after his arrest on June 7, according to a court
transcript. After his arrest, Monsegur began working “around
the clock” to inform on his colleagues, prosecutors told a
judge.  Prosecutors said in the agreement that Monsegur faces
possible retaliation from the targets of his cooperation and may
require federal witness protection.  Monsegur, who pleaded guilty Aug. 15, began cooperating
with U.S. authorities, including Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents, after his arrest, Assistant U.S. Attorney James Pastore
told U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  at a court hearing in
August, an unsealed transcript shows.  Monsegur was charged with computer crimes by U.S.
prosecutors in five districts in four states, court records
show.  The case is U.S. v. Monsegur, 11-cr-666, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Dynegy Transfer of Coal Assets Was Fraudulent, Examiner Says  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) ’s transfer of coal-fired  power plants  from a
unit it later put into bankruptcy was fraudulent and harmed
creditors, a court-ordered investigation found.  “Throughout the planning and execution of the prepetition
restructuring, the Dynegy Inc. board favored paths that
benefited Dynegy Inc. and its stockholders to the detriment of
Dynegy Holdings and its creditors,” examiner Susheel Kirpalani
said in report filed March 9 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Poughkeepsie, New York.  Dynegy, based in Houston, put units including Dynegy
Holdings LLC into bankruptcy in November with a restructuring
agreement backed by a group of bondholders including Franklin
Advisors Inc. and Avenue Capital Group, according to court
documents. Kirpalani, a lawyer at  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP (496224L) , was appointed in January to investigate a
reorganization that took place before the bankruptcy.  The bankruptcy filing came after bondholders sued the
company over the reorganization, saying it moved assets out of
their reach to benefit shareholders of the Dynegy parent,
including billionaire  Carl Icahn .  Dynegy had opposed naming an examiner, saying it was an
attempt to gain negotiating leverage over the company.  The boards of both Dynegy and Dynegy Holdings “take the
examiner’s findings seriously and intend to review the full
report, once it is made available, to determine its impact,”
the company said March 9 in a statement.  Katy Sullivan, a Dynegy spokeswoman, declined to comment
further in a telephone interview March 9, saying the company’s
lawyers haven’t yet been able to read the entire report.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  For more, click here.  BofA Accuses MBIA of Harassment in Fight Over CEO Deposition  Bank of America Corp.  asked a judge to block Chief
Executive Officer Brian Moynihan’s deposition in  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s
lawsuit against the bank, accusing the bond insurer of
harassment.  MBIA’s attempt to depose Moynihan is intended to impose
“unnecessary burdens” on Bank of America and the CEO, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender argued in seeking a
protective order to block the deposition.  “We have evidence this effort to depose Brian Moynihan is
for harassment purposes,” Jonathan Rosenberg, a lawyer for the
bank, said March 9 at a hearing in Manhattan. “It is clearly
disruptive to Bank of America’s business.”  MBIA sued Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit in
2008 over mortgage loans. MBIA agreed to guarantee payments to
investors that bought securities backed by pools of the lender’s
loans, which MBIA claims didn’t live up to their promised
quality.  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, said in court papers that
Bank of America’s request for a protective order is
“frivolous” and called Moynihan an appropriate witness with
knowledge relevant to the company’s claims.  New York State Judge Eileen Bransten didn’t rule on the
dispute at the hearing.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  MBIA’s Brown Conducted ‘Improper’ Stock Trading, Lawyer Says  MBIA Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jay Brown conducted
improper stock trades, a lawyer for banks suing the insurer
alleged in a Manhattan federal court hearing.  Brown started buying MBIA stock in November and December
2008 after learning New York’s insurance regulator had changed
its view about a restructuring of the company, Robert Giuffra, a
lawyer for the banks, said at the hearing March 9.  When the restructuring was announced, the stock “popped,”
Giuffra said, adding: “That trading was improper.”  Marc
Kasowitz , a lawyer for MBIA, called Giuffra’s claim
“irresponsible.”  After the hearing, Giuffra, a partner at Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP, declined to elaborate on his accusation. Both
sides were in court over a dispute regarding the exchange of
evidence in lawsuits filed over the 2009 restructuring.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Cantor Fitzgerald Sued by Pension Fund Over BGC Debt Deal  Cantor Fitzgerald LP was sued by a pension fund investor in
its BGC Partners unit over debt and stock offerings that it
claims enriched Cantor’s Chief Executive Officer  Howard Lutnick 
at the expense of shareholders.  International Painters and Allied Trades Industry Pension
Fund said that the company made a $150 million debt transaction
at an “unfair  interest rate ” that diluted the shareholders’
stock, according to a complaint filed March 9 in New York State
Supreme Court.  BGCP (BGCP) , then known as eSpeed Inc., was spun off as a public
company by Cantor in 1999. After a merger in 2008, the company
became BGC partners. The $150 million debt deal was made at the
time of the merger at a 5.19 percent interest rate. That debt
was later replaced by notes at an 8.79 percent rate that could
be converted into stock, thus diluting the shares, according to
the complaint.  Cantor owns 56 percent of BGC Partners’ Class A stock and
100 percent of its Class B shares, according to the suit. BGCP
is an electronic brokerage company based in New York.  The complaint also names Cantor directors Stephen Curwood,
John Dalton, Barry Sloane and Albert Weis as defendants.  Sandra Lee, a spokeswoman for New York-based Cantor, didn’t
reply to messages seeking comment on the suit.  The case is International Painters and Allied Trades
Industry Pension Fund v. Cantor Fitzgerald LP, 650736-2012,
Supreme Court of the State of New York.  Buffett’s NetJets Countersued by U.S. for Unpaid Taxes  NetJets Inc., the private-plane company owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , was countersued by the U.S.
over $366 million in taxes and penalties.  NetJets in November sued the U.S., saying the federal
government had wrongly imposed taxes, interest and penalties
totaling more than $642.7 million.  Claiming the federal Internal Revenue Service wrongfully
assessed a so-called ticket tax -- an excise tax on payments
made in exchange for air transportation -- to private aircraft
owners maintaining their own planes, the Columbus, Ohio-based
company demanded refunds and abatements.  The federal government, in a revised answer and countersuit
filed March 9 in federal court in Columbus, rejected NetJets’
claims and alleged that four of the company’s units owe unpaid
taxes and penalties.  NetJets Aviation Inc. owes more than $302.1 million, and
another unit, NetJets International, is liable for $52.9
million, the U.S. said. Executive Jet Management Inc. owes $10
million while NetJets Large Aircraft owes $1.19 million, the
U.S. claimed.  NetJets had no immediate comment on the countersuit.  The case is NetJets Large Aircraft Inc. v. U.S., 11-
cv-01023, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Columbus).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-GE Manager Claims Insanity in Death of Employee’s Husband  Hemy Neuman, a GE Energy manager, put on a fake beard,
drove a rented minivan to a suburban Atlanta day care center and
shot an ex- JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker dropping off his son,
defense lawyers said.  Neuman’s lawyers have told jurors in Georgia state court in
Decatur that their client was temporarily insane and unable to
stop himself from killing Russell Sneiderman, 36, the husband of
a female subordinate at GE. Prosecutors in the trial, which has
drawn intense local attention, contend Neuman was aware he was
committing murder in front of the Dunwoody Prep preschool.  According to testimony last week by Adriana Flores, a
forensic psychologist, Neuman was sexually obsessed with
Sneiderman’s wife, Andrea, 35. He believed he was acting on
orders from an angel with the voice of singer Olivia Newton John
and a demon who sounded like Barry White, Flores said.  Neuman, 49, is charged with premeditated murder and
possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony.
DeKalb County District Attorney Bob James has said he will seek
a life sentence without parole. Neuman’s lawyers finished
presenting witnesses March 8.  A psychiatrist testifying March 9 for the prosecution,
Pamela Crawford, told the jury that some of Neuman’s symptoms,
such as a memory lapse, were “consistent with lying.”  Neuman hasn’t testified during the trial. He sat as another
defense forensic psychiatrist, Tracey Marks, described the
affair that Neuman believed he had with Sneiderman. Marks said
the belief was a sign of mania.  Andrea Sneiderman testified earlier that she didn’t have an
affair with Neuman. She didn’t return calls seeking comment on
the trial this week. Seth Kirschenbaum, her lawyer, didn’t
return a call seeking comment March 8 on the case.  The case is State v. Neuman, 11CR1364-5, Georgia Superior
Court, DeKalb County (Decatur).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Wal-Mart Wins South African Lawsuit Contesting Massmart Deal  A South African appeal court endorsed  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s purchase of a controlling stake in  Massmart Holdings
Ltd. (MSM) , a deal the government challenged on the grounds it may
cause jobs cuts and hurt local manufacturers.  Judge Dennis Davis, president of the Competition Appeal
Court, handed down the decision at a hearing in Cape Town March
9.  “The evidence indicated that consumers will indeed benefit
from lower prices and that these lower prices may, in turn,
generate greater  job creation  than the job losses that may
result,” Davis said. “There was insufficient evidence to
conclude that the detrimental effects of the merger would
outweigh the clear benefits to consumers.”  Three government ministries and a retail workers’ union
contested a May 31 decision by  South Africa ’s Competition
Tribunal that authorized Wal-Mart to  buy  a 51 percent stake in
Johannesburg-based Massmart, South Africa’s biggest food and
general-goods wholesaler. Approval was subject to the companies
promising to refrain from firing employees for two years and
setting up a 100 million-rand ($13.3 million) fund to assist
local suppliers and manufacturers.  The government welcomed the court’s approach, saying its
concerns had been recognized and could be addressed by the
study. There was scope for different conditions to be imposed on
the takeover, it said.  While Wal-Mart and Massmart “respectfully disagree” with
the court on a link between the job cuts and the transaction,
the process to rehire the workers has started, Massmart
spokesman Brian Leroni said at the court.  “Wal-Mart and Massmart welcome the ruling,” he said.
“All three arms of the competition authority have now endorsed
the merger. The process has been rigorous. We welcome the idea
of a study as a good way to help us understand how to deploy
these funds.”  The case is South Africa Commercial, Catering and Allied
Workers Union v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Massmart Holdings
Ltd., 111/CAC/Jul11.  For more, click here.  Sernam Must Repay 642 Million Euros in French Aid, EU Says  Sernam SA , a French rail and road transport operator, must
repay 642 million euros ($849 million) in illegal aid given by
the French state to the former unit of state-owned railway
operator Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, or SNCF.  Sernam was ordered to pay back 41 million euros in 2004 and
didn’t, prompting European Union regulators to open an
investigation in 2008 that also covered the company’s spinoff in
2005, for which the French state provided 503 million euros to
help in the restructuring, the European Commission said.  “The French authorities failed in their obligation to
recover the 41 million euros in illegal aid,” the European
Commission said March 9 in a statement. Sernam must “reimburse
that amount as well as all other aid which Sernam benefited
from, or a total of over 642 million euros” plus interest.  Spokeswomen for the French Finance Ministry and Sernam
declined to comment immediately on the decision.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Kinder Morgan Buyout Was Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit over  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMP) ’s proposed $21.1 billion
buyout of rival pipeline operator  El Paso Corp. (EP) ,  was the most-
read docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  A lawyer for El Paso investors argued the deal should be
barred because it was tainted by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
conflicting interests in the deal. Goldman Sachs, which holds a
19 percent stake in Houston-based Kinder Morgan, served as an
adviser to El Paso on the acquisition offer.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine rejected that
argument Feb. 29.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 