-- Orient Overseas Falls on 90% Profit Drop, 2012 Forecast: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-12T09:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/orient-overseas-profit-falls-90-on-container-rate-drop-higher-fuel-costs.html
Orient Overseas (International)
Ltd. (316) , operator of Hong Kong’s biggest container line, fell to
the lowest level in two weeks after reporting a 90 percent drop
in profit last year and forecasting a “difficult” 2012.  The  shipping company  dropped 2.9 percent to HK$51.40 at the
4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong, the lowest since Feb. 23.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.2 percent.  Orient Overseas posted a 90 percent decline in  profit  last
year because of industry-wide overcapacity, falling rates and
higher fuel costs. This year is unlikely to be better because of
an expected increase in new ship deliveries and slow economic
growth in Europe and North America, the company said.  “We expect trading conditions to continue to be
difficult,” it said in a  statement  today. “The major markets
of  North America  and Europe are likely to see low levels of
demand growth.”  Net income fell to $181.6 million in 2011 from $1.9 billion
a year earlier. That compares with the $146.4 million average of
14 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 0.4 percent to $6 billion. Profit in 2010 was
bolstered by a one-time gain. The company also scrapped its
final  dividend  after paying out 23 cents a share a year earlier.  Container Lines Cooperate  The carrier’s average charge for moving a container fell
6.7 percent last year, it said in a Jan. 20 trading update.
Volumes rose 5.6 percent to 5 million boxes last year, while
container-shipping revenue fell 1.5 percent to $5.5 billion.  Container lines have eased capacity growth and are boosting
cooperation in an effort to raise rates. Orient Overseas was
among companies that began operating as the G6 Alliance on Asia-
 Europe  routes starting March 1. Other members include  Neptune
Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) ’s APL Ltd. unit and Hapag-Lloyd AG.  Orient Overseas intends to boost Asia-Europe rates by $450
per 20-foot container from April 1, following a proposed $800
increase on March 1. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s
biggest container-shipping line, and other operators have
announced similar plans.  Fuel Costs  “The company’s profitability this year depends on the
success of the recent rate hikes,” said Citigroup Inc. analyst
Rigan Wong in a statement today. “These rate hikes are expected
to stick near break-even for the industry and any attempt to
raise them further may result in customers’ resistance and
competition.”  Orient Overseas is confident that it can boost rates on
Asia-Europe and Asia-America routes further later this year,
Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Cambie told reporters today. He
also warned the improvement in freight rates could be offset by
rising bunker prices.  “I am not too excited about the increase of freight rates,
giving the increases of operating costs driven by cost of
fuel,” he said. The company will focus on using larger vessels
and improve operational efficiency to cope with rising fuel
costs, Cambie said.  The price of 380 Centistoke Bunker Fuel, used by ships,
averaged $650.03 per ton last year in Singapore trading,
compared with $465.54 a year earlier, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  