-- Osborne Urged by Labour to End Pensions Break for Wealthy
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-12T16:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/osborne-urged-by-labour-to-end-pensions-break-for-wealthy-1-.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  should reverse a tax break on the pensions of the
highest-earning 1 percent of workers to help low-income
families, the opposition  Labour Party  said.  Citing research by the House of Commons library,  Ed Balls ,
who speaks for Labour on the economy, said Osborne had in effect
given people earning more than 150,000 pounds ($234,000) a year
a 1.6 billion-pound  tax cut  by allowing them to claim 50 percent
relief on their pension contributions instead of limiting it to
20 percent, as the previous Labour government had proposed.  Osborne should use his March 21 budget to restrict the rate
at which top-rate taxpayers can claim relief to 26 percent and
use the money to reinstate cuts to tax credits for people on low
and middle incomes, Balls told a press conference in  London 
today.  “It shows just how out of touch this government is, that
with all the pressures on lower and middle income families in
our country, it is the very highest earners who have benefited
most from their pension-tax changes,” Balls said.  Labour said the tax break more than offset the 1.3 billion
pounds that the Treasury estimates will be raised from the 50
percent income-tax rate, which was introduced by Labour to help
cut the  budget deficit .  The attack comes amid signs that the government is
preparing to scrap the 50 percent rate after the Liberal
Democrats, the junior coalition partner, indicated they’d agree
to the move in return for new taxes on wealth such as the most
expensive homes. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said yesterday
his party will push for a “tycoon tax” on high earners.  ‘Unworkable’  Balls said any move to introduce a “mansion tax” should
not be used to cut the 50 percent tax rates but to “ease the
squeeze” on low and middle-income families.  The  Association of British Insurers  dismissed Labour’s
plans on pensions, saying they would discourage people from
saving.  Labour’s previous proposals “were scrapped by the incoming
government because they were completely unworkable, and replaced
with a simpler restriction that raises the same revenues,”
Director General Otto Thoresen said in a statement. “Attacking
the incentive for higher earners to save into their pensions
will further limit the insurance industry’s ability to invest in
the economic growth and infrastructure which Labour wants to
see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  