-- Moscow May Tighten Rules for Opposition Protests in City Center
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-03-12T13:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/moscow-authorities-may-restrict-protests-in-city-interfax-says.html
Moscow authorities may seek to curb
protest rallies in the capital because of the disruption they
bring to city life, a senior official said.  “We don’t see any point in restricting” the right to
protest, Deputy Mayor Alexander Gorbenko told reporters today in
Moscow. “But we can’t forget that the city isn’t made up only
of protesters, there are 14 million inhabitants. If we are
talking about democracy, we need to respect the wishes of the
majority.”  Mass protests against alleged electoral fraud brought tens
of thousands of people onto the streets in Moscow and other
cities starting in December. While the demonstrations showed
signs of cooling, with between 10,000 to 25,000 people taking
part in a March 10 rally in Moscow, opposition leaders are
vowing to keep up protests after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
disputed election to a new Kremlin term on March 4.  The Russian government may select a location in Moscow
where citizens can speak their minds, similar to speaker’s
corner in  London ’s Hyde Park, the Interfax news service reported
today, citing  City Hall ’s top cultural official, Sergei Kapkov.  Deputy Mayor Pyotr Biriukov said in a report to Moscow
Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  that protests from December until early
March caused millions of rubles in budget losses by straining
municipal services, according to Interfax. City Hall is
considering changes to Russian legislation governing the right
to protest in order to minimize the disruption of rallies,
Gorbenko said.  “Moscow authorities are afraid of the federal government
criticizing them for not doing enough to reduce the level of
protests,” Alexander Ryklin, a member of the Solidarity group
that’s organizing the anti-government rallies, said by phone.
“They don’t realize that any tightening of the rules will only
have the opposite effect: it will boost protest activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  