-- Outlook for U.S. Consumer Spending Brightens on Employment Gains: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-12T16:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/outlook-for-u-s-consumer-spending-brightens-on-employment-gains-economy.html
Household spending may be about to
pick up after stagnating for three straight months as employment
and incomes climb and the weather turns more seasonable, giving
the  U.S. economy  a lift.  “The situation for consumers has improved significantly
over the last several months,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S.
economist at UniCredit Group in New York. “Spending is bound to
accelerate, the most important driver being improvement in the
labor market.”  Employers boosted payrolls in February, capping the best
six-month streak of job growth since 2006, Labor Department data
showed last week. Consumer spending on utilities will probably
return to normal after dropping from November through January
because of unseasonably warm weather.  “Given the labor market and some of these weather factors,
there is reason to be optimistic,” said Troy Davig, a senior
economist at  Barclays Capital  Inc. in New York. “The warm
weather has held down consumer spending, basically because of
the direct impact of households purchasing less energy to heat
their homes. That’s generally positive for the consumer, but the
immediate impact has depressed consumption.”  Analysts at Barclays Capital, led by chief U.S. economist
 Dean Maki , a former researcher at the  Federal Reserve  who
specialized in consumer spending, project consumer spending will
climb at a 3 percent annual rate in the second half of the year
after expanding at a 2.5 percent pace in the first six months.  Retailer Shares  Investors have driven up retailers’ shares as the job
market heals. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing
 Index (S15RETL) , which includes Gap and Macy’s Inc., has climbed 14
percent this year through March 9, compared with a 9 percent
advance for the broader  S&P 500 . The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to
1,369.89 at 12:19 p.m. in New York as signs of a slowdown in
China led to a drop in commodity prices.  China ’s economic growth slowed in the first two months of
the year, with both exports and domestic demand moderating. The
world’s second-largest economy last month had the biggest trade
deficit in at least 22 years, January-February factory output
rose by the least since 2009 and retail sales climbed at a
slower pace than the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, government data showed March 9 and 10.  Household purchases in the U.S. were little changed for a
third month in January after adjusting for inflation, Commerce
Department figures showed on March 1. Part of reason was that
spending on housing and utilities dropped by $20.7 billion at an
annual rate over the period, wiping out a $21.4 billion increase
in sales of automobiles and parts.  Above-Average Temperatures  Temperatures  in December, January and February averaged
36.8 degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 degrees Celsius), 3.9 degrees above
the average in the 20th century, representing the fourth-warmest
winter on record for the 48 contiguous U.S. states, according to
the National Climatic Data Center in Asheville,  North Carolina .  The windfall from lower energy bills, combined with revised
income data showing worker pay jumped in the last six months of
2011 by the most in almost five years, has helped households
squirrel away some extra cash. Americans saved 4.5 percent of
their after-tax income in the fourth quarter, up from a prior
estimate of 3.7 percent, according to Commerce Department data.  Less spending on heating and a higher savings rate will
help mitigate the effects of  gasoline prices , said Bandholz. The
average cost of the fuel rose to $3.77 a gallon last week, a
nine-month high.  Bernanke’s View  The rise in gasoline prices “is likely to push up
inflation temporarily while reducing consumers’ purchasing
power,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to U.S. lawmakers earlier
this month in his semiannual monetary policy report to Congress.
He told lawmakers that maintaining monetary stimulus was
warranted even with employment gains and a lower jobless rate.
Policy makers, meeting tomorrow, may reiterate a plan to keep
 interest rates  low at least through late 2014.  A pickup in consumer demand probably began last month.
 Retail sales  in February rose 1.1 percent, the biggest gain in
five months, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the
Commerce Department will report tomorrow.  A jump in  auto sales  probably paced the gain. Purchases of
cars and light trucks climbed to a 15 million annual rate last
month, the most since February 2008, according to figures from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  The latest survey on economy-wide outlays on services also
indicates household purchases ended 2011 on a stronger note than
currently estimated, according to economists at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York . The data point to a 15 percent increase in
health-care spending in the fourth quarter before adjusting for
inflation, compared with a current estimate of 2.6 percent.  Growth Revision  The results, used by the Commerce Department to revise
growth estimates again later this month, may add another 0.5
percentage point to gross domestic product, according to
calculations by JPMorgan Chase. The economy grew at a 3 percent
annual rate from October through December, while consumer
spending climbed 2.1 percent, according to the most recent
government calculations.  The rebound in consumer spending will probably not show up
until the second quarter, according to  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase, as the increase in fuel costs
restrains demand in the first three months of the year.  “We are looking for a pretty noticeable acceleration,”
Feroli said in an interview. “We anticipate that energy prices
will stop rising. That has been a drag in the first quarter.
That does free up a decent amount of purchasing power, given
that the job market is coming along.”  Spending Estimate  Economists at JPMorgan Chase project  consumer spending  will
increase at a 0.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter and
climb at a 2.8 percent pace in the following three months. It
will average about 2.5 percent in the second half of the year.  Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said last week he sees signs of a rebound in consumer
spending that will help improve earnings at the second-biggest
U.S. lender.  Purchases by the bank’s credit and debit-card customers
have increased 5 percent to 7 percent for each of the past five
months, Moynihan said in an interview aired by Bloomberg
Television on March 9.  “The American consumer is healing,” Moynihan said in New
York. “There’s still an unemployment problem, we all have to
work to solve that. But this economy is much better than it was
six months ago or six months before that. It just keeps feeling
better.”  The economy generated 227,000 jobs in February following a
revised 284,000 gain in January that was bigger than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed March 9.  Joblessness (USURTOT) 
held at 8.3 percent for a second month, its lowest level in
three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  