-- Toyota Can’t Require Arbitration in Acceleration Lawsuits
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-13T02:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/toyota-can-t-require-arbitration-for-some-acceleration-cases-judge-rules.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  can’t force
named plaintiffs seeking group status for a lawsuit over alleged
losses from unintended sudden acceleration to arbitrate their
claims rather than proceed to trial next year.  “Toyota waived any right it may have had to compel
arbitration of 15 of the 20 class representatives’ claims,”
U.S. District Judge James Selna in  Santa Ana ,  California , said
today. For the other five, “Toyota, as a non-signatory, may not
enforce the arbitration agreements found in the plaintiffs’
purchase and lease agreements with Toyota dealers.”  Selna on Feb. 24 had tentatively denied the carmaker’s
request to force the plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims. The
judge today reiterated his decision that by failing to assert
its right to compel arbitration until now, the carmaker
encouraged the plaintiffs to pursue their current costly and
time consuming litigation strategy.  “Toyota acted in a manner inconsistent with any right to
compel arbitration,” the judge said. “The resulting prejudice
to the class representatives leads the court to find that Toyota
waived any right to compel arbitration of the claims asserted by
the 15 plaintiffs.”  Selna has been presiding over the consolidated litigation
since 2010. He has scheduled three trials for next year that
will serve as bellwether cases to be used by the court and
lawyers for both sides to test evidence and liability theories
before moving on to other trials and a decision by Selna as to
whether to approve a class-action status for the plaintiffs.  ‘It’s Fair’  “We are quite pleased and we think it’s fair,”  Steve
Berman , a lead lawyer for the car owners, said in an e-mail.
“Our clients were not party to any arbitration agreement with
Toyota and in fact Toyota’s promise to consumers was
any arbitration was non-binding.”  Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Torrance, California-
based Toyota Motor Sales USA, said by e-mail that the company is
reviewing its options after the ruling.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in  San Diego  at  Callahan@san.rr.com ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 