-- Painkillers Win Panel’s Backing to Continue Patient Studies
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-12T21:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/painkillers-win-backing-of-fda-advisory-panel-to-continue-patient-studies.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , and
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. won the backing of a U.S.
advisory panel to continue development of a class of
experimental painkillers that have been linked to joint failure.  The  Food and Drug Administration  advisers voted 21-0 today
in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , that the benefits of enhanced pain
relief outweigh the risks of the so-called anti-nerve growth
factor drugs. The FDA isn’t required to follow the panel’s
advice.  Studies on the class of drugs, once expected by analysts to
generate as much as $11 billion a year, were halted in 2010
after the joint issues were reported. Trials for osteoarthritis
and back pain, among other chronic conditions, are on hold while
a study in cancer pain is ongoing.  “There’s significant risk but there are probably patient
populations where there will be significant benefit,” Lenore
Buckley, professor of internal medicine and pediatrics at
Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine in Richmond
and chairwoman of the panel, said during the meeting.  The drugs block  nerve growth factor , a protein causing
certain nerve cells to grow, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . The panel suggested drugmakers screen
patients and take certain safety precautions to continue
development.  FDA Review  The FDA reviewed 355 joint-replacement cases from previous
trials involving 401 joints. The agency determined patients
experienced 83 cases of rapidly progressing osteoarthritis where
bone and cartilage deteriorated and 30 cases of  osteonecrosis ,
which is bone death caused by poor blood supply, Nona Colburn, a
clinical reviewer with the FDA’s Center for Devices and
Radiological Health who conducted one of the agency’s two
independent reviews, told the panel.  Committee members agreed the number of incidents are
uncommonly high.  Use in conjunction with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
painkillers increased the likelihood of joint failure, the FDA
found.  Pfizer, poised to be the front runner in osteoarthritis
applications, halted trials in June 2010 for its compound
tanezumab, and stopped remaining studies for other conditions a
few weeks later. Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, is based
in  New York .  Further Trials  The agency also asked  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
and Tarrytown, New York-based  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  to
halt development of the painkillers fulranumab and REGN475,
respectively, in December 2010. Regeneron is working with Paris-
based  Sanofi (SAN)  on the drug, also known as SAR164877.  London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  voluntarily ended early-stage
research on a similar medicine, MEDI578, at the same time.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ anti-NGF painkiller, ABT-110,
completed a Phase 1 trial. The  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
company didn’t participate in the advisory panel meeting and is
following developments, said Raquel Powers, a spokeswoman, in an
e-mail. Three phases of clinical trials usually are required for
U.S. regulatory approval of a new drug.  Pfizer said it wants to begin a final-phase osteoarthritis
study by late this year or early 2013. Bob Rappaport, director
of FDA’s division of anesthesia, analgesia and addiction
products, asked the committee whether companies should have to
go back and conduct earlier-stage trials over again.  Redo Studies  The drugmakers should resume development by conducting
earlier-stage trials because they didn’t know about the risk of
joint failure before, said David Blumenthal, a panel member and
assistant professor of medicine at  Case Western Reserve
University  in  Cleveland ,  Ohio .  “There is sufficient evidence of harm that we continue
this sort of moratorium on this research or we just kind of
start over as if there had been a signal in preclinical studies
with different enrollment criteria,” Blumenthal said.  Pfizer and the other companies will have to bring a
proposal to the FDA to seek clearance to resume studies,
Rappaport said.  The panel’s discussion “underscored the unmet need of
patients with chronic pain conditions,” Pfizer said in a
statement after the vote. The company said it looked forward to
working with the agency.  Osteoarthritis, which is often associated with aging, is
the most common joint disorder, according to the National
Institutes of Health. “Wear and tear” on a joint breaks down
cartilage and the bones rub together causing pain and stiffness,
according to the NIH  website .  Pfizer Study  A Pfizer study of 450 patients with osteoarthritis of the
knee found tanezumab reduced pain 45 percent to 62 percent
compared with a 22 percent reduction with placebo, according to
an Oct. 2010 article in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Patients were given an injection of the drug in the
beginning of the study and again after eight weeks. They were
able to use the “rescue” painkiller acetaminophen.  “The treatment options for patients with painful
osteoarthritis of the knee are inadequate,” Nancy Lane, the
study’s lead author and director of the Center for Aging at the
 University of California , Davis, School of Medicine in
 Sacramento , wrote in the journal article.  Commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory painkillers
such as Advil and aspirin and narcotics have side effects
involving the gastrointestinal tract, heart and kidneys, Lane
said.  Pfizer, J&J and Regeneron recommend patients refrain from
chronic use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory painkillers and
use lower doses to treat osteoarthritis than previously used in
trials to continue studies, Ned Braunstein, head of regulatory
affairs for Regeneron told the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  