-- Perv Duo Launch Full Frontal Assault on Hong Kong: Review
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-03-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/perv-duo-launch-full-frontal-arts-attack-on-hong-kong-review.html
Even before sitting down to write
this review, I mentioned to artists Gilbert & George my idea for
a provocative headline. While I didn’t offer any guarantees --
giving them the right to vet the wording would be a Faustian
contract that would cost me my job -- I figured a pair who have
been using art to shock for more than 40 years would approve.  I wasn’t mistaken. “Good, very good,” said George as I
nabbed the duo striding toward the elevator of  Hong Kong ’s Four
Seasons Hotel. “It’s very sweet,” added Gilbert.  Indeed, headlines form the heart of their latest exhibition,
“London Pictures,” which just opened at the new  White Cube  in
Hong Kong and at three of the gallery’s exhibition spaces in the
U.K. capital. The works, 292 in all, are an assemblage of 3,712
posters used by news vendors to flog the tabloid newspapers.  Each “picture” is composed of panels containing one
headline each, grouped together according to common words or
phrases such as “SEX PEST,” “KNIFED TO DEATH” and
“HOOKER.” The headlines are superimposed on images of the
artists who hover like ghostly witnesses to the violence, pain
and drama of urban life depicted by the text.  The duo spent six years pilfering the headline posters
before deciding how to incorporate them into their art.  The way Gilbert & George tell it, one would stroll into the
shop to distract the vendor’s attention with the purchase of a
chocolate bar while the other pilfered the poster.  Frozen Moments  It wasn’t until one night when they spotted a policeman and
policewoman standing outside someone’s home waiting to deliver
devastating news to the family inside that they decided to
create the  London  Pictures as a homage to the victims of those
anonymous headlines.  “We are celebrating the lives and deaths of people, their
tragedies,” said George. “We wanted to present their moments
frozen for a long time,” Gilbert said.  While I don’t doubt the sincerity of these sentiments, the
exhibition failed to raise much empathy in me for the sufferers
behind the headlines.  The show succeeds more as a critique of the tabloid press,
which numbs us to bad news through the constant barrage of
sensational headlines.  Yet assembling so many posters into such a sprawling
exhibition only served to repeat the theme that constant
repetition of the shocking renders it banal.  Gilbert Proesch was born in  Italy  in 1943 and George
Passmore in Britain a year earlier. The two met as students at
art school in London in 1967 and have been inseparable ever
since. The only times they have been apart were for funerals of
their respective parents, “because we didn’t want to act like a
normal straight married couple and go together,” said George.  Testing Limits  The pair made a name early on by pushing the boundaries of
taste and decency with works such as “The Sperm Eaters,”
“Piss Mooning,” and “Was Jesus a Heterosexual?”  Over the years, however, the self-styled outsiders have
become embraced by the art establishment. In 1986, they won the
U.K.’s  Turner Prize  for contemporary art and in 2007  Tate Modern 
mounted a retrospective of their work.  Their appearance and behavior belie the skanky nature of
their shared oeuvre. Impeccably buttoned up in identical tweed
suits, with fountain pens inserted firmly into their breast
pockets and sporting ties that resemble Rorschach tests (I
correctly identified a pattern depicting two men kissing, much
to their delight), their Tweedledee-Tweedledum act is
disarmingly polite.  They have been together so many decades, the two speak as
if sharing a single mind, though they assured me that at least
in sleep their thoughts are their own. Still, I got the sense
that their spiel is as well rehearsed as any stage duo’s act.  Extra Large  To describe the exhibition, as the catalog does, as a
“visual novel” of contemporary London that is “Dickensian in
scope,” is a stretch. The only monumental aspect of these works
is their size -- the largest consists of 65 panels running more
than eight meters wide and almost four meters high.  They lack the visual wit and vibrant colors of much of
their earlier work and, if you will forgive the pun, the message
is lost in the medium.  Tim Marlow, director of exhibitions for White Cube, told me
he chose Hong Kong as the first leg of a global exhibition that
will continue on to Paris,  New York , Brussels and Berlin. The
decision to show the London Pictures in Hong Kong first is meant
to make White Cube stand out against “a lot of other galleries
who bring the crap here they can’t sell anywhere else.”  Sales don’t seem to be a problem. The day after the VIP
preview almost half the 22 works shown in Hong Kong were either
sold or put on reserve. Prices among those works range from
50,000 pounds ($78,000) for a four-panel piece to 90,000 pounds
for a 12-panel work. The largest items go for 250,000 pounds.  For my money, the best deal is the exhibition poster which
can be had for a mere HK$100 ($13).  “London Pictures” is at  White Cube  Hong Kong through May
5, and at the gallery’s Bermondsey space until May 12,
Hoxton Square through April 14 and Mason’s Yard until May 12.  (Frederik Balfour is a Reporter at Large for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 