-- Peyton Manning Visits Arizona as Quarterback Narrows Options for Next Team
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/peyton-manning-visits-arizona-in-narrowing-options-for-next-nfl-team.html
Peyton Manning  spent almost seven
hours visiting with the Arizona Cardinals yesterday as the
 National Football League ’s most prized free agent tries to
decide which team he’ll sign with.  The quarterback has narrowed his options, with the
Cardinals and  Denver Broncos  as his two probable destinations,
 ESPN said , citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation. At least 12 teams contacted Manning after the four-
time Most Valuable Player’s release by the  Indianapolis Colts .  Manning was set to travel to Miami after his visits with
the Broncos and Cardinals and may meet soon with the Dolphins,
 NFL.com said , citing unidentified league officials. The 35-year-
old, who is recovering from neck-fusion surgery that sidelined
him for the 2011 season, probably won’t meet with any other
teams, ESPN and NFL.com said.  “If he’s healthy, he’s somebody that can help any team
that he goes to,” Cardinals Pro Bowl wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald told reporters yesterday at the team’s training
facility. “I understand the interest. He’s a franchise
quarterback, but there’s still a lot of work to be done.”  Manning has also met with Broncos officials, including vice
president of football operations  John Elway , a Hall of Fame
quarterback who led the team to two Super Bowl victories.  Manning’s future is the biggest question as the NFL
prepares for the start of its free agent signing period tomorrow
at 4 p.m. New York time. The NFL said yesterday that this year’s
salary cap is $120.6 million and all 32 clubs must be under the
player payroll ceiling when free agency begins.  Unrestricted free agents, like Manning, can sign with teams
beginning tomorrow through July 22 or the first scheduled day of
the first NFL training camp, whichever is later.  Manning is looking to make a decision on his next team by
tomorrow, the  Denver Post  reported last night, without saying
where it got the information.  Quarterback Matt Flynn, who spent the past four NFL seasons
with the  Green Bay Packers , is among the other top free agents,
along with Houston Texans Pro Bowl defensive lineman Mario Williams, and New Orleans Saints wide receiver Marques Colston
and All-Pro offensive lineman Carl Nicks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  