-- Pfizer Says Study Backs Use of Top Vaccine in Older Children
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-03-12T20:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/pfizer-says-study-backs-use-of-top-vaccine-in-older-children.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s vaccine Prevnar 13,
used to prevent pneumococcal diseases, was effective in children
ages 5 to 17 in a study that may help increase its use, the
company said.  Pfizer has been seeking to increase sales of Prevnar 13 by
expanding use beyond the approved groups of children 6 months to
5 years and adults older than 50. The treatment was New York-
based Pfizer’s third-best-selling medicine in 2011, with $3.66
billion in revenue. It will be Pfizer’s  top product  in 2013,
according to an average of two analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We are excited about the potential to further define the
clinical utility of Prevnar 13 with the aim of seeking to
broaden prevention efforts to additional age groups,” said
Emilio Emini, chief scientific officer of vaccine research for
Pfizer. The study examined 598 patients ages 5 to 17 years old.  Pneumoccocal diseases are most dangerous for the very young
and very old, as well as people with heart and lung diseases,
diabetes, or HIV, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  Among children older than 5, the most likely to benefit
from the vaccine are those with conditions that put them at more
risk from illnesses, like heart and lung concerns, diabetes, or
HIV, said Robert Frenck, director of clinical medicine at the
Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center and lead author of
the study.  Along with expanded approvals, Pfizer is seeking to have
Prevnar 13 added to the CDC’s vaccine schedule for people over
50, which would increase use of the treatment.  Pfizer  gained  less than 1 percent to $21.54 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  