-- PG&E Reaches $70 Million Accord With San Bruno Over Blast
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-03-13T01:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/pg-e-reaches-70-million-accord-with-san-bruno-over-2010-gas-explosion.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG)  reached a $70 million
settlement with the city of San Bruno, California, over a 2010
pipeline explosion that killed eight people, the largest
natural-gas disaster in U.S. history.  The settlement will support efforts to recover from the
blast, which destroyed 38 homes and damaged another 70, city
spokesman Sam Singer said today in an e-mail.  The California Public Utility Commission said in January
that San Francisco-based PG&E’s violations of state and federal
safety laws led to the explosion.  PG&E, owner of California’s largest utility, confirmed the
settlement in a  regulatory filing , saying it will contribute $70
million to a not-for-profit entity set up to benefit the city.
The company’s Pacific Gas & Electric Co. unit won’t seek to
recover the money through insurance or customer rates, PG&E
said.  Recordkeeping Practices  Separately, state investigators found that PG&E’s pipeline
record-keeping practices leading up to the gas explosion didn’t
meet the utility’s legal and regulatory requirements for safety
standards, according to a report posted on the  California  Public
Utilities Commission’s website.  “PG&E’s recordkeeping was a mess and had been for years,”
according to the report issued by the commission’s consumer
protection and safety division. The utility’s request to collect
$222.8 million from customers to improve its record keeping
system is “excessive”, the report said.  “PG&E has acknowledged the need to improve how we collect,
store, access, and share information about our natural gas
system,” said Nick Stavropoulos, executive vice president of
gas operations at Pacific Gas and Electric, in an e-mailed
statement. The utility is converting its paper records to
electronic files and is asking for additional money for
technology improvements to its system, Stavropoulos said in the
statement.  The commission staff analysis is part of an investigation
by state regulators into PG&E’s role in the Sept. 9, 2010 blast,
which could result in fines. Federal and state fines could be as
much as $1 billion,  Hugh Wynne , a New York-based utility analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a Feb. 17 research
note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  