-- Porsche, LBBW ‘XXL’ Probes May Drag Into 2013, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-12T14:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/porsche-lbbw-xxl-probes-may-drag-into-2013-prosecutors-say.html
Probes into Porsche SE’s 2008
trades of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  shares and Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg’s subprime investments will probably continue well
into 2013, prosecutors handling both cases said.  Investigators need to retain most of the additional staff
they’ve been assigned to handle the cases, which are more
demanding than most, Siegfried Mahler, head of the Stuttgart
Prosecutors’ Office, told reporters today. White-collar crime
units have seven additional prosecutors through the end of this
year. They’ve asked the state government for permission to keep
at least five for next year, said Mahler.  “These are XXL cases,” Mahler said at a press conference
in Stuttgart, meaning extra-extra-large. “They require extreme
levels of input and manpower and we are optimistic that we will
be able to keep the extra staff.”  The prosecutors said last week they charged former  Porsche
SE (PAH3)  Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter and two other managers
with credit fraud related to the refinancing of a 10 billion-
euro ($13.1 billion) loan in 2009 for the carmaker’s failed
Volkswagen takeover bid. Allegations former Porsche executives
Wendelin Wiedeking and Haerter manipulated the price of VW
shares are still under investigation and prosecutors had said
March 6 those probes could take until at least the middle of
this year to be resolved.  Former managers at Stuttgart-based LBBW are under
investigation for claims they improperly approved investments in
U.S. mortgage bonds.  Both cases have been under way since 2009, when
investigators raided suspects’ offices and homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  