-- Portugal Yield at 13% Says Greek Deal Not Unique: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-12T09:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/portugal-yield-at-13-says-greek-deal-not-unique-euro-credit.html
The good news is  Greece  won’t
default on March 20, and 10-year borrowing costs for  Spain  and
 Italy  have dropped below 5 percent. The bad news is similar-
maturity Portuguese bonds still yield more than 13 percent.  Last week, Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history, with private holders forgiving more
than 100 billion euros ($131 billion) of debt, a condition for
the nation to win the bailout it needs to repay 14.5 billion
euros of debt coming due next week.  Unlimited European Central Bank loans to banks have halted
a bond-market rout that prompted investors to drive German
yields to record lows and yield premiums on the securities of
its regional peers to euro-era highs. The Italian 10-year yield
has dropped more than 150 basis points and the rate on similar-
maturity Spanish debt is about 80 basis points lower since the
ECB announced Dec. 8 it would offer loans to financial
institutions through two longer-term refinancing operations.  “The ECB liquidity is life support,” said Robin Marshall,
director of fixed income in  London  at Smith & Williamson
Investment Management, which oversees about $18 billion.
“They’ve bought time but they must use the time to implement
proper reform. It’s hard to see there not being more defaults,
more private sector involvement. It makes it more likely we’re
going to get another market rout later in the year.”  Portugal’s Borrowing Burden  Portuguese  10-year debt  yields 13.71 percent, down from a
euro-era record of 18.29 percent reached Jan. 31 though higher
than its 2011 average of 10.17 percent. Two-year rates of 12.48
percent have doubled in the past year, though they are down from
more than 21 percent at the end of January.  The ECB bought short-dated Portuguese securities on Feb.
29, according to two people with knowledge of the transactions
who declined to be identified because trades with the central
bank are private. That ended pause of at least two weeks in the
central bank’s Securities Markets Program, through which it has
bought almost 220 billion euros of euro-area  government bonds .  Portugal , whose government debt is junk rated at Moody’s
Investors Services, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, risks
becoming the next nation to need to restructure its debt,
according to Matteo Regesta, a senior fixed-income strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. Portugal’s deficit was 4 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011.  ‘Bond Vigilantes’  “The market doesn’t believe that Greece is a unique
case,” said Regesta. “Portugal is very similar. It would be
easy to try to placate and distract the attention of the bond
vigilantes, if only policy makers would immediately close the
funding gap, pre-empting any further pressure on the periphery.
I’m afraid I don’t think that’s going to happen.”  Portugal is raising taxes and cutting spending as it fights
to meet the terms of its 78 billion-euro aid plan from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  after it
followed Ireland and Greece in seeking a bailout in April.  Vitor Constancio, ECB vice president and former Bank of
Portugal governor, said March 8 that Portuguese austerity
measures were on track and Greece’s debt swap would not need to
be repeated. The following day, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called Greece a “completely unique case.”  Investors have lost 11 percent on Greek bonds since Dec. 8,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Portuguese bonds
have returned 1.9 percent, lagging behind gains of 15 percent on
Italian securities, 8.4 percent on Spanish debt and 1.7 percent
on German bunds, the indexes show.  ‘Suspicion and Alarm’  While last week’s swap reduces Greece’s privately held debt
by about half, the government’s decision to force holdouts to
participate may backfire by deterring investors from keeping
cash in European sovereign debt, said  John Wraith , a fixed-
income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.  “Recent spread narrowing has been driven by the LTROs and
shorter term and speculative buying,” said Wraith. “None of
this changes the fact that important, major overseas investors
view recent developments with suspicion and alarm. With such a
range of damaging precedents being set, they are highly unlikely
to change that view and return as fundamental, long-term holders
of these bonds for the foreseeable future.”  Italy’s 10-year yield  was 4.86 percent at 9:47 a.m. London
time, down from a euro-era record 7.48 percent on Nov. 9.
Spain’s 10-year bonds yielded 5.02 percent, with the rate on
German 10-year bunds, the euro region’s benchmark government
securities, at 1.78 percent.  “I’m not forecasting a second default, but the markets
certainly are,” said  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s
biggest bond fund. “The rules have been changed here,” he said
in a March 9 radio interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt on
“ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  