-- Rand Falls for 2nd Day as China Concern Damps Export Prospects
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-12T15:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/rand-falls-for-second-day-as-concern-of-china-economy-weakens-metal-prices.html
The rand declined for a second day
as signs of a slowdown in  China , South  Africa ’s biggest trading
partner, damped prospects for the nation’s commodity exports.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy retreated as much
as 0.5 percent and traded less than 0.1 percent weaker at 7.5712
per dollar as of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the
government’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 were unchanged at 7.84
percent.  China’s exports grew at a slower pace than forecast,
contributing to the biggest trade deficit in at least 22 years
last month, data showed March 10, adding to figures last week on
factory output and retail sales that signaled slowing economic
growth. China buys about 14 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data.  “This has rekindled fears of a ‘hard landing’ for the
Chinese economy and, by extension, the global economy,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “With the possibility
of further quantitative easing from the  Federal Reserve  in
doubt, much of what was keeping markets buoyant over the past
months has faded, which will likely weigh on risky assets.”  The dollar rose against most of its major peers today
before a report tomorrow forecast to show retail sales in the
U.S. increased in February, reducing chances the Federal Reserve
will add to monetary stimulus.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 policy makers
were considering additional asset purchases to boost growth. The
Fed has pledged to keep its benchmark rate at almost zero
through at least late 2014 and has previously purchased $2.3
trillion of securities in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing.  Commodities  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials fell for the
first time in four days as the prices of metals including gold,
copper and nickel declined. Metals and other commodities account
for 65 percent of  South Africa ’s export earnings, according to
government data for 2011.  Credit default swaps on the nation’s foreign-currency
sovereign bonds dropped 1.4 basis point to 158.9 basis points on
Friday, a second day of declines, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  