-- Iceland’s Big Trial, Travesty of Justice: Hannes H. Gissurarson
-- B y   H a n n e s   H .   G i s s u r a r s o n
-- 2012-03-12T23:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/travesty-of-justice-in-iceland-trial-commentary-by-hannes-h-gissurarson.html
Everybody is polite and formal at
the trial of former Icelandic Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde,
which began last week inside a historic mansion in the capital,
Reykjavik. Yet the atmosphere is tense, and the stakes are high.  In the fall of 2010, a narrow majority in Iceland’s
parliament decided to charge Haarde with criminal negligence
before and during the collapse of all three major Icelandic
banks in early October 2008. The trial is politically driven --
the vote to hold it fell largely along party lines -- and a
travesty of justice. It’s also a distraction from the vital
business of restructuring Iceland’s financial sector and economy
so that such a debacle -- which Haarde did not cause -- will not
be repeated. He now faces a potential sentence of two years in
prison.  From the outset, many Icelanders regarded the charges
against Haarde as wrong, the product of anger and disappointment
in a society that saw its economy go suddenly from boom to bust.
In the year after the banks collapsed, Iceland’s gross domestic
product contracted by about 10 percent. Now, the feeling that
this was a political trial has only become stronger, as people
see other countries experiencing similar problems.  Political Subtext  The question before the court in Reykjavik is whether there
was anything that Haarde could and should have done to avert or
mitigate the crisis, which initially hit Iceland so much harder
than its neighbors. Although the charge is one of criminal
neglect, a political subtext is clear. Many people, especially
from the left side of the political spectrum, hold Haarde and
former Prime Minister David Oddsson responsible for the
transformation of the Icelandic economy in the 1990s and early
2000s, when the banks were privatized, taxes were cut and the
economy was deregulated.  Initially, those reforms produced prosperity, but they also
made the economy more vulnerable to disturbances in the rest of
the world, especially after the rapid expansion of the Icelandic
banks abroad in the early 2000s. It should be said, however,
that the banks were regulated in precisely the same way as in
the other members of the  European Economic Area  -- namely,
Iceland,  Liechtenstein ,  Norway  and the 27 countries of the
European Union.  In Haarde’s trial, politicians and high officials have
given convincing testimony to the utter helplessness of the
small Icelandic economy during the severe international
financial disturbances of 2007-8. With balance sheets more than
10 times the size of Iceland’s GDP, the banks had become too big
to fail. They were also far too big for Iceland’s central bank
and finance ministry to sustain.  The government and Iceland’s regulatory institutions had no
legal means of stopping the commercial banks’ expansion. The
defect in the system was that the banks’ field of operation was
the whole of  Europe , as was their right under the European
Economic Area agreement, but their insurance arrangements were
confined to tiny Iceland. In his defense, Haarde points out that
after the collapse he put through parliament a special emergency
law that guaranteed  bank deposits  and re-established the failed
banks’ domestic operations, while essentially leaving other
creditors, mainly foreign financial institutions, out of pocket.  This emergency law meant that Iceland didn’t bail out its
bankers. So unlike Ireland, for example, which in the crisis
hastened to guarantee all bank obligations, Iceland doesn’t face
a future burdened by heavy debts. The economy is now slowly
recovering, and grew  3.1 percent  last year. The reluctance of
other nations to assist Iceland in the fateful latter half of
2008 may have been a blessing in disguise. Those who had
recklessly lent or borrowed money in international markets lost,
while the ordinary deposit holder kept what was his or hers.  Opportunity to Attack  But Iceland’s Social Democrat Party and Left-Green Movement
used the opportunity provided by the fall of the banks to attack
the long-dominant and pro-free market  Conservative Party  on all
fronts. Their government, formed after the Conservatives were
thrown out of a coalition government, fired Oddsson from his
then post as governor of the central bank, even though he was
among the few Icelanders in authority to have uttered warnings
against the three commercial banks’ rapid expansion. Oddsson was
retired from politics, but the two leftist parties still
regarded him as their chief enemy. Most of the new government’s
supporters in parliament then voted to charge Haarde. Some
undoubtedly hoped it would turn into a dramatic trial of the
Conservative Party in general.  It seems, though, that Haarde’s opponents will fail in
their vendetta. Some parliamentarians who voted to try the
former prime minister have recanted publicly, most notably the
interior minister, Ogmundur Jonasson. He now asks why Haarde
should be singled out. After all, the former leader of the
 Social Democrats , Ingibjorg Solrun Gisladottir, was foreign
minister in the 2007-9 Haarde government.  From several trial testimonies, it has also become clear
that there was very little Haarde could have done as prime
minister during the 2008 financial debacle to prevent it. Most
Icelanders agree that Haarde is a decent and well-meaning man,
almost as far from being a criminal as one can imagine. Why
should he, therefore, sit alone in the dock? Is it not
sufficient that he has accepted his responsibility and retired
from politics?  Public opinion in Iceland is becoming more balanced than
immediately after the fall of the banks. Now, people see more
clearly, not least from the examples of  Greece , Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain , that this was not a unique event, solely
attributable to Icelandic circumstances, but rather one of the
many forms that the global downturn took. Finally, Icelanders
are starting to discuss the general causes of the crisis. Why
did banks all over the world take more risks than they should
have? Could their faulty risk management be traced to some
structural defects? Was government intervention not a cause
rather than a cure of the instability of the international
financial markets?  Iceland is learning all over again how futile it is to play
only the blame game. It seems more rewarding to try to design
institutions in such a way that human greed -- which certainly
motivates most bankers -- can be directed into socially
beneficial channels.  (Hannes H. Gissurarson is a professor of politics at the
 University of Iceland . He was on the board of Iceland’s central
bank from 2001 to 2009 and an adviser to Prime Minister David
Oddsson from 1991 to 2004. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Hannes Gissurarson at  hannesgi@hi.is .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 