-- Rinehart’s Children May Have $4.7 Billion Stake in Trust
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-13T01:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/rinehart-children-may-have-stake-of-at-least-4-7-billion-in-family-trust.html
The four children of Gina Rinehart,
 Asia ’s richest woman, may have a stake of as much as $4.7
billion in a trust at the center of a dispute where the three
eldest are suing to oust their mother as trustee.  Jay Newby, chief financial officer of Hancock Prospecting
Pty, calculated the value of each child’s share of the trust at
A$600 million ($632 million) in a Sept. 4 e-mail, based on
an estimate of her wealth of A$10.3 billion. Rinehart’s
current net worth of $20.2 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, would put each child’s stake at about $1.18
billion based on Newby’s calculations.  “Given the developments on hand in the group, this is a
modest figure,” Newby said, referring to the A$10.3 billion
estimate. The e-mail was among more than 800 pages of documents
released by the New South Wales Supreme Court yesterday in the
family litigation after Rinehart lost a final bid to block their
release at  Australia ’s top court. Hancock Prospecting holds the
majority of Rinehart’s fortune including stakes in some of
Australia’s biggest coal and  iron ore  mines.  Hope Rinehart Welker, Bianca Rinehart and  John Hancock  sued
their 58-year-old mother in Australian state court in September
seeking to have her removed as trustee, accusing her of
misconduct by threatening their financial ruin, giving them a
single day to sign an accord extending her control of the trust
and lying to them in a bid to sign the agreement.  Bankruptcy Threats  “Suggestions that Mrs. Rinehart threatened any of John
Hancock, Hope Rinehart Welker or Bianca Rinehart with bankruptcy
are incorrect and offensive,” her lawyer, Paul McCann, said in
a March 10 e-mailed statement.  Newby said in the Sept. 4 e-mail to Bianca, that based on
the A$600 million estimate of her stake, she would have to pay
about A$142 million in  capital gains taxes .  “It is important to note that whatever value we might
ascribe is irrelevant -- the tax office would obviously be keen
to ascribe a far higher value in order to collect more” capital
gains taxes, Newby said at the time.  Newby couldn’t be reached by phone, a receptionist at
Perth-based Hancock Prospecting said yesterday, and the company
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment on
the valuation of the trust. McCann declined to comment on the
estimated valuation of the stake in an e-mailed reply to
Bloomberg News. Andrew Bell, a lawyer for the eldest children,
didn’t respond to a request for comment left at his office.  Inheritance  Rinehart inherited iron ore mining assets from her father
and has an agreement with Rio Tinto Group under which she
collects royalties on properties in  Western Australia  mined by
Rio. She agreed in August to sell coal projects in Queensland to
 GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP)  for $2.2 billion.  Her wealth has more than doubled in the past year, as
soaring demand for coal and iron ore from  China  has made her
mining assets more valuable.  She had attempted to persuade the children to sign the new
agreement keeping her in control of the holdings and extending
the trust’s expiration to the latest allowed under law in 2068,
according to the documents. She had said they would face
bankruptcy with the pending tax bills if they allowed the trust
to be dissolved on Sept. 6, the 25th birthday of youngest child
Ginia, who has sided with her mother in the dispute, as the
trust’s rules had required.  Reconsider Lifestyles  “Bankruptcy is not in the financial interests of the
beneficiaries,” Rinehart wrote in an e-mail urging the children
to accept the new agreement. “It may however be reasonably
arguable that personal development-wise it would be in the best
interests of the beneficiaries to force them to go to work and
reconsider their holidaying lifestyles and attitudes.”  Under Hancock Prospecting’s, or HPPL’s, constitution, only
a person who is a Hancock family group member is entitled to
hold and control a share in the company.  “These provisions in the constitution are unable to be
changed,” Rinehart wrote in a Sept. 3 e-mail to Bianca. “It is
hence not possible for me or any beneficiary to either sell HPPL
shares to a third party or raise funds by way of borrowings
using HPPL shares as security.”  The three children suing accused her of “falsely
representing by implication to Hope Rinehart Welker that she had
not varied the trust - and that Hope Rinehart Welker would face
the financial consequences” as far as bankruptcy even though
Rinehart unilaterally extended the vesting date before notifying
them.  For the Grandchildren  The Hope Margaret Hancock Trust was created by Rinehart’s
father  Lang Hancock  for the benefit of his grandchildren. The
trust holds 23.45 percent of the voting shares of Hancock
Prospecting and receives dividends from the company, some of
which are distributed to the children.  The company, with iron ore and coal projects in Australia,
has 6,000 voting shares with Rinehart holding 4,593 and the
trust 1,407, according to a statement of defense filed by
Rinehart’s lawyers.  Rinehart has full and ongoing control and management of the
company and would lose it if a new trustee were appointed, the
lawyers said.  She wouldn’t have the “ability to pass circular
resolutions without the involvement of other persons,”
according to the documents.  ‘Lacking Ability’  The three children suing sought to have at least one of
them appointed as the trustee to replace Rinehart, a suggestion
rejected by their mother who said none of the children had the
required trust, independence or ability for the job.  None of the children “has ever held any paid position in
the resources industry, other than as arranged or paid for” by
Rinehart, according to the statement of defense.  Among those attempting to convince Hope Rinehart Welker to
drop the lawsuit was Senator  Barnaby Joyce , according to the
released documents.  “You are a family Australia needs,” Joyce wrote in a
Sept. 11 e-mail. “All good families have their problems but
before it gets really out of hand, I would try to get it back in
house and out of public view.”  Alby Schultz, member of parliament for Hume, also wrote to
Hope, calling the lawsuit a “horrific step.”  The case is Hope Rinehart Welker v Gina Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  