-- Romanian Inflation Rate Falls Less Than Forecast on Cold Weather
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-03-12T08:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/romanian-inflation-rate-falls-less-than-forecast-on-cold-weather.html
Romania’s  inflation  rate dropped
less than economists estimated in February as heavy snow and
freezing temperatures disrupted transport and supplies, limiting
price decreases.  The inflation rate dropped to 2.6 percent, a post-communism
low, from 2.7 percent in January, the  National Statistics
Institute  in Bucharest said today by e-mail. The median estimate
of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 2.4 percent. Consumer
prices rose 0.6 percent in the month.  A record-low inflation rate made room for policy makers to
cut the  benchmark interest rate  three times since November to a
record-low 5.5 percent as they seek to buoy the economy as
Europe grapples with a debt crisis. The central bank is easing
borrowing costs “in small steps to keep from harming the
equilibrium,” Governor Mugur Isarescu said Feb. 7.  Romania ’s economy may post its second quarterly contraction
and “enter a technical recession” in the first quarter because
of the cold weather, Finance Minister Bogdan Dragoi said on
March 9.  Food prices fell 0.4 percent from a year earlier in
February, compared with 0.1 percent growth in January, the
institute said. The prices grew 1.2 percent from a month earlier
as a cold snap cut electricity, damaged infrastructure and
disrupted supply chains across the country.  Price growth for non-food items quickened to 4.1 percent
from a year earlier, because of higher tobacco and fuel costs,
compared with 4 percent in January, according to the institute.
Service-price growth accelerated to 4.8 percent from 4.7 percent
the previous month, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  