-- Clinton Clashes With Russian Counterpart Lavrov at UN Over Stance on Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-12T17:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/russia-faces-new-pressure-on-syria-at-un-as-clinton-meets-lavrov-for-talks.html
Russia  came under renewed attack at
the United Nations today over its protection of Syria after
President Bashar al-Assad rejected peace proposals by UN envoy
Kofi Annan and persevered in a deadly crackdown on protesters.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her Russian
counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov , addressed the UN  Security Council 
today with clashing views on how to tackle a year-old uprising.
While the U.S. administration has said Assad must go, Russia has
vetoed two draft resolutions in the past five months seeking to
hold Assad accountable and support a political transition.  “The alternative to our unity on these points will be
bloody internal conflict with dangerous consequences for the
whole region,” Clinton told reporters in  New York . Lavrov
“will take what he heard here back to Moscow, and we are all
waiting to hear from Annan as to his advice about the best way
forward.”  Lavrov countered that “ultimatums would not work.”  “It is not honest when people say everything depends on
Russia,” he told reporters. “I would also like to hope that
the U.S can resolve the Middle East crisis. Today’s problems of
the world cannot be resolved by the desire or efforts by one
country alone.”  ‘Risky Recipes’  Addressing the Security Council earlier, Lavrov criticized
what Russia sees as “risky recipes of geopolitical
engineering” put forward at the UN. He was critical of “making
hasty demands for regime change, imposing unilateral sanctions
designed to trigger economic difficulties and social tensions in
the country.”  In a signal that Russia’s allegiance to Assad may not be
unconditional, Lavrov said there “is no doubt whatsoever that
the  Syria  authorities bear a huge share of responsibility for
the current situation.” He also said the international
community cannot “ignore” that for a “long time now” Assad
has been fighting “combat units,” not unarmed men.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  said he “listened very
attentively” to Lavrov and found him ‘ambiguous’’ in giving
support for Annan’s mission. What is still needed is a “clear
reference” to the Arab League plan that envisages Assad handing
power to a deputy to pave the way for free elections, Juppe
said.  The gathering of the world’s top diplomats in New York
follows the failed mission to Syria over the weekend by Annan,
another sign that the international community is running out of
options over how to stop the violence.  ‘Cynical’ Assad  “How cynical that, even as Assad was receiving former
Secretary-General  Kofi Annan , the Syrian Army was conducting a
fresh assault on Idlib and continuing its aggression in Hama,
Homs, and Rastan,” Clinton told the Security Council in the
presence of Lavrov and European foreign ministers.  More than 7,500 people have died since anti-government
protests started in March 2011, according to UN estimates. The
turmoil has sent the value of the Syrian pound plummeting.  Annan met twice with Assad, who rejected overtures to talk
with opposition groups he labeled terrorists. Addressing the
Security Council, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called for
Assad to respond to Anna’s requests “within the next few
days.”  At least 108 people were killed yesterday by government
forces, the Local Coordination Committees of Syria said on its
website.  Al Arabiya  reported 51 people died in Syria today,
mostly in the central city of Homs.  Pressure on Russia  Clinton’s meeting with Lavrov today was their first since
Feb. 3, when Clinton failed to convince Russia not to veto a
second draft resolution condemning Assad.  Russia, which sells weapons to Syria, is facing growing
international pressure to sever ties with a Soviet-era ally.
Russia’s only military base outside the former  Soviet Union  is a
naval maintenance and supply center in the Syrian port of Tartus
on the  Mediterranean Sea .  There are few indications that the Russia and the Western
allies are closer to narrowing their differences. On March 9,
negotiations broke down over a proposed U.S.-drafted resolution
that “demands an immediate halt to all forms of violence in
Syria.” That was the third attempt to get the UN’s decision-
making body to agree on action on Syria.  Annan cautioned Assad yesterday against ignoring the
democratic changes of the “Arab Spring” that led to the
toppling of leaders in  Tunisia ,  Egypt ,  Libya  and Yemen. He told
reporters he cited an African proverb to the Syrian president:
“You cannot turn the wind, so turn the sail.”  Atrocity Reports  Al Jazeera television reported women and children were
being butchered in the Karam Al-Zaitoun neighborhood of Homs.
Video showed a room filled with dead children covered with
blankets, their necks showing signs of knife wounds.  The Syrian National Council, in a statement posted on its
Facebook page, denounced the “grisly crime” in Homs and called
on the Security Council to take the necessary measures to stop
all kinds of “genocide.”  Syria’s state-run news agency SANA said the images from
Homs were of “crimes committed by the armed terrorist groups
who kidnapped and killed civilians in Homs.”  “We are going to press ahead for humanitarian access,”
Annan told reporters at the airport in Ankara. “It’s not going
to be easy, it will take time, hopefully not too much time
because we can’t afford to let this thing drag on for too long,
neither will it be solved today.”  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ; 