-- Russia Will Probably Hold Rates on Post-Election Inflation Risk
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-03-12T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/russia-will-probably-hold-rates-on-post-election-inflation-risk.html
Russia  will probably refrain from
cutting rates after signaling that record-low inflation won’t
last once pre-election measures to curb prices are unwound.  Bank Rossii will leave the refinancing rate at 8 percent,
according to 19 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
overnight auction-based repurchase rate used to provide cash for
banks will stay at 5.25 percent and the overnight deposit rate
will remain at 4 percent, separate surveys showed. The central
bank will announce a decision today.  Russia is joining central banks in the European Union,
U.S., Japan and U.K. in waiting to gauge the strength of the
economic recovery before further reducing borrowing costs. The
world’s largest energy exporter pushed inflation to a post-
Soviet low of 3.7 percent during Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
presidential campaign by capping fuel costs and delaying
utility-price increases.  “There’s a risk that inflation will accelerate in the
second half and that’s an unequivocal reason to leave the
refinancing rate unchanged,” Natalia Orlova, chief economist at
 Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“There was definitely control over prices during the
elections.”  Investors are betting on lower  interest rates , with
forward-rate agreements signaling a decline of nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, in the next three months,
compared with expectations of as much as 31 basis points of
decreases on Feb. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ruble appreciated 3.8 percent against the dollar in February
for its second straight monthly gain. The Russian currency lost
0.4 percent to 29.6425 per dollar yesterday.  ‘Two Months of Peace’  Policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged in February
after unexpectedly cutting the refinancing rate by a quarter
point in December while also raising the deposit rate, a shift
they said should be “neutral” for monetary policy.  The market may expect “at least two months of peace”
after Bank Rossii said rates were at an acceptable level for the
“coming months,” First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said
at an investment conference after the Feb. 3 decision.  Consumer-price (RUCPIYOY)  growth slowed for a fourth month in February
to 3.7 percent from a year earlier, the lowest rate since the
 Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991. That left the refinancing rate
4.3 percentage points higher than inflation, the highest margin
since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Putin’s Win  Putin, 59, won re-election to the Kremlin in a March 4
ballot with 64 percent of the vote, beating Communist Party
runner-up  Gennady Zyuganov , who took 17 percent. Putin’s pledges
may raise  government spending  by $160 billion, or 8 percent of
projected economic output, over his six-year term,  Fitch Ratings 
estimated in a March 5 report.  The government delayed annual increases in most public-
utility tariffs until July to avoid higher prices before the
vote. Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  ordered Russia’s oil
producers on Jan. 10 to cap retail fuel prices at December
levels until after the election, Kommersant reported Jan. 23,
citing unidentified company officials. Russian gasoline  prices 
declined or were unchanged every week since the end of November.  The drop in inflation is primarily due to “pre-election
administrative measures,” which won’t influence Bank Rossii’s
decision on rates, Vladimir Kolychev and Vladimir Tsibanov,
analysts at Societe Generale SA’s OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in Moscow,
said in an e-mailed research note yesterday.  ‘Spiraling Increase’  “Significant increases in public-sector compensation and a
considerably tighter jobs market threaten the emergence of a
spiraling increase of wages and inflation,” they wrote.  Russian real wages grew 11.4 percent in December, the
fastest in more than three years, and rose 9 percent in January.
The economy contracted 0.1 percent in January on a seasonally
adjusted basis from the previous month, the  Economy Ministry 
said on its website Feb. 24.  Gross domestic product may miss the government’s 3.7
percent growth forecast this year after beating the 2011 target
by growing 4.3 percent, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach 
was cited as saying by RIA Novosti March 2. That may spur Bank
Rossii to cut the refinancing and repo rates this month to
jumpstart the economy, according to BNP Paribas.  “Growth is below potential, while inflation slowed more
than expected,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP
Paribas in Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail. “The problem of
growth looks sharper than inflation.”  Capital Outflows  Policy makers will also be reluctant to reduce rates
because it may intensify  capital flight  by making returns on
ruble assets relatively less attractive. Net private capital
outflows surged to $84.2 billion last year, the second highest
total since the central bank began keeping records in 1994.  Ulyukayev said January outflows may have been $11 billion,
while Klepach estimated them at $17 billion. The amount of cash
leaving Russia probably eased in February, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc.  “Although the intensity of capital outflows decreased, the
outflows remain significant, supporting the current hawkish
stance of monetary authorities,”  Alexander Morozov , chief
economist for Russia at HSBC, said in a note yesterday. “The
central bank still appears very concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  