-- Salt-Tolerant Wheat Developed in Australia May Aid Food Security
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-12T13:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/salt-tolerant-wheat-developed-in-australia-may-aid-food-security.html
Australian scientists bred salt
tolerance into durum wheat for the first time, boosting grain
yields by 25 percent in saline soils, according to the
University of Adelaide.  The scientists introduced a salt-tolerant gene from a wheat
relative into a commercial variety of durum wheat using
traditional breeding methods in first-of-its-kind research that
may boost  food security , the university wrote in a  statement  on
its website today.  Increased salt levels have degraded 20 percent of the
world’s farm land and are a “particular” problem in the main
wheat-growing regions of  Australia , the world’s second-largest
exporter of the grain, according to the university. Irrigation
and evaporation can cause salt build up.  “This work is significant as salinity already affects over
20 percent of the world’s agricultural soils, and salinity poses
an increasing threat to  food production ,” Rana Munns, co-lead
author of the research and a scientist with Australia’s national
science agency, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation, was cited as saying in the statement.  Domestication and breeding have reduced genetic diversity
of modern wheat, leaving the grain more vulnerable to
environmental stress including high salt levels in soil. The
scientists discovered the salt-tolerance gene in Triticum
monococcum, or einkorn wheat, one of the earliest cultivated
forms of wheat.  “Salty soils are a major problem because if sodium starts
to build up in the leaves it will affect important processes
such as photosynthesis, which is critical to the plant’s
success,” said Matthew Gilliham, the senior author of a paper
on the research published in the journal Nature Biotechnology.  Durum Wheat  The gene works by producing a protein that helps remove
sodium from the leaves, the university said. Salt-tolerant types
of durum, the hard-wheat variety used to make couscous and
pasta, may be commercially available “in the near future,”
according to Munns.  Adding the gene did not affect durum-wheat yields in normal
conditions and boosted productivity by as much as 25 percent in
salty conditions, according to Richard James, the CSIRO
researcher who led the field trials.  The scientists have also crossed the salt-tolerance gene
into bread wheat, and are assessing the results in field trials,
the university said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  