-- Sandusky Judge Delays Ruling on Alleged Penn State Sex Abuse Case Evidence
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D r e w   G i n g r i c h
-- 2012-03-12T17:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/sandusky-judge-delays-ruling-on-request-for-more-details-about-allegations.html
The judge overseeing Jerry Sandusky’s sexual-abuse case will rule later on the former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach’s request
for more details about the crimes he’s accused of.  Sandusky, who didn’t attend today’s hearing, seeks exact
times, dates and locations for the allegations. Prosecutors, who
have shared information on the general allegations of each
alleged victim, argued against giving such details citing trauma
to the victims. Prosecutors have also argued against revealing
some pretrial evidence citing the confidentiality of information
gathered during grand jury proceedings, and an ongoing
investigation.  The request by Sandusky lawyer Joseph Amendola for precise
times and dates is “unprecedented,” Senior Deputy Attorney
General Joseph McGettigan told state court Judge John M. Cleland
during a hearing today in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  “These victims were not enthusiastic about coming
forward,” McGettigan said during the hearing. “The victims at
the time were incapable of providing specific dates.”  Sandusky, 68, a former defensive coordinator for  Penn
State , is charged with more than 50 counts stemming from the
alleged abuse of boys over a 15-year period. Prosecutors say the
alleged incidents took place on Penn State’s campus, at
Sandusky’s home and at various away games attended by Penn
State’s football team.  ‘More Specific Information’  Cleland reserved ruling on Sandusky’s request. The purpose
of Amendola’s demand for what is known as a “bill of
particulars” is to narrow down what prosecutors intend to prove
at a trial and what the defendant must defend against, Cleland
said.  “Saying they’re children and they can’t remember isn’t a
satisfying explanation for not providing more specific
information under the law,” Cleland said.  The case against Sandusky led to last year’s firings of
university President  Graham Spanier  and coach  Joe Paterno , who
headed the school’s football program for 46 years. Paterno died
in January. Two school officials were also charged in the case
with lying to a grand jury about a 2002 sex-abuse allegation
against Sandusky.  Paterno was fired for a failure of leadership, Penn State
said in a statement today. The coach performed his “minimum
legal duty” to report a graduate assistant’s eyewitness account
of the 2002 incident to his immediate superior Athletic Director
Timothy Curley. However, he failed to do more to follow up, the
university said.  Fired by Phone  The university fired Paterno on Nov. 9 and delivered the
message by phone because his home was surrounded by media making
it impossible for board representatives to meet with him
privately there, the school said in today’s statement. The board
decided unanimously to remove him as coach while allowing his
employment contract to continue including all financial benefits
and his continued status as a tenured faculty member, according
to the statement.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gingrich in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, at  dag5225@psu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  