-- Sanko Steamship Asks Creditors to Defer Payments After Dry-Bulk Rates Fall
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-03-12T15:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/sanko-steamship-asks-creditors-to-defer-payments-after-dry-bulk-rates-fall.html
(Corrects fleet types in last paragraph.)  Sanko Steamship Co. (9112) , the Japanese
operator of about 200 ships, asked creditors to defer payments
after rates fell on global overcapacity and fuel prices surged.  The closely held company will continue operating and paying
running costs, such as fuel bills, while working on an out-of-
court restructuring plan, Yasunao Goto, a spokesman, said by
phone today. He declined to comment on the size of the Tokyo-
based company’s debts or to name its creditors.  The shipping line has asked shipowners, shipyards and
lenders for a standstill agreement and it intends to eventually
pay all debts, it said in a March 9 statement. The talks come
after the  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for commodity-shipping
costs, plunged 47 percent in a year amid an expanding fleet and
slowing demand.  “The market has been tough,” Goto said. “It was tougher
than we thought and it has just stayed there.”  Liabilities totaled 55.4 billion yen ($673 million) as of
the end of March 2011, according to Tokyo Shoko Research. Oil
refiner  Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. (5002)  may be the biggest creditor, the
research company said, citing July 2011 data. Showa Shell, an
affiliate of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , declined to comment.  The price of 380 Centistoke Bunker Fuel, used by ships, has
averaged $731.96 a ton in Singapore trading this year, 25
percent more than a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sanko, which was founded in 1934, had 195 ships as of Jan.
1, including dry-bulk carriers, tankers and offshore vessels,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  