-- Santorum Says Romney Can’t Close ‘Deal’ With Republicans
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/santorum-says-front-runner-romney-can-t-close-the-deal-in-primary-race.html
The Republican presidential
candidates snacked on hickory-smoked ribs, used grits as a
campaign prop and joked about shooting rifles with a comedian
famous for “redneck” humor as they made a final push for
victories in two Deep South primaries.  On the eve of contests in Mississippi and Alabama,  Mitt Romney  sought to solidify his front-runner status with folksy
appeals to Southern voters.  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  each
sought to present himself as the fiercest opponent to President
Barack Obama in the close, three-way race for the nomination.  Speaking to rain-drenched voters outside a diner in Mobile,
Alabama, yesterday, Romney framed the race as a fight for
delegates.  “This could be an election that comes down to a very small
margin between the three people running here most
aggressively,” he said. “I need even more delegates. So if you
guys are able to do that for me, we could well take this over
the top at a very fast pace.”  Romney is seeking to derail Gingrich and Santorum, both of
whom are looking to today’s voting to keep their campaigns
afloat. Gingrich, a former Georgia congressman, has staked his
campaign on Southern victories, and a poor showing could scuttle
his candidacy. Santorum is looking to keep his status as
Romney’s main challenger by showing the front-runner can’t win
the support of rank-and-file Republicans and by driving Gingrich
from the race.  Delegate Fight  “Quit listening to these political mathematicians,”
Santorum told reporters in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama . “Looking at the
states ahead, we have as good a chance if not a better chance,
just if things continue to go the way they are to end up with
more delegates than  Governor Romney .”  Romney has secured more delegates than any rival,
collecting 454 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
nomination, compared with 217 for Santorum and 107 for Gingrich,
according to Associated Press  estimates . U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who is focused on winning delegates to have
greater influence over the party platform, has 47 delegates.  Still, Romney has struggled to win evangelical Christians
and social conservatives who are skeptical of his positions on
such issues as abortion and gay marriage. Success in today’s
contests would help ease concerns about his appeal within the
party.  Born-Again Christians  In the 2008 Republican primary election, 77 percent of
voters in Alabama and 69 percent in  Mississippi  identified
themselves as born again or evangelicals, according to exit
polls.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who called the
races in the two states “away games” for him, tried to connect
with voters in Mobile yesterday by telling them he is looking
forward to hunting with his new supporter, Jeff Foxworthy, a
comedian whose signature one-liners begin, “You might be a
redneck if...”  “You can actually show me which end of the rifle to
point,” he joked to Foxworthy.  Santorum and Gingrich argued that the Republican primary
fight has demonstrated Romney would make a poor challenger to
Obama, even with the president’s vulnerabilities.  “We need someone who is a conservative to beat  Barack
Obama ,” Santorum said yesterday. “You can’t run a moderate
against a liberal and hope to have the differentiation.”  Hickory-Smoked Ribs  Yesterday afternoon, Santorum greeted voters at Dreamland
BBQ in Tuscaloosa before dining on a slab of the restaurant’s
hickory-smoked ribs.  A few hours later, in back-to-back separate appearances,
Santorum and Gingrich jockeyed to emerge as the strongest fiscal
and social conservative in the race at a forum sponsored by the
Alabama Republican party.  Santorum charged his rivals with supporting government
bailouts of the financial services industry, health-care
mandates and supporting action to combat  climate change  by
regulating greenhouse gas emissions -- all proposals unpopular
with most Republican voters and opposed by the former
Pennsylvania senator.  “You want to elect the most electable conservative?”
Santorum asked the audience. “First elect a conservative.”  Gingrich touted his long record in Republican politics,
citing his work helping build the Georgia Republican party,
electing Republicans to Congress and returning his party to
power in Congress during the 1994 elections.  Taking on Obama  “I hope you’ll decide having an experienced leader who’s
actually helped do these things before and who’s capable of
taking on Obama head on is what we need as a party,” he said.
“I do not believe the other two candidates in this race can
beat President Obama.”  The latest polls show Romney benefiting from a split in
support between his two rivals.  In a Public Policy Polling survey of likely primary voters
in Mississippi that was released yesterday, Gingrich led with 33
percent, followed by Romney with 31 percent and Santorum with 27
percent. The poll’s margin of error was plus or minus 3.8
percentage points.  A survey by the same organization in Alabama showed a near
three-way tie: Romney, 31 percent; Gingrich, 30 percent;
Santorum, 29 percent. The error margin was 4 percentage points.  The other remaining Republican presidential contender,
Paul, had 7 percent in Mississippi and 8 percent in Alabama.  Advertising Wars  As they campaigned across the South, the three leading
candidates -- with the help of super-PACS -- have exchanged
verbal jabs in advertisements on the airways.  A radio ad aired by the Romney-friendly political action
committee Restore Our Future attacked Santorum in his own voice
for supporting earmarks, using a clip of him saying in a debate
last month that he was proud to vote for such targeted federal
spending.  Romney and his allies dominated the airwaves in Alabama and
Mississippi over the last week, according to data from  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  In Alabama, the Romney campaign and Restore Our Future
aired ads 1,503 times on broadcast television between March 5
and yesterday, four times the 374 ads aired by Gingrich and the
pro-Gingrich Winning Our Future PAC. The pro-Santorum Red White
and Blue Fund aired ads 282 times.  In Mississippi, Restore Our Future aired ads 865 times,
compared with 346 for Gingrich and Winning Our Future, and 300
for Red White and Blue Fund.  The attacks extended even into the proper way to serve
grits. Last week, Romney opened a March 9 event in Jackson,
Mississippi, by telling voters that he started the day with “a
biscuit and some cheesy grits.”  Gingrich ridiculed the remark yesterday, painting Romney as
out of touch with southern voters. Southerners typically forgo
cheese on their grits, preferring butter, salt and pepper.  “I kind of feel relatively at home here,” Gingrich said
in Birmingham. “This morning I had grits which was a very
normal thing to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in
Birmingham, Alabama at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Mobile, Alabama at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  