-- Sasol Curbs Canadian Shale Investment as Sees Gas Prices Staying Low
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-03-12T17:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/sasol-of-south-africa-first-half-operating-profit-grew-70-to-2-7-billion.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels from coal, cut back plans to tap natural gas from
shale in  Canada  because prices for the commodity are too low.  “Our development plan for 2012 has been curtailed to
respond to the current low  gas prices , but this allows for
further appraisal,” Chief Executive Officer David Constable
said today at a presentation in Johannesburg.  Sasol bought half of  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ’s Cypress A and
Farrell Creek operations in the Montney shale basin last year,
anticipating higher profits from a move to gas-based fuel
production. The South African company, studying the possibility
of building a gas-to-liquids plant in western Canada, joins
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  in reducing output plans as prices drop.  “Our assessment of the gas reserves in Montney remains
intact,” Constable said. “The medium- and long-term ramp-up
profile will be fully aligned to feed our GTL aspirations.”  Gas prices on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  are at their
lowest in a decade, and were down 3.5 percent today as of 1:17
p.m. local time. Sasol expects prices to stay low for at least
the next year, Chief Financial Officer Christine Ramon said in
an interview.  Capex Cut  The Canadian assets posted an operating loss of 373 million
rand ($49 million) in six months through December, Group General
Manager Lean Strauss said, citing lower prices, depreciation and
foreign-exchange losses. The company also cut its capital
expenditure budget for the fiscal year by 2 billion rand to 29
billion rand as it reduces spending in Canada.  “The biggest challenge we’re facing is the gas prices in
the U.S.,” Strauss said. “They’ve dropped significantly. We’ll
have to overcome that in the short term. It all depends on how
gas prices move in the next year.”  Sasol  fell  2 percent to 384.82 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, giving it a market value of 248 billion rand.  The company, operating in countries from the U.S. to  Iran ,
Qatar and  Mozambique , said fiscal first-half net income advanced
83 percent to 13.9 billion rand after  oil prices  climbed and its
local currency weakened. Sasol earned 66 percent of operating
profit from the South African energy business, the Johannesburg-
based company said in a statement. It increased its first-half
dividend by 84 percent to 5.70 rand a share.  Lower Output  A strike contributed to a 1.3 percent decline in output at
the South African synthetic-fuels operation in the period, and
group production shrank as demand weakened, Sasol said.  The company uses proprietary Fischer-Tropsch technology to
make gasoline, diesel and jet fuel from the coal it mines in
 South Africa  and from gas extracted below the ocean floor near
 Qatar . It’s diversifying its crude oil purchases from Iran amid
the threat of trade curbs and oil sanctions, it said.  Preliminary talks to divest a 50 percent stake in the Arya
Sasol Polymer Co., which it co-owns with Iran’s Pars
Petrochemical Co., are continuing, Ramon said. The Arya assets
have a so-called carry value of about 4 billion rand, she said.  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, said this
year it would reduce output, idle rigs and lower spending on
fields by 70 percent after prices slumped. ConocoPhillips, Cabot
Oil & Gas Corp. and EQT Corp. have also said they may scale back
drilling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  