-- Scene Brunch: Podestas Show Off Alligators, Lots of Eliassons
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-12T15:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/scene-brunch-podestas-show-off-alligators-lots-of-eliassons.html
Among the highlights of Armory Week
in  New York  are the brunches in collectors’ homes. On Friday,
lobbyists Tony and Heather Podesta opened up their loft in the
Flatiron district to a just-barely-awake crowd of art-world
insiders.  The coffee and orange juice flowed as guests poked into the
bedroom and the kitchen.  The main attraction was the work of Danish-Icelandic artist
Olafur Eliasson, who in 2008 endeared himself to  New Yorkers  by
erecting waterfalls in and near New York Harbor.  The Podestas like Eliasson so much that he is the only
artist on their New York walls: Obsessive series of nature
photographs hang in the front hallway, the corridors and above
the beds in both the master suite and guest room. The dining
room features an oil-on-canvas color wheel; the living room, a
light sculpture.  “We decided that unlike our home in D.C., we would always
install one artist in depth,” said Tony Podesta, chairman and
founder of the  Podesta Group . “Olafur is our first. His work
plays with ideas and materials and color and light, always in
challenging ways.”  Compared to many art-fair events, this one was calm and
quiet enough for real conversation. The Podestas caught up with
Maurizio Rigillo, of  Galleria Continua , whom they described as
their favorite art dealer in  Italy .  Two Washingtonians huddled: Conrad Cafritz, chairman and
chief executive of  Cafritz Interests  and Potomac Hospitality
Services, and Rachel Goslins, executive director of the
President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities.  Hamptons Report  A Hamptons report came from Terrie Sultan, director of the
 Parrish Art Museum . During the summer, the museum will host an
exhibition based on the book “The Landmarks of New York” by
Barbaralee Diamonstein-Spielvogel (who recently became an
adviser to the  Port Authority  on integrating art and
architecture at the  World Trade Center site ). And Sultan
promised the museum is on track to move in the fall to its new
 Herzog & De Meuron -designed building in Watermill.  Holly Block, director of the  Bronx Museum of the Arts ,
brought news of the museum’s 40th anniversary gala on March 27,
honoring  art dealer  Bonni Benrubi and architect  Daniel Libeskind , among others. Its next show, “Bronx Baseball,”
opens April 13, to coincide with the  New York Yankees ’ home
opener against the  Los Angeles Angels . It will feature
contemporary and historical photographs submitted by members of
the public -- the deadline is March 16.  Cookbook author Ted Lee and artist E.V. Day checked out the
buffet, offering kale salad, miniature bagels and lox, egg
burritos and fruit, all from City Bakery.  For most of the affair the chair by brothers  Fernando and
Humberto Campana  made of stuffed-animal-variety alligators
remained empty. Finally artist Janaina Tschape settled in and
declared it “very comfortable.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 