-- Sealy Holder Targets KKR for ‘Poor’ Governance, Proposes Changes
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-12T20:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/sealy-holder-targets-kkr-for-poor-governance-proposes-changes.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private equity firm
that owns 45 percent of  Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , is being targeted by the
mattress maker’s second-largest shareholder for “significant
corporate governance deficiencies” that it says have stifled
Sealy’s performance.  H Partners Management LLC , which owns 14 percent of Sealy,
said in a letter to the company’s corporate governance committee
that KKR has “overloaded” the firm with debt and made
strategic errors that reduced Sealy’s earnings by half. The New
York-based investor also singled out Dean Nelson, head of KKR’s
consulting unit and a Sealy director since 2004, for
“excessive” influence on the board.  “Since Sealy’s IPO in April 2006, shareholders have
suffered a $1.3 billion, or an approximate 90 percent, loss of
common equity value,” Usman Nabi and Arik Ruchim of H Partners
wrote in the letter dated March 11 and filed with regulators
today. “In our view, this value destruction is due to the poor
judgment, interference, and conflicts of interest of one
shareholder: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.”  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for KKR, declined to comment
on the letter. In an e-mailed statement, Sealy said it “will
consider H Partners’ latest comments with appropriate care.”  “The company is focused on its strategic and operating
priorities for 2012, and is committed to delivering long-term
 shareholder value  for the benefit of all shareholders,” Sealy
said through an outside spokeswoman, Gemma Hart of New York-
based Brunswick Group Inc.  ‘Burning Bed’  KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , bought
Trinity, North Carolina-based Sealy in 2004 for $1.5 billion
from an investment group that included Bain Capital LLC. KKR
paid $5.78 a share for the bedding maker and took it public two
years later for $16 a share.  The  shares  have since lost 88 percent of their value. Sealy
rose 5.7 percent to close at $1.86 in New York. The stock has
gained 8.1 percent this year.  Sealy has been bought and sold by buyout firms since 1989,
when its inability to refinance a short-term loan earned it the
moniker “burning bed.” Last year the company posted a loss of
$9.9 million, following a loss of $13.7 million the year before.  In 2009 it earned $13.5 million in profit. In the middle of
that year, KKR extended $177 million in new capital to Sealy, a
move Moody’s Corp. said “reflected KKR’s interest in keeping
Sealy financially sound.”  Board Representation  In their letter, which the Wall Street Journal first
reported yesterday, Nabi and Ruchim attributed the sagging
performance in part to a lack of broader representation on
Sealy’s board of directors. The partners propose appointing a
representative from H Partners to the board and replacing three
directors with KKR affiliations with new members.  Nabi and Ruchim specifically call for Nelson’s resignation,
claiming some of the $20.9 million Sealy has paid KKR in
consulting fees since 2006 was unnecessary. Nelson heads KKR
Capstone, the private equity firm’s operations and consulting
business.  “Through our partnership, we’ve achieved better results
more quickly than we could have on our own,” Lawrence J. Rogers, Sealy’s chief executive officer, wrote in a block quote
on KKR Capstone’s  website .  Rogers is set to retire this year after four years as CEO
and 33 years at Sealy. Nabi and Ruchim proposed in their letter
that an H Partners representative be added to the CEO search
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  