-- SEC Said to Plan Action Over Felix, SharesPost in Stock Inquiry
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-03-12T19:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/sec-said-to-plan-action-over-felix-sharespost-in-stock-inquiry.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is preparing sanctions against  Felix Investments LLC 
over trading of private-company shares, the first action to
emerge from a broad investigation of transactions involving non-
public startups, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The top U.S. securities regulator, which has been
investigating the trading of equity in closely held companies
for more than a year, will also take action regarding SharesPost
Inc., a marketplace for trading equity in closely held startups,
said two people, who asked not to be identified because the
moves haven’t been announced.  The SEC is probing whether the trading leaves investors
open to fraud because closely held firms aren’t required to
disclose key figures such as revenue,  cash flow  and debt
obligations, and frequently carry restrictions, including on
share sales. New York-based Felix Investments creates pools
through which investors can purchase shares of non-public
companies, including Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc., while
SharesPost helps match buyers and sellers of the equities.  The moves would mark the first action by the SEC concerning
the trading of stock in non-public startups including Facebook,
which has filed to sell shares in the largest-ever technology
initial public offering. Demand for some closely held technology
companies has surged in recent years, with secondary-market
transactions reaching $9.3 billion in 2011 from $4.6 billion a
year earlier, according to Nyppex LLC.  Wells Notice  Frank Mazzola, principal and chief executive officer of New
York-based Felix Investments, received a so-called Wells notice
from the SEC in August, saying investigators intended to
sanction him for violating securities laws in “certain sales
activities in 2010,” according to his public broker records.  The SEC is likely to impose a fine on Felix Investments,
two of the people said.  Mazzola said in the filing that he acted appropriately and
“will aggressively defend himself.”  Mazzola declined to comment, as did Jeremiah Hall, a
spokesman for San Bruno, California-based SharesPost. Florence
Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC in  Washington , declined to
comment.  Mazzola also received a similar Wells notice in September
from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage-
industry funded self-regulator, according to the records.  Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for FINRA, declined to comment.  Pooled Funds Gain Popularity  As secondary trading has increased, investment firms
including Felix have set up pooled funds, letting several
wealthy investors to work as a group to buy stakes in venture-
backed companies. The pools enabled more people to get shares in
popular start-ups without forcing the firm to file public
financial disclosures -- a requirement for companies with more
than 499 shareholders.  The trend has also spawned new exchanges for unregistered
shares, including SharesPost, New York-based SecondMarket Inc.,
 San Mateo , California-based Xpert Financial Inc. and New York-
based Gate Technologies LLC.  SecondMarket and SharesPost said last year that the SEC had
requested information from them about the so-called pre-initial
public offering pooled investment funds.  Trading on those exchanges is reserved for so-called
accredited investors -- people with at least $1 million in
assets or $200,000 in annual income -- and a basic premise of
securities laws is that they are sophisticated enough to fend
for themselves without regulators’ protection.  Goldman Sachs’ Facebook Deal  The business gained attention last year after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. halted a plan to offer as much as $1.5 billion in
Facebook equity to wealthy U.S. investors. Goldman Sachs said in
January 2011 it pulled the offer because of concern that
“immense media attention” could violate SEC rules limiting
marketing of private securities. Goldman Sachs instead
restricted the offer to non-U.S. investors.  Facebook filed in February for its IPO.  Secondary markets have featured for more than a year in
congressional hearings about whether regulatory requirements
imposed by the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act have made accessing public markets more expensive. The SEC
has said it is reviewing whether its rules are too restrictive,
while cautioning that a loosening of regulatory requirements
could lead to investor harm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  in Washington at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  