-- Judicial Nominees Will Get Senate Vote as Reid Decries Holdup
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/senate-majority-leader-reid-to-force-votes-on-judge-choices-1-.html
U.S. Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  said he will require votes in coming days on 17 of
President Barack Obama’s judicial nominees, escalating a fight
with Republicans over confirmations.  “Republicans have prevented the Senate from doing its
constitutional duty,” Reid of  Nevada  said on the Senate floor
yesterday. He said Republicans are holding up “consensus
nominees,” including some approved unanimously by the Senate
Judiciary Committee.  Reid’s decision follows failed talks with Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, over a slate of
nominees to put forward for a vote. The Senate this year has
confirmed seven federal judges.  Twenty-two judicial nominees are pending before the Senate,
and Reid is forcing votes on all of the 17 district court judges
on that list.  Nine of the lower-court nominees were approved last year by
voice vote in the Judiciary Committee. Of those approved by the
panel this year, all but two cleared the committee with only one
“no” vote.  Obama angered Senate Republicans with his Jan. 4 decision
to appoint  Richard Cordray  as the first director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau and three members to the  National
Labor Relations Board  while Congress was on a holiday break.  Obama said he bypassed Republican obstructionism with
recess appointments allowed under the Constitution.  Republicans
said Congress wasn’t in recess because both chambers were
holding brief sessions every few days.  No Strategy  So far, Senate Republicans as a group haven’t developed a
strategy to respond to the recess appointments. A spokesman for
McConnell said Reid’s move to force votes on the nominees is a
distraction from issues that need the Senate’s attention.  “It seems to run counter to their pledge to focus on jobs
and gas prices,” said McConnell spokesman  Don Stewart .  In the Senate, which Democrats control by 53 to 47 votes,
nominations are usually subject to bipartisan negotiations over
who will get a vote and when. That’s because it takes 60 votes
to end a filibuster of each nomination, and any one senator’s
ability to use the delaying tactic can eat up floor time.  Reid filed a motion to start a lengthy process for votes on
the 17 judicial nominations, requiring up to 30 hours of debate
on each judge before a vote to end opponents’ delaying tactics.
A senior Democratic leadership aide said Reid will pursue an
agreement with Republicans this week that would allow each
nominee to receive a vote while avoiding a debate that could
extend into April.  Balancing Act  Leaders of both parties are faced with an election-year
balancing act in the debate, said Larry Baum, a political
science professor at  Ohio State University  who studies judicial
politics.  ‘Republicans would prefer to get as few of the nominees
through as possible, but at the same time, there’s a certain
pressure on them not to be too obstructionist,’’ Baum said.
“That makes them look bad and they may worry about
retaliation.”  Reid and other Democratic leaders, he said, face the risk
of pushing too hard and sparking a revolt against consideration
of other judicial or executive branch nominees this year, he
said.  At the same time, Baum said, they could benefit by
energizing outside groups that are frustrated with a lack of
progress on judicial nominations and that could help motivate
grassroots campaign efforts for Democrats.  ‘Drag Their Feet’  Carl Tobias , a professor at the University of Richmond
School of Law in  Virginia , said Reid’s maneuver contains a risk
of tying up Senate floor time. While Republicans don’t want to
appear to be too partisan and unyielding, he said they may see
little benefit in making a deal with Reid right away to move
things along.  “The strategy is to drag their feet on confirmations, and
they’ve done that pretty well so far,” Tobias said.  Only one Republican senator --  Mike Lee  of  Utah  -- has said
he will oppose all of Obama’s nominees until the president
rescinds the four recess appointments. Party leaders are
reluctant to engage in a high-profile battle on this issue with
Obama, who has made opposition to Republicans in Congress a
campaign theme.  Of the seven judges confirmed this year, all passed the
Senate by comfortable margins. The narrowest vote was on Feb.
17, when the Senate confirmed Jesse Furman to be a district
court judge for  New York . The vote was 62-34, with no Democrats
voting against his nomination.  Lawsuit Over Appointments  Most Senate Republicans signed a letter in early February
saying they would file a court brief supporting a legal
challenge to the labor board recess appointments. They haven’t
filed it, and the lead case has hit a snag.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington
rejected a challenge to the appointments on March 2, calling it
a “political dispute” that she wouldn’t resolve. The judge
said the  National Federation of Independent Business  and other
groups “attempted to shoehorn” the challenge into a case over
a rule requiring companies to notify workers of their right to
form a union.  The business groups are appealing her decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  