-- Solazyme Climbs on Defense Plans, Partners: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-03-12T19:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/solazyme-climbs-on-defense-plans-partners-san-francisco-mover.html
Solazyme Inc. (SZYM) , which makes oil
products from genetically modified algae, rose on speculation
its relationship with the U.S. Defense Department will grow even
as some of its raw material costs rise.  Solazyme climbed 7.4 percent to $13.89 a share at 3:06 p.m.
in  New York . Earlier it increased 10 percent, the most intraday
since Feb. 22, the day after releasing fourth-quarter earnings.
The South  San Francisco , California-based firm first sold stock
to the public in May 2011 at $18 a share.  The Defense Department released a  report  last week that
highlighted “a strong interest in securing non-petroleum
sources of fuel.” In the second quarter, the department will
present a draft policy on alternative fuels, with further
briefings planned in the fourth quarter.  “Solazyme is already a partner with the Defense
Department, and they delivered 100 percent of the volumes of
fuel that’s part of their Green Strike Project,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
Houston, said in an interview. “They delivered ahead of
schedule, so the more resources committed to renewable fuel
initiatives the better for the company.”  Solazyme has delivered about 108,000 gallons (409,000
liters) of renewable diesel and jet fuel to the Defense
Department, Jonathan Wolfson, chief executive officer of
Solazyme, said last month.  Limited Production  The company isn’t “in full scale commercial operation yet,
they will be ramping up as the year progresses,” Molchanov
said. “Production is very limited, these are demonstration
scale shipments.”  Solazyme uses a technology to convert organic material such
as algae, a plant-like organism, into biofuels and specialty
chemicals. Molchanov has an outperform rating on the stock,
meaning that he expects its return to exceed the average among
its peers.  “Their scale up is on time and on target and we’ve seen
something of a relief rally,” Molchanov said. “Investors who
may not have been looking at the company are now taking a look
at the stock.”  While the shares have climbed, one of the main ingredients
for Solazyme’s primary feedstock may become more costly after
drought in  Brazil  damaged sugar cane crops, trimming the
harvest.  Sugar mills in Brazil’s Center South, the world’s largest
producing region, will make less of the sweetener than expected
after a drought in past months damaged cane crops, Paulo Roberto de Souza, chief executive officer of Copersucar, the country’s
largest sugar-trading company, told reporters in Ribeirao Preto,
Brazil, today.  Solazyme’s “focus on commercialization will be in  South
America ,” Molchanov said. “They are talking with  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  to
build a bio-fuel facility adjacent to one of Bunge’s sugar mills
in Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  