-- Why Some Housing Markets Do Better Than Others: Edward Glaeser
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-03-12T23:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/some-housing-markets-do-better-than-others-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
As of December 2011, the  S&P Case-
Shiller housing price index  had declined in 18 of the past 19
months. In constant dollars, its 10-city index is about the same
as it was in 1989, which suggests two lost decades.  Yet the national housing blahs obscure the fact that some
markets, such as  New York  and  Washington , have seen  prices rise 
substantially since 2000, while others, such as Detroit and Las
Vegas, have experienced dramatic price declines.  The real value of housing in Detroit is 30 percent less
than it was when  Case-Shiller (ETSLTOTL)  started tracking the city in 1991,
and 52 percent less than it was a decade ago. Any real estate
agents who told homebuyers that housing prices only go up
deserve a place in the pantheon of great liars along with
Pinocchio, Joe Isuzu and the Grand Duchess Anastasia.  The great housing boom and bust of the last decade wasn’t a
unified national phenomenon. Figure 1 (attached) relates growth
in real housing prices between 2001 and 2006 with declines in
prices between 2006 and 2011. I use the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency price indexes , because they are publicly available for
far more metropolitan areas than the Case-Shiller data, and I
include only those areas with more than 200,000 people in the
2000 census. To keep the units similar, I divided price growth
in both periods by the  price index  for 2001.  Lean Years  Joseph told Pharaoh to expect seven lean years after seven
fat years; that’s also pretty normal in housing markets.
Typically, markets give back  32 cents  of any extra price growth
over a five-year period during the next five years.  But the past 10 years have been far more undulating than
usual. Figure 1 shows that, on average, between 2006 and 2011,
markets gave back 96 percent of their growth between 2001 and
2006. The boom of the early 2000s was a tsunami that came and
went, leaving the average market more or less where it started.  The figure also illustrates the remarkable range of
metropolitan experiences. Some markets, such as Dallas and
Houston, had barely any movement during either period. Others,
such as  Las Vegas  and Riverside,  California , experienced
extraordinary swings.  Those areas that lie significantly above the line
experienced less decline between 2006 and 2011 than their
earlier growth would have predicted, which means that they did
relatively well over the entire decade. Washington and Midland,
 Texas , are particularly notable in this group (being one of
President  George W. Bush ’s hometowns seems to have been good for
housing prices). The areas below the line, such as Detroit and
Las Vegas, experienced post-2006 price declines that were lower
than their previous price growth would warrant. In these areas,
real prices were down over the decade.  The best way I have found to explain why certain areas
experienced the biggest price swings over the past decade is by
looking at temperatures in January. Figure 2 shows the
relationship between that variable and percentage growth in
prices (again relative to the 2001 baseline) and January
temperature.  Obviously, there were exceptions -- Dallas and Houston --
but overall, for every additional 10 degrees of January
temperature, prices rose by an additional 12 percent. But after
2006, the connection between warmer temperatures and price
decline was just as strong as the warmth-growth connection
before that year. Over the entire decade, there is no
statistical link between warm Januaries and price growth.  Warm Weather  The fact that the great booms and busts occurred
disproportionately in warmer places is a puzzle. Why should
irrational exuberance dislike snow? One explanation is that
because the Sun Belt has been  growing rapidly  for decades,
buyers may have overestimated the impact that this trend would
have on price growth. Certainly, buyers in Las Vegas and Phoenix
don’t seem to have understood that the essentially unlimited
housing supply in those areas will ultimately keep prices low
even if  population growth  continued.  Although January temperature doesn’t explain price-growth
variation over the entire decade, there are some variables that
correlate with housing price growth between 2001 and 2011.  I’ve put together a little statistical model that can, with
five variables for 2000, explain the majority of the
heterogeneity in price growth between 2001 and 2011 for
metropolitan areas with more than 400,000 people (as of 2000);
the same five variables can explain over four-tenths of the
variation in price growth for areas with more than 200,000
people. Figure 3 shows the relationship between actual price
growth and the growth predicted by the model.  There were some big misses. Midland and Washington did much
better than expected (the Bush effect) and  Detroit  did worse.
Yet overall, the model seems to do a reasonable job
“explaining” the data.  Before I discuss the model, a few disclaimers. Above all,
this is a data-mining exercise, which means that it should be
taken with plenty of grains of salt. Some of the correlations
(even though they are “statistically significant”) may be
spurious. Moreover, there is no reason to have any confidence
that past price relationships will hold in the future. My model
just tries to make sense of what happened over the last decade.  The five factors that best predicted price growth between
2001 and 2011 were the share of adults with college degrees,
housing permits per capita, median family income, median housing
value and the closest distance to the Atlantic Ocean or the  Gulf
of Mexico . To reduce the power of outliers to shape results, I
took logarithms of all of the variables, except the percent of
adults with college degrees. Apart from distance to the ocean,
the variables all come from the U.S. Census Bureau.  College Education  The only variable that had a positive correlation with
price growth was the share of adults with college degrees as of
2000. On average, if the share of adults with college degrees
was 10 percentage points higher in 2000, price growth was 15
percent higher over the past decade. Given the  strong
correlation  between education and urban success over the past
four decades, we shouldn’t be surprised when skills predict
price growth.  But college education only has such a positive link with
price growth once we control for income, and income (controlling
for education) is strongly negatively associated with price
growth over this time period. Holding education constant, 10
percent higher family incomes in 2000 are associated with about
4 percent lower price growth between 2001 and 2011.  If places were earning more than their skills would
suggest, as of 2000, then they experienced less price growth.
This result is in line with decades of  economic research  that
finds that -- holding skills constant -- poorer places
experience faster economic growth.  Technology catches up in backward areas, and companies
reduce labor costs by coming to places with low wages relative
to skills. As previously poorer places catch up economically,
their housing prices also grow more quickly.  Housing prices  also typically converge, and higher prices
in 2000 were strongly associated with less price growth between
2001 and 2011. Places with prices that were 10 percent higher in
2000 experienced, on average, 2 percent less price growth.  There are two plausible explanations for why price growth
typically declined by 3 percent as distance to the coasts
doubled. One explanation is that coastal America contains the
most economically productive parts of the country, and demand
for housing in these areas has been more robust. A second
explanation is that there is just so much empty space between
the oceans that abundant supply limits the growth of housing
prices.  The fact that abundant supply limits price growth is
certainly the best explanation why permits per capita are so
strongly associated with lower price growth between 2001 and
2011. Figure 4 shows the relationship between average price
growth and permits per 100 people in 2000, where I have grouped
those areas with more than 10 permits per 1,000 together in the
right-most bar. The areas with the least permitting activity in
2000 had average real price growth of about 15 percent; the
areas with the most permitting activity had real price declines
of 13 percent.  Oversupply and Demand  No matter which way the macroeconomic winds may blow,
housing price will ultimately be determined by the intersection
of supply and demand. Places that permit a lot of new homes,
such as Las Vegas and Phoenix, will ultimately see limited
housing price growth even if demand is robust. Places that
permit very little will tend to be expensive, as long as they
have the kind of dynamic skill-driven economy that keeps housing
demand high.  Indeed, it’s precisely because I like affordable housing
just as much as I like inexpensive computers and cars, that I
typically favor fewer restrictions on housing construction.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 