-- South Korea’s Smart Meters Program Averts Nuclear Need
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-03-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/south-korea-s-smart-meters-investment-may-avert-need-for-nuclear-reactor.html
South Korea ’s plan to install smart
meters in half the country’s households by 2016 could cut
electricity consumption equivalent to the cost of one nuclear
power plant.  “We want to make the utility industry intelligent and
efficient,” said Choi Kyu Chong, director of the Smart Grid &
Electricity Market Division of the  Knowledge Economy Ministry .
South Korea expects it will be able to save the cost of building
a reactor by 2016 by helping households and utilities to manage
electricity consumption through the meters, he said.  The country is investing in smart meters amid opposition
from citizens and political parties over plans to expand its
reliance on nuclear energy after the Fukushima disaster last
year in  Japan . State-run utility  Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) ,
also known as Kepco, has awarded contracts to companies
including LS Industrial Systems Co., Iljin Electric Co. and Nuri
Telecom Co. to install the meters from a program that has won a
1.47 trillion won ($1.3 billion) commitment from the government.  Smart meters show customers what they pay for power at each
time of the day, which utilities say will smooth demand
fluctuations by encouraging more people to shift consumption to
off-peak hours when it’s cheapest to generate electricity. The
devices cost from 20,000 won to 140,000 won a unit, depending on
whether they are for small or large electricity users.  Energy consumption in South Korea, the fourth-largest user
in  Asia , more than doubled in the 12 years to 2010, the highest
rate among developed countries, according to the Korea Energy
Economics Institute, a state energy policy adviser. Electricity
prices in the country only cover 87 percent of the cost of
generating electricity, according to the government.  “While Korea’s overall approach to smart grid has been
technologically advanced, the program can be only effective if
the country raises its electricity tariffs,” Ali Izadi-
Najafabadi, an energy technologies analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said in an e-mail.  Analogue Meters  South Korea plans to replace all analogue meters at
households with the new devices by 2020. The government on Feb.
28 said it plans a 14-fold increase in the number of meters to
10 million units by 2016.  As many as 30 bidders have participated in a series of
tenders by Kepco to supply 2.3 million smart meters.  LS
Industrial Systems Co. (010120) , Iljin Electric Co. and Nuri Telecom Co.
were among companies selected to supply the meters to Kepco,
said Sung Ki Jong, an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul.  Western smart meter makers like  Landis+Gyr (LGYZ) , the world’s
biggest, may start to participate as Kepco  ramps up the volume
of meters to be installed, said Izadi-Najafabadi.  “As the government has focused on pilot projects so far,
the demand for the meters is quite small, making it difficult
for suppliers to earn lots of money,” Sung said. “With larger
numbers to be installed over the next few years, there is scope
for suppliers to make real money.”  Tender Program  Kepco plans to issue a tender for 1.5 million units in June
or July, and in 2013 for more than 2 million units. It plans to
install the meters at 15.2 million households between 2016 and
2020.  If South Korea meets its 2016 target to install the meters
at half its households, it will be second in Asia only to  China ,
which plans to install them at 80 percent of households by 2016,
according to New Energy Finance. In  Europe , Italy already has
these meters in all houses, while in the U.S., they are
installed in about half of all households.  The meters are part of the Smart Grid project announced by
the government in 2009 to help reduce energy consumption by 3
percent and cut electricity consumption by 10 percent by 2030.
In 2030, when the project is completed, it will lead to the
reduction of 230 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions
and 47 trillion won of energy imports, according to government
estimates.  South Korea, the world’s biggest producer of ships,
televisions and computer memory chips, plans to legislate a cap-
and-trade carbon trading system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in  Seoul  at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  