-- Sovereign Bond Risk Rises After Greek Default Swaps Triggered
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-12T11:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against
default on European sovereign bonds rose to the highest in eight
weeks after the declaration of a  credit event  triggering $3.2
billion of Greek debt protection contracts.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments rose four basis points to 355 at
11 a.m. in London, the highest since Jan. 18. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Investors are betting against Europe’s other troubled
economies after the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association’s ruling bolstered confidence in the market for
hedging sovereign bond holdings. ISDA’s determinations committee
meets again today to prepare for an auction to settle Greek
swaps.  “From the point of view of CDS as a product, it’s
definitely a relief,” said Teo Lasarte, a credit strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  London . “The focus is now
shifting to recovery.”  The viability of default swaps as a hedge for about $257
billion of government debt was questioned after the effective
subordination of private investors to the  European Central Bank 
failed to trigger a credit event. Greece’s use of collective
action clauses to force losses on bondholders who didn’t
volunteer to participate in its debt restructuring caused the
event, ISDA’s determinations committee ruled.  Boxes Ticked  “Hopefully people will see that the DC will trigger a
credit event when it can tick all the boxes,” said David Geen,
ISDA’s general counsel in London. “Hopefully that will give
people confidence the product works.”  Traders are holding an auction, which will set a recovery
value on the underlying bonds, on March 19 to “maximize” the
number of securities that can be used to set payout amounts,
ISDA said in a March 9 statement.  Greece  extended its exchange
offer to holders of non-Greek law bonds to March 23.  “It was always likely that CDS would trigger,” said
 Elisabeth Afseth , a strategist at Investec Bank Plc in London.
“Confirmation may be giving bit of confidence that CDS is still
useful as a hedge, and you could see the reason someone might
want to protect the likes of  Portugal  on the back of that.”  The cost of insuring corporate and financial debt was
little changed today, according to BNP Paribas SA. Contracts on
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings climbed 0.5 basis points to 582.5. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings rose 0.5 basis points to 133.5 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers rose one basis point to 213 and the
subordinated index climbed two to 357.  “The market is taking it in stride,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The
sovereign crisis isn’t over.”  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  