-- Spain Makes Progress in Plea for Higher Deficit From Euro Chiefs
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-03-12T17:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/spain-makes-progress-in-plea-for-higher-deficit-from-euro-chiefs.html
Spain  made headway in persuading
euro-area leaders to let it raise its deficit target for 2012 as
long as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  maintains a pledge to bring
the shortfall down to European Union limits next year.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the
focus is on Spain getting the deficit down to 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 and not on an intermediate target for
this year.  “We assume that Spain will and wants to meet its budget
target for 2013,” Juncker told reporters before chairing a
meeting of euro finance chiefs in Brussels today. “We’ll talk
about the concrete measures that have to be taken” with a view
to the 2012 budget.  Rajoy, in office since December, rattled  Europe ’s
establishment after a March 2 leaders’ summit by unilaterally
raising the 2012 deficit target to 5.8 percent of GDP from the
original goal of 4.4 percent. He blamed a higher-than-planned
2011 deficit that he inherited from his Socialist predecessors.  The 2011 deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP, overshooting
the 6 percent pledged by the outgoing government of Socialist
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero . Most of the
slippage was due to bigger-than-forecast regional deficits.  Rajoy has already implemented 15 billion euros of austerity
measures, including higher income tax rates. The government
forecasts the  economy  will contract 1.7 percent this year with
unemployment holding above 24 percent, complicating efforts to
raise revenue.  ‘Absolute’ Commitment  “Spain’s commitment to budget rules is absolute and Spain
is going to be the country that will show that economic reforms
can lead a euro-zone economy back to growth,” Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos said before the Brussels meeting.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Spain has
made “great progress” in getting its public finances in order.
Even the Dutch government, set for more austerity after
predicting a 4.5 percent deficit next year, didn’t push Spain to
maintain its original target.  The European Commission will take the lead in judging
Spain’s deficit-reduction progress, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.  “We already heard last time from Spain that they won’t
manage to complete 2012 as positively as had been planned,”
said Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter. “They also missed
the goal in 2011. Therefore the commission is looking at this
more closely and together Spain we will have to set up a plan
that at least the overhanging deficit no longer exist in 2013.”  Bond Markets  Deficit concerns have led Spanish bonds to underperform
those of  Italy  in recent weeks. The yield on Spain’s benchmark
10-year bond rose 6 basis points today to 5.058 percent, 14
basis points more than the comparable Italian bonds. A month ago
the Italian 10-year yielded 30 basis points  more than  Spain.  “We believe it may be unwise to ‘front-load’ the necessary
fiscal adjustment in these circumstances,”  Gilles Moec , co-
chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , wrote in
a note to investors today. “Waiting for the recovery to take
hold in 2013 may ultimately be more beneficial to the underlying
state of Spanish public finances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Brussels at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  