-- EU Budget Deal May Leave Spain Struggling to Meet Deficit-Reduction Goal
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-13T13:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/spain-faces-eu-call-for-deeper-deficit-cuts-in-first-test-of-stiffer-rules.html
European Union pressure on  Spain  to
make additional budget cuts may not be enough to compel the
government in  Madrid  to bring its deficit in line with the 27-
nation bloc’s rules next year.  European finance ministers told Spain late yesterday to
make cuts equivalent to 0.5 percent of gross domestic product
from the 2012 budget. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
Spain, the euro region’s fourth-biggest economy, remained
“absolutely committed” to getting the shortfall under the EU’s
3 percent limit in 2013.  “Even this hurdle looks too high,”  Christoph Weil , an
economist at Commerzbank AG, said in a report. “Spain would
have to reduce the cyclically adjusted public deficit by a total
of about 7 percent of GDP this year and next,” which would be
an “enormous tour de force.”  European finance chiefs in Brussels pushed back against
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s plan to aim for a deficit
of 5.8 percent of GDP this year instead of the 4.4 percent
previously agreed, as they seek to show that tougher fiscal
rules in effect since December have teeth, unlike the
“stability pact” that let repeat violators go unpunished in
the run-up to the debt crisis.  A shrinking economy is complicating Rajoy’s efforts to meet
the deficit goals after austerity measures failed to prevent
Spain from overshooting last year’s target.  ‘Enormous Problem’  Spain faces an “enormous problem” to narrow the deficit
to the 3 percent euro limit next year, said Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden.  “The 16 other finance ministers of the euro zone believe
that what they have planned for this year is not yet enough,”
Frieden said today in an interview on RTL Radio. “Spain has
always been a country we kept an eye on.”  Meeting the new 5.3 percent deficit target means cutting
about 45 billion euros ($59 billion) from this year’s budget,
which will be “very difficult” as the economy contracts,
 Julian Callow , head of European economics at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , said in a note. The European Commission forecast Feb. 23
that Spanish GDP will shrink 1 percent this year.  Rajoy’s government, in power since December, estimates the
2011 deficit was 8.5 percent of GDP, more than the 6 percent
target the previous government had agreed with the EU. Most of
the overshoot came from regional administrations, while the
social security system also missed its goal.  Situation ‘Different’  “A lot of Spain’s considerations were taken into account,
that last year’s deficit situation was much more complicated
than what had been thought and that the situation is different
from an economic point of view,” De Guindos said today.  Spain accepted the recommendation for the 2012 budget,
Guindos said in reiterating his pledge to meet the EU limit next
year. Juncker said that goal “is the main figure that should be
kept in mind.”  Last night’s deficit deal was unexpected. European
officials had planned to put off a reckoning with Spain until
April, after the release of its 2012 budget and final EU data on
the 2011 shortfall. Rajoy is set to present his spending plan
and additional austerity measures on March 30, days after
regional elections in Andalusia, a Socialist stronghold that his
 People’s Party  is attempting to seize for the first time in
three decades.  Rajoy rattled  Europe ’s establishment after a March 2
leaders’ summit by shredding the original 2012 deficit target in
what he called a “sovereign decision.” Spain’s pleas didn’t go
entirely unheeded. The euro ministers agreed that the initial
2012 goal is no longer reachable.  ‘Stupid Consolidation’  “I don’t agree that Spain should go through excessive and
stupid consolidation that puts it in a more difficult situation
than it already is, but on the other hand Spain is the fourth-
largest economy of the euro zone and as such it cannot take
total leave from the promises it has made,” Juncker said. The
result “is a healthy mix between consolidation and common
sense.”  The new government has already implemented 15 billion euros
of austerity measures, including higher income-tax rates. The
government forecasts the  economy  will contract 1.7 percent this
year with unemployment holding above 24 percent, complicating
efforts to raise revenue.  Deficit concerns have led  Spanish bonds  to underperform
those of  Italy  in recent weeks. Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond
now yields 22 basis points more than the comparable Italian
bond. A month ago the Italian 10-year yielded 30 basis points
 more than  Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  