-- States Given Flexibility for Health Law Marketplace Rules
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-12T19:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/states-given-flexibility-for-health-law-marketplace-rules-1-.html
States will be able to set their
own standards for determining which insurers can sell medical
coverage in online marketplaces that will serve an estimated 24
million people under the U.S. health-care overhaul.  Rules announced today by the Obama administration allow
states to determine whether insurers led by  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)  must bid to compete in the exchanges, or meet general
standards set by the state that fit within broad federal
guidelines. They also allow states to pool their exchanges.  The health law signed in 2010 directed states to set up
websites and telephone lines that enable residents to compare
and buy coverage as if shopping for plane tickets. The rules
come two weeks before the U.S.  Supreme Court  hears arguments on
whether a provision mandating coverage for all Americans is
constitutional, draining some of their impact, according to
Thomas Carroll, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “I don’t know that the markets will give anything much
credence yet, given that things could change significantly,”
said Carroll, who is based in  New York , in a telephone
interview.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed Health-Care Index, which
tracks insurer stocks, was down 1.25 percent at 2:41 p.m. New
York time. The broader  S&P 500 index  was up 0.16 percent.  States have until January to demonstrate how their
exchanges will work, or the U.S. will install a backup in which
federal officials will determine the rules. So far, 17 states
and the  District of Columbia  have created an exchange or have
said they will, according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a
 Menlo Park , California-based research institution  Third-Party Navigators  Today’s  guidelines  allow states to police insurers by using
“secret shoppers” to ensure sick people aren’t discouraged
from signing up and banning promotions to attract healthier
people. They also urge use of third-party “navigators” to help
consumers get the most from the exchanges.  The rules don’t say how the federal backup exchange will
work.  That is “a huge priority” for the government, said Tim
Hill, the deputy director of the Center for Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight, the agency responsible for exchanges,
in a conference call with reporters.  The federal government should “avoid duplicating existing
state regulations that will add complexity and increase costs
for consumers,” said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for
America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s trade group in
Washington, in a statement.  “Exchanges will work best if they are true marketplaces
that maximize choice and competition,” he said. The industry
has lobbied against proposals in states that would require
insurers to bid to sell plans in exchanges.  Accommodating Stance  “It looks like they tried to be as accommodating to states
as they possibly could,” said Thomas Barker, the former acting
general counsel of the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services under President  George W. Bush .  The flexibility may be aimed at getting states moving on
building exchanges, and “to try to tone down some of the
criticism” of the health law, said Barker, now a partner at
Foley Hoag in  Washington , in a telephone interview.  The regulations extend the federal government’s reach into
states and will cost millions of dollars, said Virginia Governor
Bob McDonnell, chairman of the  Republican Governors Association ,
in a statement. He criticized the lack of clarity on the federal
health insurance exchange and other details.  Competition between plans in the exchanges “will drive
down costs” while giving people and small businesses “the same
purchasing power big businesses have today,” said Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  in a statement.  Low-income and working-class people will get discounts on
coverage purchased through exchanges under the law. A family of
four earning as much as $92,000 this year would be eligible for
a subsidy, the law says.  The subsidies are expected to cost the U.S. about $773
billion from 2014 to 2021, according to CBO estimates. Some of
the 644 pages of rules announced by the Obama administration may
still be revised, the government said in a regulatory filing.  A spokesman for UnitedHealth, Matt Stearns, said in an e-
mail that the company was reviewing the regulations and couldn’t
immediately comment. The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company is
the largest commercial insurer by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  