-- Study Abroad, Goof Off and Fool Your Future Boss: Richard Vedder
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-03-12T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/study-abroad-goof-off-fool-a-future-boss-commentary-by-richard-vedder.html
Besides climbing walls and fancy
housing, any college or university wanting to compete in the
academic arms race for students must offer attractive study
abroad programs.  Originally a province of foreign language students or a
modest number of affluent young people, study  abroad is viewed 
as a necessity, and a number of schools require some education
abroad.  For example, the business school at my midquality state
university ( Ohio University ) pressures all its students to have
some foreign exposure, although some programs are short -- a few
weeks in length.  Falling transportation and communication costs have greatly
 expanded  international economic and cultural interchanges, and
it’s hard to be against young Americans’ exposure to non-U.S.
culture. My wife and I have led student educational tours or
study programs in  Europe  frequently over the last 44 years.  Yet some reasons for student foreign travel are
questionable on both educational and economic grounds. Study
abroad is a marketing tool and in some cases a cash cow for
universities. Educationally, the programs have long  had a
reputation  for offering little intellectual content or academic
rigor, and minimal language or cultural immersion.  A Financial Racket  American schools occasionally make arrangements with an
institution in a foreign country, collect the American tuition
fee, and sometimes additional state government subsidies. For
all the talk about promoting global awareness and cultural
diversity, these programs are arguably a financial racket. They
free up space in dorms and classrooms on the home campus for
other “customers,” and are a marketing tool to convince parents
(sometimes incorrectly) that their children are getting a
superior education.  Unfortunately, the pressures to study abroad are only
increasing. Employers  are starting to expect  that experience to
appear on resumes of college graduates. It’s part of the same
credential creep that saw employers put “college degree
preferred” on postings for low-skill positions -- bartenders,
janitors and the like -- to help winnow down the applicant pool
to manageable size. Jobs that might have required a basic degree
-- as in occupational therapy, or elementary school teaching --
prefer or may demand a master’s degree, or even doctorates.  On the whole, we are raising the cost of becoming eligible
for managerial, technical and professional jobs that
historically have gone to college graduates. Even within the
spectrum of college graduates, relatively poor or middle income
graduates of state schools increasingly compete for mediocre
jobs, while those  attending elite private schools  or who augment
their education with expensive overseas programs are given an
advantage that on objective grounds based on the student’s
inherent talents and past performance are not truly justified.  In cases where  language proficiency  plays a big role, and
where foreign study is a serious exercise in cultural and
language immersion, the study abroad experience has some
justification, and a number of colleges are trying to improve
their programs. Yet government data show that fewer than 6
percent of study abroad students major in foreign languages, and
that slightly over 20 percent of them come from each of three
areas: business, social sciences, or non-foreign-language
humanities or fine arts majors.  Social Education  But I think the major reason for the boom in study abroad
enrollments is simple: College today is as much a socialization
experience as a learning one, and relatively affluent students,
and even less affluent ones who pile up big student debts, spend
six months or a year in cool foreign locales, away from prying
parents or university officials, having lots of fun. If it’s
possible to judge from the  drinking habits  of many students I’ve
seen on short overseas tours, this entertainment dimension of
higher education can trump learning.  Surveys show  the average college student spends less than
30 hours weekly on academic pursuits, often for 30 weeks a year.
My observation is that this problem is magnified when relatively
lightly worked students are put in a foreign country with
limited pressures to perform academically.  Should students be able to borrow money from the U.S.
government, when the government in turn borrows some of the
funds from Chinese and other investors to finance these junkets
overseas?  Federal student debt  now exceeds a trillion dollars,
so the padding of these numbers by foreign study programs may
have broader macroeconomic implications on already stressed
federal finances.  At a time when we are straining to meet our entitlement and
other obligations, we should scrutinize the efficacy of these
programs. Where are the  accrediting agencies  -- are they
certifying these programs achieve true academic goals?  If accreditation boards will not assume responsibility, how
about having an organization like the  Educational Testing
Service  or  ACT  give standardized country-specific examinations
to returning students, measuring their knowledge of the country
visited, with significant financial consequences to the school
if students show little or no learning?  The time has come to analyze this use of educational
resources dispassionately, using honest assessments of the costs
and benefits.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 