-- Super-PAC Ads Dominate Republican Race in Alabama, Mississippi
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/super-pacs-dominate-republican-ads-aired-in-alabama-mississippi-primaries.html
Television advertisements in
 Alabama  and Mississippi promoting rival Republican presidential
contenders have been paid for almost entirely by independent
political action committees instead of the candidates’
campaigns.  So-called Super-PACs supplied 91 percent of the 5,592
campaign ads that aired on broadcast television stations in the
two states in the past month, according to data from New York-
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Alabama and Mississippi hold primary elections today, and
polls indicate a close race in each among former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , former Pennsylvania senator  Rick Santorum 
and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  Super-PACs dominated the spending on television because
they can collect unlimited contributions and replenish their
treasuries more easily than candidate committees, which are
limited to raising $2,500 per donor for the primary season and
already have spent extensively on previous races.  Super-PACs are “providing the campaign advertising that
the candidates can’t afford,”  Anthony Corrado , a political
scientist at Colby College in Waterville,  Maine , said in a
podcast March 9 on the website of the  Brookings Institution , a
research center in Washington.  Pro-Romney Group  Restore Our Future, a super-PAC backing Romney, aired ads
2,098 times in Alabama through March 11, compared with 279 spots
from Romney’s campaign, according to CMAG.  Winning Our Future, which supports Gingrich, aired ads 411
times in Alabama, compared with 131 ads by Gingrich’s campaign.
Santorum’s campaign hasn’t aired broadcast ads in Alabama; the
Red White and Blue Fund that backs him aired ads 282 times.  In Mississippi, Restore Our Future paid for 1,548 ads,
compared with 454 for Winning Our Future and 300 for Red White
and Blue Fund, CMAG data show. Gingrich, with 89 spots, is the
only candidate who has aired broadcast ads in  Mississippi .  Restore Our Future aired 65 percent of all ads in Alabama
and Mississippi, CMAG data show. The PAC had $16.3 million in
leftover funds at the end of January, Federal Election
Commission data show. Romney’s campaign said March 8 that it had
$7.3 million in the bank at the end of February, after spending
more than it raised last month.  Gingrich and Santorum haven’t said how much their campaigns
had in the bank at the end of February, though Romney has
outperformed them in fundraising. Gingrich had $1.79 million in
available funds and $1.73 million in debts at the end of
January, compared with $1.47 million in cash-on-hand and
$957,000 in debts for Santorum.  Presidential candidates and super-PACs must file updated
finance reports to the FEC by March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  