-- SVG Says Ferguson to Retire as Chairman Amid Strategy Shift
-- B y   E d w a r d   E v a n s   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-12T17:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/svg-says-ferguson-to-step-down-as-chairman-by-end-of-year-1-.html
Nicholas Ferguson , who triggered a
political firestorm when he questioned dealmakers for paying
less tax than their cleaners, will step down as chairman of
Permira Advisers LLP’s biggest investor.  Ferguson, 63, will retire from publicly traded investment
firm  SVG Capital Plc (SVI)  by the end of this year, the London-based
company said in a statement today. The board hasn’t named a
successor.  In June 2007, at the height of the buyout boom, Ferguson
used an interview in the Financial Times to ask why dealmakers
paid capital-gains tax of less than 10 percent when their
cleaners paid a higher  tax rate . His comments stoked criticism
of  tax policy  by labor unions and lawmakers. Later that year,
the government almost doubled the levy dealmakers pay when
selling investments.  “With the company now on a solid financial footing and the
foundations for the proposed new strategy laid, it is the right
time to do so and for a new chairman to oversee the
implementation of the new strategy,” Ferguson said of his
retirement in the statement.  SVG, which was formerly known as Schroder Ventures
International Investment Trust Plc, mainly invests in buyout and
venture capital funds run by Permira, previously called Schroder
Ventures  Europe . SVG, headed by Chief Executive Officer Lynn Fordham, said in December it will widen its range of investments
to include other leveraged buyout firms.  Strategic Shift  The changes are part of strategic shift the company has
undertaken since the financial crisis. Three months after the
September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., SVG
cut pledged investments in Permira by more than half. In
February 2009, SVG raised 171.3 million pounds ($267.7 million)
in a share sale, and the following month it said the value of
its investments dropped by two-thirds the previous year. Fordham
was appointed CEO in May 2009.  Permira is seeking 6.5 billion euros for buyouts, 41
percent less than it initially raised for its previous fund,
according to marketing document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Stephen Duckett, former managing director at San Francisco-
based buyout firm Hellman & Friedman LLC, will join the board
following the  shareholders’ meeting  later this month, SVG also
said today. Board directors Edgar Koning, Denis Raeburn and
Francis Finlay will retire at the end of this year, it said.
Koning and Ferguson have been on the board since 1996. Ferguson
became chairman in 2005 after serving as CEO from 2001 to 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Evans in London at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  