-- Soldier’s Killing Spree Threatens to Erode Support for Afghanistan Mission
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-12T18:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/u-s-soldier-s-rampage-may-fuel-calls-for-obama-to-speed-afghan-withdrawal.html
The fatal shootings of 16 Afghan
civilians, allegedly by an American soldier, add to a series of
incendiary incidents that threaten to drain remaining U.S. and
European support for the decade-long mission.  In  Afghanistan , the deadly attack also may reinforce Afghan
suspicions that foreigners are seeking to conquer their Islamic
country. They may conclude the U.S.-led coalition will end up
leaving in defeat just as have outsiders from Alexander the
Great to the British to the  Soviet Union .  “This is a major setback,” said  Seth Jones , a senior
political scientist at the Rand Corp. in Arlington, Virginia,
who worked for the U.S. Special Operations Command in
Afghanistan last year. Beyond influencing Afghan attitudes, he
said yesterday in an interview, “it undermines certainly U.S.
trust of the Afghans because I’m sure there are going to be
concerns about the local reaction.”  Any violent backlash by Afghans to the shootings in the
southern province of Kandahar may add to domestic pressure on
President  Barack Obama  to speed troop withdrawals, ahead of the
security handover now set for 2014. Asked yesterday on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” if it’s time to withdraw U.S. forces,
Republican presidential contender  Newt Gingrich  said, “I think
it is.”  In offering condolences to Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ,
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta expressed resolve to continue to
“work hand in hand with our Afghan partners,” according to a
statement from his office.  Coalition Strategy  U.S. and U.K. officials said the killings won’t alter the
coalition strategy in Afghanistan or the timetable for
withdrawal.  “As tragic as these events are, the strategy is focused
on disrupting, dismantling and defeating al-Qaeda,
stabilizing Afghanistan so that Afghan security forces can
take responsibility for the security of their own country,
which would allow us to continue to draw down our forces,”
White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters today. “And
that is the strategy and the policy that the president is
implementing.”  Peter Westmacott, the U.K.’s ambassador in Washington, said
that while the shooting is “very distressing” and a setback
for the coalition in Afghanistan, “I don’t see the strategy
being dramatically changed” in the aftermath.  Westmacott briefed reporters before the arrival of Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in Washington for an official visit, at
which the Afghanistan campaign will be a major topic of
discussion.  2014 Timetable  Two U.S. officials said the killings may prove to be the
fatal hit to the administration’s hopes for maintaining a large
international military and civilian presence in Afghanistan
beyond 2014. That plan is intended to improve the performance of
the Afghan government, degrade the Taliban and strengthen Afghan
security forces.  Whether that’s the case will depend on how Afghan
civilians, government officials and security forces respond to
the killings, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they aren’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly. This incident follows the burning of Korans in a trash
dump at a U.S. base last month and a video in January showing at
least four U.S. Marines urinating on Taliban corpses.  If Afghan anger, frustration, and resentment of foreigners
turns violent as it did after the Koran burning, whatever
political and public support remains in America and  Europe  for
the NATO mission in Afghanistan will almost certainly dissipate,
both officials said.  Administration Divisions  Already, Vice President  Joe Biden  and some White House
officials have been pressing for a faster exit from Afghanistan,
according to the officials. CIA Director David Petraeus, a
former NATO commander there, and some U.S. military officials
have been arguing that there’s been progress and that a hasty
exit would open the door to the Taliban’s return and perhaps to
a new civil war, the officials said.  The U.S. soldier allegedly shot to death 16 Afghan
civilians in their homes before returning to his base and being
taken into custody, Afghan and NATO officials said. The soldier,
whose name was withheld by U.S. authorities, is from Joint Base
Lewis-McChord, near Tacoma,  Washington , said one official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
comment publicly.  Statements of condolences yesterday from Obama and a
reassuring message from the acting U.S. ambassador to
Afghanistan posted on YouTube clashed with photos linked on
Twitter of the victims, who included women and children.  ‘Fatal Hammer Blow’  Whatever trust and credibility remained between the U.S.
and the Afghans after last month’s burning of Korans at the main
American base in Afghanistan probably is gone after this latest
attack, said David Cortright, director of policy studies at the
 University of Notre Dame ’s Kroc Institute for International
Peace Studies.  “This is a fatal hammer blow on the U.S. military mission
in Afghanistan,” Cortright, author of “Ending Obama’s War:
Responsible Military Withdrawal from Afghanistan,” said in an
e-mailed statement.  “This may have been the act of a lone
deranged soldier, but the people of Afghanistan will see it for
what it was -- a wanton massacre of innocent civilians.”  The shooting spree yesterday compounds the difficulty of
sticking to the U.S. military’s strategy of gradually reducing
its troop levels while strengthening the Afghan army, police and
government ministries to take over fully at the end of 2014.  U.S.  Public Opinion .  White House and Pentagon officials are confronting
decisions on how many forces and what types to leave in place
after the last of 33,000 personnel that were added in 2010 leave
in September. The American public has made clear it has little
stomach left for the battle, according to results of a
Washington Post/ABC News poll that shows a majority consistently
opposing the war for almost two years.  The latest survey found 54 percent of Americans want to
pull out U.S. forces even if the Afghan army isn’t ready to pick
up the fight. The poll was conducted March 7 to March 10, among
a random national sample of 1,003 adults with a margin of error
of plus or minus four percentage points for the full results.  Obama convened a meeting of his senior White House national
security staff yesterday to discuss the incident before calling
Karzai with condolences and a pledge to investigate thoroughly.  ‘Headline to Headline’  Right now “you have a policy that is lurching from
headline to headline,”  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington, said in an interview. “We forgot the lessons
learned from  Vietnam  about how long this takes.”  “Our being in the middle in a country like Afghanistan is
probably counterproductive,” Gingrich said on CBS. “We are
risking the lives of men and women for a mission frankly that is
not worth doing,” he said earlier on “Fox News Sunday.”  Dozens of U.S. military advisers had returned to Afghan
ministries with extra security since being withdrawn after two
were killed in one of the offices in the violence set off by the
Koran-burning incident. Hundreds remain under orders to stay in
secure NATO coalition compounds.  “One incident like this can change the equation,”
 Virginia ’s Republican Governor Bob McDonnell said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” yesterday when asked about the killing of
Afghan civilians. “It’s tragic because we have so many brave”
soldiers serving in Afghanistan, he said.  Such incidents exacerbate a sense of instability even as
U.S. defense officials and military officers say violence is
declining.  Intelligence Estimate  A National Intelligence Estimate given to Obama in January
concluded that the Taliban remain resilient and determined to
re-impose their brand of strict Islamic rule on the country, and
that Afghan forces and the civilian government are still plagued
by corruption and ineffectiveness. The estimate, the consensus
view of the intelligence community, was described by two U.S.
officials on condition of anonymity because it isn’t public.  Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain , the top Republican
on the Senate Armed Services Committee, has said such continuing
instability is all the more reason for the U.S. to continue
fighting.  “I understand the frustration and I understand the anger
and the sorrow,” McCain said on “Fox News Sunday” yesterday.
“I also understand, and we should not forget, the attacks on
the  United States  of America in 9/11 originated in Afghanistan.
And if Afghanistan dissolved into a situation where the Taliban
were able to take over or a chaotic situation, it could easily
return to an al-Qaeda base for attacks on the United States.”  Military Justice  The U.S. military justice system’s handling of the case, in
what is likely to be a lengthy process, also may affect the
perception among Afghans.  The country’s  Defense Ministry  issued a statement yesterday
saying  it “strongly condemns this inhuman and devastating
incident.” The statement said officials asked the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization-led coalition to “capture the
perpetrators of the merciless action as soon as possible and
punish them for their despicable crime.”  In the phone call to Karzai, Obama expressed “his
administration’s commitment to establish the facts as quickly as
possible and to hold fully accountable anyone responsible,”
according to a White House statement.  The shooting “would only be an incident without this
larger chronology we’ve seen in recent weeks,” said Cordesman,
the military analyst. “It’s a much broader problem than people
understand,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  