-- U.S. Calls WTO Boeing Appeals Ruling a Victory; Airbus Says EU Is Winner
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-12T16:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/u-s-calls-wto-boeing-appeals-ruling-victory-airbus-says-eu-won.html
World Trade Organization appellate
judges sided with the U.S. over illegal government subsidies to
 Boeing Co. (BA) , the U.S. Trade Representative’s Office said. Airbus
SAS called the ruling a “sweeping loss” for Boeing.  The WTO ruled in March 2011 that the U.S. provided aid to
Chicago-based Boeing through federal research grants and state
support in developing aircraft including the 787 Dreamliner. The
planemaker’s European rival, Airbus, has said the aid to Boeing
cost it $45 billion in lost sales from 2002 to 2006. The WTO
will publish its report about 5:30 p.m. Geneva time today.  The WTO’s Appellate Body “rejected claims that the U.S.
has provided massive trade-distorting subsidies to Boeing and
affirmed a dispute-settlement panel’s report finding that most
of the programs challenged by the EU were not subsidies,” the
USTR said today in a statement from  Washington . U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  called the ruling, which hasn’t yet been
announced publicly, a “tremendous victory for American
manufacturers and workers.”  Airbus said the appellate judges upheld the original
finding that Boeing got at least $5.3 billion in illegal
subsidies between 1989 and 2006 and was slated to get $3 billion
to $4 billion in incompatible future aid based on Washington
state tax measures.  ‘Outcome Is Clear’  “The Appellate Body has now spoken in both the Airbus and
Boeing cases,” Rainer Ohler, an Airbus spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Comparing the core claims made by both
sides, the net outcome is clear: Boeing’s cash grants are
fundamentally illegal, while the system of loans to Airbus by
European governments is legal and may continue. Boeing and the
U.S. now will have six months to implement the WTO decision.”  The WTO has also ruled that Airbus received billions of
euros in low-interest loans from European Union governments, and
the U.S. has asked the trade arbiter to approve sanctions of as
much as $10 billion for the EU’s failure to comply with that
ruling. The U.S. says the WTO found that the EU gave Airbus $18
billion in subsidies, which resulted in lost market share and
lost sales involving 342 Boeing aircraft.  By contrast, the U.S. said today’s WTO ruling put illegal
aid to Boeing at between $3 billion and $4 billion and lost
Airbus sales of about 100 aircraft.  EU Estimate  The EU has estimated the total amount of aid to Boeing
between 1989 and 2006 at $19.1 billion. The amount of damage is
important because it is the basis on which a government can
request permission to impose a specific level of retaliatory
sanctions.  Airbus said the judges’ report confirms the existence of
illegal U.S. subsidies to Boeing -- previously identified by the
WTO as “at least $5.3 billion” and extended by billions of
dollars as a result of today’s decision.  The WTO found originally that the illegal aid included NASA
research and development programs worth $2.6 billion between
1989 and 2006 and Department of Defense programs with aid as
high as $1.2 billion in the same period. There were also three
Washington state tax breaks worth up to $4 billion from 2006-
2024 and foreign sales corporation export subsidies valued at
$2.2 billion until 2006.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of former President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. Toulouse, France-based Airbus, which had a record 1,419
orders in 2011 to extend its lead over Boeing, delivered 534
aircraft last year while its rival delivered 477.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 