-- Foreclosure Settlement With Banks Filed in Federal Court
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-12T22:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/u-s-mortgage-foreclosure-settlement-with-banks-filed-in-federal-court.html
The $25 billion agreement with five
banks to end federal and state probes into abusive foreclosure
practices was filed in U.S. court in Washington, capping
negotiations over claims of misconduct after the housing bust.  The agreement subjects the lenders to monitoring by
officials plus penalties of as much as $1 million for each
violation, the U.S.  Justice Department  said. The consent
judgments will be in effect for 3 1/2 years, according to the
settlement terms.  The Justice Department today filed in federal court the
proposed settlements along with a civil complaint against  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and three other banks.
The agreement needs approval from a federal judge.  In what the U.S. called the largest federal-state civil
settlement in the nation’s history, the banks have committed $20
billion in relief for borrowers plus payments of $5 billion to
states and the federal government. About $1.5 billion will go
toward payments to those who lost homes in foreclosure between
Jan. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2011, the Justice Department said.  The deal comes more than a year after attorneys general
from all 50 states announced a probe into foreclosure practices
following disclosures that banks were using faulty documents to
seize homes.  Negotiated Settlement  The nation’s five largest mortgage servicers -- Bank of
America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally
Financial Inc. -- negotiated the settlement with federal
agencies, including the Justice Department, and 49 states.
Oklahoma reached a separate agreement and didn’t sign the
federal settlement.  About $17 billion of the agreement will pay for mortgage
debt forgiveness, forbearance, short sales and other assistance
to homeowners. Servicers will also provide $3 billion in
refinancing to lower homeowners’ interest rates. The settlement
also sets new standards for servicing loans aimed at preventing
foreclosure abuses. A  website  has been set up to give
information on the settlement.  Today’s court filing also shows the banks have agreed to
settle at least five so-called whistle-blower lawsuits over
their mortgage practices, including one filed by a  Florida 
lawyer who alleged her house was improperly foreclosed upon.  $18 Million  Lynn Szymoniak , an attorney from  West Palm Beach , Florida,
will get $18 million to settle her claims over the 2009
foreclosure of her condominium unit, according to William E. Nettles, U.S. Attorney for  South Carolina . Szymoniak’s case, one
of the first to focus on the practice of so-called “robo
signing” of mortgages, was filed in South Carolina.  Szymoniak’s settlement is coming out of the $95 million
South Carolina received as part of the $25 billion mortgage-
fraud accord, Nettles said. The settlement also resolves cases
in  New York , Georgia and  Massachusetts , according to court
filings.  “We’re obviously very proud of this settlement,” Nettles
said in a telephone interview. “We believe it’s a positive step
toward righting the wrongs committed by the banks during the
mortgage meltdown.”  Pension funds and other investors in mortgage-backed
securities condemned the settlement, saying it could cost
retirees and other “innocent parties” billions of dollars by
rewriting the contractual terms of their investments,
potentially lowering their value.  ‘Other People’s Funds’  “It is unfair to settle claims against the robosigners
with other people’s funds,” the Association of Mortgage
Investors said in a written statement. “While we request that
it not be done, at a minimum we request that a meaningful cap be
placed on the dollar amount of the settlement satisfied by
innocent parties. Restitution should come from those who are
settling these claims, and lien priority must be respected.”  Joseph Smith , the former North Carolina commissioner of
banks, will act as monitor to oversee banks’ compliance with the
agreement. There will also be a monitoring committee comprising
representatives of the state  attorneys general , state financial
regulators, the U.S. Justice Department, and the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development, according to the agreement.  The mortgage servicers will have to submit quarterly
reports, according to the terms. If a servicer violates
requirements of the consent judgment, it will be subject to
penalties as much as $1 million per violation or as much as $5
million for certain repeat violations, the Justice Department
said.  Relief Requirements  The consumer relief requirements include varying amounts of
credit the servicers will receive for every dollar spent, the
department said. Because servicers will get only partial credit
for many of the relief activities, the agreement will result in
benefit to borrowers in excess of $20 billion, it said.  The servicers are required to complete 75 percent of their
consumer relief obligations within two years and 100 percent
within three years, according to the Justice Department.  The case is U.S. v. Bank of America Corp., 12-00361, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at +1-
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  