-- Most U.S. Stocks Fall in Thinnest Trading Day of 2012
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-12T21:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-euro-area-debt-crisis-meeting.html
Most U.S. stocks retreated, capping
the thinnest trading day in 2012, as investors weighed whether a
Chinese slowdown will lead to an easing of monetary policy.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  lost more than
1.9 percent as commodities fell. Financial companies slid on
concern about how banks will perform in Federal Reserve stress
tests and as the cost of insuring against default on European
sovereign bonds rose to the highest in eight weeks. Gauges of
 utility  and telephone providers in the S&P 500, which are least-
tied to economic growth, gained.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 1.3 percent.  Seven stocks declined for every five rising on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m.  New York  time, with about 5.2 billion shares
 changing hands . The S&P 500 advanced less than 0.1 percent to
1,371.09 today. The Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 37.69
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,959.71. The Russell 2000 Index of
smaller companies retreated 0.3 percent to 814.29.  “The U.S. is in good shape, yet  China  is a big question
mark,” said Erick Maronak, chief investment officer of Victory
Capital Management Inc. in New York. His firm oversees $28
billion. “How much will they have to ease to get things back on
track? Europe is still going to be a huge work in progress. Now
that there’s some greater visibility on the Greece situation,
everyone starts looking at dominoes two and three.”  The  S&P 500  advanced 2.1 percent in the past four weeks
amid better-than-expected economic data and as companies beat
analysts’ profit forecasts for a 12th straight quarter. The
benchmark gauge is up 9 percent this year.  Chinese Economy  Equities swung between gains and losses as China had the
biggest trade deficit in at least 22 years, the weakest January-
February factory-production gain since 2009 and retail sales
were below the median economist estimate. Euro-area finance
ministers gather in Brussels to sign off on the 130 billion-euro
($170 billion) second package for Greece as they focus on
Spain’s budget-cutting efforts and Portugal’s aid program.  Gauges of energy and raw material shares in the S&P 500
fell as the S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities dropped 0.4
percent. Newmont Mining, the largest U.S. gold producer, slid 2
percent to $55.75. Schlumberger, the world’s largest oilfield-
services provider, declined 2.4 percent to $74.02.  “Some people are pointing to the evidence of a slower
growth in China as the catalyst for today’s weakness,” said
 Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief investment strategist at UBS
Wealth Management Americas. His firm oversees $754 billion.
“Incremental demand for commodities still largely comes from
Asia. The central banks are not going to be providing as much
liquidity as they had in the past.”  Banks Slump  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  lost 0.7 percent as 17 of its 24 stocks
retreated.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slid 1.2 percent to $40.54.
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  slumped 2.9 percent to $5.63.  Investors may be disappointed by how U.S. banks perform in
Fed stress tests as examiners expect consumer-loan losses to
surpass the industry’s estimates if there’s another severe
recession, analysts say.  The Fed generally has predicted firms would suffer greater
losses on mortgages and credit cards than what banks estimated
in capital plans submitted in January, two people with knowledge
of the situation said last week, without identifying specific
firms. The divergence may endanger some of the $9 billion in
dividend increases and share buybacks analysts estimate may be
announced after the Fed releases results this week.  “The concern is that while banks may not have to raise
capital, they might not be able to return capital as fast as
shareholders want,”  Walter Todd , who oversees $950 million as
chief investment officer at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,
South Carolina, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Greater Challenges’  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  slipped 1.4 percent to 29.71. The software
maker was cut to hold from  buy  at Jefferies Group Inc., citing
“greater challenges” to its engineered systems strategy.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index retreated 1.5 percent.
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  slumped 1 percent to $19.62.
Southwest Airlines Co. declined 2.4 percent to $8.28. The shares
were  cut  to neutral from buy at Bank of America Corp.  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  tumbled 35 percent to 50 cents, a record low.
The third-largest independent U.S. power producer’s bankruptcy
should be taken over by a court-approved trustee who will better
protect creditors, the U.S. Trustee monitoring the case for the
federal government said in court papers.  Companies which are least-dependent on economic activity
rose today. Constellation Energy Group Inc. advanced 3 percent
to $37.23.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  added 1 percent to $60.68.  Apple rallied 1.3 percent to $552, a record high. The
shares have risen 4.1 percent in four days.  Harley-Davidson  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  added 2.6 percent to $48.11. The
biggest U.S. motorcycle maker had its share-price estimate
boosted to $50 from $46 by Citigroup Inc., which said the
company’s retail sales have increased 16 percent to 18 percent
so far in the first quarter.  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  climbed 3.4 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
to $44.09. The provider of consumer-credit information was
increased to buy from neutral at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Inc., which  said  the company is poised to deliver “sustainable
above-average” growth in sales and earnings.  Transportation and industrial shares are diverging in the
U.S., a signal that equity investors are starting to agree with
what the bond market already knows: this economic recovery will
remain sluggish for months to come.  The Dow Jones Transportation Average has fallen 4.2 percent
from its six-month high on Feb. 3, while the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  added 0.8 percent. The gauge of 20 shipping
companies peaked before the rest of the market when the
technology bubble popped in 2000 and began slipping into a bear
market three months before broader benchmark indexes in 2007.  Bull Market  While Laszlo Birinyi, the founder of Birinyi Associates
Inc., says falling transport stocks don’t signal an end to the
three-year bull market that doubled the S&P 500, money managers
at  Robert W. Baird  & Co. and Legg Mason Inc. say the 27 percent
rise in the index since October may have gone too fast.  Transport stocks are falling as  10-year Treasury yields 
stay near 2 percent, with economists forecasting the slowest
post-recession recovery since World War II.  “In a healthy market, everything is going in the same
direction,” said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist at
Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird, which oversees $85 billion.
“When that starts to diverge, that raises a flag that potential
trouble may be brewing.”  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) ’s escalating profit from energy
drinks pumped full of caffeine and nitrous oxide may tempt
acquirers to chase what would be the most expensive takeover in
the industry’s history.  Priciest Valuation  After the stock more than  doubled  in the last year, Monster
Beverage is valued at  20 times  earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the priciest multiple of any
North American soft-drink maker greater than $500 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt.  “What Monster’s so successfully done in the last few years
is proven that demand for energy drinks is fairly universal
among young people,” Caroline Levy, a beverage and household
products analyst for Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “This business is now too
big to ignore. If you’re a player in soft drinks, I think it’s
very hard not to be in the highest-margin, highest-growth
category out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  