-- UBS, Deutsche Bank Fight U.K. on Use of Offshore Trust for 2003 Bonus Plan
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-13T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/ubs-deutsche-bank-fight-u-k-over-taxes-on-2003-bonus-plans.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said
they don’t owe taxes over a 2003 compensation plan U.K.
authorities argue was designed to avoid millions of pounds in
taxes and national insurance contributions on employee bonuses.  The two banks appealed separate rulings that found them
liable for income and payroll taxes for bonuses paid to bankers
in shares through an offshore trust, in a four-year-old dispute
with U.K. revenue officials. UBS owes 49.6 million pounds ($77.5
million) on total bonus payments of 92 million pounds into the
plan, according to documents disclosed yesterday after Bloomberg
petitioned the court for their release.  The case “concerns a disagreement over the interpretation
of highly technical tax legislation and dates back to a one-off
compensation plan for 2003,” UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  said
in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. government is taking “decisive and swift action”
to tackle tax avoidance, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told Parliament this month after authorities closed two
tax loopholes that had been used by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Legislators
are seeking a tougher approach to companies that hire lawyers
and accountants to cut tax bills.  The banks and HMRC declined to provide court documents to
reporters at a trial that ended last month. Both sides released
papers outlining their arguments yesterday after Bloomberg News
petitioned the court.  ‘Restricted Securities’  UBS and Deutsche Bank said in the court documents that they
didn’t have to pay income tax on the shares because they were
“restricted securities” that weren’t eligible for
contributions. Both plans involved setting up offshore vehicles
that issued securities to employees. The vehicles, which are no
longer used, invested in the shares of UBS and Deutsche Bank.  “This was a one-off arrangement from eight years ago and
hasn’t been repeated,” said Adrian Cox, spokesman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. “We believe it met all the
requirements at the times.”  Some of the Deutsche Bank bonuses were in excess of 2
million pounds, tax officials said. HMRC didn’t disclose in the
documents released yesterday the amount it estimates Deutsche
Bank owes.  HMRC lawyer Nikky Fadero said the department wouldn’t
comment until the judges released a decision.  “The predominant reason for the ESIP scheme was  tax
avoidance ,” HMRC said in its court filing.  A week-long trial at the Upper Tribunal in  London  ended on
Feb. 28. There is no schedule for a ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  