-- Hugo Chavez Says Health Favorable After Cancer Treatment in Cuba
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-03-12T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/hugo-chavez-says-health-favorable-after-cancer-treatment-in-cuba.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
in Cuba to receive treatment for an undisclosed type of cancer,
said his health is favorable and he’ll start radiation therapy
in the coming weeks.  Chavez told a meeting of his ministers yesterday that he
didn’t think he’d be in Cuba for another week. The meeting was
recorded in the afternoon and broadcast last night.  “It’s been 13 days since the latest operation, and there
have been no complications,” said Chavez, who departed for Cuba
on Feb. 24. “All the exams have shown a favorable evolution.”  Chavez, who will seek re-election in October after 13 years
in power, is recovering from an operation in  Havana  to remove a
lesion from the same pelvic area from which doctors removed a
cancerous tumor last year. He has declined to say exactly what
kind of cancer he has or allow access to his medical records.  Before traveling to Cuba, Chavez said that it was
“probable” that the growth is malignant and if confirmed,
would require radiation therapy. Chavez, 57, underwent four
rounds of chemotherapy last year.  Accompanied by Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro and other
ministers who traveled to Cuba for the broadcast, Chavez read
philosophy books, sang folk songs, approved financing for
housing and public transportation and inspected a chicken farm
via satellite link.  Chavez said that state development fund Fonden and
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA  will issue 10 billion bolivares ($2.3
billion) in “agriculture bonds” that mature between 2015 and
2017. Fonden will issue 7 billion bolivars of the local debt
that will be sold to domestic banks with an interest rate of 9
percent, and PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, will
issue 3 billion bolivares.  “Take care of your health,” Chavez told his ministers.
“Get checkups.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  