-- Hungary Bank Accepts 2.7 Billion Euros in Loan Related Swaps
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-12T13:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/hungary-bank-accepts-2-7-billion-euros-in-fx-loan-related-swaps.html
Hungary  accepted 2.7 billion euros
($3.5 billion) in foreign-currency swap bids from local lenders
to ease pressure on the forint from the early repayment of
foreign-currency mortgages at discount exchange rates.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank paid out 2.5 billion euros of the
total to lenders from October to the end of February, the bank
said in a summary of transactions posted on its  website  today.  The government forced commercial banks to swallow exchange-
rate losses on foreign-currency denominated mortgages by giving
borrowers the option to repay their loans in a lump sum at
below-market rates. Two-thirds of housing loans were denominated
in foreign currencies, mostly in Swiss francs, and installments
on them soared as the forint weakened.  Hungarians repaid 170,000 mortgages under the plan in a
value of 1.4 trillion forint ($6.3 billion), cutting the total
amount of outstanding foreign-currency mortgages by 23.3
percent, the financial market  authority  said in a report today.  The central bank allowed domestic lenders to tap its
foreign currency reserves to cope with an expected increase in
demand for Swiss francs and euros.  Bank Losses  Domestic lenders booked a combined pretax loss of 370
billion forint on the repayment program, the authority known as
Pszaf said, adding that lenders will be able to deduct some of
their losses from a special bank tax.  Hungary’s banking industry was unprofitable for the first
time in 13 years in 2011 because of the repayment plan, the
special industry tax, and rising bad loan provisions. Banks
posted a combined loss of 92.6 billion forint, Pszaf said Feb.
23.  Hungarian households are struggling to repay their foreign-
currency loans as the forint weakened, boosting monthly
installments and delinquency rates. The currency depreciated
39.7 percent against the Swiss franc and 19.7 percent versus the
euro from mid-2008, when the bulk of these loans were taken out.  About 92 percent of repaid mortgages were denominated in
Swiss francs, Pszaf said today, adding that banks’ return on
equity fell 9.5 percentage points as a result of the repayments.  OTP Bank (OTP)  Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, competes mostly
with units of international banks including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Bayerische
Landesbank AG (BLGZ) , KBC Groep NV, and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   The government of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  and local
banks agreed in December to share costs for forgiving some
foreign-currency loans and taking on currency risks for others
in the next five years. Under the plan, banks will take losses
of as much as 600 billion forint and the government will assume
300 billion forint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  