-- China High-Speed Rail Section Collapses After Rains, Renewing Safety Fears
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-12T10:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/unopened-china-high-speed-rail-section-collapses-after-rains-xinhua-says.html
A section of an unopened high-speed
railway collapsed in central  China ’s Hubei province following
heavy rains, renewing safety concerns prompted by a fatal crash
last year.  Hundreds of workers have been sent to make repairs to the
300-meter (984-foot) roadbed after the March 9 failure in
Qianjiang city, the official Xinhua News Agency said today,
citing local authorities. The stretch, which had undergone test
runs, is part of a line due to open in May.  China Railway Construction Corp. (1186) , which built the section,
according to Xinhua, and  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  both plunged
the most this year in Hong Kong on speculation the incident may
deter the government from pushing ahead with a 2.8 trillion yuan
($443 billion) building plan. Construction was slowed last year
after 40 people were killed in a high-speed crash in July.  “The collapse has hit the market’s confidence in the
sector,” said Gary Wong, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities
Co. in  Hong Kong . “The ministry assured people that major
railway incidents wouldn’t happen again.”  The failed line is part of the 291-kilometer (181-mile)
long Hanyi High-Speed Railway, linking the provincial capital
Wuhan and Yichang city, according to Xinhua. The owner of the
line, Hu Han Rong Railway Hubei Co. denied the incident,
according to  cnhubei.com , a state-backed local news portal.  Soil Report  Earlier this month, Time Weekly, a Guangdong-based weekly
newspaper, said another section of grading on the same line had
been built with earth instead of rocks. The builder of that
section,  China Gezhouba Group Co. (600068) , and Hu Han Rong said no
problems were found in inspections, according to the official
 People’s Daily . No phone number was listed for Hu Han Rong, a
venture between the rail ministry and the local government, on
its website or with directory assistance.  China Gezhouba on March 3 said the quality of its work on
the Hanyi railway “is good.”  China last year fired rail officials after parts of a 2.3
billion-yuan construction project in northeastern  Jilin province 
were illegally subcontracted to unqualified builders including a
former cook, People’s Daily reported in November. The illegal
builders used shoddy materials.  “These are systematic problems,” said Vivian Liu, a
Shanghai-based analyst with Sinopac Securities Asia Ltd. “The
regulatory inspections are nowhere near enough.”  Shares Slide  The railway ministry didn’t reply to questions sent by fax.
The government information office in Wuhan, Hubei referred media
inquiries to websites. No information was posted there.  Calls to Beijing-based China Railway Construction went
unanswered. The section was built by China Railway 12th Bureau
Group Co., according to Xinhua. That’s a unit of China Railway
Construction, according to the company’s interim report.  The  railway builder  fell 7.3 percent to close at HK$5.31 as
of 4 p.m. in Hong Kong, the most since Oct. 31. China Railway
Group dropped 5.4 percent to close at HK$2.83, the most since
Dec. 28. Trainmaker CSR Corp. fell 4.1 percent to HK$5.42.  China is already scaling back rail-expansion plans. The
ministry plans to cut construction spending to 400 billion yuan
this year, state-run  China Daily  said Dec. 24, citing Railway
Minister Sheng Guangzu. That compares with 461 billion yuan in
2011 and 707 billion yuan in 2010, according to ministry
figures.  The rail system is due to reach 120,000 kilometers by 2015,
under the nation’s latest five-year plan. That includes boosting
the high-speed network, which opened in 2007, to 16,000
kilometers.  In the July crash, near Wenzhou, a train was partly pushed
off a viaduct by another locomotive after a lightning strike
caused signaling equipment to malfunction. Three officials in
the local rail bureau were fired within days of the incident.
After a longer investigation, more than 50 others were punished
and the government pledged to fix design flaws.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  