-- Vietnam Cuts Benchmark Rates to Support Growth Amid Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-12T04:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/vietnam-cuts-benchmark-rates-to-support-growth-amid-slowdown-1-.html
Vietnam  cut its interest rates to
support a slowing economy even as the nation faces Asia’s
fastest inflation.  The State Bank of Vietnam reduced the refinancing rate for
the first time since 2009 to 14 percent from 15 percent,
effective tomorrow, it said in a statement on its website today.
It also cut the discount rate to 12 percent from 13 percent and
the dong deposit cap for terms of one-month and above to 13
percent from 14 percent.  Vietnam joins emerging markets from Thailand to Brazil in
lowering borrowing costs as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
rising oil prices threaten expansion. The move contrasts with
the nation’s so-called Resolution 11 policy passed a year ago,
which aimed to rein in an inflation rate that remains above 16
percent even after easing for a sixth straight month in February.  “The rate cut aims to support growth, as inflation
pressures have eased and liquidity in the banking system has
improved,” Hai Pham, a Singapore-based analyst at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the decision. “The
central bank is confident about the inflation trajectory.”  The central bank had announced its intention to cut rates
on March 6. The Government Office on Feb. 8 told the monetary
authority to closely monitor the market in order to reduce
lending  interest rates  to “suitable” levels at a “suitable” time.  Inflation Rate  Vietnam’s inflation rate in February was 16.44 percent,
down from 17.27 percent in January. It remains the fastest in a
basket of 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg. The
nation is also juggling a trade deficit and liquidity concerns
in the banking system.  The economy  expanded  5.89 percent last year, down from 6.78
percent in 2010, and the government aims for growth of 6 percent
growth this year. The nation may undermine progress toward
economic stability if it loosens monetary policy too soon, the
 World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  said in December.  South Korea , Indonesia and Malaysia held rates last week,
while Brazil cut borrowing costs more than expected.  India 
unexpectedly slashed the amount of deposits lenders need to set
aside as reserves before a policy meeting this week.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  and Nicholas Heath in
Hanoi. Editors: Rina Chandran, K.Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  