-- Visteon Agrees to Sell Lighting Unit to Varroc of India
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-03-12T20:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/visteon-agrees-to-sell-lighting-unit-to-india-s-varroc-group.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) , the auto-parts maker
shopping two of its four units, agreed to sell its lighting
division to Varroc Group of  India  for $92 million, Visteon said
today in a statement.  The unit, which supplies automotive exterior lights, had
revenue of $531 million last year. Visteon said it expects the
transaction to close in the third quarter. Visteon said last
month it took a noncash writedown of $66 million for the
lighting unit in the fourth quarter.  “This transaction allows Visteon to focus on our core
climate and electronics businesses and our joint venture
relationships, which are positioned for profitable growth and
market leadership,” Don Stebbins, Visteon’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Shedding the unit is part of management’s plan for Visteon,
which exited a 16-month bankruptcy in 2010, to pare lower-margin
revenue in interiors and lighting and focus on faster-growing
operations in  Asia , five people familiar with the sales process
said in October.  Varroc is an Aurangabad, India-based supplier of parts for
passenger and commercial vehicles and motorcycles. Varroc’s
customers include  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Yamaha Motor Co.,  Fiat SpA (F) ,
General Motors Co., Caterpillar Inc. and Visteon, according to
its website.  Unit Employs 4,200  Visteon slipped 0.4 percent to $52.89 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 5.9 percent this year after
dropping 33 percent last year.  The unit employs about 4,200 people and has facilities in
Novy Jicin and Rychvald,  Czech Republic ; Monterrey,  Mexico , and
Pune, India.  About 81 percent of the unit’s revenue comes from  North
America  and  Europe , the company said in a July presentation. The
unit’s gross margin, which measures gross profit as a percentage
of revenue, is 2.6 percent, according to the presentation.  Visteon, based in Van Buren Township,  Michigan , is a former
unit of  Ford Motor Co. (F)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  