-- Volkswagen Chairman Piech’s Wife Joins Board as Family Strengthens Control
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-03-12T14:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/volkswagen-targets-stable-2012-earnings-as-europe-faces-economic-slowdown.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  nominated  Ferdinand Piech  for a third term as supervisory board chairman and
proposed that his wife join the board as the Piech-Porsche
family solidifies its sway over Europe’s largest carmaker.  VW’s board is proposing Ursula Piech, 55, to replace TUI AG
Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel, whose term expires at
the annual meeting April 19, according of the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker’s invitation for the gathering. Ferdinand
Piech, 74, will also seek another term running the board.  The addition of Ursula Piech would increase the number of
Piech-Porsche family members on the 20-person board to five. The
family controls the  Porsche SE (PAH3)  holding company, which in turn
owns a majority of VW’s voting shares. VW targets matching last
year’s record profit in 2012 as renewed versions of the Audi A3
and VW Golf offset softer Europe demand.  “VW has in essence become an Austrian family-run
company,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center
for Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .
“It’s the family that makes the decisions. It’s unusual in a
publicly listed company.”  Ursula Piech is a “kindergarten teacher with additional
qualifications in business and law,” according to the annual
meeting invite, which says she is currently not working.
Ferdinand Piech has the support of the board to continue as
chairman, people familiar with the matter said in October. The
Piechs’ main residence is in Salzburg,  Austria .  Significant Influence  Piech has held significant influence at VW for decades,
having served himself as chief executive officer before becoming
board chairman. Piech pushed out then-CEO Bernd Pischetsrieder
at the end of 2006 in favor of his longtime ally  Martin Winterkorn , who was Audi’s chief at the time.  Winterkorn said today that he’s known Ursula Piech for
years and she’s a “very competent” person who will help VW
advance as it targets passing  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s
largest automaker by 2018.  Hans Michel Piech, Ferdinand Oliver Porsche and Wolfgang Porsche are also on VW’s board. Shareholders Qatar Holding LLC
and the German state of  Lower Saxony  each have two board seats.
Ursula Piech will be the third woman on VW’s board.  “Ursula Piech has for years closely followed the
developments of the Volkswagen group with great interest,”
David McAllister, Lower Saxony’s prime minister, said in e-
mailed statement backing her nomination. “With Ursula Piech we
also add another competent woman to the supervisory board. That
is also a positive sign.”  Record Results  The world’s second-largest carmaker reported record results
last year, with earnings before interest and taxes gaining 59
percent to 11.3 billion euros ($14.8 billion). VW this year
faces a slump in  Europe  and extra costs from the introduction of
a new generation of its best-selling Golf hatchback, which is
based on technology that will also underpin Audi, Seat and Skoda
models.  “Despite all the uncertainties, we remain cautiously
optimistic for the coming months,” Winterkorn said in a speech
today at the company’s headquarters in Wolfsburg,  Germany . “Our
goal for operating profit is to repeat the high level we
achieved in 2011.”  Winterkorn’s total compensation nearly doubled last year to
17.5 million euros from 9.33 million euros in 2010.  Volkswagen’s fourth-quarter earnings before interest and
taxes fell 0.9 percent to 2.29 billion euros. The namesake
brand’s operating profit in the period fell 13 percent to 540
milion euros, while the Seat brand’s loss widened to 124 million
euros from 93 million euros aa year earlier.  Shares Drop  “The core business is in reverse” as losses accelerated
at Seat, and profitability at VW declined in the fourth quarter,
said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based Credit Suisse analyst
with an “outperform” rating on the shares. “It tells me that
VW is not immune to Europe.”  Volkswagen  dropped  as much as 3.90 euros, or 2.7 percent,
to 138.90 euros and was down 2.6 percent to 139.05 euros as of
3:49 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The shares  have  climbed 23
percent over the past 12 months, valuing the carmaker at 61.2
billion euros.  Volkswagen will introduce 40 new and upgraded models this
year to help counter an anticipated fifth straight annual
decline in Western European car demand. The company aims to
increase operating profit in 2013, it said in its annual report.
The company is also continuing to work on an integration of
Porsche SE’s carmaking operation.  VW aims to outpace the “low single-digit” growth rate in
the global car market this year, sales chief Christian Klingler
said last week in Geneva. The company sold a record 8.27 million
vehicles in 2011. The German company has expanded production of
SUVs such as the VW Tiguan and Audi Q5 to meet demand in the
U.S. and  China , its largest market.  Porsche Combination  The German carmaker has budgeted a record 62.4 billion
euros under its rolling five-year business plan to invest in
factories and new models, with an additional 14 billion euros
earmarked for its joint ventures in China. Future growth may
also come from pending mergers.  VW is exploring options to combine with majority
shareholder  Porsche (PAH3)  after scrapping plans last year for a merger
because of legal tangles. To avoid further delays, VW is closing
in on a deal to purchase the remaining 50.1 percent stake in
Porsche’s automaking business that it doesn’t already own,
people familiar with the matter said on Feb. 27.  Approval from German tax authorities is one of the hurdles
to an agreement, which VW and Porsche are still negotiating, the
people said, declining to be identified discussing private
talks. VW is considering setting up an umbrella company to
purchase the stake and avoid taxes that would eat up savings
from the deal, according to one of the people.  MAN Holding  “There are still some hurdles to cross on the way towards
full integration” with Porsche, Winterkorn said in a speech
today. “What I can tell you is that the integrated Volkswagen
and Porsche group will happen.”  VW last year took a majority stake in German truckmaker  MAN
SE (MAN) , raising its holding to 55.9 percent. VW has been seeking
closer links between MAN and Soedertaelje, Sweden-based  Scania
AB (SCVB) , which it also controls. VW’s goal is to forge a three-way
truckmaking alliance to save as much as 1 billion euros in
annual costs, the German auto manufacturer has said.  “All options are open to us when it comes to the further
structuring of an integrated commercial vehicles group,”
Winterkorn said. “What matters most is close, mutual
collaboration and this is something we have significantly
stepped up in recent weeks and months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Detroit via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  