-- Wildenstein Vault Holds Key to Feud Over Missing Painting
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-13T13:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/wildenstein-vault-holds-key-to-feud-over-art-missing-paris-show.html
A new exhibition of Impressionist
Berthe Morisot’s work is missing a piece of art: a painting
that’s ignited a feud between two of the art world’s most
prominent families.  “The Cottage in Normandy,” estimated at 800,000 euros ($1
million), isn’t in the  show , which opened last week at the
Marmottan Monet museum in Paris. The painting is instead across
the Seine in the custody of police, who seized it last year in a
vault owned by the Wildenstein art-dealing family.  “It’s extraordinary, it hadn’t changed from the moment
when it was at my grandmother’s home, and then at my uncle and
aunt’s,” said Morisot’s great-grandson, Yves Rouart, recalling
when he saw the painting at the police station. The recovery
renewed his hopes of finding four other works by Edouard Manet,
his great-great uncle, and Jean-Baptiste Corot, Morisot’s
teacher.  As they built their empire over five generations, the
Wildensteins did more than buy and sell art. They befriended
collectors and stored their art, making it difficult for heirs
to track works down after the owners died. Close to French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Guy Wildenstein became embroiled in a
dispute over his father’s estate, leading the police to the
Wildenstein Institute’s vault: It contained 30 missing works,
including bronze sculptures by Rembrandt Bugatti and a pastel by
Eugene Delacroix.  “What gall to take such well-known paintings, but really,
it’s the reputation of the family to keep things for
generations,” Rouart said.  Held for Questioning  Wildenstein, who has dual French and American citizenship,
was held for questioning for 36 hours in July, brought before
the judge leading the investigation and charged with receiving
goods through an abuse of trust. Wildenstein told the police he
didn’t have a key to the vault, according to a transcript of the
questioning. He was released without any restrictions.  He denied the accusations, and “said he didn’t know this
painting was in one of the vaults at the Institute,” said his
lawyer,  Herve Temime . “He won’t oppose this painting’s return”
to whomever the courts eventually decide it belongs to.  Wildenstein, 66, is one of the leading donors of Sarkozy’s
political party. The French president called him “a friend” in
a speech in 2007 in  Washington , and awarded him the Legion
d’Honneur, one of the country’s highest honors, in 2009. The
investigation may be awkward for Sarkozy, who is campaigning for
his re-election, said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at the
Institute of Political Studies in Paris.  The probe into someone with such close ties to his party is
“embarrassing, obviously,” Dubois said. It shows Sarkozy as
“the president, the friend of the rich.”  Sarkozy’s press office didn’t respond to requests for
comments.  Family Fortune  Police found the missing art thanks to a tip from
Wildenstein’s step-mother Sylvia, who fought him and his brother
Alec for years in courts for her share of the family fortune.
She claimed they cheated her of her inheritance after their
father, her husband Daniel, died in 2001. Just before her death
in November 2010, she urged the police to search the Wildenstein
Institute’s vaults to help gauge the family’s net worth, said
her lawyer, Claude Dumont-Beghi.  Nathan Wildenstein, Guy’s great-grandfather, entered the
art world in the 1870s in Paris, when he was working as a tailor
and a client asked for help to sell some paintings, according to
a family history written by Daniel.  Wildenstein & Co., founded in 1875, gained renown for
selling  Old Masters . In 1905, Nathan opened a gallery at 57, rue
La Boetie, where the police found the Morisot and 29 works
claimed as missing from the estate of Julie Goujon-Reinach,
according to Alexandre Bronstein, one of her heirs.  Rothschilds, Mellon  Nathan’s son, Georges, embraced the Impressionist movement
and had close relationships with collectors including the
Rouarts, the Rothschilds and Andrew Mellon. Georges fled the
Nazis with his family in 1940 and moved the company’s
headquarters to New York. Daniel took over the business from his
father, who died in 1963.  Sylvia Wildenstein claimed Guy and Alec tricked her into
signing away her rights to her husband’s estate two weeks after
his funeral by telling her the taxes would bankrupt her,
according to court documents.  In 2005, the Paris appeals court voided that agreement and
ordered a full inventory of the family’s properties, ranging
from homes in  New York  and France to the 75,000-acre Kenyan
ranch where “Out of  Africa ” was filmed, trusts, race horses
and art. Dumont-Beghi, her lawyer, said the family may be worth
from $5 billion to $10 billion, depending on the content of
trusts around the world and the artworks.  Tax-Fraud Complaint  Urged by Dumont-Beghi, who has pursued her late client’s
case as a creditor, the French state filed a tax-fraud complaint
claiming the Wildensteins had undeclared assets, Budget Minister
Valerie Pecresse told the National Assembly Oct. 5.  Temime, Guy Wildenstein’s lawyer, said Wildenstein and the
tax authorities are negotiating a resolution to the tax dispute.  He “contests entirely any type of violation of tax law,”
Temime said.  The 71-year-old Rouart, who collaborated with the Marmottan
Monet museum on the Morisot exhibition of 150 works, said he
just wants to find the four paintings he says are missing: The
three Manet and the Corot are valued at about 45 million euros
total, he estimates. Rouart saw the works growing up in his
grandmother’s home, where her mother, Morisot, had lived and
worked, and again at the home of his uncle, Denis, and wife,
Annie.  Rouart’s aunt and uncle divided their estate, leaving the
art that decorated their apartment walls to their nephew, and
the apartment itself and art stored elsewhere to the Academie
des Beaux-Arts for the Marmottan museum. Family friends Daniel Wildenstein and Swiss art expert, Francois Daulte, acted as
executors.  Portrait by Degas  Rouart said he never questioned their trustworthiness until
he went to his aunt’s apartment after she died in 1993 and found
it empty except for a few minor works. When he read the
inventory, he determined about 30 works were missing from the
estate and filed a criminal complaint to initiate an
investigation, he said.  After Daulte died in  Switzerland  in 1998, his children’s
lawyer contacted Rouart, saying they’d discovered some works he
was looking for in their father’s belongings. The 24 works
included two portraits of Manet by  Edgar Degas , a  Paul Gauguin ,
a Corot and 10 Morisot. Rouart divided the works with the
Academie des Beaux-Arts and signed an accord saying should five
works still missing be found, they would also go to the
Academie.  Guy Wildenstein has petitioned to have Rouart removed as a
claimant, saying he gave up his right to the works -- and to
pursue a criminal case against him -- with that accord.  Rouart has in turn asked the Paris commercial court to void
the contract. He said he is claiming only the Morisot and
Manet’s “Singer at a Café-Concert.”  Extraordinary Life  For Rouart, finding the missing art is a way to preserve
the legacy of his great-grandmother, the first woman to join the
Impressionist movement. After her training under Corot, Morisot
was invited by Degas to join the budding Impressionist group,
where she painted with  Claude Monet  and Auguste Renoir. She was
a longtime friend of Manet and married his brother, Eugene.
Their daughter, Julie Manet, married the son of painter-
collector Henri Rouart.  The Wildensteins were intimately connected with the Rouart
family, Rouart said. Georges Wildenstein worked with Julie
Manet-Rouart on the catalogue raisonne, or decisive listing, of
Morisot’s works, and Denis Rouart worked with Daniel on the
Manet catalogue raisonne. Daulte edited the books.  Safe Keeping  The family members often left works for safe keeping with
Wildensteins & Co. when they traveled or ran out of wall-space,
and entrusted the company with transport when works were loaned
out for exhibitions.  Wildenstein and Daulte “took great care of them,” Rouart
said. “When my uncle was ailing, Daniel loaned them his plane
and car to take them to Switzerland. And so that’s why they
chose them as executors.”  While he awaits the decision about whether he or the
Academie will get the Morisot painting, Rouart said he has had
“excellent” relations with the Marmottan Monet museum, putting
together the Morisot exhibit. He’s also working on a show of
works by his great-grandfather, Henri Rouart, scheduled for
September.  “My grandmother and grandfather made donations to national
museums, they gave a lovely work by Berthe Morisot to each of
the regional museums so she would be represented,” Rouart said.
“That’s why it’s difficult. I have a moral right to see that
these works, which are part of  France ’s cultural legacy, are
recovered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  