-- Scott Walker’s Wisconsin Voter ID Law Violates Constitution, Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/wisconsin-voter-identification-law-is-blocked-by-second-state-court-judge.html
Texas and  Wisconsin  officials were
barred from enforcing laws requiring voters to produce a
government-issued photo identification before casting ballots.  The U.S.  Justice Department  yesterday told Texas officials
the state failed to show that the statute signed into law by
Governor  Rick Perry  last year won’t have a discriminatory effect
on Latino voters while a Wisconsin state court judge held that
an ID law enacted by fellow Republican Governor  Scott Walker 
last year, unconstitutionally burdens the rights of eligible
citizens.  The measures had been adopted to combat potential voter
fraud.  “Voter fraud is no more poisonous to our democracy than
voter suppression,” Dane County, Wisconsin Circuit Judge
Richard Niess said in his ruling yesterday barring enforcement
of that state’s law. “Indeed they are two heads on the same
monster.”  Signed by Walker in May, Wisconsin’s statute required
voters to present government-issued photographic proof of
identity such as a driver’s license, U.S. passport or an armed
forces or college ID.  Under the  Texas  law signed by Perry in the same month,
voters arriving at the polls without one of seven acceptable
forms of photo IDs issued by the state or federal government,
including concealed carry handgun permits, would be given a
provisional ballot, according to the Texas Secretary of State’s
website.  Approved ID  Those ballots would count only if voters bring an approved
ID to the registrar’s office within six days of the election.
The law exempts mail-in ballots and voters with significant
disabilities or religious objections to being photographed.  Both states’ statutes were challenged on grounds they
disproportionately affected poor and minority voters.  The Justice Department in December blocked a similar
measure in  South Carolina .  Texas and South Carolina are among 16 states or portions of
states that must obtain permission from the Justice Department
or a federal court in  Washington  before redrawing their district
lines or changing election procedures because of a history of
voting rights violations.  The federal Voting Rights Act requires Texas to prove its
law wouldn’t interfere with minorities’ ability to vote.  Hispanic registered voters there are 47 percent to 120
percent more likely to lack the required identification than
non-Hispanic voters, the Justice Department said in its letter.
Texas has 12.9 million registered voters of whom 2.81 million
are Hispanic.  ‘Most Favorable’  “Even using the data most favorable to the state,
Hispanics disproportionately lack either a driver’s license or a
personal identification card,”  Thomas Perez , head of the
Justice Department’s civil rights division, said in the letter
to Keith Ingram, the director of elections for the Texas
Secretary of State.  The Justice Department’s Texas decision isn’t final. That
state and South Carolina have filed suit in federal court in
Washington seeking permission to enforce their photo ID
requirements.  “Their denial is yet another example of the Obama
administration’s continuing and pervasive federal overreach,”
Perry said in a statement responding to the Justice Department
notification.  Seeking Reversal  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said he would
seek reversal of Niess’s decision to invalidate his state’s law.  “Wisconsin’s voter ID law is consistent with the
constitution and I will appeal this decision,” he said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We are confident the state will prevail in its plan to
implement photo ID,” Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for Walker,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Werwie likened the measure to requirements to present a
photo ID before obtaining cold medicine, public assistance or a
public library card.  The League of Women Voters, which filed one of four suits
challenging the Wisconsin measure, in its own press statement
disagreed.  “Voting is not like cashing a check or getting on an
airplane,” state President Melanie Ramey said in the statement.
“Those activities are not protected by the constitution.”  The case is League of Women Voters of Wisconsin v. Walker,
11-cv-4669,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  