-- WTO Upholds Ruling for Airbus in Saying Boeing Got Illegal U.S. Subsidies
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-12T18:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/wto-upholds-ruling-on-illegal-boeing-aid-raises-harm-amount-1-.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  subsidies from the U.S.
and individual states damaged rival Airbus SAS by more than $5.3
billion, World Trade Organization judges said as they upheld an
earlier ruling.  The WTO’s Appellate Body today backed a March 2011  report 
finding the U.S. provided aid to Chicago-based Boeing through
federal research grants and state support in developing aircraft
including the 787 Dreamliner. Airbus parent  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  has said the aid to Boeing cost it $45
billion in lost sales from 2002 to 2006.  Both the European Union and the U.S. appealed the initial
ruling. Appellate judges in Geneva reversed an earlier finding
that only two of 23 Department of Defense programs gave illegal
aid, saying today that subsidies from all 23 programs violated
global trade rules. They also reversed an earlier ruling that
tax breaks from Kansas didn’t cause adverse effects.  “This whole thing is quickly losing meaning,”  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of the Teal Group, an aerospace
consulting group in Fairfax,  Virginia , said in a telephone
interview. “The whole point of the WTO is to give the other
side the right to retaliate in some way. But if both sides claim
that right, then we have a recipe for mutually assured
destruction, and nobody wants that.”  EU Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  told reporters in
Geneva that the subsidies are “a blatantly unlawful way of
supporting” Boeing’s business.  ‘Dramatically Reduced’  The Appellate Body backed the U.S. in its argument that aid
for Boeing’s 777 aircraft didn’t harm the Airbus A340. Judges
today “dramatically reduced” the harm to Airbus in terms of
market share and lost sales and orders, said Bob Novick,
external counsel for Boeing at WilmerHale in  Washington .  The appeals judges reduced the number of lost sales
campaigns due to the subsidies to six from 12 in the initial
panel report, Novick said by telephone. They also found that
Airbus lost 118 orders because of the aid, down from 300 in the
first report and below the 436 alleged by the EU, he said.
Judges said Airbus was hurt only in one market --  Australia  --
rather than the 10 mentioned in the first panel report, he said.  The WTO has also ruled that Airbus received billions of
euros in low-interest loans from EU governments, and the U.S.
has asked the trade arbiter to approve retaliatory sanctions of
as much as $10 billion for the EU’s failure to comply with that
ruling. Tim Reif, general counsel for U.S. Trade Representative 
 Ron Kirk ’s office, said the U.S. is “close” to deciding whether 
to ask for a WTO panel on the issue of EU compliance on the 
Airbus ruling.  Unconditional Talks  The 27-nation bloc says a solution to the trade dispute,
the world’s most costly, must only come through negotiations.
“I have always been saying we are ready to start unconditional
discussions,” De Gucht said. “That remains so.”  The dual cases have become increasingly important as
competitors from  China ,  Canada  and  Brazil  emerge, and the
rulings may set industry-defining guidelines for government
support in the $70 billion civil-aviation industry.  Judges originally found that Boeing got at least $5.3
billion in illegal aid between 1989 and 2006 and was slated to
get $3 billion to $4 billion in incompatible future aid based on
Washington state tax measures. Today’s appellate ruling means
the harm caused by the subsidies may be found to exceed $5.3
billion, though the panel didn’t name a figure.  The EU has estimated the total amount of subsidies between
1989 and 2006 at $19.1 billion. The amount of harm is important
because it is the basis on which a government can request
permission to impose a specific level of sanctions.  Aid Breakdown  The illegal aid includes NASA research and development
programs for $2.6 billion between 1989 and 2006 and Department
of Defense programs with aid as high as $1.2 billion in the same
period. There were also three Washington state tax breaks valued
at as much as $4 billion from 2006-2024 and foreign sales
corporation export subsidies amounting to $2.2 billion until
2006, as well as $476 million in  Kansas  aid.  The U.S. and  Europe  filed counter-cases at the WTO in 2004
after the administration of President  George W. Bush 
unilaterally walked out of a 1992 aircraft-aid accord with the
EU. Toulouse, France-based Airbus, which had a record 1,419
orders in 2011 to extend its lead over Boeing, delivered 534
aircraft last year while its rival delivered 477.  “So it’s Canada and Brazil all over again, just as
expected,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst with Agency
Partners in  London , referring to a similar set of dueling
complaints filed by the two countries in the 1980s, concerning
alleged subsidies paid out to Bombardier Inc. and Embraer SA.  “This should mean that they’ve fought to a standstill,”
Cunningham said of today’s ruling. “It’s all been a waste of
time prompted by Harry Stonecipher’s ill-advised decision to
pursue the issue back in 2004,” he said in an e-mail.
Stonecipher was Boeing’s chief executive officer from December
2003 until March 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  