-- Yahoo! Sues Facebook Over Patents Related to Advertising
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-13T19:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/yahoo-sues-facebook-for-patent-infringement-in-california-federal-court.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  was accused in a
lawsuit by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  of infringing patents covering functions
critical to websites, including  Internet advertising ,
information sharing and privacy.  In a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  San
Jose ,  California , Yahoo asked for an order barring Facebook from
infringing the 10 patents and for triple damages. The patents
cover tasks required to “build a successful website,” such as
information customization, social networking and messaging,
according to the complaint.  Yahoo, owner of the most popular U.S. Internet portal, said
in February that Facebook must license its technology, pointing
out that other Web companies have done so. Yahoo is looking for
ways to revive growth after losing ground to Facebook in the
display advertising market and trailing  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in Web
searches.  “Even technology companies who acquire their patents for
purely defensive purposes may change their mind as they do less
well in the marketplace,”  Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School
professor who isn’t involved in the case, said in an e-mail.
“Yahoo! isn’t a patent troll, but they are the latest example
of a company that sues for patent infringement in hopes of
supplementing a failing revenue base.”  Market Share  Yahoo lost its No. 1 spot to  Menlo Park , California-based
Facebook last year in the U.S. market for display advertising,
which includes video and graphically based marketing messages,
according to EMarketer Inc. In January, Yahoo, based in
Sunnyvale, California, reported fourth-quarter revenue of
$1.17 billion, excluding sales passed on to partner sites. That
fell short of  analysts’ estimates  of $1.19 billion.  “For much of the technology upon which Facebook is based,
Yahoo! got there first,” the company argued in its complaint.
“Facebook’s entire social network model, which allows users to
create profiles for and connect with, among other things,
persons and businesses, is based on Yahoo!’s patented social
networking technology,” Yahoo said.  ‘Longtime’ Partner  “We’re disappointed that Yahoo, a longtime business
partner of Facebook and a company that has substantially
benefited from its association with Facebook, has decided to
resort to litigation,” Facebook said in a statement.  “Once again, we learned of Yahoo’s decision simultaneously
with the media,” Facebook said. The company said it would
defend itself against what it called “these puzzling actions.”  Yahoo said in an e-mailed statement that its patented
technologies attract more than 700 million unique visitors each
month.  “Unfortunately, the matter with Facebook remains
unresolved and we are compelled to seek redress in federal
court,” Yahoo said in the statement.  Facebook, which filed for an initial public offering last
month, could seek a valuation of $75 billion to $100 billion,
people familiar with the matter have said.  Brian Wieser, an analyst in  New York  at Pivotal Research
Group LLC, said Yahoo’s chances of extracting a settlement from
Facebook will be enhanced by Facebook’s reluctance to have the
pending suit “hanging over” the IPO.  Stanford’s Lemley said data he collected shows that the
number of patent suits against a company rises around the time
of its IPO.  ‘Short Run’  “In the short run, Yahoo! may stand to make money by suing
Facebook,” Lemley said.  “But in the long run it’s not a good
sign for them as a technology company.”  In 2004, Yahoo agreed to drop an infringement lawsuit
against  Mountain View , California-based Google after Google
agreed to license Yahoo’s patents. Google issued shares of its
stock to Yahoo as part of the settlement of that case and a
dispute over a Yahoo warrant to buy Google shares.  Separately, Yahoo is also grappling with demands from Third
Point LLC, a shareholder, to make changes to its board and
assuage concerns about the company’s growth prospects.  Third Point, founded by  Daniel Loeb , sent a written demand
for a list of Yahoo shareholders, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday. Third Point
also increased its stake in Yahoo to 5.8 percent from 5.7
percent.  Yahoo (YHOO)  rose 1 cent to $14.50 at 2:56 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has declined 10 percent
this year.  The case is  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  