-- Youku Will Buy China Video Rival Tudou in $1 Billion Swap
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/youku-to-buy-china-online-video-rival-tudou-in-1-billion-stock-only-deal.html
Youku Inc. (YOKU) , owner of  China ’s most-
popular online video site, plans to acquire smaller competitor
 Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  in a $1 billion stock deal that will help
lower costs for licensing and transmitting content.  Holders of Tudou’s American depositary receipts will
receive 1.595 ADRs of Youku for each Tudou ADR they own, the two
companies said in a joint statement yesterday. Based on Youku’s
March 9 closing price, the deal values Tudou at $39.89 a share,
or 159 percent more than last week’s closing price.  The proposed deal will strengthen the new company’s ability
to compete with  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  in adding
online video users in a nation where  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube is
restricted. Youku and Tudou together accounted for more than a
third of China’s Web video advertising revenue last quarter,
according to research company Analysys International.  “There are huge purchasing economies for content through
this merger,” said Eric Wen, head of Internet research at Mirae
Asset Securities in Hong Kong. “They need to have scale,
bargaining power with upstream TV producers and deter entry by
Tencent and Baidu.”  Youku’s ADRs rose 1.1 percent to $25.01 in New York trading
on March 9, valuing the Beijing-based company at $2.85 billion.
Tudou rose 12.5 percent to $15.39, valuing the Shanghai-based
company at $436.4 million. Youku surged 14 percent at 11:33 a.m.
in New York March 12, after the deal was announced, to $28.50,
and Tudou more than doubled to $37.01.  Shareholder Approval  The transaction requires the approval of Youku and Tudou
shareholders and is expected to be completed in the third
quarter, the companies said. On completion, Youku shareholders
will own 71.5 percent of the combined company, to be named Youku
Tudou Inc., the companies said.  Youku expects the deal will generate between $50 million to
$60 million in cost savings annually, Senior Vice-President
Michael Xu said in a conference call yesterday evening.  “The combined company will own the No. 1 and No. 2 online
video brands and platforms in China,” Youku Chief Executive
Officer Victor Koo said on the call. Tudou has more than 200
million users, Koo said.  Koo said he will be CEO of the new company, and Tudou CEO
Gary Wang will be a board member.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Allen & Co. and China Renaissance
Holdings Ltd. are advising Youku in the transaction. Morgan
Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG are advising Tudou.  Market Share  Youku accounted for about 22 percent of China’s online
video advertising revenue in the fourth-quarter, according to
Analysys. Second-ranked Tudou’s market share was about 14
percent, ahead of 13 percent for  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  and 6.9 percent
for Baidu’s iQiyi unit.  “This is step one in industry consolidation,” said Jin Yoon, a senior analyst with Nomura Securities Hong Kong. “There
could be more coming.”  Separately, Youku’s fourth-quarter loss widened to 49.6
million yuan ($7.8 million), according to a separate statement
yesterday. The company was expected to post a loss of 43.8
million yuan, according to the average of five analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Youku’s fourth-quarter sales more than doubled to 309.3
million yuan, and the company forecast first-quarter revenue
will rise between 95 percent and 105 percent compared with a
year earlier.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  