-- Mabanaft Quits Carbon Trading Business Due to ‘Poor’ Conditions
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-02-15T15:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mabanaft-quits-carbon-trading-business-due-to-poor-conditions.html
Mabanaft BV, the Rotterdam-based
commodities trader, closed its carbon trading desk because of
“poor market conditions” and will shift its portfolio of
emissions-cutting projects to another company within its parent.  “We have exited carbon trading activity due to poor market
conditions and the fact that it is now evident that there is no
international agreement in sight,” Daniel Weisser, managing
director of Mabagas GmbH & Co., the renewable energy division of
Mabanaft parent company Marquard & Bahls AG, said today by phone
from Hamburg.  European Union carbon permits for December declined 41
percent to 5.19 euros ($6.02) a metric ton in the past year on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange as the region’s sputtering
economy damped demand for permits. The European Commission, the
market’s regulator, is seeking to limit an oversupply of
allowances that may reach 1.6 billion tons as of the end of
2012, according to UniCredit Bank AG in Munich.  Nations meeting in Doha in December agreed to extend the
Kyoto Protocol, which limits greenhouse-gas emissions by
developed countries, through 2020, though Russia, Canada and
Japan dropped out of the agreement. Countries are scheduled to
reach an agreement starting in 2021 by 2015.  The decision to restructure the carbon business within the
Marquard & Bahls group was taken in January, Weisser said.  “Mabanaft is quitting speculative trading, to the extent
that we were in it,” Weisser said. “Our activities were mostly
related to risk management and hedging strategies to support our
project portfolio.”  ‘Interesting Portfolio’  The company has a portfolio of three emissions-cutting
projects registered under the United Nations Clean Development
Mechanism, according to UN data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have an interesting portfolio of CDM projects and
programs of activities in the sectors of energy efficiency and
renewable energy, which we will keep and manage,” Weisser said.
“We will continue with so-called origination as far as the
market allows given the extremely low CER price level.”  United Nations Certified Emission Reductions are created by
climate protection projects in developing countries, and may be
used by factories and power stations in the European Union to
meet part of their cap on carbon discharges. CERs for December
tumbled 93 percent in the past year to 34 euro cents on ICE
Futures Europe.  Mabanaft’s carbon team of six will remain with the company
until mid-year, Weisser said. Efforts are being made to find new
positions for them within the Marquard & Bahls group, he said.  “The business will be integrated into one of Mabanaft’s
sister companies in Hamburg as soon as possible,” he said.  Mabanaft is a unit of Hamburg-based Marquard & Bahls, a
closely held oil company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  