-- AbbVie Suspends Five Clinical Trials of Leukemia Therapy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-15T20:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/abbvie-suspends-five-clinical-trials-of-leukemia-therapy.html
AbbVie Inc. , the drug company that
split off from Abbott Laboratories at the start of the year,
suspended five studies on its experimental leukemia and lymphoma
medicine after two patient deaths.  The patients died from  tumor lysis syndrome , said Tracy
Sorrentino, a spokeswoman for North Chicago, Illinois-based
AbbVie. The complication stems from the rapid destruction of
malignant cells after treatment that can trigger acute kidney
failure. It occurs most often with large tumors such as those
found in leukemia and lymphoma patients, according to the
National Institutes of Health.  AbbVie is looking for new  products  to diversify beyond its
best-selling arthritis drug Humira. ABT-199 is one of the
company’s most-promising new compounds and was slated to start
the final round of testing usually required for U.S. regulatory
approval this year.  “We have every expectation that these trials will come off
the partial clinical hold and we’ll be able to initiate Phase 3
trials in 2013 as planned,” she said. “ABT-199 is a highly-
potent agent and can result in the tumors reducing really
quickly,” she said. “We are working to refine the dose.”  After the complication was discovered, AbbVie and its
partner,  Roche Holding AG , suspended the dose-escalation portion
of the studies to determine the amount of drug that is safest
and most effective, Sorrentino said. The risk stems from the
drug’s potency and can be managed if the dose is carefully
controlled, she said.  Suspended Studies  The trials are in patients with relapsed or hard-to-treat
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small
lymphocytic leukemia, according to the U.S.  website 
clinicaltrials.gov. Patients originally given the medicine are
still able to take it in the trials, Sorrentino said. A study in
women with systemic lupus erythematosus is still under way.  The drug, a BCL-2 inhibitor, established a strong “proof
of concept” and has shown activity against blood cancers in
early trials, AbbVie Chief Executive Officer  Richard Gonzalez 
said on a conference call with investors on Jan. 30.  The suspensions of the trial were mentioned by company
executives in response to analysts’ questions on the conference
call. One of the patient deaths was reported earlier today by
Biotech Strategy Blog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  