-- Abe Ally Yamamoto Says Currency Devaluation Spurs Growth
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-02-15T04:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/abe-ally-yamamoto-says-currency-devaluation-spurs-global-growth.html
Japanese ruling party lawmaker  Kozo Yamamoto  said a race to devalue currencies would spark global
growth, dismissing German criticism of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ’s plans for monetary easing which have weakened the yen.  Yamamoto, a member of the Liberal Democratic Party who is
close to Abe, said in an interview yesterday that an exchange
rate of 95-100 yen to the dollar would be appropriate. The yen
has fallen almost 10 percent against its U.S. counterpart since
Abe’s LDP won a landslide victory on Dec. 16.  Abe has pushed the Bank of Japan to increase monetary
stimulus to overcome more than a decade of deflation. While his
administration argues the yen’s fall is a consequence, not a
target of his policies, the decline has sparked criticism from
German officials including  Michael Meister , the parliamentary
finance spokesman for Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party.  There is “no problem at all” with the yen falling because
of monetary easing, Yamamoto said, citing the research of
Columbia University professor  Jeffrey Sachs  and  Koichi Hamada ,
an emeritus professor at Yale who is an economic adviser to Abe.
“It contributes to the stability of the entire economy and to
growth,” he said.  The yen weakened after publication of Yamamoto’s comments,
before resuming gains to trade 0.4 percent higher at 92.46 per
dollar as of 1:11 p.m. in Tokyo.  Germany’s Meister expressed concern in a Jan. 22 interview,
saying that competitive devaluation could “create a spiral that
hurts us all.” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and
Bundesbank President  Jens Weidmann  have also criticized Abe’s
policies.  Yen’s Equilibrium  “If they think Japan has gone too far, then they should
try it themselves,” said Yamamoto. “That’s what a floating
exchange rate system is for.”  Kazumasa Iwata , a potential candidate to replace  Masaaki Shirakawa  as BOJ governor when he steps down next month,
yesterday said an exchange rate of between 90 yen and 100 yen to
the dollar would mark a return to equilibrium.  “That’s about right,” Yamamoto said. “I would say about
95 yen to 100 yen.”  Yamamoto is one of the strongest proponents of monetary
easing in the ruling LDP. In 2011, he formed a group with Abe as
chairman which aimed at having the BOJ buy bonds issued to fund
reconstruction after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami
disaster. After the group failed in its aims, the two continued
to collaborate in study groups on monetary policy.  The law guaranteeing the BOJ’s independence may need to be
changed to achieve Abe’s inflation goals, Yamamoto added. The
central bank, which last month adopted a 2 percent inflation
target without a deadline, yesterday refrained from adding
additional stimulus.  “They have the 2 percent target, but the BOJ is not
committed to achieving it and there’s no time limit, so it’s
unfinished and it’s not real,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  