-- Aegon Posts 13% Increase in Profit, Cancels Preferred Shares
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-02-15T12:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/aegon-says-quarterly-profit-rises-13-cancels-preferred-shares.html
Aegon NV , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer  Transamerica Corp. , said fourth-quarter profit rose 13
percent on investment gains and lower restructuring costs. The
company canceled its preferred shares.  Aegon  advanced  as much as 5 percent in Amsterdam trading,
its  biggest  intraday gain in three months, after posting net
income of 422 million euros ($565 million), above the 381
million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Underlying earnings, which exclude investment swings, were 447
million euros, compared with analysts’ 437 million-euro
estimate.  The company and its largest shareholder, Vereniging Aegon,
decided to simplify the insurer’s capital structure by canceling
all preferred shares, which are valued at 1.1 billion euros.
Under the agreement, the shares will be exchanged for cash and
common stock, Aegon said. The insurer’s solvency ratio, a
measure of financial strength, rose to 230 percent at the end of
December from 222 percent at the end of September.  “Sales and solvency figures were better than expected, so
in total” the results were “somewhat positive,”  Cor Kluis , an
Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst at Rabobank, said in a note.  Aegon rose 4.4 percent to 5.14 euros by 1:06 p.m. in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 10.1 billion euros. The stock
 advanced  38 percent over the past 12 months, twice the increase
in the 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  Aegon said it plans a dividend of 11 cents a share, up from
 10 cents  in 2011.  Capital Return  “All shareholders are benefiting from the strong set of
results, from strong capital and the higher dividend and also
benefitting from the simplification of the capital and
strengthening of the balance sheet,” Chief Executive Officer
 Alex Wynaendts  said in an interview.  As a result of the capital transaction, the number of
shares outstanding will increase by approximately 7 percent,
Aegon said. The dilutive effect on earnings per share will be
about 3 percent.  The company reported fair-value losses of 79 million euros
compared with 20 million euros a year earlier due to lower
credit spreads on the valuation of its bonds and the negative
effect on the fair value of swaps.  Investment gains rose a quarterly 16 percent to 149 million
euros from the previous three months, Aegon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  