-- Takeda Worried About Actos’s Cancer Link, Filing Shows
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-02-15T17:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/takeda-worried-about-actos-s-cancer-link-filing-shows.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.  executives
were so worried in 2003 that their diabetes drug  Actos  might be
linked to cancer that they questioned doctors on whether they
would prescribe a drug that had a warning about the disease on
its label, according to court filings.  Takeda, which faces more than 3,000 lawsuits over Actos,
argues in court papers that the drug doesn’t cause bladder
cancer. The company secretly surveyed a dozen doctors in 2003 to
see if they would use a diabetes drug with their patients that
carried a warning about the potentially fatal ailment, lawyers
for a former Actos user said in the filing. Actos was once the
company’s top-selling drug.  The survey found “a bladder cancer warning would destroy
the sales of Takeda’s most important drug,” attorneys for ex-
Actos user Jack Cooper said in the Jan. 25 filing. Jurors in Los
Angeles, where Actos cases are consolidated in state court, are
set to hear Cooper’s claims against the drugmaker starting Feb.
19 in the first case over the drug to go to trial.  The trial comes a month after Takeda won U.S. regulatory
approval for  Nesina , a new diabetes drug to replace Actos, which
lost patent protection last year.  Takeda , based in Osaka, Japan,
is Asia’s biggest drugmaker.  Takeda officials counter that they acted properly to inform
doctors about Actos’s health risks and emphasized patient safety
in their handling of the diabetes drug.  Company Statement  “Takeda has actively worked with regulators, physicians
and outside medical experts to make sure health-care providers
were informed and could make the most educated treatment
decisions,” Kenneth D. Greisman, a spokesman for the company’s
U.S. unit, said today in an e-mailed statement. “That was the
case in 2003 and still is the case today.”  Actos’s sales peaked in the year ended in March 2011 at
$4.5 billion for Takeda, accounting for 27 percent of the
 company’s revenue  at the time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved Actos for
use in the U.S. in 1999 and the drug later became the world’s
best-selling diabetes treatment.  FDA officials found in 2011 that an analysis of a company-
sponsored study showed some Actos users faced an increased risk
of developing bladder cancer or heart problems. The company
pulled the drug off the market in Germany and France that year
at the request of those countries’ regulators.  Final Results  Takeda  said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 11 that the
Actos study FDA officials reviewed is ongoing and final results
should be available next year. Other information generated by
the study showed that over time, patients’ risks of developing
bladder cancer from the medicine decreased, Takeda said.  Cooper, a retired telephone-company employee, took Actos
for more than two years before being diagnosed with bladder
cancer in 2011, according to court papers. His Jan. 25 filing
was a response to Takeda’s request to have his case thrown out.  The company contends in court filings that it handled the
drug properly and the FDA found Actos to be a safe and effective
diabetes treatment.’’  FDA officials’ interest in Actos’s bladder-cancer links
surfaced in 2002 after drugmaker  Novo Nordisk  A/S abandoned
plans to bring a diabetes medicine to market, according to court
filings.  Testing Canceled  Novo Nordisk, based in Bagsvaerd, Denmark,  canceled 
clinical testing on Ragaglitazar, another compound designed to
help diabetes suffers, after finding that rats developed
cancerous  tumors  in their bladders. The drug works in a similar
fashion to Actos, according to court filings.  FDA officials began asking Takeda about Actos’s potential
links to bladder cancer after the Ragaglitazar testing was
halted, Cooper’s lawyers said in the filing. The FDA’s
questioning prompted Takeda to survey doctors about their
willingness to use a diabetes drug that contained a cancer
warning, the attorney said.  During the ensuing nine years, Takeda fended off the FDA’s
suggestions that it add a clear bladder-cancer warning to
Actos’s label, according to the filing. Regulators ordered the
company to beef up the warning last year, Cooper’s lawyers said.  The company sought to protect the drug by refusing to
search its database for signs that Actos was tied to reports of
bladder cancer because it would provide ammunition for stronger
warnings, according to the filing.  ‘They Gotcha’  “If there are negative findings they ignore it and if
there are positive findings, they gotcha,” Takeda officials
said in internal documents, according to the filing.  Takeda continued to aggressively market the drug, pushing
salespeople to avoid or downplay doctors’ questions about
Actos’s cancer risk, the plaintiff’s lawyers said.  The drugmaker in 2010 told its U.S. salespeople to wait to
see if doctors asked about bladder cancer before providing
safety information and “if no questions/concerns, do not
discuss bladder cancer and sell, sell, sell!” according to the
filing.  Takeda officials contend Cooper’s lawyers are cherry-
picking from internal documents gathered in pretrial information
exchanges to paint a misleading picture of the company’s
handling of Actos.  “Individual documents, when viewed without explanation or
context, do not fairly reflect the company’s conduct,” Greisman
said in the e-mailed statement.  The case is Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc.,
CGC-12-518535, California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  