-- Aligning QRM, EU Bond Pricing, Heinz Surge: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-15T13:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/aligning-qrm-eu-bond-pricing-heinz-surge-compliance.html
U.S. realtors and mortgage bankers
say they hope President Barack Obama’s call for streamlined
mortgage rules in his State of the Union speech will help them
persuade regulators not to set a strict minimum down payment for
home loans.  While the president was speaking broadly about a variety of
rules that may be hampering credit availability, real estate
agents, mortgage bankers and others who are angling for changes
to a proposed regulation requiring lenders to keep a stake in
risky loans say they will use Obama’s comments to help make
their case.  At issue is the so-called qualified residential mortgage
rule, which six banking regulators including the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Federal Reserve are aiming to complete
this year. The regulators drew protests in 2011 when they
released a preliminary draft requiring lenders to keep a stake
in certain mortgages, including those with down payments of less
than 20 percent.  Bankers and consumer groups said such a requirement would
shut creditworthy borrowers out of the market, reshaping who can
lend and who can borrow.  Now, industry participants and some lawmakers are pressing
for the regulators to align the QRM rule with a measure with a
similar name that is also aimed at preventing risky home
lending: the qualified mortgage, or QM, rule. That guidance,
issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in January,
offers legal protections to banks that issue loans to borrowers
spending no more than 43 percent of their income on debt.  Housing industry participants want the regulators writing
QRM to drop the down-payment requirement and raise borrowers’
allowable debt load to 43 percent, essentially setting the same
requirements in both the QM and QRM rules.  The concept has drawn support from lawmakers. Senator Bob
Corker, a Tennessee Republican, is drafting a bill that would
merge the two rules. He’ll offer the measure only if regulators
don’t act on their own, said Laura Herzog, Corker’s
communications director.  Meanwhile, a bipartisan group of senators who drafted the
language requiring the QRM rule in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act wrote
a letter to regulators Feb. 13 urging them to drop a strict
down-payment requirement.  It will probably be months before regulators, also
including the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, come out with the QRM rule. Still,
officials testifying at a Senate hearing yesterday said they
would be open to the idea of aligning the two rules.  Compliance Policy  Bond-Pricing Disclosure to Shrink Europe Debt Market, AFME Says  Europe’s corporate debt market will shrink if disclosure
rules on bond pricing are introduced because they will increase
dealer costs, the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe 
said.  The European Union is proposing traders must disclose firm
prices before and after a transaction is completed under its
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, known as Mifid II.
Almost $2 trillion of corporate debt was issued in Europe last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regulators are demanding more transparency in credit
markets following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. EU  Financial Services  Commissioner Michel Barnier is
reviewing Mifid as part of a wider overhaul of the securities
industry.  In an AFME survey, 56 percent of European investors
questioned said the Mifid proposal for pre-trade transparency
will negatively impact the market, the London-based industry
body said Feb 4. The move may cause a drop in trading volumes, a
cut in deal sizes and an increased cost of trading, investors
told AFME.  AFME represents international lenders including Deutsche
Bank AG, BNP Paribas SA, HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Banks in the U.S. are reducing bond holdings as the Dodd-
Frank Act’s Volcker Rule seeks to limit risk-taking at the
biggest financial institutions.  Regulators Tout Dodd-Frank Progress in Senate Panel Remarks  U.S. regulators told lawmakers they are making significant
progress to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis, pushing
back against complaints of slow progress and efforts to undo
parts of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Officials from agencies including the Treasury Department,
Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., who
testified yesterday at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on
implementation of the 2010 regulatory overhaul, delivered
opening remarks that highlight finished work and rules nearing
completion while warning against attempts to roll back key
provisions of the law.  Fewer than half the rules mandated by Dodd-Frank have been
implemented by regulators, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Among the measures awaiting completion are the
Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading, and rules designed to
increase transparency in derivatives markets and improve
consumer protections for mortgage borrowers.  Of the 398 Dodd-Frank rules, 148 have been finalized and
124 haven’t yet been proposed, according to a Feb. 1 tracking
report released by law firm  Davis Polk & Wardwell  LLP .
Regulators have missed 279 Dodd-Frank rulemaking deadlines,
according to the report.  Senator Michael Crapo of Idaho, the Banking Committee’s top
Republican, questioned whether Dodd-Frank rules are “too
complex, offering confusing and often contradictory standards
and regulatory proposals.”  For more, click here.  For the related video, click here.  Europe’s Financial Transaction Tax Could Be Boost to Loan Market  The European Union’s proposed tax on financial transactions
could benefit the region’s loan market, which would be exempt
from the charge.  “The financial transaction tax includes all financial
instruments and derivatives, but not loans,” according to a
 report  from Clifford Chance LLP written by attorneys led by Dan
Neidle, a London-based tax lawyer. “The pricing of corporate
and government bonds may reflect direct and indirect FTT
charges, and this may cause a move by corporates away from bond
financing and towards loan financing,” it said.  The EU is trying to curb what it sees as a “patchwork” of
local levies with a tax that it believes could raise 30 billion
euros ($40 billion) to 35 billion euros a year.  “The FTT will not apply to day-to-day financial activities
of citizens and businesses in order to protect the real
economy,” the European Commission said in a  statement .
“Traditional investment banking activities” such as raising
capital or restructuring deals will also be exempt, the
Commission said.  The tax could be collected worldwide as soon as the start
of next year by the 11 nations that have so far signed up to
participate. Companies may stop raising floating-rate interest
loans and entering into swap transactions to make them fixed-
rate because of the tax, Clifford Chance said.  Senate Democrats Say Won’t Back Proposals to Revamp CFPB  Senate Democrats told President Barack Obama they are
united in their opposition to any attempt to change the
structure of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “We oppose efforts to weaken the CFPB through structural
changes, including as the price for Senate approval of director
Cordray’s nomination,” according to a letter sent yesterday and
signed by all Senate Democrats except Senator Mark Pryor of
Arkansas.  Independent Senators Angus King of Maine and Bernie Sanders
of Vermont also signed the letter.  A group of about 43 Republican senators, in a letter to
Obama earlier this month, said they will continue to oppose the
confirmation of any nominated CFPB director until “key changes
are made to ensure accountability and transparency at the
bureau.”  Obama used a controversial recess appointment to appoint
Richard Cordray head of the bureau in January 2012, bypassing
Senate confirmation amid Republican opposition. Obama
renominated Cordray on Jan. 24.  Compliance Action  SEC Investigators Review Surge in Heinz Options Before Merger  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigators are
reviewing whether a surge in bullish bets on  H.J. Heinz Co . was
fueled by inside information about  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . and
3G Capital’s plan to buy the ketchup maker, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Trading in Heinz call options, which give the right to buy
the underlying shares and profit when the stock rises, increased
Feb. 13 to the highest level since Jan. 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg  show . Heinz shares jumped 20 percent to $72.51
yesterday following the announcement that Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway  and Jorge Paulo Lemann’s 3G Capital agreed to
buy the Pittsburgh-based company for about $23 billion.  The agency’s review is in its early stages and a formal
investigation may not result, according to the person, who asked
not to be named because the matter isn’t public.  The SEC in recent years has sharpened its methods for
linking people who make well-timed trades to those who might
have access to confidential information about an impending
merger or deal.  MetLife Wins Approvals From Fed, FDIC to Deregister as Bank  MetLife Inc. , the largest U.S. life insurer, said it won
approval from the Federal Reserve to deregister as a bank
holding company after selling deposits to  General Electric Co.   MetLife’s exit was also approved by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., the New York-based insurer said yesterday in a
statement.  Santander, Co-Operative Improperly Sold Rate Hedges, FSA Says  Banks including Banco Santander SA’s U.K. business, Bank of
Ireland and Co-Operative Bank Plc may have to compensate
customers for improperly selling interest-rate hedging products
to small companies, the U.K.’s financial watchdog said.  Around 90 percent of the products -- also sold by Allied
Irish Banks Plc, Clydesdale Bank Plc and Yorkshire Bank Plc --
broke U.K. rules, the Financial Services Authority said in a
 statement  on its website indicating the lenders agreed to review
their sales of the products.  A “significant proportion of the cases” will “result in
redress being due to the customer,” the agency said.  Barclays Plc , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  reached agreement with
the FSA on Jan. 31 on plans to review deals and compensate
customers improperly sold rate-hedging products. The lenders may
have to pay as much as 5 billion pounds ($7.75 billion) to
compensate customers following the probe.  The claims against lenders may turn into another costly
scandal for U.K. banks still paying back customers wrongly sold
insurance on personal loans. Banks have reserved more than 10
billion pounds to cover customer claims over payment-protection
insurance -- which was meant to pay credit-card bills and
mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.  Courts  Lehman Seeks to Question JPMorgan London Whale Iksil Over Losses  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  wants Bruno Iksil, the former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  trader known as the London Whale, to answer
questions about losses Lehman says spurred unnecessary
collateral calls that helped force it into bankruptcy.  JPMorgan in May disclosed billions of dollars in losses by
London-based Iksil, who got his nickname because his positions
were so big. Lehman, which has been fighting JPMorgan over $8.6
billion since 2008, said in a filing Feb. 13 in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan that Iksil may have knowledge of the role
JPMorgan’s chief investment office played in managing exposure
to Lehman.  Lehman, which is gathering money to pay creditors an
average of 18 cents on the dollar, said that it realized Iksil
could help it after JPMorgan disclosed “risk management
failures.” Iksil was “central” to a dispute with JPMorgan
over valuing derivatives, New York-based Lehman said.  JPMorgan, a key lender to Lehman during the 2008 credit
crisis, “largely” agreed that Lehman can conduct interviews on
the alleged link between its failure and Iksil’s losses,
although the trader, a French national, doesn’t want to talk,
Lehman said in the filing. Lehman said in the filing that it
wants to seek international judicial assistance in forcing Iksil
to answer questions.  Joe Evangelisti, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on Lehman’s request. Dow Jones earlier
reported the filing about Iksil.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, after piling on debt and making high-risk bets, according
to an examiner’s report. Technically out of bankruptcy since
March, the company has said it will continue to liquidate
through about 2016.  The liquidation case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). Lehman’s lawsuit against JPMorgan is Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Israeli Bankers Helped California Man Cheat IRS, U.S. Says  A California man agreed to plead guilty to conspiring with
bankers at two Israeli banks to hide offshore accounts and their
income from the Internal Revenue Service, according to Justice
Department court filings.  Zvi Sperling was accused yesterday in federal court in Los
Angeles of conspiring with bankers at two Tel Aviv-based banks,
identified only as Bank A and Bank B. The charging document,
known as a criminal information, and a plea agreement filed
yesterday didn’t identify the banks.  Sperling owns 49 percent of a wholesale goods company with
his brother, who owns the rest, according to the plea agreement.
Sperling had an account in China when he met Banker 1 from Bank
A in 2001, according to the agreement. At that meeting in
Beverly Hills, California, Banker 1 persuaded Sperling to move
his money from China, according to the plea deal.  Steven Toscher, Sperling’s lawyer, said in a phone
interview that his client “recognizes the serious mistakes that
he has made and he accepts full responsibility for his
conduct.”  Since 2008, U.S. prosecutors have cracked down on offshore
tax evasion, charging at least 83 U.S. taxpayers or foreign
bankers, lawyers or advisers with tax crimes.  No Israeli bank has been charged.  Sperling arranged so-called back-to-back loans, according
to the information. From 2005 through 2008, he failed to report
interest income of $381,563, according to the plea deal.  He has agreed to pay back taxes and civil penalties.  The case is U.S. v. Sperling, 13-cr-108, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Studies  U.S. Bank Study Shows Highest Annual Profits Since Crisis  U.S. commercial banks in 2012 recorded their highest annual
profits since the 2008 financial crisis even as they saw a
slight decline in net income for the last quarter, according to
a study by  Hamilton Place Strategies .  The  report  released yesterday by the Washington-based
consulting firm examined government and industry data. It also
found that banks continued to boost capital, putting the
industry’s Tier One common capital ratio at 12.6 percent.  Comings and Goings  Vatican Names German Lawyer Von Freyberg to Head Embattled Bank  The Vatican hired a German lawyer to head its bank, which
has lacked a director for almost nine months after being
targeted in a money laundering probe, filling a vacuum a two
weeks before the pope’s resignation.  Ernst von Freyberg, 54, a member of the religious order of
the Knights of Malta, will remain based in Germany and spend
three days a week at the Vatican, spokesman Father Federico
Lombardi said at a press conference in Rome today. Von Freyberg
was among 40 candidates and appointed by a commission of
cardinals with the consent of the Pope, Lombardi said.  The appointment comes as the bank seeks to make progress on
banking supervision and transparency to try to comply with
international efforts to prevent money laundering. The Vatican
has so far been unsuccessful its efforts to be added to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s so-
called white list of financially transparent countries.  The Vatican bank, which reports directly to the pope and is
formally called the Institute for the Works of Religion, or IOR,
had been under the interim leadership of its vice chairman since
the board of directors ousted former head Ettore Gotti Tedeschi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  