-- Mallya to Use Diageo Deal Proceeds to Cut Kingfisher Air Debt
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-02-15T10:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mallya-to-use-diageo-deal-proceeds-to-cut-kingfisher-air-debt.html
Vijay Mallya , founder of  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. , will use proceeds from the sale of a stake in
United Spirits Ltd. to pare the Indian carrier’s $1.6 billion
debt, reversing his earlier stand, as lenders mount pressure.  Mallya is in discussions with banks “on ways to bring down
their exposure, interalia, from the proceeds of the Diageo
transaction,”  Prakash Mirpuri , a spokesman for Mallya’s UB
Group, said in an e-mailed response. The group has not got any
“formal communication” from the banks, he said.  Diageo Plc  in November agreed to pay 111.7 billion rupees
to acquire a 53.4 percent stake in India’s biggest whiskey
maker, which is controlled by Mallya.  Pratip Chaudhuri , chairman
of State Bank of India, one of Kingfisher’s creditors, said
yesterday that lenders can sell shares of United Spirits and
other group companies held as collateral to recover part of the
loans.  “Bankers were pressurizing the UB group as Mallya had said
that the money from the deal with Diageo will not be used to
repay loans of Kingfisher,” Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based
analyst at SMC Global Securities said by phone. “UB group is
being forced to pay the money to save the deal.”  The sale of the shares of companies controlled by Mallya
held as collateral can help recover as much as 10 billion rupees
($185 million), Chaudhuri said in Mumbai yesterday.  Loan Recovery  Mallya said in November that he will address Kingfisher
Airlines’s needs “separately” from the Diageo deal and the
proceeds from the stake sale will not be used to pay Kingfisher
Airlines dues.  Indian lenders will start the recovery process on the loans
to Kingfisher,  Shyamal Acharya , deputy managing director of
 State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest, said in an interview
to Bloomberg TV India on Feb. 13.  “The banks explicitly support the transaction with
Diageo,” said Mirpuri. “And would work with us in finding an
orderly method of disposal of some of the pledged shares to
Diageo if appropriate.”  Shares of  United Spirits  fell 0.2 percent to 1,897.95
rupees in Mumbai today.  Kingfisher Airlines  and United Breweries
Holdings Ltd. dropped 5 percent.  The carrier had 86.3 billion rupees of debt at the end of
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The airline,
which grounded planes on Oct. 1, posted a loss of 7.55 billion
rupees in the quarter ended Dec. 31, widening from 4.4 billion
rupees a year earlier.  Diageo in November agreed to buy 17.4 percent of  United
Spirits  at 1,440 rupees per share from companies controlled by
Mallya, gain an additional 10 percent holding by subscribing to
new shares and then make an open offer for a further 26 percent
stake.  Mallya’s United Breweries Holdings controls 27.44 percent
of United Spirits and 32.39 percent of the carrier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. United Breweries Holdings has given
guarantees of 77.23 billion rupees as of March 31 on behalf of
its associates, the annual report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  