-- Anglo Rises in London as Carroll Sees Better Year in 2013
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-02-15T17:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/anglo-american-posts-2012-loss-on-minas-rio-impairment-charges.html
Anglo American Plc , which swung to a
full-year loss after a $4.6 billion writedown at its biggest
project, rose to the highest in five weeks in London as Chief
Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said 2013 would be better.  Anglo gained 1.3 percent to 2,039 pence, the highest level
since Jan. 11, by the close in London. The net loss was $1.49
billion, after a profit of $6.17 billion in 2011, reflecting
blows to earnings from the valuation of the Minas-Rio iron ore
venture and wildcat strikes in South Africa, Anglo said.  Carroll departs in April after quitting following delays at
the Brazilian mine. London-based Anglo on Jan. 29 raised the
mine’s cost estimate a sixth time to as much as $8.8 billion.
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. CEO  Mark Cutifani  will succeed Carroll.  “It is possible now that the worst is over for Anglo,”
 Christopher LaFemina , an analyst at Jefferies, said in a report.
“While Minas Rio still has risks, we believe the upside
potential to the revised $8.8 billion capex budget is minimal.”  Anglo may prove an attractive acquisition target for
Glencore International Plc CEO  Ivan Glasenberg , who is due to
complete a $36 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc next month and
create the world’s fourth-biggest mining company.  “I don’t think Anglo American is vulnerable,” Carroll
said in an interview with  Manus Cranny  on Bloomberg Television.
“We just have to keep going at it and doing better every single
day improving, applying best practices and that is exactly what
we are doing in every part of our business.”  ‘Very Strong’  Underlying earnings fell 54 percent to $2.84 billion, Anglo
said in a statement, beating the $2.4 billion average estimate
of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The mining company
increased its dividend by 15 percent to 53 cents a share as an
improving outlook boosts optimism about demand for commodities.  “The fundamentals for this industry are very, very
strong,” Carroll said in the interview. “As we look at China
and the growth and the development of urbanization going 50 to
60 percent over time, that would demand about a billion tons of
steel for China into the future.”  Anglo’s iron-ore and platinum production fell last year as
strikes disrupted mines at its Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. and Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. units. Walkouts that started in South
African platinum mines in August spread to gold, coal and iron-
ore operations, with about 120,000 workers downing tools at the
peak of the unrest, according to the country’s Chamber of Mines.  Better Year  Anglo’s performance was “a result of markedly weaker
commodity prices, ongoing cost pressures and an operating loss
in our platinum business,” Carroll said on a call. This year
would be better, helped by demand from Asia, she said. “We
expect China to continue to grow at about 7 percent per annum.”  The Brazilian writedown is among more than $50 billion that
mining CEOs announced in the past 12 months as managers reassess
expensive takeovers. Barrick Gold Corp. said yesterday it was
taking a $3 billion charge on its Lumwana copper mine in Zambia,
the same day that Rio Tinto Group reported its first-ever annual
loss after $14 billion of writedowns, mostly on aluminum assets.  Carroll said mining executives need to be disciplined to
weigh shareholders’ demands for short-term gains against the
need for a robust balance sheet. “There has to be a balance of
give and take, as we need to grow for the long term,” she said.  Asked about her plans, Carroll, 56, said she intends to
stay in the commodity business. “I’ve been in commodities for
decades,” she said in the interview. “I ran international
global businesses for decades and I’m not going away.  “I’m committed to capital-intensive industrial businesses,
and that’s probably where I’m going into the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  