-- Mantega Says Brazil Will Do What It Takes to Fight Inflation
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-02-15T14:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mantega-says-brazil-won-t-allow-currency-to-over-appreciate.html
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said
Brazil will do what it takes to fight inflation, adding that
interest rate increases are an option to rein in consumer
prices. Swap rates rose.  “The interest rate isn’t fixed. If you have more worrying
inflation, it can move, but this is up to the central bank to
decide,” Mantega said in an interview from Moscow today. “The
government will do what it takes to keep inflation under
control.”  Yields on swap rates maturing in January 2014, the most
traded in Sao Paulo, rose to the highest level in more than four
months as traders increased bets the central bank will have to
raise the  benchmark rate  this year after cutting it to a record.
 Inflation , which has exceeded the 4.5 percent target in the past
29 months, quickened to 6.15 percent in January.  Mantega said the government won’t allow the currency to
over-appreciate in a bid to rein in consumer prices after the
currency strengthened to a nine-month high yesterday. A stronger
currency helps tame inflation by making imports cheaper.  Yields on swap rates maturing in January 2014 rose 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 7.53 percent at 11:07 a.m.
local time. The real rose 0.1 percent to 1.9560 per U.S dollar.  Traders see a 50 percent chance of policy makers raising
the Selic rate to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent in April,  Diego Donadio , Latin America strategist at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil
SA, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  ’Abnormal Fluctuations’     Brazil’s real appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.9582 per dollar
at the close in Sao Paulo yesterday, the strongest level since
May 10, on speculation the government would allow the currency
to appreciate to contain inflation. A drop in U.S. jobless
claims also fostered demand for emerging-market assets.  “We will not allow for an over-appreciation of the real,”
Mantega said, adding that the government isn’t thinking of a
specific level. “We won’t tolerate abnormal fluctuations.”  Speculation that Brazil was changing policy and seeking a
stronger currency to help tame inflation started last month
after the central bank surprised the markets with an
intervention in swaps to prop up the real.  A stronger real may be used together with higher interest
rates to slow inflation, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist
at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  “It would give the central bank more credibility,”
Rostagno said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Real Rally        The real rallied to a level stronger than 2 per dollar on
Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the central bank
renewed $1.85 billion of currency swaps about to expire,
refraining from buying dollars to settle the contracts. On Jan.
31, the government exempted foreigners from a tax on real-estate
funds traded on the stock exchange, spurring speculation that
inflows will help sustain the real.  “It is clear that the central bank does not want a very
weak real,”  Darwin Dib , chief economist at CM Capital Markets
Asset Management, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The central bank swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per U.S. dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Moscow at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  