-- New York Index Shows U.S. Factories on the Mend: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-02-15T21:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-expanded-unexpectedly-in-february.html
Manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly rebounded in February, a sign factories will help
sustain the U.S. economic expansion after a brief slowdown at
the start of the year.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Empire State  index 
climbed to 10 from minus 7.8 in January, exceeding all forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey. It was the highest since May 2012.
Readings greater than zero signal growth in New York, northern
New Jersey and southern Connecticut. Other data showed  factory 
production throughout the U.S. dropped in January following the
biggest two-month advance in three decades.  “Manufacturing should be a source of growth this year,”
said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York, whose forecast matched the highest
for the New York index in the Bloomberg survey. “We are having
to reevaluate the phenomenal resiliency of the U.S. economy and
perhaps its ability to outstrip expectations.”  A pickup in consumer and business spending toward the end
of 2012 and stabilization in overseas markets including China
and Europe will help sales at companies such as  Deere & Co.  and
 Eaton Corp Plc.  Another report today showing consumer sentiment
improved in February for a second month eases concern households
will retrench following an increase in the payroll tax.  Stocks declined, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
reached a five-year high, as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. tumbled. The
S&P 500 dropped 0.1 percent to 1,519.79 at the close in New
York.  U.K. Sales  Overseas, a report showed retail sales in the U.K.
unexpectedly fell in January for a second consecutive month as
cold weather kept consumers at home and incomes remained under
pressure, hurting spending on food, household goods and fuel.  The median projection in the Bloomberg survey of 50
economists called for the New York factory gauge to improve to
minus 2 from minus 7.8 in January.  Estimates  ranged from minus 7
to a high of 5.  The gauge of  new orders  increased in February to the
highest reading since May 2011, while shipments and employment
also advanced.  The improvement makes it more likely that a January
slowdown will be short-lived. Production in manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy, dropped 0.4
percent last month after jumping 1.1 percent in December and 1.7
percent in November, the biggest back-to-back gain since January
and February 1984, according to figures from the Federal Reserve
in Washington.  Total output, including factories, mines and utilities,
fell 0.1 percent after a 0.4 percent gain in December.  January ‘Payback’  “January showed a bit of a payback after the strength in
manufacturing toward the end of 2012,” said  Sam Coffin , an
economist at UBS Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, who
projected a 0.3 percent drop in factory output. “Manufacturing
will be growing pretty rapidly as companies have to restock
inventories, and there’s overseas as well as domestic demand.
We’re on a slightly better path now.”  The decrease was paced by a slowdown in auto output that
may soon be reversed as sales strengthen. Cars and light trucks
 sold  at a 15.2 million annual rate in January after 15.3 million
in December, data from Ward’s Automotive Group showed. Including
November’s 15.5 million rate, auto sales over the past three
months have been the strongest in five years.  Improving household confidence raises the odds demand will
hold up. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment climbed to 76.3 this month from 73.8
in January, another report showed today. The gauge was projected
to rise to 74.8, according to the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  Boosting Confidence  Increased property values, a strengthening job market and
stocks at five-year highs are providing a boost to Americans’
balance sheets. A pickup in wealth would help make up for recent
gains in gasoline prices and the hit to take-home pay from a two
percentage-point increase in the payroll tax that took effect in
January.  “We saw a meaningful improvement in overall financial
market conditions and home prices, and those are the kind of
drivers now for consumer confidence,” said  Millan Mulraine ,
director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA LLC in New
York, who projected a sentiment reading of 76. “As attitudes
continue to improve, we are likely to see that possibly be
reflected in improved spending.”  Increases in household purchases and firming growth in Asia
and Latin America will probably spur gains in manufacturing.  Global Demand  Deere, the largest agricultural equipment maker, raised its
full-year profit forecast and posted quarterly earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates. First-quarter revenue from machinery
gained 18 percent in the U.S. and Canada and 2 percent in the
rest of the world, the Moline, Illinois-based company said.  “John Deere has entered 2013 on a strong pace,” Susan
Karlix, manager of investor communications, said on a Feb. 13
conference call with analysts. “Our key markets remain in good
shape, for the most part, and we’re looking for another solid
year.”  Eaton, an industrial equipment manufacturer, also is poised
to gain from improving demand. China’s economy is accelerating
while in the U.S., housing and non-residential construction will
help drive economic growth, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sandy Cutler said in an interview following Eaton’s quarterly
earnings report on Feb. 4.  President Barack Obama, in his State of the Union address
this week, unveiled proposals to revive manufacturing and create
jobs, as falling energy prices in the nation and rising labor
costs in China make U.S. producers more competitive. His ideas
included efforts to bolster clean energy subsidies, hire
hundreds of people to lobby foreign companies to open U.S.
plants, end tax breaks to firms that ship jobs overseas, and
expand free-trade pacts.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Michelle Jamrisko  in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  