-- Mapletree Seeks About $1.3 Billion From REIT Offering
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-02-15T05:34:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mapletree-said-to-seek-about-1-2-billion-in-reit-ipo.html
Mapletree Investments Pte, a real
estate unit of  Temasek Holdings Pte , is seeking to raise as much
as S$1.6 billion ($1.3 billion) from an initial public offering
of a real estate investment trust backed by assets in Hong Kong
and China.  Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust plans to offer
about 1.7 billion shares in the REIT at 88 Singapore cents to 93
Singapore cents, according to a  prospectus  filed with the
Monetary Authority of Singapore today. About 953 million of
those will be sold to so-called cornerstone investors including
AIA Group Ltd. and Morgan Stanley, according to the document.  The REIT will include the Festival Walk shopping mall in
Hong Kong and Gateway Plaza office complex in Beijing, the sales
document shows. The sale would be the biggest IPO of a real
estate investment trust in Singapore, surpassing two earlier
offerings by Mapletree.  Gross proceeds from the sale could be as high as S$1.68
billion if a so-called over-allotment option is exercised,
according to the prospectus. Mapletree Investments will own 32
percent to 35 percent of the REIT after the sale. Also among
cornerstone investors are Henderson Global Investors Ltd.,
Myriad Asset Management Ltd. and Norges Bank Investment
Management, which runs Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the sales
document shows.  Mapletree Commercial Trust, which raised $754 million in
April 2011, and Mapletree Industrial Trust, which completed a
$714 million IPO in October 2010, are both up about 50 percent
from their offer prices.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  