-- APN Mulls New Share Sale as Investor Seeks CEO Change
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-15T02:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/apn-mulls-new-share-sale-as-investor-seeks-ceo-change.html
APN News & Media Ltd. , the publisher
of the New Zealand Herald, said it may sell new stock to raise
cash as its largest shareholder seeks the removal of Chief
Executive Officer  Brett Chenoweth .  The publisher asked for its shares to be halted as
Macquarie Group Ltd. provides advice on a potential capital
raising, Sydney-based APN said in a statement. The company may
need to raise about A$100 million ($103 million), said  Samantha Carleton , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Sydney.  Independent News & Media Plc , which owns 29 percent of APN,
has lost confidence in Chenoweth’s ability to reposition the
publisher “for the more challenged media landscape” and is
seeking a special meeting of shareholders, the Dublin-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. Directors not nominated
by Independent News “unanimously support” the CEO and his
strategy, APN said today.  “Chenoweth’s got a very, very difficult task” and
probably needs more cash amid declining revenues and a lack of
asset sales, Carleton said by phone. “We were expecting APN to
sell its outdoor or radio business to generate cash, so a
capital raising is not a surprise. Perhaps they need to raise
capital a little quicker than previously thought.”  To reduce net debt to about double its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization APN would need to
raise about A$100 million, or about half its market value,
Carleton said.  Share Slump  APN shares have  fallen 61 percent  over the past year amid a
slump in advertising and a A$485 million writedown of its New
Zealand publications. The stock closed at 30 Australian cents
yesterday, giving it a market value of A$199 million.  The publisher, which is due to report annual results Feb.
21, hired Deutsche Bank AG in May to review its New Zealand
newspaper business after receiving approaches from potential
buyers. In December, it said it would sell some regional units
amid a 10 percent decline in group revenue over the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  