-- Armenian Leader Poised to Win Vote Clouded by Shooting
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-02-15T05:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/armenian-leader-poised-to-win-vote-clouded-by-shooting.html
Armenian President  Serzh Sargsyan  is
poised for victory in elections next week after rivals withdrew
from a campaign that’s been dominated by one candidate’s
attempted assassination and another’s hunger strike.  Sargsyan, 59, has 69 percent support before the Feb. 18
vote, compared with 11 percent for his nearest challenger, Raffi
Hovhannisyan, a former foreign minister, according to a Gallup
poll published Feb. 9. Paruyr Hayrikyan, a former dissident who
was shot and wounded in a Jan. 31 incident, has 5 percent
backing, while Andrias Ghukasyan, who hasn’t eaten in 26 days
and calls the ballot “fake,” has 1 percent, the survey showed.  Armenia, which borders Iran, Turkey and Azerbaijan, is
choosing a leader for the sixth time since independence from the
Soviet Union in 1991, with a Sargsyan win set to bolster last
year’s parliamentary victory for his Republican Party. While the
president failed in his first term to alleviate poverty that
afflicts a third of the country’s three million people, the $10
billion economy is forecast to grow more than 4 percent in 2013.  The elections’ lack of competition “reflects the sad state
of today’s political reality,” said Richard Giragosian,
director of the Regional Studies Center in the capital, Yerevan.
“The opposition remains fairly weak due to open divisions
between prominent leaders, a lack of true grassroots-based
parties and a lack of democratic practices within existing
political parties.”  Parliamentary Success  Sargsyan grew up in Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous region
that broke free of Azerbaijan’s control after the Soviet
collapse and is a frequent source of tension between the two
nations. His 2008 election win triggered bloody scenes as 10
people died amid clashes between opposition protesters and
police.  The Armenian leader, whose party won 68 of Parliament’s 131
seats at elections last May, has had to overcome a 14 percent
plunge in gross domestic product in 2009 after Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc.’s collapse triggered a global recession. The
proportion of people living below the poverty line has grown to
35 percent from 23.5 percent in 2008, while unemployment was 5.9
percent at the end of 2012, official data show.  GDP will jump 6.2 percent this year after rising 7.2
percent in 2011, the government predicts. That’s more optimistic
than the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the  World Bank , which estimate growth of 5 percent and 4.3
percent, respectively. Armenia’s dram has lost 4.4 percent
against the dollar during the last year compared with a 0.3
percent gain for the lari in neighboring Georgia, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Rivals Withdraw  Seven candidates will participate in next week’s vote, with
three including former Prime Minister Hrant Bagratyan, forecast
to get no more than 5 percent support each according to Gallup’s
Jan. 25-Feb. 2 survey of 1,017 adults. It had a margin of error
of 3.1 percentage points.  Two suspects have been arrested after Hayrkyan was wounded
in a shooting near his home late on Jan. 31. After having bullet
fragments removed from his shoulder, he declined to seek a delay
in the presidential vote.  Ghukasyan, a lawyer and radio station head, has refused to
call off his hunger strike unless he’s visited by Health
Minister Derenik Dumanyan.  Another three hopefuls decided against standing at all.  Gagik Tsarukyan, a businessman who leads the Prosperous
Party and was considered Sargsyan’s main rival, said in December
that he wouldn’t run, without explaining his decision.  Levon ter-Petrosyan , Armenia’s first president, said he was too old
for the battle at 68, while Parliament’s third-biggest party,
Armenian Revolutionary Federation, said fielding a candidate
would only add legitimacy to the elections.  The absence of challengers among the opposition will
probably stem the possibility of violence after the elections,
according to Giragosian.  “Conflict is lingering but will be deferred until a
political transition after Sargsyan’s second term,” he said.
“Post-election conflict or unrest is unlikely next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  