-- Most Stocks Drop as Wal-Mart Falls; Treasuries Pare Loss
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-15T21:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/asian-stocks-drop-from-18-month-high-euro-declines.html
Most U.S. stocks fell, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a five-year high, as Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. tumbled after an e-mail showed an executive
called February sales a “total disaster.” Treasuries pared
earlier losses, the yen weakened while gold and oil sank.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.1 percent to 1,519.79 at 4 p.m. in
New York after closing yesterday at the highest since October
2007. The index capped a seventh straight  weekly gain , the
longest streak in two years. Ten-year U.S. Treasury note yields
increased one basis points to 2.01 percent after climbing four
points earlier. Japan’s currency lost 0.7 percent versus the
dollar after Group of 20 finance chiefs resisted adopting a
tougher stance on exchange rates. Oil sank 1.5 percent and gold
dipped below $1,600 an ounce for the first time since August.  Wal-Mart led an  afternoon retreat  in equities after
Bloomberg News obtained e-mails showing the biggest retailer’s
sales were off to the worst start to a month in seven years as
payroll-tax increases hit shoppers. Earlier gains in stocks came
after U.S. consumer confidence increased to a three-month high
and a separate report showed manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly expanded in February. U.S. markets will be
closed Feb. 18 for the Presidents Day holiday.  “This is the first sign that consumers are going to have a
weak period here,”  James Paulsen,  chief investment strategist
at Minneapolis, Minnesota-based Wells Capital Management, said
in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $325 billion in
assets. “It reinforces what a lot of people were worried about
in December, with the payroll tax impacting consumers. The
market is extrapolating this and that’s why we’ve seen this
intraday action.”  Five-Year High  The S&P 500 index closed yesterday at the highest level
since October 2007. The index has climbed about 6.6 percent in
2013 as U.S. lawmakers reached a budget compromise and earnings
beat estimates at 74 percent of the companies that have reported
the latest quarter’s results so far. The S&P 500 has more than
doubled since bottoming in March 2009 as the Federal Reserve
conducted three rounds of bond buying to lower interest rates
and boost economic growth.  Trading of  stocks  in the S&P 500 was 11 percent above the
30-day average as options on stocks, equity indexes and
exchange-traded products were set to expire. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, the gauge of S&P 500 options
prices known as the VIX, fell 1.6 percent to 12.46 today, near a
5 1/2-year low.  Wal-Mart extended lost 2.2 percent.  The company’s
struggles come after executives expected a strong start to
February because of the Super Bowl, milder weather and paycheck
cycles, according to the minutes of a Feb. 1 officers meeting
Bloomberg obtained.  ‘Total Disaster’  “In case you haven’t seen a sales report these days,
February MTD sales are a total disaster,” Jerry Murray, Wal-
Mart’s vice president of finance and logistics, said in a Feb.
12 e-mail to other executives, referring to month-to-date sales.
“The worst start to a month I have seen in my ~7 years with the
company.”  Other chain stores followed Wal-Mart lower, with Safeway
Inc., Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc. retreating more than 1
percent. Herbalife Ltd. surged 1.2 percent after billionaire
investor Carl Icahn reported a 13 percent stake in the company
and said he would seek talks with the nutritional supplements
company to discuss strategic alternatives.  Economic Data  Equities rose earlier after the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan preliminary index of  consumer sentiment  for February
rose to 76.3, beating the median of estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of economists for a reading of 74.8. The Federal Reserve
Bank of New York’s general economic index climbed to 10, the
highest since May 2012 and beating the highest economist
forecast in a survey. The median projection called for minus 2.
Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New York,
northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Two-year Treasury yields increased less than one basis
point to 0.27 percent, while 30-year rates added less than one
basis points to 3.18 percent. The dollar was stronger against 10
of 16 peers, rising the most against the currencies of South
Africa, New Zealand and Canada.  Another report showed industrial production in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in January as factories took a breather
after the biggest back-to-back gain in three decades. Output at
factories, mines and utilities fell 0.1 percent after a 0.4
percent gain in December, figures from the Federal Reserve
showed today in Washington.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent with the
number of shares changing hands 23 percent lower than the 30-day
average. The gauge closed unchanged for the week.  Aker Solutions
ASA , the oil-services provider controlled by billionaire Kjell
Inge Roekke, plummeted 11 percent in Oslo after reporting
weaker-than-expected fourth-quarter margins at most of its
units.  The yen reversed earlier gains against the dollar after a
G-20 official said the latest draft of the nations’ statement
doesn’t echo the Group of Seven view that exchange rates
shouldn’t be a target of monetary policy.  The G-20 will urge members to avoid competitive
devaluations and to let their exchange rates be set by markets,
the official said. The latest draft removes a line from a Feb.
11 draft which said monetary policy should be directed toward
price stability, while supporting economic recovery, the aide
said.  Bernanke Speaks  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
economy is far from operating at full strength and reiterated
his commitment to record easing.  “With unemployment at almost 8 percent, we are still far
from the fully healthy and vibrant conditions that we would like
to see,” Bernanke said today at a meeting in Moscow of his
counterparts from the Group of 20. “The United States is using
domestic policy tools to advance domestic objectives.”  Gold, silver and oil tumbled more than 1.4 percent to lead
declines in commodities, sending the S&P GSCI Index down 0.5
percent. Wheat rose 1.1 percent after U.S. exports more than
doubled in the week ended Feb. 7, U.S. Department of Agriculture
figures yesterday showed.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed and
capped for a 0.4 percent weekly gain, its largest in a month.
Russia’s Micex Index slipped 0.7 percent, while Brazil’s Bovespa
slipped 0.3 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies added 0.2 percent on the second day of
trading in Hong Kong this week. Markets in Shanghai and Taipei
were closed this week for the Lunar New Year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  