-- Lautenberg Bowing Out Sets Off Race for N.J. Senate Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-15T18:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/lautenberg-bowing-out-sets-off-race-for-n-j-senate-seat.html
A wide-open U.S. Senate race with no
incumbent kicked off today after New Jersey Democrat  Frank Lautenberg , the chamber’s oldest member and last veteran of
World War II, opted not to run again.  Traveling to Paterson, his birthplace, the 89-year-old said
he won’t seek a sixth term in 2014, capping a three-decade
Senate career. Would-be successors began lining up bids to
replace him months ago, when Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , 43, said
Dec. 20 he was exploring a run for the seat.  “The Booker announcement clearly put a number of political
challenges in the face of the senator and his future on the
table, but the decision was his,” said  Ben Dworkin , director of
the Rebovich Institute of State Politics at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville. “There’s been nothing in Frank Lautenberg’s long
career that indicates he gets pushed around by anybody.”  Booker, a rising star in the Democratic Party, may have to
contend with New Jersey Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  of West
Deptford, the state’s highest-ranking Democratic lawmaker, and
U.S. Representative  Frank Pallone  for his party’s nomination.
Both have expressed interest in the post. It will be the first
race for an open Senate seat in the Garden State since 2002. No
Republicans have said they might make a bid for the office.  2014 Retirees  Lautenberg is the third Senate Democrat to announce he will
retire after 2014. Senators  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia and
 Tom Harkin  of Iowa also said they won’t run again. Democrats,
who control 55 of the 100 Senate positions, will likely have an
easier time retaining Lautenberg’s seat next year, said  Nathan Gonzales , a deputy editor who follows the Senate for the
Rothenberg Political Report.  The non-partisan newsletter and website based in Washington
rates the seat “safe” for Democrats, even after Lautenberg’s
decision to retire.  “Republicans have not shown an ability to win a United
States Senate seat” from New Jersey, Gonzales said. Clifford
Case was the last Republican elected to the post from the state,
in 1972.  Booker led Lautenberg 51 percent to 30 percent in a
 Quinnipiac University  poll released Jan. 23. While half of  New
Jersey  voters approved of Lautenberg’s job performance, 71
percent said his age made it too difficult for him to do the
work of a U.S. senator, according to the poll.  ‘National Monument’  Lautenberg won his first election to the post in 1982
partly by seizing on the age of his Republican opponent, 72-
year-old Millicent Fenwick. He called Fenwick, a four-term U.S.
House member, a “national monument” in that campaign.  While Newark’s mayor made the first move and registered
well in the Quinnipiac poll, the election is almost two years
away.  “I cannot believe that, after watching Booker for the last
few weeks, he gets a free ride” from fellow Democrats to his
party’s nomination, said  Jennifer Duffy , senior editor of the
Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan Washington-based political
news service. “The national stage is a little bigger” than
where Booker has performed as a mayor, she said.  The question is whether the national Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee has “attached their star to Booker yet or
are they going to see what develops,” Duffy said.  Open Seat  Pallone, 61, said in an interview that he has “always been
interested in running for the Senate and I’m going to continue
to explore it, but this is his day,” referring to Lautenberg.  Booker and Sweeney, 53, didn’t respond to telephone calls
seeking comment on the race. Another prominent Democrat
potentially eying the seat is U.S. Representative  Robert Andrews , a 55-year-old Democrat from Haddon Heights.  “We’re going to see a lot of political wrangling here for
this seat,” said  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and
government at Montclair State University. “There’s a lot of
people waiting in the wings.”  Lautenberg was known best in Washington as an advocate for
New Jersey, Harrison said by telephone.  “He has been a champion for New Jersey,” said Senator
 Robert Menendez , a Democrat first elected in 2006. “I am sure
he will spend the next two years doing exactly that.”  ‘Invaluable Partner’  President  Barack Obama  also praised Lautenberg for his
work. “Frank has fought tirelessly for workers, veterans,
members of our military and their families, and immigrants,”
Obama said in a statement.  “Senator Lautenberg has been a strong model of leadership
and service to me since before I even considered entering
elected office,” Booker said in a statement. “Since I have
been mayor, he has been an invaluable partner in so many of
Newark’s recent accomplishments and successes.”  While he won’t seek re-election, Lautenberg said he won’t
slack off.  “I think it was time with family: my children, my
daughters and my grandchildren, live all over the country and I
want to spend more time with them,” Lautenberg told reporters
today.  He said he’ll spend his remaining time on a “two-year
mission to pass new gun-safety laws, protect children from toxic
chemicals and create more opportunities for working families in
New Jersey.”  Former CEO  Enlisting in the U.S. Army at 18, Lautenberg served in the
signal corps during World War II. After the war, he studied
economics at Columbia University, receiving his degree from
then-Columbia President  Dwight D. Eisenhower .  Lautenberg was a co-founder and former chief executive
officer of  Automatic Data Processing Inc. , a payroll-services
company based in Roseland, New Jersey.  He first won election to the Senate in 1982 and served
three terms. He decided not to seek re-election in 2000.  Two years later, Lautenberg came out of retirement to step
in as a candidate for the seat held by Democrat  Robert Torricelli  after the senator withdrew from a re-election
campaign amid an ethics inquiry. Lautenberg won a fifth full
term in 2008.  In the Senate, he focused on transportation issues and
sponsored a 2008 law overhauling Amtrak, the U.S. inter-city
passenger rail service. He authored bills that increased transit
spending in New Jersey by half and highway money by 30 percent.
He also secured $500 million for New Jersey Transit’s Secaucus
Junction Station, which bears his name.  Christie Battles  Lautenberg and Republican Governor  Chris Christie  feuded in
2010 over a proposed commuter rail tunnel under the Hudson River
to New York City. Christie killed the project. About a year ago,
the governor called the senator a “hack” and said he should
step down in response to his criticism of a cost-cutting plan to
merge state universities.  “You’d think by the time you reach 88 years old, you’d
realize the country should come first, that your state should
come first,” Christie said at the time. “Some say he should
retire. Let me tell you: I don’t disagree.”  The two put aside past differences after Hurricane Sandy,
cooperating in lobbying the federal government for assistance in
rebuilding New Jersey’s devastated coastline.  “Frank Lautenberg and I have had our differences through
the years, but I’ve always respected him for his tenacity,”
Christie said in a statement. “I will always be grateful for
his doggedness in fighting with me and the delegation to ensure
congressional passage of an aid package after Hurricane Sandy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  