-- Axius Stock-Fraud Cooperator Sentenced to Time Served
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-15T20:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/axius-stock-fraud-cooperator-sentenced-to-time-served.html
 A Swiss financial professional who
U.S. prosecutors said provided “excellent” cooperation in a
case against former  Axius Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Roland Kaufman  was sentenced to time served.  Jean-Pierre Neuhaus was sentenced today in Brooklyn, New
York, by U.S. District Judge  John Gleeson . Neuhaus, who spent 11
months in custody, had been accused along with Kaufman of
attempting to illegally manipulate Axius’s stock price.  “I think a sentence of time served is appropriate. It
appropriately rewards you for your cooperation,” Gleeson said.
“You seem remorseful.”  Prosecutors had filed a letter telling the judge that
Neuhaus deserved credit “for his substantial assistance” in
the case against Kaufman, who pleaded guilty last month to
conspiracy. Neuhaus pleaded guilty in October.  The two men, both Swiss citizens, were arrested in March
and accused of attempting to inflate the share price of Dubai-
based Axius by bribing stockbrokers.  They were caught after telling an undercover agent, who
they thought controlled a network of corrupt brokers, to direct
the brokers to buy shares of Axius in exchange for a kickback.
The shares were either owned or controlled by Kaufman, according
to the government.  Additional Transactions  Neuhaus agreed to cooperate with the government shortly
after his arrest and told prosecutors about additional
transactions he had engaged in with Kaufman before they were
caught, according to the letter.  Kaufman faces as long as 78 months in prison under
nonbinding federal sentencing guidelines.  Axius is a “development stage company” which “intends to
link world cultures and business enterprise together under a
common umbrella,” according to a report filed in September with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In a June 2008
report, the company is described as a developer of “wind and
solar powered boilers.”  The case is U.S. v. Neuhaus, 12-cr-00439, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  