-- Banks Underestimate Currency-Trade Loss Risk: Basel Group
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-15T16:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/banks-underestimate-currency-trade-loss-risk-basel-group.html
Banks underestimate the risk that
their trading partners on foreign exchange markets may fail to
honor commitments, global regulators said.  Lenders should bolster safeguards against the possibility
of currency trades breaking down before they are settled, the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said in guidance issued
today.  Banks  should set “formal, meaningful” limits on the
amount of settlement risk they take on, and restrict the amount
of business they do with any single counterparty, the group said
in a  report  on its website.  “Many banks underestimate their principal risk and other
associated risks by not taking into full account the duration of
exposure between trade execution and final settlement,” the
group said. “While such risks may have a relatively low impact
during normal market conditions, they may create
disproportionately larger concerns during times of market
stress.”  Global currency markets handle $4 trillion a day in
transactions, according to figures published by the  Bank for
International Settlements . The market grew by 20 percent between
2007 and 2010, the BIS said. While banks and other institutions
active in the currency markets have taken steps to make trading
more robust, rapid growth means substantial settlement risks
remain, the group said.  The draft rules tackle so-called Herstatt risk, the
possibility that a bank can be left facing large losses if it
moves first to honor its side of a currency transaction while
its trading partner goes bust before fulfilling its obligations.
The global financial system was faced with such difficulties
when Bankhaus Herstatt failed in 1974, an event that helped
persuade regulators to set up the Basel Committee.  The plans update guidance adopted by the Basel group in
2000. The committee said that it would review in 2015 how well
banks and regulators apply the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  