-- Banque PSA Bonds Lead Declines After S&P Downgrades on Cash Burn
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-02-15T11:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/banque-psa-bonds-lead-declines-after-s-p-downgrades-on-cash-burn.html
Banque PSA Finance SA bonds led
declines in Europe after the funding unit of  PSA Peugeot Citroen 
was downgraded to junk by Standard & Poor’s on concern cash flow
is being hurt by slumping car sales.  The lender’s 4.25 percent bonds due 2016 dropped as much as
1.64 cents on the euro to 99.938 cents, the biggest faller in
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate  Index . The cost
of insuring debt of Paris-based Peugeot, which was also
downgraded, climbed 28 basis points to 701 at 11:48 a.m. in
London.  Europe’s second-biggest carmaker reported its first
operating loss in three years this week, forecasting industry
sales in the region will fall by as much as 5 percent in 2013.
Peugeot is burning “a substantial amount of cash” and the
company will struggle to break even in terms of cash flow by the
end of 2014, according to S&P.  “Investors will be impacted by the downgrade and we should
expect the last forced sellers will wake up and sell,’ said
 Pierre Bergeron , a credit analyst at Societe Generale in Paris.  Peugeot spokesman  Pierre-Olivier Salmon  said the company
was prepared for the downgrade and it won’t affect the bank’s
financing, which is secure for the next three years. Banque PSA
was cut one step to BB+ while Peugeot was downgraded to BB-,
three levels below investment grade.  Bond Sales Slow  European corporate bond sales slowed with non-financial
companies issuing 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) of debt this
week, the least this year, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. No
new corporate bonds are being marketed in Europe today.  In derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index rose
one basis point to 112, while the Markit iTraxx Financial Index
of swaps on 25 banks and insurers was little changed at 141
basis points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  