-- Barrick Gold Bets Once More on Nevada After Zambian Flop
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-02-15T21:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/barrick-bets-again-on-nevada-after-zambia-flop-corporate-canada.html
Barrick Gold Corp.  is betting growth
will come from Nevada, where the world’s largest producer scored
its first big success three decades ago, after more than $9
billion in writedowns and cost overruns in the past two years on
projects from the Andes to Zambia.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Sokalsky  said yesterday the
Toronto-based company doubled the estimated resources at the
Goldrush deposit in Nevada last year, even as it sells assets
and cuts spending elsewhere to revive  shares  that slumped 24
percent. Barrick is also pushing ahead with Pascua-Lama, a gold
and silver mine on the Chile-Argentina border it expects to open
next year.  “The priorities for the company, once we finish Pascua-
Lama, really are focused on Nevada,” Sokalsky said yesterday on
the company’s earnings call. “We have one of the most exciting
exploration finds in recent memory, the Goldrush discovery, to
ultimately add to this Nevada production in the future.”  Sokalsky’s mantra yesterday was steady and safe. The CEO,
who took the job June 6, said the company has no plans to build
more new mines and is looking to sell lower-return assets
including its energy unit and the 50 percent it owns in a nickel
project in Tanzania.  Shareholders reacted positively to Sokalsky’s moves to do
“anything that will increase shareholder value” yesterday,
lifting the stock 2.3 percent in Toronto.  ‘Looking for Safety’  “Investors are definitely looking for safety,”  Adam Graf ,
a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., said yesterday
in a telephone interview. Nevada is “the only place that
they’ve been able to execute successfully if you think back to
the last several years.”  Fifteen analysts  recommend  buying Barrick’s shares, while
Graf is among 13 analysts that have a hold rating, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barrick declined 1.9 percent to C$31.82 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have fallen 8.6 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent  decline  in the 30-company Philadelphia Stock
Exchange Gold and Silver Index, and a 2 increase in the
S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite  Index .  Barrick’s shares rose yesterday after the company reported
adjusted fourth-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates
and Sokalsky said the company has received interest from
“serious buyers” for its assets.  Flagship Asset  Barrick is optimistic the sales process for its energy unit
will be successful and the company has held talks with potential
buyers for its 50 percent stake in the Kabanga nickel project,
Sokalsky said in an interview. Xstrata Plc owns the rest of
Kabanga.  Barrick’s two biggest mines in Nevada are Goldstrike, which
became the company’s flagship asset after it was acquired in
1986, and the Cortez operations. Nevada accounted for more than
40 percent of Barrick’s production last year and represents
about a third of its total 2012 reserves, the company said
yesterday.  Barrick mentioned the name of the state 17 times yesterday
on the earnings call, compared with just once a year ago.  “In an environment where you see so much concern about
geopolitical risk around the world and resource nationalism, I
think sometimes people lose sight of the fact that we have these
huge core assets in Nevada,” Sokalsky said in the interview.
“That’s a real competitive advantage for us.”  Focused Abroad  Analysts and investors have been more focused abroad in
recent years, as the company spent C$7.3 billion ($7.25 billion)
to acquire Equinox Minerals Ltd., owner of a Zambian copper
mine, and Barrick poured billions of dollars into two Latin
American projects.  While Pueblo Viejo, Barrick’s joint venture with Goldcorp
Inc. in the Dominican Republic, started production in August
last year, the company delayed the expected start date for
Pascua-Lama by about a year and raised the cost forecast for the
mine twice in 2012.  Barrick yesterday maintained its latest cost range of $8
billion to $8.5 billion for the mine, which was forecast to cost
no more than $3 billion when Barrick, then led by  Aaron Regent ,
approved its go-ahead in 2009.  It makes sense that the company would look to Nevada for
its future growth, after operational and political difficulties
elsewhere, said  George Topping , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Toronto.  Impairment Charges  “That’s a focus that investors want,” Topping said in a
phone interview. “If you compare the difference: let’s go and
build Pascua-Lama on the very top of the Andes straddling two
countries that don’t really like each other, or let’s build it
in Nevada where it hardly ever snows.”  Barrick reported a surprise fourth-quarter net loss after
taking $4.2 billion in impairments, including $3 billion at its
Lumwana copper mine, which was acquired in the Equinox deal.
Barrick is the latest mining company to take a multibillion-
dollar impairment charge as producers grapple with rising costs
and reassess expensive deals.  Kinross Gold Corp. , the third-largest Canadian gold
producer, said Feb. 13 it took a $3.09 billion writedown on its
Tasiast mine in Mauritania. The company took a $2.49 million
writedown on the same project a year earlier.  Kinross, which acquired Tasiast when it bought Red Back
Mining Inc. for about C$8 billion in 2010, also  rose  yesterday
after it reported earnings excluding one-time items that beat
analysts’ estimates. The shares gained 5.4 percent in Toronto,
the most since Nov. 8.  “The market is perceiving that Barrick and Kinross have
taken their medicine,”  David West , a Vancouver-based analyst at
Salman Partners Inc., said yesterday by phone. “They are trying
to move in the right direction, they are trying to increase
their margins, they are trying to look in-house and grow
organically.”  By focusing on Nevada, West said, Barrick is “getting back
to the basics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  