-- Belka Said Summoned by Tusk to Discuss Polish Euro Entry
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-02-15T16:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/belka-said-summoned-by-tusk-to-discuss-polish-euro-entry.html
Polish central bank Governor  Marek Belka  has been summoned to discuss the nation’s euro-entry
preparations with Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s economic advisory
council, three government officials said.  The meeting, the first of its kind since Belka became
governor in 2010, is scheduled for 4 p.m. on Feb. 18 at the
Warsaw-based central bank, according to the officials, who asked
not to be named as the information isn’t yet public. The talks
come a day before President  Bronislaw Komorowski  is due to meet
with government members to discuss Poland’s strategy for joining
the 17-nation euro area.  Tusk’s government has been pressuring the Narodowy Bank
Polski to lower  borrowing costs  to spur growth in the European
Union’s largest eastern economy. The central bank, the only one
in the EU to raise interest rates last year, has cut its
benchmark by 1 percentage point since November as falling
consumption and exports to the euro area slow the expansion.  Policy maker  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka  said she’d back a rate
cut in March after a report showed Polish inflation slowed to
1.7 percent in January, the weakest since 2007. “There’s
definitely more room to ease monetary policy,” she said in an
interview on TVN CNBC today.  Poland reignited its euro-entry bid on Jan. 24 when Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowksi  said in a Bloomberg interview that the
nation’s resolve to switch currencies had strengthened amid
signs the worst of the debt crisis was over. Poland’s path to
euro is “clear” and involves a period of “years, not
months,” Tusk said at a press conference in Warsaw yesterday.  The zloty weakened more than 0.2 percent against the euro
today after news of the Feb. 18 meeting, trading at 4.1861 at
11:02 a.m. in Warsaw. The currency was down 0.1 percent at
4.1807 per euro as of 4:59 p.m. in the Polish capital.  Poland pledged to eventually adopt the euro when it entered
the EU in 2004 along with former communist nations the Czech
Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and the Baltic countries.
Slovakia, Slovenia and Estonia have adopted the currency, while
Latvia plans to join next year and Lithuania’s new government on
Jan. 25 pledged to seek entry in 2015.  “Being in the euro strengthens a country economically and
politically,” provided “it joins when it’s truly well
prepared, when it has a truly flexible economy and labor
market,” Rostowski said at a conference in London today. “We
want to join the euro, but we want to join when our homework has
been done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  