-- Bernanke Says Economy Far From Recovering Full Strength
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-02-15T18:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/bernanke-says-economy-far-from-recovering-full-strength.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. economy is far from operating at full
strength and reiterated his commitment to record easing.  “With unemployment at almost 8 percent, we are still far
from the fully healthy and vibrant conditions that we would like
to see,” Bernanke said today at a meeting in Moscow of his
counterparts from the Group of 20. “The United States is using
domestic policy tools to advance domestic objectives.”  The U.S. central bank has faced criticism from some foreign
officials, including Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ,
who in October said that its accommodation has weakened the
dollar, threatening to fuel a “currency war” of competitive
devaluations. The Fed under Bernanke has expanded assets to a
record exceeding $3 trillion and pushed down the benchmark
interest rate close to zero.  “We believe that by strengthening the U.S. economy we are
helping to strengthen the global economy as well,” Bernanke
said.  The Fed last month affirmed a plan to buy $85 billion per
month in bonds, seeking to foster growth and reduce a 7.9
percent jobless rate. “The Federal Reserve continues to provide
accommodative monetary policy in our effort to foster maximum
employment and price stability,” Bernanke said.  Since it last cut the main interest rate in December 2008,
the Fed has engaged in three rounds of large-scale asset
purchases and offered more guidance on its intention to spur
growth. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in October defended the Fed’s
policies in Tokyo, saying that emerging nations have the tools
to manage excess capital flows.  ‘Internal Programs’  Swiss National Bank President  Thomas Jordan , who caps the
Swiss Franc against the euro, said in Geneva this week he
doesn’t see a currency war brewing as “central banks’ monetary
policies are internal programs.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,519.91 at 12:55 p.m. in New York trading, while the yield on
the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.02 percent from 2 percent
yesterday.  Bernanke said financial regulation will be “one of the
most important topics” of the meeting, reiterating the U.S.’s
commitment to implement new banking standards known as Basel
III.  “Because we live in a globalized financial system where
transactions can take place in any jurisdiction and money flows
easily across borders, it is critical that we have consistent
financial regimes across all members of G-20,” he said. “We
will work with our partners to establish consistent policies on
matters such as derivatives reform and the resolution of
systemically important financial institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  