-- Best Buy Makes Price Match Permanent to Win Back Clients
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-02-15T22:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/best-buy-makes-price-match-permanent-to-win-back-clients.html
Best Buy Co.  will make permanent its
holiday price-matching policy to get shoppers to stop using its
stores for scouting products they later buy online elsewhere.  The year-round policy, designed to end the practice known
as “showrooming,” takes effect March 3,  Matt Furman , a Best
Buy spokesman, said today in a telephone interview. The
electronics retailer also will reduce its merchandise return
policy to 15 days from 30 days, he said.  Retailers such as Best Buy and  Target Corp . are matching
online prices as they seek to win back customers from e-commerce
sites such as  Amazon.com Inc.  Price cuts and matching led Best
Buy to post holiday sales that were unchanged from a year
earlier and exceeded analysts’ estimates.  “They don’t want to lose more market share to online
retailers,”  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at the
University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, said today by e-mail.  Best Buy climbed 7.4 percent to $16.87 at the close in New
York. The shares have risen 42 percent this year, following
three straight years of declines.  The Richfield, Minnesota-based retailer is scheduled to
report fiscal fourth-quarter results Feb. 28, when investors
will see whether holiday discounts and price matching hurt
profitability.  The end of February is also the deadline for  Richard Schulze , Best Buy’s founder, to make an offer to buy the
retailer. In August, Schulze, the retailer’s former chairman,
proposed offering $24 to $26 a share for Best Buy.  15 Days  The permanent price match has been expanded to cover almost
all categories of merchandise, including accessories such as
smartphone chargers, Furman said. It doesn’t cover phones
purchased under contract.  “We are going to a low-price guarantee,” Furman said.
“There is no doubt that this new policy ends showrooming for
Best Buy customers.”  Best Buy narrowed its window for returning merchandise to
15 days to coincide with its policy that allows customers to
claim lower prices on items they’ve purchased in the retailer’s
stores and online, Furman said. Customers have 15 days to take
advantage of such lower prices.  Best Buy is continuing its policy of not charging
restocking fees on returns, Furman said. He wouldn’t discuss how
the move may affect profitability.  “If their sales are OK, they can claim that cost-cutting
measures will make up for the gross margin contraction,” Gordon
said.  Sales at U.S. stores open at least 14 months were unchanged
in the nine weeks ended Jan. 5, Best Buy said Jan. 11. Global
comparable sales fell 1.4 percent, less than the 2 percent
decline projected by analysts  Mike Baker  at Deutsche Bank AG and
 Scott Tilghman  of B. Riley & Co.  Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, last
month made permanent its holiday policy to match prices charged
by the e-commerce sites of Best Buy, Amazon,  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc . and Toys “R” Us Inc. Target stores will also match the
prices of goods found on its own website, the Minneapolis-based
company said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  