-- BG Group’s Barbosa Steps Down as CFO to Head South America Unit
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-02-15T07:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/bg-group-s-barbosa-steps-down-as-cfo-to-head-south-america-unit.html
Fabio Barbosa , chief financial
officer of  BG Group Plc , will step down from his post at the
U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas company to become chairman of
its South American unit.  Barbosa, 52, was granted a leave of absence in September to
undergo medical treatment in his native Brazil. He started as
CFO in March 2011. In his new role, he will “provide senior
counsel and advice” to teams in Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay and
Brazil, the company said.  Group Financial Controller Den Jones will continue to serve
as interim CFO until a successor is found, BG said. He was
appointed a director of the company today.  BG appointed  Chris Finlayson  as chief executive officer in
December to replace  Frank Chapman , who had transformed the
former state-owned gas driller into a global producer over 13
years. BG has stakes in Brazil’s largest oil fields, which
include the biggest discoveries in the Americas in the past
three decades.  “I would like to express on behalf of BG Group’s Board our
sincere thanks to Fabio for all his excellent work as CFO over
the last two years,” BG Chairman  Andrew Gould  said in a
statement.  While shares more than tripled under Chapman’s leadership,
the stock has slipped 14 percent since Oct. 31, when the company
said output won’t grow in 2013 because of project delays.  BG won’t reach its 1 million-barrel-a-day production target
in 2015 and expects to pump 630,000 to 660,000 barrels a day
this year, the Reading, England-based company said Feb. 5.
Fourth-quarter profit after disposals and one-time items fell 29
percent to $1.03 billion.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc is the U.K.’s biggest energy company,
followed by BP Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  