-- Biggest Buyers Stampede From Junk Bonds on Loss: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-02-15T16:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/biggest-buyers-stampede-from-junk-bonds-on-loss-credit-markets.html
The biggest buyers of junk bonds are
in retreat as exchange-traded funds suffer unprecedented
withdrawals with the debt facing its first losses in eight
months.  The outflows sent the combined value of the  five biggest 
junk-debt funds down 7 percent from a four-month high in January
to $29.8 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. State
Street Corp.’s $11.9 billion  fund  reported withdrawals of about
$988 million in the 12 days ended Feb. 13, the longest stretch
since August 2011.  A pullback three times bigger than that for mutual funds
which cater to individuals suggests investors such as hedge
funds and banks are cherry picking rather than investing in the
broader market, said  Peter Tchir  of TF Market Advisors. Almost
six years after the  first high-yield ETF  was created, the funds
have been drawing the interest of institutions seeking rapid
entries and exits with securities that traditionally were traded
over the counter.  “Institutions are moving away from  indexes ,” Tchir,
founder of the New York-based advisory firm, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “You’re seeing a real focus on the
specific bonds.”  Falling Prices  Investors who poured $8 billion into junk ETFs in 2012 when
the securities gained 15.6 percent are fleeing as Morgan Stanley
strategists predict the debt will return 3.1 percent this year,
less than its coupon. Dollar-denominated junk bonds lost 0.4
percent in the week ended Feb. 6, when the funds reported an
unprecedented $1.1 billion of withdrawals, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Prices are dropping from a record 105.9 cents on the dollar
on Jan. 25 as concern deepens that values are unable to go much
higher with interest rates  rising  from record lows and after
four years in which average annualized returns reached 21.6
percent, compared with 3.6 percent losses in the preceding
period.  Bond buyers from Loomis Sayles & Co.’s  Dan Fuss  to Oaktree
Capital Management LP’s  Howard Marks  have said that the market
prices are too high after investors funneled $20.9 billion into
funds that buy speculative-grade debt last year, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc data show.  ‘Overextended Itself’  “The high-yield market rally had simply overextended
itself going into December and January, and now the hottest
trend-chasing money is making a withdrawal,”  Oleg Melentyev , a
 Bank of America Corp.  credit strategist in New York, wrote in a
Feb. 8 report. “This most recent pullback signifies how
unstable the market is becoming at its current valuations.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increasing 0.06 basis point to a mid-price of 86 basis points as
of 11:02 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Heinz Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.23 basis point to 15.11 basis points
as of 11:04 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of  H.J. Heinz Co.  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6.3 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, at 11:05 a.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The company, based in Pittsburgh, obtained $14.1 billion in
financing from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. to
support the ketchup maker’s $23 billion buyout by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G Capital, according to a
regulatory filing today.  ‘Caution’ Raised  Fuss, whose Loomis Sayles Bond Fund beat 98 percent of its
peers in the past three years, said last month that junk debt is
“overbought as I’ve ever seen it,” while Oaktree’s Marks told
clients in a January memo that “this is a time for caution.”  Yields on junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, fell to a
record low of 6.41 percent on Jan. 25, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. An unprecedented $72.4 billion
flowed into junk funds globally last year, according to EPFR
Global.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index has
lost 0.06 percent this month through yesterday.  The $1.1 billion of  withdrawals  from junk-bond ETFs in the
week ended Feb. 6 compares with $324.1 million pulled in the
same period from mutual funds, which manage $290.2 billion,
according to RBS citing Lipper data.  ‘Ridiculous’ Values  The ETFs have lost $568.1 million of deposits this year
while mutual funds reported $1 billion of inflows, the first
directional divergence since the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2011,
RBS data show.  That period 16 months ago “was a bad time for corporate
credit,” said  Bonnie Baha , the head of global developed credit
at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees about
$53 billion. “Everyone agrees that valuations are ridiculous
yet money has continued to flow into the sector.”  Investors put $211 million into non-ETF mutual funds that
invest in high-yield bonds this week while pulling $540 million
from junk-debt ETFs, according to a Feb. 14 Bank of America
report.  The Federal Reserve’s policy of holding benchmark borrowing
costs in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008
prodded investors to buy riskier assets as Treasury yields
 plunged  to an unprecedented 1.39 percent on July 24 before
rising to 2.03 percent on Feb. 13, the highest since last April.  Mutual funds and ETFs have been among the largest buyers of
corporate bonds in recent years, credit strategists led by
 Stephen Antczak  at Citigroup in a Feb. 1 report.  ‘Fast Money’  As a result, the corporate bond market has grown more
vulnerable to losses that are accelerated by outflows when U.S.
Treasury rates rise because “these buyers tend to be backward-
looking and sensitive to total returns, particularly negative
total returns,” they wrote.  ETFs are losing investors who are seeking better
opportunities in specific credits as they see the diminishing
potential returns for the broader market, Tchir said.  The disproportionate outflows among the ETFs compared with
the mutual funds shows that the funds truly are “‘fast money’
and could leave quickly,” wrote credit strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  at JPMorgan in a Feb. 14 note.  “Institutional money in particular is moving out of
these,” Tchir said, noting that the ETFs are typically
restricted to buying the most-actively traded bonds from the
largest issuers, which have benefitted disproportionately from
last year’s inflows. “People are either shifting into the
smaller issuers or those that don’t fit these indices
particularly well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Abramowicz  in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  