-- Bioenergy, Rio Grande, Energia Sustentavel: Brazil Bond Alert
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-02-15T10:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/bioenergy-rio-grande-energia-sustentavel-brazil-bond-alert.html
Bioenergy Geradora de Energia Ltda.,
Rio Grande Energia SA and Energia Sustentavel do Brasil SA are
among issuers that plan to sell bonds in Brazil’s debt markets.  AES SUL DISTRIBUIDORA GAUCHA DE ENERGIA SA:  The electricity
distributor plans to sell as much as 290 million reais ($148
million) of local bonds due in 2018, according to Standard &
Poor’s. The bonds will be sold to qualified investors. (Added
Feb. 14)  RODOVIAS DAS COLINAS: The toll-road operator plans to sell
850 million reais of local bonds in a public offering. Banco BTG
is the lead coordinator of the sale, according to a regulatory
filing. (Added Feb. 8)  BIOENERGY GERADORA DE ENERGIA LTDA.: The renewable-energy
developer may issue as much as 250 million reais of inflation-
linked bonds with a maturity of as much as 10 years to finance
power projects, according to Chief Executive Officer Sergio
Marques. (Added Feb. 1)  CPFL PAULISTA: The power distributor said in a regulatory
filing that it plans to sell as much as 505 million reais of
eight-year bonds to qualified investors only. The bonds will pay
as much as the DI plus 83 basis points. (Added Feb. 1)  RIO GRANDE ENERGIA SA: The energy company said in a
regulatory filing that it plans to offer as much as 170 million
reais of eight-year bonds to qualified investors only. (Added
Feb. 1)  RENOVA ENERGIA SA: The renewable-energy developer may sell
local infrastructure bonds to help finance 1.5 billion reais  in
wind power projects in 2013, Pedro Pileggi, the company’s
director of investor relations, said. (Added Jan. 29)  CIA. ENERGETICA DE MINAS GERAIS : The power generator also
known as Cemig said in a regulatory filing that it plans to
issue 1.6 billion reais of local bonds. The first tranche of
five-year bonds will pay as much as the DI plus 73 basis points;
the second tranche of eight-year inflation-linked bonds will pay
as much as 5.2 percent; the third tranche of 12-year inflation-
linked bonds will pay as much as 5.75 percent. (Updated Jan. 24)  EOLICA GERIBATU I, II, III, V: The wind plant operators
received approval from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue
tax-exempt infrastructure bonds, according to the official
gazette. The four are among the 10 Eolica Geribatu wind park
projects and are joint ventures between Fundo de Investimentos e
Participacoes Rio Bravo and state-controlled Eletrosul Centrais
Eletricas SA. (Updated Jan. 24)  ENERGIA SUSTENTAVEL DO BRASIL SA: The company responsible
for building and operating the Jirau dam, controlled by GDF
Suez, obtained approval from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to
sell tax-exempt infrastructure bonds, according to a statement
in the official gazette. (Added Jan. 22)  BROOKFIELD INCORPORACOES SA: The real estate developer said
in a regulatory filing that its board approved plans to sell as
much as 300 million reais of three-year bonds in two series. The
first of 225 million reais may pay the DI rate plus 165 basis
points; the second would be 75 million reais of inflation-linked
bonds that pay as much as 6.1 percent. The bonds may price by
the end of February, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly. (Updated Jan. 22)  REDE D’OR SAO LUIZ: The hospital and lab operator plans to
issue local bonds worth as much as 270 million reais, Standard &
Poor’s said in a report. The ratings company assigned a BB-
rating. (Added Jan. 17)  TRACTEBEL ENERGIA SA: The energy company may issue local
bonds worth 350 million reais, Valor Economico reported, without
saying how it obtained the information. (Added Jan. 14)  AES TIETE SA: The electricity company may issue local bonds
worth 470 million reais, Valor Economico reported, without
saying where it obtained the information. (Added Jan. 14)  CIA. DE GAS DE SAO PAULO: The natural-gas supplier known as
Comgas may issue local bonds worth 400 million reais, Valor
Economico reported, without saying where it obtained the
information. (Added Jan. 14)  CIA. ESTADUAL DE AGUAS E ESGOTOS: The water and sewage
utility known as Cedae said in a regulatory filing it plans to
sell as much as 150 million reais of local bonds due in 2017 to
qualified investors. The bonds may pay 169 basis points more
than the overnight rate. (Added Jan. 10)  VIGOR ALIMENTOS SA : The food producer is considering
selling local bonds to refinance short-term debt, Mauricio
Hasson, the company’s chief financial officer, told reporters in
Sao Paulo. (Updated Dec. 20)  SANTHER-FABRICA DE PAPEL SANTA THEREZINHA SA: The paper
products manufacturer plans to sell 125 million reais of local
bonds due in 2016, reducing the size for a second time,
according to a regulatory filing. Itau BBA is arranging the
sale. (Updated Dec. 14)  CCR SA: The highway manager may issue as much as 1 billion
reais of tax-exempt infrastructure bonds this year through three
of its units, Arthur Piotto, the company’s finance director,
said in a telephone interview. (Added Dec. 10)  CIA. CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO : The sewage and
water company also known as Casan said in a regulatory filing
that it plans to sell 100 million reais of IPCA-linked 10-year
local bonds with a maximum yield of 9.5 percent. (Added Nov. 30)  NORTE ENERGIA SA: The company that won a 35-year concession
to build the world’s third-biggest hydroelectric dam has been
approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-exempt
infrastructure bonds for the project known as Belo Monte,
according to the official gazette. The company will sell as much
as 500 million reais worth of bonds by 2015, Joao Pimentel, the
director of institutional relations, said in a telephone
interview. (Updated Nov. 28)  CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS SA : Brazil’s largest utility
by market value, also known as Eletrobras, has postponed an
offering of 2 billion reais of local bonds until 2013, according
to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. Banco
Santander Brasil SA and Banco BTG Pactual SA are the managers,
according to a regulatory filing. (Updated Nov. 6)  INTERLIGACAO ELETRICA DO MADEIRA SA : The joint venture of
Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista, Cia. Hidro
Eletrica do Sao Francisco and Furnas Centrais Eletricas SA may
issue 350 million reais of tax-exempt infrastructure bonds,
Brazil’s state development bank said in an e-mailed statement.
The funds would help finance a transmission line and two
substations, according to the statement. (Added Oct. 22)  TRANSNORTE ENERGIA SA : The joint venture of Alupar
Investimento SA and Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil SA has
been approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure debentures to finance two transmission
lines and substations in the states of Amazonas and Roraima,
according to the official gazette. (Added Oct. 8)  CONCESSIONARIA ROTA DAS BANDEIRAS SA : The road company has
been approved by the Ministry of Transportation to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure bonds to finance road pavements and other
improvements. (Added Oct. 5)  EMPRESA DE TRANSMISSAO TIMOTEO-MESQUITA LTDA. : The
electricity company has been approved by the Ministry of Energy
and Mines to issue tax-exempt infrastructure bonds to finance a
transmission line and substation. (Added Oct. 5)  FERREIRA GOMES ENERGIA SA : The utility service provider
unit of Alupar Investimento SA has received approval from the
Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue infrastructure debentures,
according to a regulatory filing. (Added Sept. 21)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  