-- BofA Snapped Up by Lansdowne as ‘Stock to Own’ This Year
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-15T16:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/bofa-snapped-up-by-lansdowne-as-stock-to-own-this-year.html
Bank of America Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. lender, had more than $300 million of its shares
acquired by Lansdowne Partners Ltd. as improved capital levels
lead  Meredith Whitney  and other analysts to tout the stock.  Lansdowne, the largest European hedge fund that invests in
equities, purchased 26.5 million shares in the fourth quarter,
according to regulatory filings yesterday. Moore Capital
Management LP, the fund run by  Louis Moore Bacon , added almost 6
million shares valued at more than $85 million as of Dec. 31.  Bank of America was the  best performer  in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average last year as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  rebuilt capital, cut costs and sold assets. The Federal
Reserve will allow the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender to
increase its quarterly  dividend  this year to 3 cents a share
from 1 cent, according to analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “People really feel like, from a capital return
perspective, BofA’s future will be brighter than some of its
competitors,” said  Douglas Ciocca , CEO of Leawood, Kansas-based
Kavar Capital Partners LLC, which manages about $265 million.
“A penny a share has not been an acceptable status quo and they
are readying people to expect” an increase, he said. “That
seems to be a good reason to get behind it.”  Bank of America, which more than doubled last year, has
 climbed  4.5 percent in 2013 through yesterday, trailing the 8.2
percent advance for the 24-company KBW Bank Index. The shares
fell 2 cents to $12.11 at 10:52 a.m. in New York trading.  Meredith Whitney  Lansdowne, founded in 1998 by  Steven Heinz  and  Paul Ruddock , also bought shares of New York-based JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. Moore held a total of 11.8 million
Bank of America shares valued at $137 million on Dec. 31.  Adage Capital Management LP and Arrowstreet Capital LP,
both based in Boston, each added 14.7 million shares to their
holdings in the bank, filings show. Adage sold 2.9 million
shares of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo in the fourth quarter.  “Bank of America is the stock to own this year,” Whitney,
founder of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group, said Feb. 7 in an
interview with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Television. Moynihan, 53,
has been underestimated and shares of the lender will climb to
$15 in the next six to nine months, she said.  Moynihan has targeted $8 billion in annual cost cuts and is
boosting capital, in part by selling more than $60 billion in
 assets  since he took over in 2010. Moynihan said Dec. 4 he’s
confident Bank of America will pass the next round of Fed stress
tests, which may lead to a higher dividend or share repurchases.  Improve Faster  Revenue at Bank of America and New York-based Citigroup
Inc. will improve faster than at Wells Fargo and JPMorgan over
the next three years,  Richard Staite , an analyst with Atlantic
Equities LLP, said yesterday in a note. Investors should favor
those banks because their funding costs will improve and they
will be hurt less by a projected drop in mortgage revenue.  “The restructuring, cost-cutting and capital improvement
story at Bank of America and Citigroup are increasingly well-
understood by the market,” Staite wrote. “Less well-
appreciated is that revenue prospects against peers are also
looking better.”  Even so, other investors cut their Bank of America stakes.
Perry Corp., the hedge-fund firm run by  Richard Perry , exited
its position in the lender, selling 7.5 million shares in the
fourth quarter, filings show. Boston-based Geode Capital
Management LLC reduced its stake by 6.4 million shares to 71.3
million.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks,  options  and convertible bonds. The filings
don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  Bank of America has broadened its “penetration into all
parts of Main Street’s financial well-being,” Ciocca said.
“They have done what they can to flex the muscle of the full
franchise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  