-- Bond Fund Flows Beat Stocks for First Week in 10, Citigroup Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-15T03:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/bond-fund-flows-beat-stocks-for-first-week-in-10-citigroup-says.html
Bond funds lured more weekly inflows
than stocks for the first time in 10 weeks as investors sold
U.S. equities before possible budget cuts in the world’s largest
economy, according to Citigroup Inc.  Bond funds attracted a net $2.6 billion in the week to Feb.
13, while stocks drew $1.8 billion, Citigroup analysts  Markus Rosgen  and  Yue Hin Pong  said in a report today, citing data from
research company EPFR Global. U.S. equity funds had net outflows
of $3.7 billion, according to the note.  Investors favored less risky assets during the week as U.S.
Senate Democrats proposed a 10-month delay in $1.2 trillion of
automatic spending cuts for defense and domestic programs set to
begin March 1. The Democrats’ $110 billion plan would replace
across-the-board reductions by making defense spending cuts,
ending direct payments to farmers, and requiring top earners to
pay a minimum 30 percent income tax rate.  “If the automatic budget cut in U.S. isn’t avoided in two
weeks’ time, it could hurt various functions of U.S. agencies,”
Pong wrote in an e-mail today. “It would also signal that
political agreement is harder to come by.”  The March 1 deadline marks another fiscal showdown between
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans over
whether efforts to reduce the budget deficit should include
revenue or be limited to spending. Unless Congress acts, $1.2
trillion in spending cuts, known as sequestration, will take
effect over nine years, which could hurt economic growth.  Asian equity funds attracted $535 million, a 23rd week of
inflows, slowing from $981 million last week as markets shut for
the Lunar New Year holidays. Shanghai and Vietnam markets are
closed for an entire week from Feb. 11, while Japan, South
Korea, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore were closed for between
one and three days. Taiwan is closed for seven days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  