-- Bovespa Declines as Commodities Tumble on U.S. Industrial Output
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-15T21:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-stronger-currency-dims-export-view.html
The Bovespa index fell for a fourth
week as a surprise slowdown in U.S. industrial output pushed
commodities lower, dimming the outlook for Brazilian raw-
material producers.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company
controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, contributed most to the
benchmark’s decline. Iron-ore producer  Vale SA  and steelmaker
 Gerdau SA  tumbled as metals declined.  The Bovespa fell 0.3 percent to 57,903.30 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, extending this week’s decline to 1
percent. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.9688 per dollar. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials lost 0.4
percent after a report showed U.S. industrial production
unexpectedly shrank in January.  “The external outlook doesn’t look good, with things in
the U.S. showing no evidence of a sustained recovery,”  Clodoir Vieira , an economist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Souza Barros
Corretora, said in a phone interview. “If the world economy
stalls, it becomes more difficult for Brazil to speed up the
recovery. I don’t see any good news that could push equities
higher in the short run.”  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities fell 0.1
percent after a 0.4 percent increase in December, the Federal
Reserve said today. The median estimate among economists survey
by Bloomberg called for a 0.2 percent rise.  Growth has also been slumping in Brazil, where economists
estimate gross domestic product expanded at its slowest pace in
three years in 2012.  OGX, Vale  The government is slated to release retail sales figures
for December on Feb. 19 while the central bank is scheduled to
report foreign investment numbers for January on Feb. 22. The
government is also scheduled to release the reading on its main
consumer price index through mid-month on Feb. 22. Inflation
quickened to a one-year high of 6.15 percent in January, above
the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range.  Companies including exchange operator BM&F Bovespa SA,
state-run lender Banco do Brasil SA and steelmaker Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA are set to report earnings next
week. Eight of the 11 companies listed in the Bovespa index that
have reported quarterly results have missed earnings estimates,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX lost 6.5 percent to 3.46 reais. Vale fell 0.8 percent
to 36.47 reais. Gerdau dropped 1.9 percent to 17.21 reais.  The  MSCI Brazil/Financials Index  climbed 3.3 percent to the
highest level since April, as Itau Unibanco Holding SA advanced
4.6 percent to 35.18 reais.  Trading Volume  The  Bovespa  has dropped 8.5 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern that accelerating inflation may curb
Brazil’s economic recovery and that the government’s
interventionist policies will hurt profits in industries
including utilities and energy.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 10.9 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.4 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.1 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.54 billion reais this year
through Feb. 13, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  