-- Boys Getting Cervical Cancer Shots in Australia Boosts Gardasil
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-02-15T03:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/boys-getting-cervical-cancer-shots-in-australia-boosts-gardasil.html
Schoolboys in Australia have begun
receiving a  Merck & Co.  vaccine against  human papilloma virus  in
a world-first program aimed at fighting the main cause of
cervical cancer, Health Minister  Tanya Plibersek  said.  More than 280,000 boys will be eligible for free Gardasil
this year, estimated to prevent a quarter of new HPV infections,
Plibersek said in an e-mailed statement today. The immunization,
which also protects against genital warts, will be given to boys
in three doses spaced over about seven months alongside an HPV
vaccination for girls that began in 2007.  Australia was one of the first countries in the world to
introduce a government-subsidized program to vaccinate
schoolgirls against HPV, which can be spread by sexual activity.
The virus infects four out of five sexually active people at
some point in their lives and is known to cause cervical,
vulvar, vaginal, penile and anal cancer.  “Because of our work in this area, Australia’s HPV vaccine
coverage rates are among the best in the world, resulting in a
significant drop in HPV-related infections,” Plibersek said.
“We’re confident that extending the program to males will
reduce HPV-related cancers and disease in the future.”  Former Prime Minister  John Howard  announced in 2006 that
Australia would spend A$436 million ($451 million) making the
vaccine free for females ages 12 to 26 following an agreement
with Gardasil’s local distributor CSL Ltd. The Melbourne-based
company earns royalties on Gardasil sales.  Immunologists  Ian Frazer  and Jian Zhou made a discovery at
the University of Queensland more than 20 years ago that led to
the development of Gardasil and rival Cervarix, made by
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc . Frazer was named  2006 Australian of the
Year , the nation’s top honor, for his work.  “We’re confident that extending the program to males will
reduce HPV-related cancers and disease in the future,”
Plibersek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  