-- Brainard Reiterates U.S. Stance Against Competitive Devaluations
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-15T12:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/brainard-reiterates-u-s-stance-against-competitive-devaluations.html
Lael Brainard , the U.S. Treasury
undersecretary for international affairs, reiterated the U.S.
position that countries need to refrain from competitive
devaluations and currencies should trade freely in most cases.  Group of 20 nations must “bring their exchange-rate
frameworks into alignment so that we grow together and avoid a
downward spiral of beggar-thy-neighbor policies,” Brainard said
at a conference in Moscow, where she’s attending a meeting of
G-20 finance ministers and central bankers.  Nations need to “avoid loose talk about currencies,” move
toward “market-determined exchange rates” and refrain from
“competitive devaluation,” Brainard said.  The G-20 finance chiefs will reaffirm a pledge to “refrain
from competitive devaluation” and commit to monitoring
“possible monetary-policy spillover,” according to a draft
statement obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday.  The language on currencies is similar to the last statement
released by G-20 officials Nov. 5, and predates by one day a
Feb. 12 statement by Group of Seven officials that commits the
major industrial countries to not use domestic policies to
target exchange rates.  Brainard is attending the Moscow meetings while the U.S.
Senate considers President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of  Jack Lew 
as Treasury secretary. Former Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  left office last month.  U.S. Priority  At his confirmation hearing Feb. 13, Lew said the U.S.
works through the G-20 and G-7 “to advance the view that it’s
not just the United States, but the organized nations of the
world, that insist on having currency policies which are market-
determined.” Lew also said he’d continue U.S. policy supporting
a strong dollar.  The U.S. priority for the G-20 is to strengthen global
economic demand, said Brainard, speaking at a conference held by
the Institute of International Finance.  “It’s important to avoid jeopardizing the recovery with a
premature shift to restraint,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Moscow at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  