-- Brazil Swap Rates Surge on Mantega’s Pledge to Tackle Inflation
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-02-15T20:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/brazil-swap-rates-surge-on-mantega-currency-view-real-declines.html
Brazil’s swap rates climbed as
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government will do
whatever it takes to fight inflation and signaled an interest
rate increase is an option, boosting bets policy makers will
raise borrowing costs to control price gains.  Swap rates due in January 2014 rose 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, to 7.62 percent, the biggest increase on
a closing basis since May 24. The real fell 0.5 percent to
1.9688 per dollar, paring its weekly gain to 0.2 percent. It
advanced as much as 0.4 percent before the central bank
announced reverse currency swaps to limit its advance.  Brazil’s inflation, which reached a one-year high of 6.15
percent in January, has exceeded the 4.5 percent mid-point of
policy makers’ target for more than two years. While the central
bank has kept its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 7.25
percent since October in an effort to revive economic growth,
Mantega’s comments signal officials are becoming less tolerant
of inflation, according to  Newton Rosa , the chief economist at
SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  “This is a sign that the main weapon to control inflation
will be interest rates,” Rosa said in a phone interview.
“Inflation concerns the government. The swap rates market is
reflecting those comments from Mantega.”  Bond investors see inflation averaging 5.27 percent between
now and 2015, down from 5.33 percent yesterday, according to the
so-called breakeven rate that measures the difference between
fixed-rate and inflation-linked bond yields.  Mantega Interview  “The interest rate isn’t fixed. If you have more worrying
inflation, it can move, but this is up to the central bank to
decide,” Mantega said in an interview from Moscow today. “The
government will do what it takes to keep inflation under
control”  Mantega also said the government won’t allow the currency
to overappreciate. The real has strengthened 4.2 percent this
year, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The central bank sold $1.35 billion of reverse currency
swap contracts today. Policy makers swung in 2012 between
selling currency swaps to prevent the real from falling too
quickly and offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters
by keeping the real from strengthening beyond 2 per U.S. dollar.  The real fell from a nine-month high on Feb. 8 after the
central bank intervened to stem gains triggered by Mantega, who
signaled at the time that the government would allow the
currency to rise another 5 percent.  The currency slid 9 percent in 2012 and 11 percent in the
prior year, adding to the inflation pickup by making imports
more expensive.  The central bank has lowered benchmark borrowing costs by
5.25 percentage points since August 2011 in the most aggressive
cuts among Group of 20 nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  