-- Cambridge Enters U.K. Banking Business to Lift Endowment
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/cambridge-enters-u-k-banking-business-to-lift-endowment.html
Since its founding in 1350, Trinity
Hall, one of the University of Cambridge’s 31 colleges, has
endured the plague and the English Reformation. Now it is taking
on the banking business.  Last year, Trinity Hall teamed with a local pension fund
and founded Cambridge & Counties Bank to bolster its endowment.
The school’s bursar serves as bank chairman. The college is
risking its investment as well as its reputation in the hopes of
a big return.  “The perception coming into this process was that banking
was a casino business,” said  Simon Guest , an engineering
instructor at Trinity Hall and member of the investment
committee. “If you stepped back and looked at the big picture,
you saw that this could be a highly successful investment and
the rather strong possibility that the college would make a
great deal of money.”  Making money is increasingly important for Cambridge and
its colleges because of U.K. cuts to higher-education spending.
Cambridge now gets about a third of its funding for teaching and
research from the government, down from half a decade ago. Along
with increased fundraising, the colleges are becoming more
creative in their investing. In some cases, such as Trinity
Hall’s, it means venturing into areas once unheard of for
conservative academic institutions.  ‘Mixed Funding’  “We’re starting to look more like an Ivy League, American
university, with a mixed-funding regime,” said Martin Daunton,
master of Trinity Hall and professor of economic history. “The
university needs to be more reliant on its endowment and diverse
in its investments. Its colleges have to do the same.”  The endowments of the colleges are collectively valued at
about 3 billion pounds ($4.65 billion) while the university’s
separate endowment is 1.9 billion pounds. The funds are dwarfed
by those at Harvard University and Yale University -- the
wealthiest U.S. schools -- at $30.4 billion and $19.3 billion,
respectively, as of June 2012.  Since the 2008 financial crisis, which cost U.S. endowments
23 percent of their value on average in fiscal 2009, colleges
there have struggled to regain their lost wealth. In the year
ended last June, fund values fell 0.8 percent after gaining 18
percent a year earlier, according to Commonfund and the National
Association of College and University Business Officers.  Building up assets at Cambridge was a primary goal of
former Vice Chancellor  Alison Richard , who headed the university
from 2003 to 2010 after serving as Yale’s provost.  Investing ‘Mantra’  “From the day I arrived in Cambridge, my mantra was that
we needed to diversify its income,” Richard said. “It’s not
healthy for an institution to be too dependent on any single
source, whether it is government or the endowment.”  In 2011, the U.K.’s government unveiled a plan to reduce
state spending on higher education and shift more of the costs
to students through tuition increases and a loan program.  Cambridge’s investors have learned from the experiences of
U.S. colleges, said  Nick Cavalla , chief investment officer at
Cambridge. Universities including Harvard, Princeton and
Stanford were heavily invested in illiquid assets such as
private equity and ran low on cash during the credit crunch.  “I wouldn’t want to get as illiquid as U.S.
universities,” Cavalla said. They “are in extreme positions.”  Cavalla manages the investments of the central university,
while most of the colleges oversee their own endowments. Only
1.7 percent of the university’s fund is in private equity, which
can have high fees and erratic returns, he said. An additional
6.3 percent is in other illiquid investments, he said. That
compares with about 34 percent in private equity at Yale,
according to the New Haven, Connecticut-based school.  Successful Strategy  If universities that invest in private equity and other
illiquid assets can withstand events like the financial crisis,
the strategy will pay off in the long run, said  John Griswold ,
executive director of the Commonfund Institute, the research arm
of a money manager for nonprofit groups in Wilton, Connecticut.  “The endowment model has been one of the most successful
long-term portfolio strategies that anyone has ever invented,”
Griswold said. “It’s a little unfair to pick a two- or three-
year time series and say it doesn’t work.”  Trinity Hall’s finances are administered by its bursar,
 Paul ffolkes Davis , a former investment banker at NM Rothschild
& Sons Ltd. who has helped the college’s endowment grow to more
than 100 million pounds from 45 million pounds when he arrived
in 2004.  Davis said investing in the bank appealed to him because
many U.K. banks stopped making loans to small and medium-sized
businesses after they were bailed out by the government during
the financial crisis.  “There was a market for a lender,” Davis said. “The
prospect of doing something that had a good local feel and was
profitable was something that I was interested in.”  Investment Freedom  All U.K. colleges and universities have benefited from a
2001 change in charity law that meant endowments no longer had
to hold only income-producing assets, such as land and dividend-
paying stocks. They became free to invest on a “total-return”
basis and focus on building capital, said  Andrew Reid ,
Cambridge’s director of finance.  “If there are more investment opportunities available to
you, then clearly the more chances you have of making a serious
gain,” Reid said.  Cambridge, founded in 1209 and about 60 miles north of
London, is a confederation of its colleges. The colleges own
their campuses, hire staff and admit students using university
guidelines. Teaching and research is shared by the colleges and
university departments, while Cambridge grants degrees.  Cambridge created the first-ever internal investment office
at a U.K. university in 2006 and hired Cavalla from Man Group
Plc to run it. The University of Oxford followed with its own
investment officer in May 2007.  College Experiments  Under Cavalla, Cambridge’s endowment has almost doubled,
growing from 1 billion pounds. The university relies on
withdrawals from the fund for about 6 percent of its 1.4
billion-pound operating budget, Reid said.  Six of Cambridge’s colleges invest some or all of their
assets with Cavalla. The rest have their own strategies, some of
which they have pursued for centuries.  “Because they are all largely autonomous and because they
have very smart people in many places, there is a huge amount of
experimentation that goes on among the colleges,” Richard, the
former vice chancellor, said. “Colleges have been very
successful investing in real estate, very shrewd.”  Cambridge’s move to hire an internal fund manager has
critics. The endowment would do just as well in a portfolio of
blue chip stocks that wouldn’t risk losses, said  Ross Anderson ,
a Cambridge computer scientist who objected to creating the role
when he sat on the university’s governing board.  ‘Wasting Money’  “I’m concerned that we’re wasting money on the office that
we didn’t need,” Anderson said. “Let’s allocate the money by
buying appropriate index funds.”  He pointed to the fallout at U.S. universities, which fired
staff and froze faculty searches, when they suffered losses
during the financial crisis.  “Gross financial mismanagement results in faculty
layoffs,” he said. “We haven’t yet seen a disaster. But if
there is a disaster, we don’t have anyone else to blame.”  Even amid warnings such as Anderson’s, Cambridge and some
of its colleges are becoming more ambitious in their investing
strategies.  Trinity Hall bought a 50 percent stake in  Cambridge &
Counties Bank ’s assets and liabilities for less than 5 million
pounds, according to Davis, the bursar, who wouldn’t disclose
the exact amount. The Cambridge county government’s pension fund
owns the rest.  Old-Fashioned  The bank’s assets had been owned by  Vladimir Antonov , a
Russian who was prevented from operating the bank in the U.K. by
the government’s financial regulator, Davis said. Antonov and an
associate have since been accused of stealing about $659 million
from another bank he owned in Lithuania. Kevin Gold, Antonov’s
lawyer, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Cambridge & Counties, which received its license in June,
is expected to become profitable by the end of the year,
according to Davis, who said the college receives a portion of
his compensation as bank chairman. He didn’t disclose the
amount. The bank had 74 million pounds in deposits when it began
operation last year, he said.  The college established a Board of Scrutiny to examine the
bank’s activities and sit in on bank board meetings.  “We want the bank to be an old-fashioned, boring
institution,” Guest said. “We want to avoid any temptation to
go into more exotic types of business.”  Real Estate  Trinity Hall hopes to build its endowment up to the level
of its neighbor,  Trinity College , a separate institution with
investments of 883 million pounds. With about 900 students, that
school’s assets of $1.52 million per student make it richer per
student than Harvard.  Trinity College’s wealth derives partly from Henry VIII,
who founded the school in 1546, endowing it with land he seized
from Catholic monasteries after his break with Rome. Former
students include Isaac Newton, Lord Byron and Jawaharlal Nehru.  For centuries, most of Trinity’s wealth has been in real
estate. Holdings now include some of the land beneath the Port
of Felixstowe, the busiest container port in the U.K.  Trinity College spent 24 million pounds in 2009 to buy a
999-year lease for 32 acres in London that includes the  O2
Arena , the world’s most-visited music venue. The arena, operated
by Anschutz Entertainment Group Inc., pays the college rent
based partly on ticket sales, said  Rory Landman , a former hedge
fund manager hired as bursar in 2006. The rent amounted to 1.6
million pounds in 2009, and the college expects the investment
to return about 7 percent a year above the inflation rate over
the next 50 years, he said.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  Investing on behalf of an almost 500-year-old college lets
Landman look beyond the risks of recessions and cyclical
downturns, he said.  “It’s a huge competitive advantage,” he said. “We can
look across the valley.”  Trinity College funds 75 percent of its budget from its
endowment, which generates about 30 million pounds a year. It
also contributes 7 million to the greater university, some of
which is distributed to less wealthy colleges.  Trinity College’s success in investing may have spurred the
other colleges to try and catch up, Richard said. In the case of
Trinity Hall’s bank investment, the hope is one day “it could
become a Felixstowe,” Davis said.  “This was too good an opportunity to miss,” Davis said.
“I know banks make money. This one will make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  