-- Cameron Keeps Eurofighter Hopes Alive Ahead of India Trip
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-15T15:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/cameron-keeps-eurofighter-hopes-alive-ahead-of-india-trip.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
office said he won’t give up on hopes of selling India
Eurofighter Typhoon jets when he visits the country next week.  India said last year it would start negotiations to buy 126
 Dassault Aviation SA  Rafale fighter jets, after it shortlisted
that plane and the Typhoon. A Rafale contract wasn’t signed
during French President  Francois Hollande ’s Feb. 14-15 state
visit to India.  “We respect the fact that the Indians have chosen their
preferred bidder and are currently negotiating with the
French,” Cameron’s office said in an e-mail. “Of course, we
will continue to promote Eurofighter as a great fast jet, not
just in India but around the world.”  Cameron leads a delegation of business leaders and
ministers to Mumbai and New Delhi from Feb. 18 to Feb. 20 as he
seeks to boost trade with the South Asian nation. The premier is
seeking new markets for goods and services as the euro-area
economy, the U.K.’s main trading partner, struggles to expand.  U.K. officials will be looking for details from their
Indian counterparts on how the talks with France are
progressing. India’s proposal to buy the Rafale is being
evaluated by a government panel before it goes to the Finance
Ministry and the Cabinet for approval, Defense Minister  A.K. Antony  said last week.  India shortlisted the Rafale and Typhoon in April 2011,
when it rejected bids from U.S. manufacturers  Lockheed Martin
Corp . and  Boeing Co ., as well as  Saab AB  and OAO United Aircraft
Corp. India is buying the fighters to replace an aging fleet of
Russian MiG-21s and Dassault Mirage 2000s.  The contract might have a value of as much as $20 billion,
according to Deba  Ranjan Mohanty , chairman of Indicia Research &
Advisory, a New Delhi-based defense research organization.  Separately, Cameron will press Indian leaders for easier
access for foreign companies to open multibrand retail outlets.
Ikea of Sweden AB cleared another hurdle toward being the first
foreign company to open its own stores last month after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government passed regulations that
allowed single-brand companies to operate without local
partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Moscow at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  