-- Canadian Pension-Backed Group Plans Wind Power for Prison
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/canadian-pension-backed-group-plans-wind-power-for-prison.html
Partnerships for Renewables, backed
with 100 million pounds ($155 million) of Canadian pension and
infrastructure-fund money, will build as much as 500 megawatts
of wind power at land owned by U.K. prisons and other bodies.  The developer will today start its first turbines at the
Standford Hill prison in Kent, southern England, Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Ainger  said. It also plans about 5 megawatts for
Camp Hill prison on the Isle of Wight and 15 megawatts at the
Haverigg prison in Cumbria, northern England, he said by phone.  The London-based company is seeking unexploited land owned
by government bodies such as the Forestry Commission and Coal
Authority for renewable energy projects the U.K. is promoting to
curb emissions linked to climate change. The state is estimated
to own 10 percent to 12 percent of U.K. land, according to PfR.  The company received funding from Canada’s OPSEU Pension
Trust and London-based Infrared Capital Partners Ltd., which
each own a third of the company, to develop wind farms, Ainger
said. The Carbon Trust, a London-based adviser to government and
business on reducing emissions, owns the remaining shares.  “Our shareholders see a great future for renewables in the
U.K.,” Ainger said. “They see, from an energy security point
of view and for the U.K.’s renewables targets, it’s important
and have been willing to back that government vision.”  A portion of the revenue from Standford Hill will go to the
Ministry of Justice, responsible for prisons, he said. The
company also plans to submit bids to supply power directly to
prisons and has set up a community benefit fund, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  