-- Carson Reveals Secrets of New Business Cycle: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-02-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/carson-reveals-secrets-of-new-business-cycle-cutting-research.html
The U.S. business cycle has been
transformed as asset prices become more influential and
manufacturing less so.  So says  Joseph G. Carson , director of global economic
research at  AllianceBernstein LP , in a Feb. 8 report. While
stable patterns had allowed analysts to easily forecast the
magnitude of recoveries and recessions, that may no longer be
the case, he said.  For example, the tenet that the initial pace of recovery is
dictated by the steepness of the recession that preceded it has
been shattered by the post-crisis performance of the U.S.  While
its  economy  suffered a peak-to-trough decline of 4.7 percent,
far worse than the historical average of 1.3 percent, the
recovery has shown average quarterly growth of 2.1 percent, less
than half the historical rate.  Among the changes that Carson says explain the root causes
of U.S. recessions since 2000: financial imbalances and sharp
declines in asset prices. Slumps in the past, by contrast, were
triggered by accelerating inflation and tighter monetary policy.
Finance-driven downturns are harder to reverse because they take
longer to rectify than imbalances in inventories or products do.  Price patterns have also changed. During recent expansions,
consumer and producer prices rose only half as fast as in
earlier periods, while assets gained faster. The emphasis on
assets rather than income and profits probably will stay, Carson
wrote, because the Federal Reserve doesn’t take asset inflation
into account when setting interest rates. That means fewer
limits on how assets can influence business cycles.  Business-cycle dynamics are also affected by a decline in
manufacturing’s share of gross domestic product growth, from 30
percent in the 1960s-1980s period to 13 percent in the 2000s.
That contribution is set to recover to about 20 percent amid
cheaper energy prices and capital expenses, estimated Carson.  “We think it would be wrong to conclude that the causes of
the recent downturn were unique, since many of the contributing
factors were building up over a span of many years,” said
Carson, a former Commerce Department economist. “There is still
plenty for economists to investigate and learn from about how
cycles have changed.”  * * *  Globalization has resulted in consistent consumption
patterns across rich nations, yet that is not always reflected
in stock prices, according to  Deutsche Bank AG .  Using data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development,  Stuart Parkinson  of Deutsche found that while
spending growth varies, consumption priorities across nations
have been “remarkably coherent.”  Recreation and culture, for example, is the fastest growing
consumption category across the Group of Seven nations, while
communications is the second, London-based strategist Parkinson
said in a Feb. 7 report. The slowest category in each is alcohol
and tobacco.  For Parkinson, the interesting factor is that the
synchronous behavior has occurred even with Japan mired in a
slump. That suggests to him that even if other economies face
prolonged periods of weak growth, it won’t necessarily mean
different consumption patterns.  The twist, Parkinson says: The uniform behavior hasn’t had
a bearing on equity markets. In the U.S. and Europe, for
example, telecommunications and  information-technology  shares
have lagged broader market indexes despite the above-average
consumption growth.  * * *  Slowing rather than accelerating price pressures remain the
greater risk to the U.S. economy, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  In a Feb. 12 report, which advises investors to “fade the
bond market selloff,” co-head of global economics research
 Ethan Harris  said most measures show inflation falling below the
Fed’s 2 percent target.  “This is not a fluke,” said New York-based Harris.
“Almost all of the underlying determinants of inflation point
to weakness.”  Among them: plenty of spare capacity, limited labor-cost
growth and cheaper imports and rents.  If such trends continue, Harris said he will have the
revisit his forecast for inflation to hold around the Fed’s goal
for the next two years.  Even so, the Fed’s quantitative easing debate has been
“hijacked” by those warning of a potential surge of inflation,
forcing the Fed onto the defensive and leaving officials “mute
on what they will do if inflation is too low,” Harris said.  An undershooting of their target would actually encourage
central bankers to stick with their asset-purchase program for
longer, he said.  * * *  With the federal government poised this year to offer less
support to the U.S. economy, state and local authorities are set
to pick up some of the slack, according to  Eric Green , global
head of rates and FX research at TD Securities Inc. in New York.  Congress is on the hook to come up with a way to trim the
nation’s budget deficit by March 1. Otherwise, $1.2 trillion in
across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, will
begin, slashing an estimated $85 billion from the government
component of GDP in 2013. When added to the effect of higher
payroll taxes and a bigger levy on top income earners, Green
calculates GDP will be 1.3 percent lower than it otherwise would
have been.  That drag will be lessened by spending at the state and
local level, where governments have greater capacity as a result
of increased tax revenue and prior spending-reduction efforts.
State and local outlays could add between $40 billion and $50
billion to the economy, staving off an additional 0.3 percent
cut to GDP, according to Green.  Along with stronger demand from the private sector, Green
projects the economy will grow at a 1.9 percent pace in 2013.  “Sequester or not, the fate of the recovery is not hanging
in the balance,” he wrote in a Feb. 13 note to clients.  * * *  The boom in commodity prices is prompting an increase in
so-called resource nationalism as governments try to take
advantage.  Countries with populist leaders, lower per-capita incomes
and greater economic inequalities are most likely to try to
derive additional benefit from their natural resources,
according to a Feb. 8 report by Fitch Ratings analysts.  Recent examples include Argentina’s announcement in early
2012 that it would nationalize most of  Repsol SA ’s stake in the
country’s biggest oil group,  YPF SA . In Ecuador, the government
revised the contracts of private oil companies. Mongolia’s
government said in August it would like to increase its
participation on the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  