-- LCH.Clearnet Profit Climbs on OTC Business, LSE Purchase
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-15T08:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/lch-clearnet-profit-climbs-on-otc-business-lse-purchase.html
LCH.Clearnet Ltd., the world’s
largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, said full-year profit
almost tripled as revenue from over-the-counter business
climbed.  Profit after tax rose to 59.7 million euros ($79.6 million)
from 21.2 million euros in 2011, the company said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today. Net revenue climbed 24
percent to 426.2 million euros. Operating expenses rose 8
percent to 298.7 million euros.  “The group’s revenue base continues to diversify across
its products and services,” LCH said in the statement. “As the
OTC businesses grow, the proportion of the group’s revenues
derived from other asset classes will reduce.”  In the past year, the London-based clearinghouse has agreed
to sell a stake of as much as 60 percent to London Stock
Exchange Group Plc and renegotiated the terms after European
rules showed it would require a capital increase.  It also applied for a license to operate in the Australian
market, and bought International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC
from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and other investors.  LCH is also in talks with  Singapore Exchange Ltd. , as the
operator of Southeast Asia’s biggest stock market seeks to take
a stake, according to three people familiar with the
negotiations. LCH is introducing new over-the-counter services,
including one for foreign exchange, and negotiating new rules as
regulators around the world seek to push more trading onto
clearinghouses following the financial crisis.  The U.S. began the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul in 2010
in reaction to the role of swaps contracts in helping to fuel
the 2008 credit crisis. The European Commission has sought to
introduce a similar framework for the 27 member states of the
European Union.  LCH’s SwapClear business reported clearing revenue rose 36
percent to 59.8 million euros from 44.0 million euros in 2011.
The increase was down to new members, existing members moving
from the introductory to the standard tariff and the growth of
client clearing, the firm said today.  --  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  