-- Chelsea Has Deal to Sign Falcao in Place, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-15T05:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/chelsea-has-deal-to-sign-falcao-in-place-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  December Deal  Chelsea agreed on a deal to sign Atletico Madrid’s  Radamel Falcao  in December, the  Daily Express reported , citing Spanish
television show Punto Pelota.  According to the show, the Colombian striker was given a
tour of London and Chelsea’s training facilities by Blues owner
 Roman Abramovich , the Express said. Falcao is said to have a 47
million-pound ($72.9 million) release clause in his contract
which is within Chelsea’s budget, the newspaper added.  Terry Troubles  Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez  said  John Terry ’s
knee injury has the central defender locked into a “vicious
circle” in which he’s not sufficiently fit to play though can’t
regain his sharpness without time on the pitch,  the Guardian
reported .  “We have to manage the situation,” the newspaper cited
Benitez as saying. “If he cannot play, he cannot improve his
match fitness but, if he can’t train with the team, he can’t
improve his fitness.”  Roma Pair  Manchester City is monitoring Roma pair Erik Lamela and
Marquinhos, the  Daily Mail reported .  Lamela, a 20-year-old winger, has played for the Argentine
national team and could come in as a replacement for  Scott Sinclair , the newspaper said. Brazilian center-back Marquinhos,
18, is also wanted by Barcelona, the Mail added.  Lambert Follow-up  West Ham United is set to follow up its initial approach
for Southampton striker Rickie Lambert with an offseason bid,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Hammers had an inquiry about Lambert dismissed by
Southampton during January’s transfer window, the Mirror added.  Ince Return  Former Blackburn manager  Paul Ince , who’s been out of work
since leaving Notts County 22 months ago, is set to take over at
Blackpool after watching most of its games this season because
his son Thomas plays for the team, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Ince has been in advanced talks with the English
Championship club and may be appointed as early as today, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  