-- China New Year Retail Sales Growth Slows on Frugal Drive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/china-lunar-new-year-festival-retail-sales-post-15-gain.html
Shop and restaurant sales in China
during the week-long Lunar New Year festival rose at the slowest
pace in four years as a government crackdown on extravagant
spending by officials limited outlays on food and drink.  Retail sales at outlets monitored by the Ministry of
Commerce increased 14.7 percent in the Feb. 9 to Feb. 15 period
from the year-earlier break to 539 billion yuan ($86 billion),
according to a  statement  on its website on Feb. 15. That was
down from a 16.2 percent pace in 2012 and the least since a 13.8
percent gain in 2009, according to previously released figures.  The New Year holiday, comparable to the peak Christmas
shopping rush in the U.S., is a period when consumers in the
world’s second-biggest economy splurge on food, jewelry and
gifts, and government officials are wined and dined. Sales may
have been damped by a campaign started by Xi Jinping, the new
head of the Communist Party, to rein in lavish spending while
rising incomes are prompting more Chinese to travel overseas.  “The slower growth, manifested in the restaurant business,
was partly a result of the government crackdown on corruption
and the anti-waste campaign,” Leon Zhao, a Shanghai-based
analyst at researcher Frost & Sullivan, said in a telephone
interview. “We expect overall retail sales and consumption to
rise again along with the improving economy in the second and
third quarters.”  Accelerating Growth  An improving economic outlook may help boost store receipts.
China’s  gross domestic product  rose 7.9 percent in the final
three months of 2012 from the same period a year earlier,
halting a seven-quarter deceleration. The World Bank forecasts
economic growth will quicken to 8.4 percent this year, more than
four times the pace of the U.S. The euro area will shrink 0.1
percent, the lender projects.  Steeper discounts, longer promotion periods and Valentine’s
Day falling during the 2013 festival were expected to help drive
purchases, especially of gold and jewelry,  Candy Huang , a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Barclays Plc, said before the holiday.
The New Year break was in January last year.  Jewelry sales jumped 38.1 percent over the week-long break
compared with a 16.4 percent increase in 2012, according to
commerce ministry figures. Food sales rose 9.8 percent, down
from a 16.2 percent pace the previous year. The increase in
garment sales slowed to 6.3 percent from 18.7 percent, the data
showed.  Restaurant Sales  Sales of “high end” electronics, including  Apple Inc. ’s
iPad and iPhone, jumped 36 percent in shops monitored by the
ministry in the eastern city of Nanjing, according to the
statement.  In contrast, spending at “high-end” restaurants in the
eastern province of Zhejiang dropped by more than 20 percent,
the ministry said.  The data are based on sales at “major retail and
restaurant outlets” monitored by the ministry, according to the
statement, which didn’t specify the number of stores or whether
the figures were adjusted for inflation. The cities of Beijing,
Shanghai and Nanjing, and the central and eastern provinces of
Shandong, Henan, Hebei, Zhejiang and Hubei were mentioned in the
report.  The  National Bureau of Statistics  will release combined
retail sales data for January and February on March 9.  A report by the official Xinhua News Agency yesterday said
many hotels and restaurants saw business decline over the
holiday. The five-star Liuzhou Hotel in the southern city of
Liuzhou, frequently used for government receptions, saw
consumption of abalone, lobster, Moutai liquor and imported
wines drop “drastically,” it said, citing an employee who
declined to be identified.  Flagging Spirit  Shares in Shanghai-listed  Kweichow Moutai Co. , the maker of
the white spirit, have dropped 17 percent since Xi took power on
Nov. 15. Over the same period, the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index has jumped 20 percent.  Demand for fireworks to celebrate the Year of the Snake
also fizzled as residents became more aware of their impact on
the environment after toxic smog engulfed northern China last
month. Statistics from the  Beijing government  showed sales of
fireworks in the city during the holiday fell 45 percent from
last year to 313,000 boxes, Xinhua said.  China UnionPay , which operates the country’s bankcard
network, said the value of domestic card transactions during the
New Year holiday jumped 43 percent from a year ago and overseas
purchases gained 33 percent. Card payments in jewelry shops
surged 119 percent, boosted by Valentine’s Day, while
transactions in shopping malls climbed 44 percent, the company
said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. In contrast,
payments in restaurants increased 17 percent, it said.  Overseas Tourism  Produce and meat prices were “relatively stable” during
the holiday, the commerce ministry said. The price of  pork 
gained 0.9 percent during the holiday period from the preceding
week, mutton rose 1.9 percent, beef 1.3 percent and a basket of
18 vegetables rose 0.6 percent.  Tourist arrivals in 39 key cities in China, including
Beijing, Shanghai, Harbin and Sanya, climbed 15 percent to 76
million during the holiday compared with last year’s break, the
National Tourism Administration  said  on its website yesterday.
Travel agencies handled more than 4 million tourists visiting
overseas, a 14 percent gain on last year, with Thailand, South
Korea and Hong Kong among the hottest destinations, the
administration said.  In a separate  statement , the agency said tourism revenue
over the festival rose 15 percent from last year to 117 billion
yuan.  With holidaymakers due to return to work yesterday, the
Ministry of Railways  estimated  it handled more than 7.4 million
passengers on Feb. 15 and deployed 783 temporary trains to cope
with the rush. A total 224.5 million trips were made on railways
during the festival, representing a daily average of 5.61
million, Xinhua reported, citing the ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Feiwen Rong  in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net 
 Helen Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  