-- Christie Winning N.J. Urban Core Democrats in Campaign
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-15T17:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/christie-winning-n-j-urban-core-democrats-in-campaign.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s record
popularity since Hurricane Sandy ravaged  New Jersey  is prodding
some Democrats in the state’s urban core to cross over and back
the Republican for a second term they see as inevitable.  In heavily Democratic Hudson County, the most densely
populated part of New Jersey, state Senator and Union City Mayor
 Brian Stack  called him “Numero Uno.” In Harrison, where voters
backed Democrat  Jon Corzine  over Christie by a 3-1 margin in the
2009 race, Mayor  Raymond McDonough  and the entire town council
endorsed the 50-year-old governor last month.  As Christie enjoys the highest approval marks of any U.S.
governor and almost half of Democratic voters say he deserves a
second term, he faces only one challenger, state Senator  Barbara Buono . She trails him by more than 40 percentage points. With
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , former acting Governor  Richard Codey 
and Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  all out of the race, some
Democrats say backing the incumbent is their best move.  “It’s fairly mercenary,” said  Patrick Murray , director of
the Monmouth University Polling Institute in West Long Branch.
“If you’re pretty sure that this guy is going to have his hand
on the spigot for the next four years, why not get behind him
now? That’s what a lot of Democratic officeholders are thinking
at this point.”  Party Bosses  The early support in Hudson County shows Christie has been
able to gain traction in areas that have traditionally voted for
Democrats. It may offer an initial test of whether the governor
can build upon that support and get party leaders in other parts
of the state to side with him.  Christie has received backing for some of his proposals
from prominent Democrats, including southern New Jersey party
leader  George Norcross  and Essex County Executive  Joseph DiVincenzo . Neither has come out in support of Buono or
Christie. Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the
Democratic State Committee, said his party is mostly united
around Buono, a 59-year-old Metuchen resident.  The governor’s race will lead a ticket in which all 120
seats of the Legislature are up for grabs. Democratic control of
the Senate and Assembly has stymied Christie’s plans to cut
income taxes and end public-employee payouts for unused sick
time when they retire, and forced him to compromise on a levy
cap and benefits overhaul.  Hudson Democrats  Since taking office in January 2010, Christie has often
bashed Democrats for failing to approve his proposals. At other
times, he has touted his ability to compromise with them.  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, won the 2009 race with 48 percent of the total vote
to Corzine’s 45 percent, as voters rejected the one-term
Democrat’s handling of the recession.  In Hudson County, voters backed Corzine that year. They
haven’t supported a Republican for governor since 1985, when the
popular  Tom Kean  won a 40 percentage point landslide in his re-
election effort.  In 1997, when Republican  Christine Todd Whitman  was re-
elected, she beat her Democratic challenger  James McGreevey  47
percent to 46 percent, even after McGreevey won in all the
counties that usually vote for Democrats, including Hudson and
Essex.  Sandy Bounce  Democrats have an advantage of 703,000 registered voters
over Republicans in New Jersey. Independents make up almost half
the electorate, outnumbering both major parties. The state’s
voters backed Democrats in the last six presidential contests.  In a Feb. 12 Rutgers-Eagleton  poll , Christie was beating
Buono 63 percent to 21 percent. Even among Democrats, he led 42
percent to 38 percent. The governor is enjoying a record 74
percent approval rating for his response to Sandy, up from 56
percent before the Oct. 29 storm, according to a  Quinnipiac
University  poll on Jan. 23.  The governor has managed to insert a wedge into the
Democratic Party and exploit rifts among leaders that first
surfaced in his race against Corzine, said Murray, the Monmouth
pollster. Democratic leaders “sat on their hands” in that
contest and withheld support for Corzine over lingering disputes
and a perception that he overlooked lawmakers, Murray said.  Town Finances  McDonough, a Democrat who has been mayor of the Hudson
County town of Harrison for 19 years, said he supported
Christie’s property-tax cap and pension and benefits changes,
and credits him for new jobs and development in the town.  “His approval is 74 percent, so what more could I say?”
McDonough said during his Jan. 31 endorsement announcement with
Christie at Tops Diner in East Newark.  Harrison, a community of 13,000 people across the Passaic
River from Newark, had its credit rating cut to junk grade by
Moody’s Investors Service in 2011 after the economic promise of
a $200 million stadium for Major League Soccer’s Red Bulls
failed to pan out. Moody’s in March issued an “enhanced
rating” of A1 on some town bonds after the state stepped in
with $1.5 million of additional aid to cover a payment on
stadium debt.  McDonough, in a letter attached to the aid application,
said Harrison would have “essentially” shut down without the
money from Christie’s administration.  Party Labels  The governor, in accepting the Harrison endorsement, said
he is looking forward to McDonough’s help in “recruiting new
supporters -- especially here in deep blue Hudson County -- who
recognize that when Republicans and Democrats work together,
good things happen for New Jersey.”  Stack, the Union City mayor, has stopped short of formally
endorsing Christie. Still, during a Feb. 7 speech at a ribbon-
cutting for a local elementary school built with state money, he
called Christie “the best governor in the history of New
Jersey.” He and other Democrats refer to party members who
support the governor’s moves as “Christiecrats.”  “He’ll fight with Republicans; he’ll fight with Democrats
-- whatever is best for New Jersey,” said Stack, 46. He joined
Democrats voting for Christie’s pension moves over the
opposition of public-employee unions. “I don’t put too much
stock into party labels.”  Norcross, the Democratic party leader who worked with the
governor on his overhaul of the state university system, didn’t
respond to e-mails or telephone calls seeking comment on whether
he would endorse Buono.  Pension Bill  DiVincenzo, who supported Christie’s pension changes, left
an event today in Paterson without speaking to reporters. Philip
Alagia, his chief of staff, said in a telephone interview that
DiVincenzo hasn’t endorsed anyone and is “focused on governing
right now.”  “There are lots of people who make up the Democratic
Party, and no one endorsement or one elected official carries
the sentiment of the entire Democratic Party,” Wisniewski said.  Democrats have “coalesced robustly” behind Buono, and
will avoid a costly and divisive primary in June, Wisniewski
said. He declined to speculate on why some members of his party
have lined up with Christie.  Buono, speaking in Paterson at U.S. Senator Frank
Lautenberg’s announcement that he won’t seek a sixth term, said
she didn’t expect to see her party so united until April.  “The party coalesced around me earlier than I thought,”
Buono said. “There are very few statewide races in New Jersey,
so anytime there’s an opening you’re going to see a lot of
jockeying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  