-- CIFI Holdings, Stats Chippac Plan Dollar Debt as Bond Risk Holds
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-15T04:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/cifi-holdings-stats-chippac-plan-dollar-debt-as-bond-risk-holds.html
CIFI Holdings Group Co. and Stats
Chippac Ltd. are among companies considering dollar-denominated
notes as the Lunar New Year holidays come to an end. Bond risk
in the region was little changed.  Chinese real estate developer CIFI hired Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to arrange investor
meetings next week, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Stats Chippac, the Singapore-based semiconductor tester
and assembler controlled by Temasek Holdings Pte, is also
planning a security due in 2018 with a coupon of not less than 4
percent, according to a company statement yesterday.  The Republic of Indonesia and China State Construction
International Holdings Ltd. have also hired banks for possible
bond sales. Issuance dropped in Asia outside Japan this month
after companies raised a record $23.4 billion in January, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Yield premiums on dollar debt in the
region fell to a two-week low of  261 basis points  more than
Treasuries yesterday, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index shows.  “New deals will start to emerge next week,” said  Brayan Lai , an analyst in emerging-market credit trading at Jefferies
Group Inc. in Singapore. “But with earnings season still going
on in Asia until April, some companies will hold off until
then.”  Stats Chippac plans to exchange all $600 million of its
outstanding 7.5 percent bonds due 2015 for the new securities,
according to the company statement.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan held at 110.5 basis points as of 8:08
a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The gauge last closed at a lower level on Jan. 29, according to
data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was at 112.5 as of 11:07
a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking Corp. prices. The
benchmark closed at the same level yesterday, the lowest since
Jan. 10, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1.5 basis points to
121.5 basis points as of 9:17 a.m. in Tokyo, according to
Citigroup Inc. prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  