-- Citgo Settles With New Hampshire in Water Pollution Case
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   S a r a h   E a r l e
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/citgo-settles-with-new-hampshire-in-water-pollution-case-1-.html
Citgo Petroleum Corp.  agreed to pay
$16 million to New Hampshire to settle a lawsuit alleging oil
companies were responsible for the contamination of the state’s
groundwater with the gasoline additive MTBE.  Citgo, the Houston-based unit of Venezuela’s state-owned
oil  company , was dismissed last month by New Hampshire Superior
Court Judge Peter Fauver from a trial in Concord so the company
could discuss a possible settlement with the state. The
agreement, dated Feb. 12, was filed in superior court yesterday.  The money “will be placed into an account to be used for
projects related to the remediation of MTBE in groundwater and
drinking water in the state of New Hampshire,” according to the
proposed order dismissing all claims against Citgo.  Exxon Mobil Corp . is the last defendant on trial in the
$818 million lawsuit filed by the state in 2003. The state has
said it would seek damages based partly on the oil companies’
market shares of gasoline sales in New Hampshire during the
period covered by the lawsuit. The number of wells found to be
contaminated with the additive methyl tertiary butyl ether is
another factor in determining damages.  Citgo’s market share ranged from 3.1 percent to 8.7
percent, New Hampshire said. Based on those figures, the state
might have sought $25 million to $71 million from Citgo.  Exxon Mobil’s  market share  of gasoline sales was about 30
percent, the state said. Based on the estimated cost of $818
million to test, monitor and clean groundwater, New Hampshire
could be seeking about $245 million from the company.  Cleanup Funds  The state has received $213 million from oil companies for
two MTBE cleanup funds since 1989 through a 1.5 cent-a-gallon
fee on all gasoline imported into the state. The funds have $4
million left in them, the state said in court.  Exxon Mobil , based in Irving, Texas, has argued in court it
isn’t liable for damage because it added MTBE to gasoline to
comply with federal regulations, which pre-empt state law. Oil
companies added MTBE to make gasoline burn more thoroughly in
order to reduce air pollution, as required under the 1990  Clean
Air Act .  The state was aware of MTBE’s risks when it opted into a
federal clean-air program in 1991 because there had been studies
of the additive for several years before that, Exxon Mobil said
in court.  New Hampshire banned the additive as of January 2007.  Vehicles, Junkyards  MTBE is highly soluble in water and can be carried great
distances from where it leaked,  Jessica Grant , a lawyer for New
Hampshire, told the jury. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle
junkyards, underground storage tanks and pipe fittings,
according to the state.  New Hampshire also sued  Shell Oil Co. ,  Sunoco Inc. ,
ConocoPhillips, Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA and  Hess Corp.  Those
companies settled before the trial began.  New Hampshire had received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants before the agreement with Citgo,
according to court papers.  This is one of scores of cases involving MTBE filed in the
U.S. since 2000 against oil refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers. MTBE lawsuits have been consolidated in federal
court in New York for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions.  In 2009, a federal jury ordered  Exxon Mobil  to pay New York
City $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells.
Exxon Mobil has appealed that verdict.  The New Hampshire trial began Jan. 14. The state said it
expects to rest its case Feb. 21. Exxon Mobil would then present
its case.  The case is New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  