-- Co-Operative Bank CFO Quits, Dealing Blow to Lloyds Sale
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-02-15T13:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/co-operative-bank-cfo-quits-dealing-blow-to-lloyds-branches-bid.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc Chief
Financial Officer  James Mack  quit after less than two years,
fueling speculation the firm’s 750 million-pound ($1.2 billion)
purchase of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  branches is foundering.  Mack, 41, will take up another job in the industry, the
bank said in a statement today, without identifying the
competitor. The lender has started to search for a replacement
and Mack will stay until a candidate is found, it said.  Patrick Tooher , a spokesman for the bank, declined to comment further.  The purchase of the Lloyds branches, agreed in July, has
dragged on as regulators pressed Co-Op to appoint a full-time
chief for its lending unit amid concern the company’s managers
don’t have enough banking experience to run the enlarged
business. Lloyds has said it may opt instead to sell the 632
branches in an initial public offering to meet the November
deadline set by European regulators for the disposal.  “This takes the chances of a sale down to 50-50,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA
with a neutral rating on Lloyds. “Lloyds will be brushing off
their IPO possibility, though the worry is that RBS has dusted
off the IPO possibility for the sale of its branches too,”
putting them in competition for investors.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is weighing an IPO of 316
branches after  Banco Santander SA  aborted talks to buy them in
October. Both Lloyds, which reports full-year results on March
1, and RBS are being forced to sell branches to comply with
European Union state aid rules after they were bailed out by
taxpayers during the 2008 financial crisis.  ‘Few Months’  In July, Co-Op said  Paul Pester , the Lloyds executive
running the branches being sold, would become the chief of the
merged bank, replacing  Barry Tootell , who was named acting chief
executive officer in July 2011 after  Neville Richardson  left.
Co-Op CEO  Peter Marks  said in August he was “confident” that
the firm would complete the purchase within “a few months.”  A purchase would more than double the number of Co-Op’s
branches to 1,000. The lender will add 4.8 million customers
with 3.1 million checking accounts, providing the combined
company with 7 percent of the consumer account market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  