-- Coffee Fungus Seen Cutting Up to 25% of Central America Output
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-02-15T13:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/coffee-fungus-seen-cutting-up-to-25-of-central-america-output.html
Coffee farms in Central America may
lose 25 percent of exportable production next year because of a
crop disease known as leaf rust, providing a “little bit” of a
boost to slumping prices, an industry group said.  In the 12 months starting Oct. 1, about 3.45 million bags
of exportable coffee will be lost from the 13.8 million expected
in Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Costa Rica,
said  Jose Angel Buitrago , the president of the Central American
Organization of Coffee Exporters, or Orceca, citing figures
compiled from the region’s main grower groups.  “Irregular, heavy rains in August, followed by an extended
period of sunshine and high winds, created the perfect humid
conditions for the disease to spread at unprecedented rates,”
Buitrago said yesterday in a telephone interview from Managua,
Nicaragua. The situation was exacerbated when this year’s
harvest began in October, because coffee pickers carry the
spores from the fungus on their clothes, undermining attempts to
curb the disease with fungicides, he said.  Through yesterday, arabica coffee plunged 54 percent to
$1.4075 a pound from a 14-year high in May 2011 on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York  after the rally encouraged producers to boost
output, led by top grower Brazil. Lower prices mean less revenue
to spend on controlling the disease and replacing infected
trees, because most of the region’s farmers harvest 5 hectares
(12.4 acres) or less and lack financing, Buitrago said.  Combined Shipments  In 2012, combined shipments from the five Central American
countries totaled 13.65 million bags, or 12 percent of the
world’s total of 113.14 million, data from the London-based
 International Coffee Organization  show. A bag weighs 60
kilograms, or 132 pounds.  First found in Latin America in the 1970s, the disease,
also known as Roya, is caused by the fungus Hemileia vastatrix,
which attacks plants’ foliage, interferes with their ability to
photosynthesize, and prevents beans from reaching full maturity.  An aging tree population, with plants over 25 years old,
has made plantations more susceptible, said Buitrago, who is
also the president of  Excan , Nicaragua’s main exporter group.  Growers planted more beans favored by specialty companies
such as  Starbucks Corp ., and those varieties are more
susceptible to fungus, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  