-- Colombia Bond Yields Drop to Record on Rate Outlook; Peso Falls
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-02-15T20:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/colombia-bond-yields-drop-to-record-on-rate-outlook-peso-falls.html
Colombia’s peso bond yields fell to
a record low amid mounting speculation that policy makers will
reduce benchmark borrowing costs at least once more to revive
the slowing economy.  The yield on the government’s peso-denominated bonds due in
2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.01
percent at the close of trading in Bogota, according to the
central bank.  Yields have fallen 18 basis points since a Feb. 5 report
showed annual inflation slowed to 2 percent in January, the
lowest level since April 2010 and at the bottom of the central
bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range. Policy makers will
lower the key rate 25 basis points to 3.75 percent at a Feb. 22
meeting,  Felipe Hernandez , a Stamford, Connecticut-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a note
to clients today.  “Additional interest rate cuts are likely as inflation
remains in the lower end of the target and domestic demand and
economic growth, albeit positive, are still weak,” Hernandez
wrote. Expectations for additional cuts will extend a rally in
the peso bonds if the central bank maintains “a dovish tone,”
Hernandez, wrote.  Three-month swap rates, an indication of expectations for
the direction of benchmark rates, show that traders are betting
on at least one more interest rate cut.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 1,787.05 per U.S. dollar,
paring its gain this week to 0.1 percent. The currency has
dropped 1.1 percent this year as the government and central bank
announced increased dollar purchases to stem a rally that sent
the peso to a 17-month high on Jan. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  