-- Commodities Revenue of 10 Top Banks Slumped 24% Last Year
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-02-15T17:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/commodities-revenue-of-10-biggest-banks-slumped-24-last-year.html
Commodities revenue at the 10
largest banks slumped 24 percent last year, the first drop since
at least 2008, according to analytics company Coalition.  The total fell to $6 billion from $8 billion in 2011,
London-based Coalition said in a report today. The lenders’
investment-banking revenue rose 10 percent to $159 billion, the
first gain in three years, it estimated.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of raw materials rose
0.3 percent last year, the smallest annual change since 1985 and
its worst performance in four years. The gauge’s 100-day
historic volatility last year reached the lowest level since at
least 2002, when Bloomberg data started.  “Low  volatility  and reduced client activity led to a 24
percent drop in revenues,” Coalition said. “Performance was
also subdued by ongoing concerns about increased regulation and
capital sensitivity, pushing banks to re-evaluate their
commodities strategies.”  Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Morgan Stanley
also face higher capital requirements and tightening regulation
that restrict commodities trading. The Volcker rule ban on
proprietary trading and rules designed to increase transparency
in derivatives markets are among regulations mandated by the
Dodd-Frank Act awaiting completion by U.S. authorities.  Credit Suisse  In addition to Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, the
Coalition Index of 10 leading investment banks includes Bank of
America Corp., Barclays Plc,  Citigroup Inc. , Credit Suisse Group
AG, Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG. Spokespeople for all 10 companies
declined to comment on the report’s findings.  Barclays this week shut its speculative agriculture trading
and said its commodities unit will focus on “core banking,
financing and risk management.” Its commodities trading staff
shrank by a third last year and risk exposure to raw materials
was cut by half, according to the bank.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, has cut power and
natural-gas traders in the U.S. and Europe. UBS, the Swiss
leader, is ceasing to trade oil, industrial metals and
agricultural products.  Commodities accounted for 6.5 percent of the $92 billion in
revenue generated by the 10 banks last year from their fixed
income, currency and commodity units, known as FICC in the
industry. FICC revenues rose 21 percent in 2012, Coalition said.
The banks don’t break out commodities revenue from the total.  Goldman Sachs said Jan. 16 its net revenue from commodities
was “significantly lower” in the fourth quarter. Morgan
Stanley said two days later its raw-materials revenues were “de
minimus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  