-- Coronavirus Infects Third U.K. Family Member, Health Agency Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-02-15T18:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/coronavirus-infects-third-u-k-family-member-health-agency-says.html
British health authorities
identified an additional case of a new respiratory virus in a
relative of a person diagnosed this week, bringing the global
tally of cases to 12.  The patient, who doesn’t have any recent travel history, is
recovering from a mild respiratory illness, the  Health
Protection Authority  said in a statement today, without
specifying the patient’s gender or age. Officials on Feb. 11
said a British resident who traveled to the Middle East and
Pakistan was diagnosed with the novel coronavirus, and on Feb.
13 they said a family member had been infected.  Today’s announcement that another family member has
contracted the virus brings the number of cases in the U.K. to
four. Of the 12 cases globally, five people have died. While
person-to-person transmission may have occurred in some other
cases in the Middle East, the risk of infection is considered
low, the agency said.  “We would like to emphasize that the risk associated with
novel coronavirus to the general U.K. population remains very
low,” John Watson, the HPA’s head of respiratory diseases, said
in the statement. “If novel coronavirus were more infectious,
we would have expected to have seen a larger number of cases
than we have seen since the first case was reported three months
ago.”  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, which sickened more than 8,000
people and killed 774 in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, according to the World Health
Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  