-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Climb; Heinz Risk Increases for Second Day
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-15T21:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-g-20-finance-chiefs-meet.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk advanced as Group of 20 finance ministers meet in Moscow to
discuss global economic growth.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1 basis
point to a mid-price of 86.9 basis points at 4:04 p.m. in New
York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  G-20 finance officials and central bankers began talks in
the Russian capital today to find some common ground on
currencies, with investors seeking clarity on how comfortable
they are with a sliding yen.  “Some market players could be buying insurance for a long
weekend with a G-20 meeting,”  Scott Carmack , a portfolio
manager at Leader Capital Corp. in Portland, Oregon, said in a
telephone interview today. While the currency decision would not
have a direct effect on swaps, the market may be “looking for
any catalyst to sell-off a bit” Carmack said.  The U.S. markets will be closed on Monday for the
Presidents Day holiday.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Heinz Risk  The cost to protect  HJ Heinz Co.’s  debt rose for a second
day after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital agreed to buy the ketchup maker for
about $23 billion yesterday.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the Pittsburgh-based
company’s debt climbed 17.3 basis points to 196.7 basis points
at 3:59 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show. That’s almost
five times the level of the contracts before the deal was
announced.  The risk premium on the  Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index  increased 2 basis points to 438 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Sales of company bonds in the U.S. fell 6 percent this week
to $23.1 billion as relative yields on the debt narrowed.  Vodafone Group Plc raised $6 billion in the largest dollar
sale in about three weeks and Battle Creek, Michigan-based
Kellogg Co. sold $650 million of fixed- and floating-rate debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales decreased from
$24.6 billion last week, bringing February’s total to $49.4
billion, compared with $90 billion in the similar period last
year.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade or junk-
rated debt declined 1.2 basis points to 503 basis points,
according to Bloomberg data.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  