-- Correa Poised for Re-Election in Ecuador on Oil-Backed Spending
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/correa-poised-for-re-election-in-ecuador-on-oil-backed-spending.html
Rafael Correa , Ecuador’s first
elected president since 1996 to finish his term, is poised to
win re-election Feb. 17 as voters reward him for using the OPEC
nation’s oil wealth to boost spending on social welfare.  The former economics professor was running ahead of the
opposition with 62 percent of those surveyed saying they planned
to re-elect him, according to a Feb. 5 poll, after pledging to
“radicalize” his “citizens’ revolution” with free education
and health care.  As the head of a nation where about one in three of its
15.4 million citizens live in poverty, Correa defaulted on $3.2
billion of bonds in 2008 and pushed through laws nationalizing
the country’s oil reserves during his first two terms in office.
While the moves provided short-term gains, the 49-year-old
Correa, an ally of Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez , is now paying the
cost with stagnant crude output and declines in private
investment needed to boost slumping growth.  Correa’s “weakness will be trying to keep promises in a
time of less funding,” former Finance Minister  Fausto Ortiz ,
who worked with Correa in 2007-2008, said in a phone interview
from Quito. Whoever wins “will need to approach the private
sector and foreign investors to be able to substitute financing
that’s no longer available from oil.”  First-Round  Correa, who’s vying with seven other candidates for a four-
year term as the Andean country’s president, needs at least half
the valid votes cast or 40 percent of the vote plus a 10
percentage-point lead over the second-place candidate to be
elected in the first round.  If no candidate receives the requisite number of votes, a
second-round election will be held April 7 between the top two
candidates. The  National Electoral Council  will publish partial
voting results after polls close around 5 p.m. local time Feb.
17.  A Feb. 5 survey by Quito-based pollster Perfiles de
Opinion, the last poll published before the elections, shows
Correa leading with the support of 62 percent of those surveyed.
 Guillermo Lasso , the former chief executive officer of Ecuador’s
second-biggest publicly-traded bank,  Banco de Guayaquil SA ,
trailed Correa in second place with 9.2 percent support.  The survey of 8,050 people had a margin of error of 1
percentage point. Six other polls found Correa leading with
support ranging from 48 percent to 59 percent.  Before Correa, Ecuador saw three elected presidents fail to
complete their terms.  Abdala Bucaram , who adopted the nickname
“El Loco” or “Madman” while in power, was voted out of
office by Congress in 1997 after being declared mentally unfit
to rule.  Predecessors, ‘Authenticity’  Jamil Mahuad , a Harvard University professor who led
Ecuador’s 1999 default and presided over the collapse of the
nation’s financial system, stepped down after street protests
and a military uprising left him without support in 2000.  Lucio Gutierrez , a candidate in this year’s election, was
thrown out by Congress in 2005 after his decision to fill the
Supreme Court with allies was met by months of street protests
and a military rebellion. The Perfiles survey showed the former
president running in third place with 3.8 percent of those
polled saying they planned to vote for him.  “The last three governments before the citizens’
revolution were overthrown not because Ecuadoreans are
ungovernable, but because they betrayed the people,” Correa
said in interview yesterday with state-controlled television
station  GamaTV . “By saying what we think and doing what we say,
it’s this authenticity that gives us immense popular support.”  Neither Correa nor Lasso responded to interview requests.  Congress, President’s Agenda  Ecuadoreans will also vote for a new congress. Correa’s
ruling Alianza Pais political party may increase its control of
the legislature to between 80 and 100 of the assembly’s 137
seats, Eurasia Group analyst  Risa Grais-Targow  said in a Feb. 11
research note.  “Correa will likely face few institutional barriers to
advancing his agenda during a third term,” Grais-Targow said.
“Though the overall direction of policy is unlikely to change,
Correa could use his stronger political mandate and likely
legislative majority to advance more controversial reforms that
he has avoided in the past,” including legal reforms to attract
foreign miners, she said.  An increase in the price of oil, tax increases and loans
from China have helped Correa more than double spending in the
past six years, fueling growth.  China, Commodities  In programs similar to those implemented by Chavez, Correa
has used loans from China to rebuild the nation’s crumbling
energy infrastructure and expand its hospital system. The
government in January boosted monthly cash handouts to the poor
by 43 percent.  Home to untapped copper reserves similar to those of Chile
and Peru, the world’s top producers, Ecuador has signed loans
for $7.3 billion from China since 2009, or about one-third of
the Andean country’s annual budget, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg based on government announcements.  Ecuador’s economy, South America’s seventh biggest, has
grown by an average of 5.2 percent a year since Correa came to
power in January 2007, while inflation has averaged 4.8 percent,
according to government data.  The central bank forecasts economic growth of 4 percent
this year, down from an estimated 4.8 percent in 2012. Inflation
will slow to an average 3.8 percent in 2013, less than the 5.1
percent average last year, according to government data.  Ecuador uses the U.S. dollar as its official currency.  Oil, Revenue  The price of oil, which provides the government with about
48 percent of its revenue, has jumped 84 percent to $97.36 a
barrel since Correa took office, touching a record $145.29 in
July 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ecuador holds South America’s third-largest oil reserves
and ranks as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
smallest producer with an estimated output capacity of 505,000
barrels of crude a day.  While polls show Correa has built support through social
spending, New York-based Human Rights Watch has sounded alarms
about a deterioration in press freedom, indigenous rights and an
increase in judicial corruption under Correa, according to its
2012 annual  report .  Laws pushed through congress by the president, like
Ecuador’s so-called democracy code, “restrict freedom of
expression, and government officials, including Correa, use
these laws against his critics,” the organization said.  Democracy Code  The democracy code limits media coverage of political
candidates and parties during the run-up to elections, banning
journalists from reporting anything “favorable or unfavorable”
about contestants or their movements in the 45 days before a
vote.  The law has led media outlets to opt for self-censorship to
avoid being sued, according Fundamedios, a Quito-based press
watchdog.  The Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a regional research
group based in Washington,  said  in December that the government
had pushed through an “irregular” voting-law reform, without
congressional approval, that weakens the country’s electoral
system and restricts freedom of press.  The changes, which divided Correa’s party, “will not
contribute to the conduct of free and fair elections,” the
council said in a report.  Leadership, Global Stage  “What’s at stake is whether this kind of personalistic,
populist leadership will dominate Ecuadorean politics for the
foreseeable future,”  Cynthia Arnson , director of the Latin
American program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars, said in a telephone interview.  Correa, an opponent of what he calls U.S. imperialism in
Latin America, has also angered U.S. lawmakers by allying
himself with Iran’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , expelling
President  Barack Obama ’s ambassador to Quito and granting
WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  political asylum at Ecuador’s
Embassy in London. Wikileaks has published thousands of
classified U.S. cables on Assange’s anti-secrecy website.  If Correa is re-elected, he will need to moderate his
policies to attract new investment from local and foreign
investors to boost “stagnant” markets,  Patricio Pena , the
chairman of the Quito securities exchange, said in an interview
in Quito.  ‘Next Government’  Ecuador, which has South American’s lowest foreign direct
investment rate as a percentage of GDP, has seen yields on its
$650 million of dollar notes due in 2015, the country’s sole-
performing foreign bond, drop 1.04 percentage point to 8.01
percent in the past two months amid a record rally in global
high-yield debt.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 116 basis points,
or 1.16 percentage point, to 710 basis points this year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG indexes. That compares
with a nine basis-point increase for the  EMBIG , making Ecuador
the third-riskiest economy in South America after Venezuela and
Argentina, JPMorgan data show.  “We’ve been immobilized in an environment where things
should be moving very quickly,” Pena said in an interview
during a conference at the Universidad San Francisco. “The next
government will necessarily have to move closer to the business
sector because the country can’t stay stagnant with the absence
of new investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 