-- Oil Drops on U.S. Industrial Output, Euro-Area Exports
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-15T21:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/crude-drops-to-trim-weekly-gain-as-euro-area-exports-decline.html
West Texas Intermediate oil fell
after U.S. industrial production unexpectedly shrank and euro-
area exports declined the most in five months, raising concern
that fuel demand may weaken.  Futures pared the week’s gain as January factory output
slipped while euro-area exports dropped in December. Oil
extended the intraday low in late afternoon as equities fell on
news that  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  had the worst sales start to a
month in seven years. The shares reached a four-month high of
$98.24 on Jan. 30. The year-to-date low is $91.52.  “Industrial production shrank and the European data is
keeping pressure on the oil market,” said  Bill Baruch , a senior
market strategist at Iitrader.com in Chicago. “Crude hit the
wall around $98. That’s a major resistance level and a line in
the sand that everybody is looking at.”  Crude for March delivery slid $1.45, or 1.5 percent, to
settle at $95.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Trading was 33 percent above the 100-day average for the time of
day at 3:26 p.m., after rising to above 100 percent of the
average in early trading. Prices rose 14 cents this week, the
ninth advance in 10 weeks.  Brent for April fell 34 cents, or 0.3 percent, to settle at
$117.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Trading was 9.4 percent below the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $21.25 a
barrel to WTI futures for the same month. The difference was
$20.10 yesterday, the narrowest since Feb. 5.  Resistance Level  “It appears to be some profit-taking and weekend position-
squaring,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. A price of $98
“is a formidable resistance. It’s proven to be a tough level to
break.”  U.S. industrial production dropped 0.1 percent last month,
following a 0.4 percent gain in December, the Federal Reserve
said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected an increase of
0.2 percent.  “U.S. industrial production contracted and it could send
oil down another $2,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Because these
moves have been so violent, people have a hair-trigger on their
positions.”  European Exports  Euro-area exports decreased a seasonally adjusted 1.8
percent in December, the biggest drop since July, data from the
European Union’s statistics office showed.  “Concerns about the economy seem to be weighing on oil,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in Chicago. “The market has become a bit heavy.”  Oil consumption in the U.S. will average 18.65 million
barrels a day this year, the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistics arm, said in a monthly  report 
on Feb. 12. That’s down from the agency’s January estimate of
18.71 million.  Petroleum demand fell to 18.6 million barrels last year,
down from 19 million in 2011, according to EIA data.  Oil also moved lower on a report that major powers plan to
offer to ease sanctions against Iran barring trade in gold and
other precious metals in return for the country’s steps to shut
down the newly expanded Fordow uranium enrichment plant. The
report from Reuters cited unidentified Western officials.  “The market does seem to react positively to any sign of
any type of progress with Iran,” Flynn said.  Following Wal-Mart  Crude fell as much as 2.2 percent, following declines in
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after internal Wal-Mart e-mails
obtained by Bloomberg News showed the retailer’s sales were hurt
as payroll-tax increases hit shoppers already battling a slow
economy. The S&P 500 dropped as much as 0.5 percent, erasing an
earlier gain of 0.2 percent.  Futures may decline in New York next week on an increase in
U.S. crude supplies as refineries cut operating rates to perform
maintenance, according to a Bloomberg survey of 40 analysts and
traders.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 641,497
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. It totaled 502,501 contracts
yesterday, 3.9 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.66 million, down less than 0.1 percent from Feb.
13’s record high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  