-- Darty Slumps After Retailer Warns Profit May Miss Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-15T10:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/darty-says-profit-in-danger-of-missing-estimates-as-sales-weaken.html
Darty Plc , the owner of France’s
biggest consumer-electronics chain, fell the most in more than
four years in London trading after saying it will probably miss
annual profit estimates after it offered more discounts.  Sales “softened” toward the end of the three months
through January, while high levels of promotional activity are
harming profitability, the London-based company said today.
Should conditions persist, adjusted pretax profit for the year
ending April 30 is “unlikely” to reach the lower end of
analyst estimates of about 30 million euros ($40 million). The
shares declined as much as 16 percent.  Darty has been seeking to turn around worsening sales with
a focus on its Internet offering and services such as repairs.
Still, acting Chief Executive Officer  Dominic Platt  said sales
worsened after Christmas as consumers tightened their belts and
the company provided more discounts to compete with rivals who
offered items free of value-added tax, particularly in the
Netherlands, Spain and France.  “Overall this is a weak update from Darty given softening
market trends at the end of the period,”  Georgina Johanan , an
analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove who has an underweight
recommendation on the stock, said in a report. “Given the
magnitude of the potential downgrade, maintenance of a flat
full-year dividend is looking increasingly less likely.”  The retailer  said in December  that subject to performance
it intended to maintain its dividend for the full year. The
total dividend for the previous year was 3.5 cents a share.  Continuing Pressure  Darty shares fell as much as 8 pence to 41.75 pence, the
biggest intraday drop since October 2008. The stock was down 6.5
percent at 46.50 pence as of 10:05 a.m., taking the decline to
18 percent this year and giving the company a market value of
246 million pounds.  The retailer has vowed to eliminate losses in its
unprofitable businesses in Spain, the Czech Republic and
Slovakia and has sold its Italian unit to ease the profit
decline.  Gross margins, a measure of  profitability , narrowed by 1.1
percentage point in the third quarter, Darty said today.  “We can’t expect any material improvement in the coming
year and I think there will continue to be pressures,” Platt
told reporters on a conference call. “I think the consumer is
tightening its belt in difficult circumstances and responding
perhaps more to promotional activity and I think that will
continue in the short term.”  The retailer’s markets “are challenging and highly
promotional, and this, together with the product mix, is having
an adverse impact on gross margins and profitability,” Platt
said in the statement.  French Economy  The executive said that while November was “tough,” the
run-up and through Christmas was good with strong sales of
multimedia items such as tablet devices, which “gave us some
hope that things were going to be in line with expectations.”  “What we’ve seen at the end of that peak season, people
are returning perhaps to type, the economy in France isn’t
getting any better, and people are responding more to
promotions,” he said.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 0.5 percent,
following a 3.4 percent decline in the second quarter. Sales in
France gained 0.4 percent on the same basis, compared with the
prior quarter’s 3.2 percent decline.  The company announced this month that  Regis Schultz , the
former manager of French furniture and electronics retailer BUT
SA, is taking over as CEO in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  