-- Dollar Sibor May Be Dropped Amid Global Rate-Rigging Probe
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-18T07:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/dollar-sibor-may-be-discontinued-amid-global-rate-rigging-probe.html
Singapore ’s central bank and a group
of lenders are considering putting an end to the city-state’s
U.S. dollar-linked interbank lending rate as regulators
worldwide probe allegations of rigged benchmark borrowing costs,
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Members of the Singapore Foreign Exchange Market Committee
examined the proposal in a Jan. 22 meeting, during a discussion
of the Monetary Authority of Singapore’s review of benchmark
rates, said the person, who asked not to be identified as the
discussions are confidential. The group may instead use the U.S.
dollar London interbank offered rate, the person said.  The banks are reviewing how  Singapore interbank offered
rates  are set amid probes into rate manipulation worldwide.
Barclays Plc, UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
been penalized $2.6 billion for rigging the U.K.’s Libor, a
scandal now set to engulf interdealer brokers such as ICAP Plc.  “People are losing confidence because of manipulation,”
said  Benedict Koh , a finance professor at Singapore Management
University’s Lee Kong Chian School of Business. “Given what has
transpired, it’s important for the authorities to provide more
transparency and audit by an independent body so that rates are
fairly set and not biased to financial institutions that have
conflict of interest.”  DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.,
Singapore’s largest banks by market value, together had about
$80 billion in dollar loans at the end of last year.  United
Overseas Bank Ltd. , the third-largest, had $15 billion of loans
in the currency at the end of the third quarter. The company is
scheduled to report 2012 results next week.  June Changes  The Singapore banking system’s total loans outstanding were
valued at S$879.2 billion ($709 billion) as of Dec. 31, 10
percent higher than a year earlier, according to monetary
authority data.  Singapore’s central bank will probably announce changes to
the benchmark rates and the process for setting them by the end
of June, the person said. The authority doesn’t comment on its
internal operations, a spokesperson for the regulator said on
Feb. 15.  The effect of using dollar Libor rates set in the U.K.
instead of dollar Sibor would be “almost immaterial” for
Singapore banks, said Jim Antos, a Kong-based analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd.  “For the MAS, it’s such a good idea to do this,” he said.
“Potential control problems move to London and no bank in
Singapore can be involved in price-fixing or possibly be accused
of anything like that.”  Market Rates  The U.S. dollar Sibor rate was set at 0.295 percent today
in Singapore for a three-month tenure, according to ABS data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 0.2901 percent for
three-month loans in U.S. dollars that banks in London said they
pay, figures from the British Bankers’ Association show.  Sibor, used to price debt ranging from commercial term-
loans to home mortgages, is calculated on behalf of the
Association of Banks in Singapore. Each day, the 12 contributing
banks are asked how much it would cost to borrow Singapore
dollars from each other for different periods from one month to
12 months. The three highest and lowest quotes are excluded, and
the six in the middle of the range are averaged and published at
11:30 a.m. in Singapore.  Under Review  The process of setting the benchmark rates is still under
review,  Ong-Ang Ai Boon , a director at the Association of Banks
in Singapore, said. She declined to comment further.  In July, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said it’s
looking into how banks set key interest rates, mirroring reviews
under way in financial centers from Sweden to South Korea.  The city-state’s regulator is working with the group of
banks and the currency traders’ committee to review how Sibor
can be strengthened, and has also directed the banks to
independently review their internal submission processes,
Lawrence Wong, a senior minister of state who sits on the
monetary authority’s board, said in Singapore’s parliament on
Sept. 10.  Aditya Agarwal, chairman of the Asia Pacific Loan Market
Association’s Singapore branch, said in an e-mail that the
organization is “aware and engaged” regarding the proposal to
drop dollar Sibor.  Agarwal, who is also the Asia Pacific head of loan
syndicate at RBS, declined to comment on how loans may be
affected by proposed changes.  March Meeting  On Sept. 24, the central bank said it asked the banks to
extend their review to include non-deliverable forwards, a
derivative traders use to speculate on the movement of
currencies that are subject to domestic foreign exchange
restrictions. UBS, based in Zurich, and RBS suspended at least
three traders in Singapore as part of probes into the
manipulation of those rates, two people with knowledge of the
matter said in October.  The Singapore Foreign Exchange Market Committee will meet
again next month, the person said. The group, which aims to set
industry standards and a code of conduct for currency traders,
has 20 members including the Monetary Authority of Singapore and
the nation’s sovereign wealth fund, as well as banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS and RBS, according to  its website .  Lenny Feder , group head of financial markets at London-
based  Standard Chartered Plc , who chairs the SFEMC, declined to
answer any questions when contacted on his mobile phone last
week. Standard Chartered hosted the meeting last month at its
Singapore offices, according to the person.  RBS Fines  RBS , Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, was fined
$612 million by regulators in the U.K. and the U.S. this month
for rigging the London interbank offered rate and similar
benchmarks. The Edinburgh-based lender said it would recoup the
U.S. portion of the penalty by shrinking its bankers’ bonus pool
and clawing back awards from previous years.  More than a dozen traders made hundreds of attempts to
manipulate yen and Swiss franc Libor between mid-2006 and 2010
to benefit their trading positions, sometimes colluding with
other firms, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  The attempts to manipulate Libor -- which are at the heart
of the biggest and longest-running scandal in banking history --
flourished for years, even after bank supervisors were made
aware of the system’s flaws.  The  British Bankers’ Association , the lobby group that
oversees Libor, is cutting currencies and maturities included in
the benchmark where there is insufficient trading data to
estimate borrowing costs accurately. The BBA will stop quoting
rates in Australian and New Zealand dollars as well as the
Canadian dollar, Danish kroner and Swedish kronor rates by June.
The group will stop publishing interim maturities, such as the
two-week, four-month, and eight-month tenors for all currencies
at the end of May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  