-- The Most Important Legal Philosopher of Our Time
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-15T23:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/the-most-important-legal-philosopher-of-our-time.html
Ronald Dworkin , a professor at New
York University and the University of Oxford who died this week,
was one of the most important legal philosophers of the last 100
years. He may well head the list.  He  made  countless enduring contributions to philosophy and
legal theory. Among his greatest is a distinctive answer to a
longstanding question: Do judges find law, or do they make it?
His answer is a huge improvement over the crude alternatives
that dominate public debates.  Consider a question about which people fiercely disagree:
Does the U.S. Constitution require states to recognize same-sex
marriages? In answering that question, judges have to deal with
many precedents. For example, the  Supreme Court  has ruled that
states can’t criminalize sexual acts between people of the same
sex. The court has also forbidden states from banning racial
intermarriages. At the same time, the court allows states to
forbid polygamous marriages.  In resolving the same-sex marriage dispute, how can judges
deal with such precedents? Here Dworkin introduced an arresting
metaphor. Suppose that you are a participant in writing a chain
novel. Others have written earlier chapters. Now it’s your turn.
How shall you proceed?  Dworkin’s answer is that you have to engage in an act of
interpretation. You can’t disregard what has come before. If
your predecessors have started to write a romance, you can’t
suddenly turn it into a work of science fiction without doing
violence to what they have done. You owe a duty of fidelity to
their work.  Dworkin’s Approach  But your task is not mechanical. You have to fit the
existing materials, and you have to justify them, by writing a
new chapter that makes the emerging novel, taken as a whole, the
best it can be.  Dworkin thinks that judging is a lot like that. Precedents
are like the existing chapters, and a new case is an opportunity
to produce a fresh one. Judges can’t just make the law up. But
at least in hard cases, they can’t merely “follow the law,”
because there isn’t anything to “follow.” What they have to do
is produce a principle that both fits and justifies the existing
legal materials. This is Dworkin’s conception of law as
integrity.  Under Dworkin’s approach, it would be lawless for a judge
to rule that the Constitution gives states complete freedom to
define marriage. Such a ruling would fail to fit existing law.
And because the court has allowed bans on polygamous marriages,
it would be similarly lawless for a judge to rule that the
 Constitution allows  people to marry anyone they like.  But judges could consider some competing principles. Maybe
the best one is this: “Unless they are discriminating on the
basis of race, the matter of marriage is within the control of
states, so long as they are acting in accordance with
traditional understandings of the institution of marriage.”  Or maybe the best one is this: “States may restrict the
institution of marriage to two people, but because of the
central place of the institution of marriage in our society,
they may not forbid gay men and lesbians from having access to
that institution.”  Dworkin’s deepest claim is not about outcomes, but about
constitutional method. He contends that judges, whether
conservative or liberal, need to ask which principle is best, in
the sense that it fits with the fabric of existing law and makes
good sense out of it. When conservatives and liberals disagree,
those are the legitimate grounds of disagreement. What else
could judges possibly be disagreeing about?  Inconsistent Originalism  There are some tempting answers. One response, associated
with Supreme Court Justices  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas ,
is originalist. Perhaps specific constitutional questions should
be resolved by asking: What was the original public meaning of
the Constitution’s terms at the time the document was ratified?
Dworkin doesn’t think that when the Constitution was ratified,
it was understood  to set out specific answers to specific
questions, and hence he believes that Scalia’s version of
originalism is self-defeating, because it is inconsistent with
the original understanding.  But Dworkin has an even more fundamental objection: Does
originalism fit and justify our own constitutional practices,
including, for example, the ban on school segregation, the ban
on sex discrimination and the broad principle of freedom of
expression? Dworkin believes that it fails to fit our practices,
and that it doesn’t make good sense of them. In his view,
originalists must also help write America’s continuing chain
novel, and their own chapter does the project no service.  I had my own disagreements with Dworkin. In person and in
print, we had  numerous debates  about constitutional law; I
believe that he would give an excessively large role to federal
judges in American society. But I learned, as did everyone who
encountered him, that he had one of the finest and most probing
minds on the planet, and that if you were lucky enough to lose
an argument to him (winning was out of the question), your own
understanding would be immeasurably improved. He was not only a
giant but also a good and gracious man.  On the Supreme Court and the Constitution, let’s give him
the last word: “We have an institution that calls some issues
from the battleground of power politics to the forum of
principle. It holds out the promise that the deepest, most
fundamental conflicts between individual and society will once,
someplace, finally, become questions of justice. I do not call
that religion or prophesy. I call it law.”  ( Cass R. Sunstein , the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at Harvard University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “ Nudge ” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” to be published in April.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Cass R. Sunstein  at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 