-- Technology Makes Trading Errors More Visible, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-15T22:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/technology-makes-trading-errors-more-visible-credit-suisse-says.html
While market disruptions such as
trade cancellations are becoming less frequent, the decline has
gone unnoticed because electronic tracking techniques make
today’s errors more visible, according to Credit Suisse AG.  Better monitoring capabilities and data linked across
exchanges allow companies to find errors that would have
previously been unreported, said  Ana Avramovic , a New York-based
analyst at Credit Suisse’s trading-strategy unit. The percentage
of equities transactions voided fell to a nine-year low in 2012,
data compiled by NYSE Euronext show.  “A lot of things get totally blown up and defined as a
glitch when they’re not a big deal,” Avramovic said in a phone
interview.  Technology breakdown are less significant than they appear
because when trading stops on one venue, orders will be routed
to other functioning markets, she said. U.S. stock-market
trading today is fragmented across more than a dozen exchanges
and electronic communications networks and about 50 dark pools.  The $450 million trading loss at Knight Capital Group Inc.
in August increased pressure on Washington regulators to prove
they are equipped to protect investors in markets that are
increasingly computerized and fragmented. U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro, whose agency is the
main market overseer in Washington, promised to issue
regulations to help prevent similar mishaps.  Faster Computers  Faster computers can identify mispricings more quickly and
make traders aware of problems before they become severe, she
said. More frequent reporting of errors has led some people to
exaggerate their significance, spurring calls for regulators to
clamp down on broken markets, according to Avramovic. Regulators
should put small problems into perspective before making changes
that affect the entire market, she said.  In 2012, 0.18 percent of U.S. equities volume was voided by
exchanges or Finra because the trades were deemed erroneous,
down from 0.23 percent last year and a high of 0.43 percent in
2004, according to data from NYSE Euronext.  Eliminating every trading error is impossible and the way
to address malfunctions that have plagued equity markets is to
improve testing and oversight, industry executives said at an
October meeting in Washington. Making risk measures redundant,
designing systems that operate independently of each other and
making frequent, incremental changes to software will limit the
inevitable mistakes by humans and computers, Getco LLC said in
written testimony last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  