-- Megaupload Trying to Avoid Court Procedures, U.S. Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-15T03:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/megaupload-trying-to-avoid-court-procedures-u-s-says.html
Megaupload.com, the file-sharing
website closed by the U.S., is trying to circumvent criminal
procedure rules with claims including an accusation the
government lied to get search warrants, prosecutors said.  The website’s claims are unfounded, they said in a filing
yesterday in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. The U.S.
accused Megaupload of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files when it shut the site last year.  The U.S. and Megaupload are in dispute over the file-
sharing site’s request to be allowed to take part in a civil
lawsuit, filed by a U.S. man seeking to recover the data he
stored on the website. Megaupload claims the U.S. misled the
courts in obtaining warrants to shut down its websites, while
the prosecutors argue the file-sharing site is seeking to
illegally get information to defend itself in the criminal case.  “Megaupload has supplied nothing but a conspiracy
theory,” in an attempt to be included in the civil lawsuit, the
U.S. said in its filing. “Megaupload should not be able to use
its participation in civil litigation as a sword to circumvent
criminal discovery rules.”  Kyle Goodwin, who had started a business reporting on local
high school sporting events in Ohio and stored videos on
Megaupload, sued the U.S. to recover those files. The judge
ruled he couldn’t make a decision without an evidentiary
hearing.  Megaupload sought to intervene in the case, arguing it has
relevant facts and is in the best position to retrieve Goodwin’s
data. It said the issues of data preservation and consumer
access are linked to its criminal defense.  Mega Conspiracy  Kim Dotcom, 39, the founder of Megaupload, was indicted in
what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a “mega conspiracy.” If
convicted, he faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of
the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  The U.S. shut down Megaupload without notice after charges
against seven individuals, including Dotcom, were unsealed in
court in January, 2012.  Megaupload’s lawyer  Ira Rothken  said in an e-mail today
that the U.S. is trying to concoct a way out of taking
responsibility for injuring millions of consumers.  A Feb. 17 revised indictment includes charges of
racketeering, money laundering, copyright infringement and wire
fraud. The copyright-infringement charges carry a maximum five-
year prison term.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his home in an Auckland,
New Zealand, suburb, in January last year and spent four weeks
in jail before being released to await an extradition hearing,
which is scheduled for August.  Dotcom has began operating a successor website called
 “Mega”  from New Zealand. In less than a month, the site is
hosting more than 100 million files, Dotcom said on Twitter
today.  The case is USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
extradition case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928. High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  