-- Elvis, $3,000 Sweater Inspire Designer Humberto Leon
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/elvis-3-000-sweater-inspire-designer-humberto-leon.html
I made  Humberto Leon  tell me what he
thought of my outfit.  “Did that blazer come as part of a suit?” he asked,
wincing slightly as he looked me over. “If you wore it with
darker things, it could look better.”  He was right -- and that is the secret of his success: Leon
knows how to make clothes work.  Leon and his business partner Carol Lim each chipped in
$5,000 to found the downtown department store  Opening Ceremony 
in 2002. A decade later, the two remain entirely self-financed
and have seven stores across the world. They design their own
label for Opening Ceremony, and in 2011 were named creative
directors of the French fashion line  Kenzo .  We met in a conference room in the Opening Ceremony
Chinatown offices, a few blocks from the original store. Wearing
a button-down shirt from the new Kenzo collection, dark suit
pants and white Reeboks, Leon, 37, spoke about style, art and
 Elvis .  Tarmy: Do you have any advice for your customers?  Leon: I always encourage people to buy a suit, but not wear
it as a suit -- to wear the jacket as a separate, and the pants
as a separate. I’ve never liked this idea that suits have to be
together.  Suit Investment  Tarmy: How much is too much to spend on a suit?  Leon: If you’re a connoisseur of fabric, you can go really
high, because there are some gorgeous Italian and Japanese wools
and cashmere blends.  The most I would want to spend on a suit is probably
$5,000. I think it’s a great investment.  Opening Ceremony’s suits start at $600 and go up to $1,200,
while Kenzo suits sell from about $900 to about $1,700. Very
reasonable.  Tarmy: I saw a $3,000 sweater in your store and wondered
who would buy it. Is offering something like that based on faith
or on market research?  Leon: For me, it’s really simple. I look at the item, and I
think, “Is this worth $3,000 because of x, y and z?” And if I
can’t come up with those justifications, then it’s not worth it.  The fabric must be incredible or something about the
construction must be gorgeous.  There might be a  Rodarte  piece that is astronomically
expensive. But you’ll probably find out that you’re one of two
people who own that piece. And that in itself is value.  Elvis Presley  Tarmy: What items should a man invest in?  Leon: Shoes and jackets are the man’s answers to the bag. I
always think about things that you can put on every day -- like
your Barbour coat -- and no one will say, “Hey, you’re wearing
the same thing!”  You can wear the same shoes for months and no one will say
anything. Those are the things that I love.  Tarmy: How else do you spend your money?  Leon: I love art, I love homeware, I collect ceramics, lots
of weird objects. Sometimes if I want something really special
but I can’t afford it, I’ll do a lot of auctions and buy off the
secondhand market.  I bought a  Robert Longo  diptych for a really affordable
price. I’ve bought a couple of pieces by Weegee and an Elizabeth
Peyton.  Tarmy: What’s next for the fall 2013 season?  Leon: We did a partnership with the Elvis Presley
Foundation. We wanted to interpret Las Vegas in a way that
didn’t feel like your typical version of the town.  I think that they could tell that we would do something
that would really elevate Elvis’s stature, like this sweatshirt:
It’s printed with his original album cover font, which the
skateboard brand Thrasher lifted in the 1980s.  We found amazing information, and then we took it further.  ( James Tarmy  writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s NYC Weekend  Best 
and Lewis Lapham’s  podcast .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 