-- Emerging Stock Swings at 15-Year Low as Russia Retreats
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-15T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/emerging-stock-volatility-drops-to-15-year-low-as-gauge-gains.html
Swings in  emerging-market  stocks
abated to the least since 1997 as the benchmark index capped its
best week in a month. Shares in Russia fell while stocks traded
in Hong Kong rose for a second day.  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s largest lender, dropped 2.5 percent,
while the Moscow Exchange traded below its offer price after
raising $498 million in an initial share sale. Harmony Gold
Mining Co. and Gold Fields Ltd. fell in Johannesburg as the
metal slid to a six-month low.  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. 
rose to the highest in more than two years in Hong Kong.
 Industrias Bachoco SAB , Mexico’s biggest chicken producer,
slumped after reporting possible cases of bird flu.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.1 percent to
1,066.52 in New York, bringing this week’s gain to 0.5 percent.
The stock gauge’s 50-day volatility slid to 8.06 today, the
lowest level since July 15, 1997, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Consumer confidence in the U.S. rose more than
expected to reach a three-month high in February.  “It’s been a pretty good week,”  Aryam Vazquez , a New
York-based economist at Wells Fargo & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “The growth story remains very positive. Today’s
data from the U.S. is a little bit livelier. That certainly
helps that risk-on sentiment.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its seventh weekly gain
as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index
of consumer sentiment climbed to 76.3 in February, beating
forecasts. Other reports showed that manufacturing in the New
York region unexpectedly expanded this month, while industrial
production in the world’s biggest economy shrank in January.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.4
percent to $43.99. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, fell 3.2 percent to
15.33, a record low.  Mexico’s IPC index rose 0.6 percent, snapping a four-day
decline. Industrias Bachoco dropped 2.1 percent as trading
volume was more than triple the three-month daily average.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the Brazilian oil
company controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, slumped 6.5
percent, for the second-biggest decline in the MSCI emerging
markets gauge. The Bovespa index dropped 0.3 percent in Sao
Paulo, falling for a third day to the lowest since Dec. 6.  Russia’s Micex Index lost 0.7 percent, while the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong
Kong added 0.2 percent. Hong Kong exchanges were closed for the
first three days of the week while mainland Chinese trading
resumes Feb. 18 after a five-day break.  Moscow Exchange  Sberbank, the biggest stock in the Micex, dropped 2.5
percent in Moscow. The  Moscow Exchange  raised $498 million in
the biggest initial share sale on the nation’s bourse since
2007, pricing at the bottom of its target range. The stock,
which trades under the MOEX RX ticker, was unchanged at 55
rubles in its first day of trading.  Harmony Gold , Africa’s third-largest producer of the metal,
dropped 4.8 percent, the most since January 31.  Gold Fields  fell
5.4 percent to the lowest level since July. Gold futures slumped
below $1,600 for the first time since August as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. economy is recovering,
easing pressure for more stimulus measures.  South Africa’s rand declined for the first time in three
days, paring its advance this week, after President Jacob Zuma
said he will review mining royalties as he comes under pressure
to reduce poverty and inequality.  Biggest Gain  A gauge of technology stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index climbed 0.4 percent to a one-month high, the most among 10
 industry  groups. Commodity stocks in the index retreated.  The broader gauge has risen 1.1 percent this year, trailing
the 5.1 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index  of developed-
country stocks. The emerging-markets gauge trades at 10.4 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Equity funds drew inflows of $1.8 billion in the week to
Feb. 13, luring less investment than bond funds for the first
time in 10 weeks,  Markus Rosgen  and  Yue Hin Pong , analysts at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report today, citing data from
research company EPFR Global. Asian equity funds attracted $535
million, a 23rd week of inflows, slowing from $981 million last
week as markets shut for the Lunar New Year holidays.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 272 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Chinese Stocks  The gauge of mainland Chinese companies rose in its second
day of trading this week as New China Life Insurance Co. led
gains among insurers. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index 
climbed 0.5 percent on its fifth day of gains, with trading
volumes 67 percent higher than the 30-day average. India’s
Sensex slipped 0.2 percent. Markets in mainland China and Taiwan
will re-open on Feb. 18 after a week-long holiday.  Geely Automobile , a unit of the Chinese owner of Volvo Cars
Corp., surged 7.7 percent to the highest since November 2010.
Car sales volume in January increased 67 percent from a year
earlier, the company said yesterday.  PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia , the nation’s second-largest
lender by assets, advanced 1.8 percent as financial stocks rose
the most among nine industry groups in the nation’s benchmark
index.  ‘Still Positive’  “Overall the growth in the banking sector is still
positive,”  Alvin Pattisahusiwa , chief investment officer at PT
Manulife Asset Management, said by phone in Jakarta.  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., India’s second-biggest
drugmaker by market value, slid 3 percent after Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch cut the stock to neutral from buy.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. slipped 4.3 percent in Seoul to
the lowest since March 2007, after reporting an operating loss
of 519.8 billion won ($482 million) in 2012.  The won had its biggest weekly gain since December 2011 on
speculation South Korean authorities won’t act to curb its
advance as the yen rebounded from near a three-year low before a
Group of 20 nations meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  