-- Eni Rises in Milan as Dividend Boost Counters Profit Decline
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-02-15T15:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/eni-rises-as-dividend-boost-offsets-quarterly-profit-decline.html
Eni SpA , Italy’s largest oil
company, rose the most in five months in Milan trading after
increasing its dividend 3.7 percent even as profit shrank.  The  shares  advanced as much as 3.8 percent, the biggest
gain since Sept. 14, and traded up 2.9 percent at 17.83 euros as
of 4:51 p.m. local time.  Eni proposed a 2012 dividend of 1.08 euros a share, up from
1.04 euros a year earlier, according to a statement today. The
company reported a 3.6 percent drop in fourth-quarter adjusted
net income to 1.52 billion euros ($2 billion) as taxes climbed.  “The dividend yield is attractive and sustainable, we
think, at just over 6 percent versus a peer average of around 5
percent, but it is effectively supported by debt and asset
sales,” analysts at Investec Bank Plc wrote in a note. “We
remain skeptics on the strategy.”  Eni is boosting cash and trimming debt by selling stakes in
Italian gas network Snam SpA and Portuguese oil producer Galp
Energia SGPS SA. The Rome-based company, whose borrowings rose
in 2011 as the Libyan conflict reduced output, has also sold
bonds to bolster its balance sheet and fund operations in 85
countries including Algeria, Kazakhstan and Russia.  Libyan Output  Eni said today it raised about 4.5 billion euros from the
Snam and Galp sales. It reported a 7 percent increase in 2012
production to 1.7 million barrels a day after restoring output
in Libya, where it expects volumes to return to pre-war levels
of about 285,000 barrels a day by the end of the year.  A forecast increase in total production in 2013,
underpinned by new projects in Kazakhstan, Angola and Algeria,
will help counter higher financial charges and a weaker
performance in its natural-gas and refining divisions, Eni said.  “Management expects continuing weak conditions in the
European gas, refining and marketing of fuels, and chemicals
sectors,” the company said today, posting a 1.5 percent decline
in gas sales to 95.3 billion cubic meters. “Demand for energy
commodities is anticipated to remain sluggish due to the
economic stagnation.”  Eni’s gas, power, refining and marketing businesses
represent a “domestic drag on upstream success,” analysts at
Citigroup Inc. wrote in a note. “Consensus overestimates the
potential recovery in earnings from these businesses.”  Eni this month stood by its Chief Executive Officer Paolo
Scaroni as a probe into alleged bribery by Saipem SpA, where
it’s the largest shareholder, widened to include him. Several
executives have already stepped down amid an Italian probe into
the award of oil-services contracts to Saipem in Algeria.  Scaroni said today that Saipem had been an “excellent”
investment and a review of that investment wasn’t a priority,
responding to questions about a possible sale. He reiterated
that neither he nor Eni are implicated in the probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  