-- EU’s Transactions Levy a Back Door Tax on London, U.K. Firms Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-02-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/eu-s-transactions-levy-a-back-door-tax-on-london-u-k-firms-say.html
The European Union is attempting to
tax London’s financial firms through the “back door” with its
transactions levy and should be stopped by the U.K. government,
according to British banks and fund managers.  The EU proposes to tax stock and bond trades at 0.1 percent
for any transactions involving 11 nations, including France and
Germany, under plans announced by EU Tax Commissioner  Algirdas Semeta  in Brussels yesterday. To escape the tax entirely, firms
in other nations would have to cease financial-services business
with the 11 countries involved.  “We continue to support the U.K. government’s refusal to
participate in this proposal,” the British Bankers’ Association
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We urge that they
remain vigilant to ensure that the application of the tax will
not damage the City by the back door.”  The City, as the London district is known, is the world’s
number one financial center, according to consulting firm  Z/Yen
Group Ltd.  and has opposed attempts by EU policy makers to
increase regulation and raise revenue from its activities since
the financial crisis of 2008. The City is already under scrutiny
by U.K. and U.S. lawmakers after scandals including interest
rate-rigging across the industry, money laundering settlements
at HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc and trading
losses at  UBS AG  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s London operations.  The EU proposal would levy a 0.01 percent charge on
derivative trades as well as the 0.1 percent charge on stock and
bond trades that involve one of the participating countries,
regardless of where the transaction takes place. It would
exclude day-to-day transactions by individuals and non-financial
firms; primary offerings of stocks and bonds; and trades with
central banks.  Estimated Cost  The plan, which includes pension funds, could raise 30
billion euros ($40 billion) to 35 billion euros a year,
according to the EU. To become law, the proposal must be
approved by the nations that agree to participate.  Large financial firms with operations in Europe will spend
about 12 million euros to 14 million euros implementing the tax,
according to David Newton, global financial-services tax leader
at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London.  As both the buyer and seller for each transaction would
have to pay the tax, the cost to investors will be
“substantial,” said the London-based  Investment Management
Association , which represents fund managers. The charge will
further rise if intermediaries are involved, it said.  About half of European investment-banking activity is
conducted through London and the U.K.’s financial firms
generated almost 12 percent of the country’s tax revenue from
2011 to 2012, according to  TheCityUK , a bank lobbying group.  ‘Particularly Worrying’  “It is particularly worrying that the increased scope of
the tax will now cover businesses’ risk-management activities,
as well as hitting financial services in non-participating
member states like the U.K. because of extra territoriality,”
said Matthew Fell, director for competitive markets at the
 Confederation of British Industry .  “As today’s proposal shows, a unilateral European
financial transactions tax will hit growth for the countries
taking part, which is why Britain was right not to
participate,” a U.K. government spokesman said in a statement.
“We will now study the proposal carefully in order to assess
its impact on non-participating EU member states and the single
market.”  London may benefit from the increased cost of trading in
Europe if it can avoid having to pay the tax, according to
 Philip Keevil , a partner at New York-based  Compass Advisers
Group LLC , which is combining with Richmond Park Partners to
form Compass Partners.  “The more trades that escape the net, the better it will
be for London and New York,” said Keevil, a former head of
investment banking at S.G. Warburg & Co. “I’m reminded that the
euro-bond market in London in the 1970s was created by a
transaction tax in New York.”  London remains the world’s top financial center, according
to a survey of 1,887 executives by  Z/Yen  published in September.
The city beat New York and Hong Kong on regulation, tax and
lifestyle, while the euro crisis caused Frankfurt and Paris to
drop down the list, the survey found.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  