-- European Stocks Halt 2-Week Decline on Surprise Results
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/europe-stocks-little-changed-this-week-as-economy-shrinks.html
European stocks  were unchanged this
week, halting a two-week decline, as better-than-estimated
results from ABB Ltd. to PSA Peugeot Citroen offset a deeper-
than-forecast contraction in the economy.  ABB, the world’s largest maker of power transformers,
rallied the most in 14 months. Peugeot jumped 6.7 percent after
the French automaker reported a smaller-than-projected loss.
 Michelin & Cie.  sank the most in nine months as earnings trailed
forecasts. Finmeccanica SpA plummeted the most in 15 months as
Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi was arrested amid bribery
allegations relating to an Indian helicopter contract.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  was unchanged this past week at
287.34. It fell 0.8 percent the previous two weeks as political
uncertainty in Italy and Spain send the nations’ bond yields
higher. The gauge has still climbed 2.7 percent this year after
U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget.  “The growth outlook is improving, the liquidity backdrop
is still supportive, earnings are robust and equity valuations
are reasonable,” said  Abi Oladimeji , who helps oversee $4.3
billion as head of investment strategy at Thomas Miller
Investment Ltd. in London. “However, there are some short-term
concerns that we are looking at. Markets appear to be overbought
and the technicals are looking quite stretched.”  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 12.3 times its companies’
estimated earnings, compared with an average of 11.5 over the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 VStoxx Index , which measures the expected volatility in the
region through Euro Stoxx 50 Index options prices, rose 1.6
percent this week.  Economy Contracts  A report this week showed the euro-area economy shrank more
than forecast in the fourth quarter.  Gross domestic product  fell
0.6 percent from the previous three months, compared with the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists for a
contraction of 0.4 percent.  Ministers from the 17-member euro area met during the week
to discuss aid to Cyprus and Greece as a tightening election
contest in Italy and a political scandal in Spain threatened to
reignite the region’s debt crisis. Group of 20 finance chiefs
and central bankers began gathering in Moscow yesterday to find
some common ground on currencies.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 climbed 1 percent and
France’s CAC 40 added 0.3 percent. Germany’s DAX fell 0.8
percent while Denmark’s  OMX Copenhagen 20  slumped 4.5 percent as
Novo Nordisk A/S, which makes up 43 percent of the gauge, sank
11 percent after U.S. regulators rejected its new insulin.  Earnings Season  Some 54 percent of companies in the  Stoxx 600  reported
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-six percent beat revenue
projections, the data show.  ABB surged 8.8 percent, the biggest increase since December
2011. The Zurich-based company reported better-than-estimated
earnings, helped by rising orders in the U.S., the Middle East
and Africa.  Peugeot gained 6.7 percent as Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker posted a loss before interest, taxes and one-time items
of 576 million euros ($769 million) for 2012, narrower than the
647 million-euro average analyst estimate.  Barclays Plc rallied 7.6 percent after the second-largest
U.K. lender by assets announced 3,700 jobs cuts, helping to
reduce annual costs by 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion). The
bank posted a loss of 1.04 billion pounds for 2012, its first
full-year loss in 20 years.  Heineken Higher  Heineken NV  rallied 3.7 percent, the most since October, as
the world’s third-largest brewer reported earnings before
interest and taxes, excluding some items, of 2.9 billion euros,
topping the median estimate for profit of 2.85 billion euros.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG surged 7.2 percent after a
person familiar with the matter said Vodafone Group Plc is
considering a takeover bid for Germany’s biggest cable provider.
Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless carrier, dropped
3.5 percent for the biggest decline in three months.  Michelin lost 6.5 percent for the largest retreat since
May. Europe’s largest tiremaker forecast no growth in sales
volume and earnings in 2013 as last year’s operating profit
missed analysts’ projections.  Finmeccanica , Italy’s biggest arms company, plunged 16
percent. Orsi resigned as chairman and lost the chief executive
role to Alessandro Pansa after being arrested on charges of
corruption and tax fraud. Finmeccanica’s effort to sell its
stake in power-plant construction unit Ansaldo Energia risks
being put on hold for months, people familiar with the disposal
efforts said.  ING Groep NV retreated 3.9 percent. The biggest Dutch
financial-services company reported profit that missed estimates
on restructuring expenses as it announced 1,400 more job cuts in
the Netherlands and 1,000 in Belgium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  