-- Euro-Area Exports Decline Most in 5 Months on Strong Euro
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-02-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/euro-area-exports-decline-most-in-5-months-on-strong-euro.html
Euro-area exports declined the most
in five months in December as the currency’s gains made European
goods less competitive abroad, making it harder for the 17-
nation economy to recover from the worst recession since 2009.  Exports dropped a seasonally adjusted 1.8 percent from
November, when they rose a revised 0.6 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That is the
sharpest decline since July. Imports fell 3 percent and the
 trade surplus  increased to 12 billion euros ($16 billion) from
10.5 billion euros in the previous month.  Exchange rates are at the top of the agenda for Group of 20
finance chiefs gathering today in Moscow amid growing
speculation about a currency war. French President  Francois Hollande  last week urged coordinated government action on the
euro’s rate, arguing that the currency’s 14-month peak against
the U.S. dollar makes it more difficult for Europe’s recession-
hit economy to recover.  The euro has declined 0.5 percent since European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 7 that the currency’s
gains pose a risk for growth and inflation. The euro traded at
$1.3322 against the dollar at 10:27 a.m. in Brussels, up 8.5
percent in the past six months.  “If the appreciation of the exchange rate reflects a
regained confidence in the euro area and an improved growth
outlook, then this is fully in line with fundamentals,” ECB
council member  Jens Weidmann  said in a Feb. 13 interview. “You
cannot really say that the euro is seriously overvalued.”  The ECB forecasts the euro-area economy will shrink 0.3
percent this year. The  recession  deepened in the fourth quarter
as the economy contracted 0.6 percent, the worst performance in 
almost four years, data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  