-- Leveraged-Loan Fund Weekly Inflows Break Record Again, BofA Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-02-15T15:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/leveraged-loan-fund-weekly-inflows-break-record-again-bofa-says.html
U.S. loan funds recorded their
biggest weekly inflow, surpassing records set in the last two
weeks as concern about rising interest rates draws buyers to the
floating-rate debt, according to Bank of America Corp.  Investors added $1.5 billion into funds that purchase loans
made to the neediest companies, the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based bank said in a report yesterday, exceeding $1.3 billion of
deposits made last week. The debt has gained for almost nine
straight months, bringing the total tally of assets added in the
period to about $14 billion.  “Loan inflows had started to pick up a lot toward the end
of last year and it has to do with people worried about rising
interest rates,” Chris Hays, a credit strategist at Bank of
America, said in a telephone interview. “In such a scenario
this is a natural place to go to. They also offer higher yield
than most other fixed-income asset classes that investors can
choose from.”  Loans, which are ranked higher up in the capital structure
in case of a bankruptcy, are also better protected from rising
interest rates since they are generally pegged to floating-rate
benchmarks. The value of a fixed-rate security diminishes with
an increase in rates.  The average  yield  of 6.03 percent on loans has dropped by
more than 80 basis points since June, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data
show. The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index ,
which tracks the average bid price on the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has climbed in the last
two days to 97.26 cents yesterday, rising for the first time
this month.  Leveraged loans are a form of high-risk debt that carries
ratings of less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below
BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  