-- Ex-HSBC Client Chon Gets Year in Prison for Tax Evasion
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/ex-hsbc-client-chon-sentenced-to-year-in-prison-for-tax-evasion.html
A Maryland cosmetics manufacturer
who had offshore accounts at  HSBC Holdings Plc  was sentenced to
a year and a day in prison for evading $522,650 in federal and
state taxes.  Bae Soo “Chris” Chon, 49, who owned Mirage Cosmetics
Inc., was sentenced yesterday in federal court in Baltimore,
where he pleaded guilty on Oct. 18. He admitted diverting Mirage
proceeds from foreign distributors to accounts in Hong Kong and
South Korea and understating them on his personal tax returns,
according to a statement by U.S. Attorney  Rod Rosenstein .  Chon also was fined $15,000 and ordered to pay restitution
of $412,404 to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and $172,844 to
the Maryland Office of the Comptroller, Rosenstein said. He must
pay a civil penalty of $441,483 for failing to disclose his
accounts, according to the prosecutor.  “The license to run a business is not a license to evade
paying taxes,” said Thomas J. Kelly, special agent in charge of
the IRS Criminal Division’s office in Washington.  Mirage marketed its products in the U.S. as well as China,
Japan, Germany, Australia, the U.K., South Africa, Canada,
Dubai, Kuwait and Lebanon, Rosenstein said.  In the fall of 2008, Chon began diverting proceeds from
transactions with foreign distributors into the bank account of
a shell company at HSBC in Hong Kong and an account at  Woori
Bank Co.  in Seoul, South Korea, established in the name of
Mirage’s local distributor, according to court papers.  Shell Company  Chon’s Hong Kong shell company, Giant Century Holdings
Ltd., was formed in the Sultanate of Brunei. He bought it from a
Hong Kong firm that specialized in setting up offshore shell
entities, the papers state.  In addition to failing to report the money diverted into
the HSBC and Bank Woori accounts on his and Mirage’s 2008 and
2009 tax returns, Chon also didn’t file Reports of Foreign Bank
and Financial Accounts for 2009 and 2010, or FBARs. He must pay
an FBAR penalty of half of the highest amount of the accounts.  The case is U.S. v. Chon, 12-cr-506, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Baltimore).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  