-- Ex-U.K. Lawmaker Wins Case Over Police Search in Expenses Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-15T11:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/ex-u-k-lawmaker-wins-case-over-police-search-in-expenses-probe.html
Paul White , a former U.K. lawmaker
jailed in a probe into expenses fraud by politicians, won a
lawsuit alleging police wrongfully arrested him and searched his
home without a warrant after his release from prison.  White, a Conservative member of the unelected House of
Lords where he is known as  Lord Hanningfield , won unspecified
damages from Essex Police over his treatment on Sept. 14, 2011,
when he was detained in an early morning raid, Judge  David Eady 
said in a ruling in London today.  “He was not informed that they lacked a search warrant,”
Eady said. “Their case is that Lord Hanningfield invited them
into his home. I think it unlikely that he actually invited the
officers in.”  The case stems from stories about lawmakers’ expenses that
started appearing in the Daily Telegraph in 2009, after the
newspaper bought a computer disc containing details of the
claims. Several current and former lawmakers were convicted for
seeking reimbursement for items ranging from false travel
accommodations to phony cleaning services.  White served two months out of a nine-month sentence in
2011 after agreeing to wear an electronic tag and submit to a
curfew. Five days after his release, he was arrested by Essex
Police in a related fraud case and his home was searched.  Essex police made the arrest as part of a separate
investigation into whether White had engaged in expenses fraud
during his time on the Essex City Council, according to the
ruling. Police didn’t pursue the case and Eady rejected their
claims the arrest was needed to ensure an effective search.  “Essex Police is disappointed with today’s judgment and
are considering the merits of appealing,” police said in a
statement. “The court accepted that officers had acted in good
faith and that they had honestly believed the arrest was
necessary.”  There were no solid grounds to determine that White might
destroy or hide evidence before a warrant could be obtained,
Eady said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  