-- Texas Road-Painters Battle Divorcee for Berlin Film Prize
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/texas-road-painters-battle-divorcee-for-berlin-film-prize.html
The  Berlin Film Festival  ends this
weekend, with the winners of bear awards to be announced
tomorrow. A jury led by the Chinese film director Wong Kar Wai
will select winners from 19 movies in competition.  These are my top three choices out of the 14 competing
movies seen so far:  “Child’s Pose”: A dominant Bucharest mother smothers her
her son Bardu with love as he tries to assert his independence
at 34 years of age.  He kills a boy in a traffic accident: Bardu’s mother
Cornelia (Luminita Gheorghiu) immediately sets wheels in motion,
pulling strings and paying bribes to keep him out of jail for
speeding.  Cornelia views her son’s state of shock as an opportunity
to regain control of his life, letting herself into his
apartment uninvited to pack a suitcase so she can bring him
home. Bardu (Bogdan Dumitrache), so afraid of responsibility he
is paranoid about his girlfriend conceiving, has to fight back.  The dysfunctional mother-son relationship is credible and
the tension between them is compelling. While both characters
are deeply flawed, they elicit compassion.  Directed by Calin Peter Netzer, “Child’s Pose” is a
powerful portrayal of a dynamic that is probably more common in
life than in the movies.  Rating: ***½.  “Prince Avalanche”: Alvin and Lance are in the wilds of
Texas, painting yellow lines down the middle of the road,
hammering in posts and camping in a fire-scorched forest. We
learn that Alvin landed Lance -- who is much younger -- the job
as a favor to his girlfriend, who is Lance’s sister.  Where Alvin ( Paul Rudd ) is serious and reflective, Lance
( Emile Hirsch ) is only interested in sex. Alvin spends a weekend
alone in the forest, fancying himself as an outdoors hero
foraging for his food. Lance heads into town to make conquests.  The mindless work and their solitude means they squabble,
insult each other, compete and reconcile. The two build a
surprising bond in this quirky, engaging movie by the American
director David Gordon Green. The burned-out backdrop and a
mysterious lady combing through the ashes of her house add a
surreal dimension.  Rating: ***.  “Gloria”: She’s 58, divorced and determined to fall in
love. It’s impossible not to adore the heroine of this Chilean
movie, who takes life’s knocks with grace, humor and a spark
that her owly glasses can’t conceal.  Gloria begins a passionate love affair with Rodolfo (Sergio
Hernandez), a few years older and a divorced father of two. He
cannot escape the clutches of his family, abandoning his new
love in a beach hotel to rush back and care for his ex-wife
after an accident.  What could be a depressing film about loneliness in middle
age is uplifting because Gloria’s zest for life is so
infectious. The actress who plays her, Paulina Garcia, must
surely be in the running for an award.  Rating: ***.  The Berlin Film Festival runs through Feb. 17. For more
information, go to https://www.berlinale.de/en  Muse highlights include  weekend guides  for New York and
London,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Catherine Hickley  on movies and
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 