-- Mexican Chicken Producer Bachoco Tumbles on Bird Flu
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-02-15T22:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mexican-chicken-producer-bachoco-tumbles-on-bird-flu.html
(Corrects name of city where company is based in third
paragraph.)  Industrias Bachoco SAB , Mexico’s
biggest chicken producer, fell for the first time in seven days
after reporting possible cases of bird flu at five of its
breeder farms.  The stock  fell  2.1 percent to 30.97 pesos at the close of
Mexico City trading, snapping a seven-day climb that was the
longest streak in almost two years. Trading volume today was
more than triple the three-month daily average.  Avian influenza may have broken out at five farms in the
state of Guanajuato, the Celaya-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Bachoco is working with authorities to
verify the outbreak and will take necessary action if the cases
are confirmed, according to the statement.  “If they confirm the outbreak, they are going to have to
kill all the hatching chickens,”  Gustavo Teran , an analyst with
Mexico City-based Corp. Actinver SAB, said in a telephone
interview. Under a worst-case scenario, an outbreak could cut
revenue by as much as 3 percent, Teran estimated.  Bachoco’s risks are contained because the company has
diversified its production into about 100 poultry farms, Teran
said. He rates the stock a buy.  “We spoke to the company and we feel comfortable that
they’ve got it under control,” Teran said.  The company identified the bird-flu strain as H7N3, a
contagious virus that ordinarily only infects birds. It’s
similar to the type detected in 2012 in other producers’ laying
farms in the neighboring state of Jalisco, Bachoco said.  Obtaining Eggs  A bird flu outbreak last summer caused egg and poultry
prices to surge, driving up inflation in Mexico.  Bachoco should be able to offset any losses if the virus is
confirmed by obtaining hatching eggs from third parties,
according to  Miguel Mayorga , an analyst with brokerage firm
Grupo Bursatil Mexicano who rates the stock the equivalent of
buy.  “Currently it’s a non-issue,” Mayorga said in a telephone
interview. “If the disease spreads it could be a harder
impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  