-- Futures Brokers Say Rule May Put Them Out of Business
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-07T19:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mf-global-cftc-proposal-said-to-jeopardize-futures-brokerages.html
(Corrects reference to bank-affiliated brokerages in 13th
paragraph of story published Feb. 15.)  Futures brokerages say a proposed
U.S. rule meant to protect customers’ money in a collapse like
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s bankruptcy may end up driving clients
from the market and companies out of business.  Brokerages would be severely harmed by a Commodity Futures
Trading Commission requirement that they set aside additional
money to cover customers’ collateral deficits, the Futures
Industry Association and two Chicago firms, Rosenthal Collins
Group LLC and RJ O’Brien & Associates LLC, have told the agency.  The change would mean that some brokerages “will not be
able to survive,” and may cost the industry and clients tens of
billions of dollars, Mike Dawley, a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
managing director, said at a CFTC roundtable Feb. 5. “We can’t
underestimate and under-appreciate how big of a deal that is,”
Dawley said.  “If it were to survive, it would be an industry-killing
rule,” Joe Guinan, chairman and chief executive officer of
Advantage Futures LLC, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Public comments are due by today on the proposal, which is
part of a series of regulatory changes designed to increase
confidence in the futures industry after MF Global collapsed in
2011 and reported a shortfall of $1.6 billion in customer funds.
Russell Wasendorf Sr., founder and CEO of Peregrine Financial
Group Inc., was sentenced Jan. 31 to 50 years in prison after
being convicted of stealing more than $215 million from
customers of that failed brokerage.  Ensuring Segregation  The CFTC measure, released in November, includes tougher
auditing standards and disclosure of brokerage risks to clients.
The rules also describe how self-regulatory organizations
including the National Futures Association and  CME Group (CME)  Inc.
should monitor brokerages to ensure customer funds are
segregated.  To protect customer funds, the CFTC proposed a change in
how collateral is kept. Futures customers back their trades by
putting up collateral, which can be kept in a commingled
account. When a position moves against them, clients must post
additional collateral. Futures brokerages typically demand
collateral at the beginning of the day, which is then posted
during the course of the day.  Under the proposal, futures brokerages must at all times of
the day keep so-called residual interest in an account to cover
all deficits from their customers. The CFTC said the proposal
would avoid the potential that brokerages would use end-of-day
balancing to “obscure a shortfall.”  That change would tie up additional capital and would
probably lead to increased costs for clients, according to the
brokerages.  ‘Jeopardizing’ Model  “This is a capital- and liquidity-intensive business with
very low returns,” Gary DeWaal of consulting firm Gary DeWaal
and Associates LLC and former general counsel at Newedge USA
LLC, said in a telephone interview said yesterday. “The CFTC is
jeopardizing the existence of the model.”  The rule would lead brokers to increase capital or margins
to be current with the regulation at all times, Theodore L.
Johnson, president and CEO of Frontier Futures Inc., a brokerage
based in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa . The impact of the rule “may be to
force a number of small to mid-sized” brokers out of the
market, Johnson said yesterday in a letter to the CFTC.  The proposal will hurt brokerages not affiliated with banks
and those that have farmers and ranchers as customers, Rosenthal
Collins executives said in a letter dated Feb. 12.  Bank-affiliated brokerages had “little interest” in
taking on MF Global customers who were farmers or ranchers,
Leslie Rosenthal, managing member, J. Robert Collins, managing
member, and Scott Gordon, chairman and CEO, said in the letter.  The CFTC hasn’t set a date to complete the regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  