-- Finmeccanica’s Asset Sale Plan Said to Face Delay Amid Probe
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-15T16:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/finmeccanica-s-asset-sale-plan-said-to-face-delay-amid-probe.html
Finmeccanica SpA ’s effort to sell
its stake in power-plant construction unit Ansaldo Energia risks
being put on hold for months after the arrest of former Chief
Executive Officer  Giuseppe Orsi  on bribery charges, people
familiar with the disposal efforts said.  Newly-appointed CEO  Alessandro Pansa  may not be able to
proceed with the sale of 55 percent of the division until after
April, said the people, who asked not to be identified
discussing a private matter. Efforts to unload the Ansaldo Breda
rail business may also cease, one of the people said.  Delays to the sales threaten the Rome-based defense and
aerospace company’s goal of raising 1 billion euros ($1.33
billion) from unloading assets. The group already missed a
target of securing binding offers for the units by the end of
last year, which is key to trimming 4.8 billion euros of  debt .  Uncertainty over the processes prompted Standard & Poor’s,
which estimated Ansaldo Energia could fetch as much as 500
million euros for Finmeccanica, to cut the company’s debt below
investment grade on Jan. 18, while Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings said this week they may also cut their  ratings  to
junk. The CEO arrest at the state-controlled company came as the
country faces elections Feb. 24-25.  “The operating activities and ongoing projects of the
company will continue as usual in order to limit the impact”
from Orsi’s arrest, including asset sales, the company said Feb.
12. A spokesman referred to the statement when contacted by
Bloomberg. The board named Pansa CEO Feb. 13, the day after Orsi
was jailed on accusations of corruption and tax fraud.  Shareholder Meeting  Orsi was given full powers in December 2011 to press ahead
with cost cuts and focus on aerospace and defense. Asset sales
were a central tenet of this turnaround plan. Orsi resigned as
chairman and board member today. The company called for a
shareholder meeting in April to complete the composition of its
management, which will be proposed by the country’s new
government. Pansa has effectively been given chairman powers.  Efforts to sell the energy business will have to start anew
once a new management team is in place, both of the people said.
After Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s coalition government
collapsed the company had set a target of gathering bids for
Ansaldo Energia before the country’s elections. The company
won’t be able to name a buyer before the vote, one of the people
said.  The outcome of elections is also uncertain. Democratic
Party leader  Pier Luigi Bersani  had a 6 percentage-point lead
over former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  on Feb. 8, before a
blackout for polls kicked in. Even if he keeps that advantage,
Bersani risks falling short of a majority in the Senate and may
have to turn to Prime Minister Mario Monti to form a post-vote
alliance, which may prove difficult.  Political Opposition  Finmeccanica also faces political opposition to disposals.
Italian unions, with close ties with one of Bersani’s allies,
have opposed the sale of units on concern about jobs and have
openly called for the government to intervene through a
strategic fund set up to take minority stakes in the country’s
companies. The Italian Treasury has a stake of about 32 percent
in Finmeccanica.  Orsi’s arrest is linked to an investigation into a 560
million-euro Indian contract for helicopters in 2010, when he
headed the AgustaWestland helicopter unit. He denies any
wrongdoing. His lawyer  Ennio Amodio  said Feb. 12 that evidence
against his client is “inconsistent” and that the arrest is
“unjustified.” India has put the contract on hold and has
begun proceedings for its cancellation.  Bruno Spagnolini ,
current CEO of AgustaWestland, was placed under house arrest.  Siemens Interest  Siemens AG, Europe’s biggest engineering company, has held
talks with Finmeccanica on Ansaldo Energia and was the preferred
bidder until the end of September, according to people familiar
with the process. South Korea’s  Doosan Heavy  and  Samsung Techwin 
said today they are considering bids for the unit.  Finmeccanica last year sold a share of aircraft engine
maker Avio as part of  General Electric Co. ’s $4.3 billion
purchase from majority owner Cinven Ltd, receiving 260 million
euros. Hitachi has been in talks over the loss-making
AnsaldoBreda unit. Union opposition to the sale has slowed the
process, one the people said.  The arrest increases “the risk of material disruption in
the company’s strategy and day-to-day management as well as a
delay to its restructuring and asset disposal plan,” Fitch
Ratings said Feb. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  