-- Finmeccanica’s Orsi Quits Chairman Post After Graft Probe Arrest
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-15T14:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/finmeccanica-s-orsi-quits-chairman-post-after-graft-probe-arrest.html
Finmeccanica SpA  Chairman  Giuseppe Orsi , arrested three days ago on charges of corruption and tax
fraud, resigned from the post after losing all powers and the
chief executive officer role to   Alessandro Pansa .  Orsi. who remains in jail, also resigned his board of
directors position, his lawyer,  Ennio Amodio , told reporters
today in Busto Arsizio, near Milan.  Italian judges have been investigating wrongdoing at
Finmeccanica’s AgustaWestland helicopter arm in the sale of 12
AW101 helicopters to India during a time when Orsi led the unit.
The Indian defense ministry initiated proceedings to cancel the
560 million-euro ($748 million) deal and has given the company
seven days to respond.  Bruno Spagnolini , the CEO of the
helicopter unit, remains under house arrest.  Orsi has told Italian judges he is unaware of any
wrongdoing, according to his lawyer. Orsi denied knowing those
named in a probe as brokering the deal in India, his legal
representative said.  Finmeccanica fell as much as 16 cents, or 3.7 percent, to 4
euros in Milan, and traded at 4.03 euros as of 3:45 p.m. The
shares have slumped about 15 percent since Orsi’s arrest.  Finmeccanica, on Feb. 13, already called a shareholder
meeting for April to replace Orsi and an already vacant board
position.  The Indian government has so far taken delivery of three of
the 12 rotorcraft in the deal signed in 2010. AgustaWestland
beat an offering from  United Technologies Corp .’s Sikorsky unit,
bidding the S-92.  Russian Helicopters , which entered the
competition with an Mi-17-based offering, was eliminated early
in part because the firm did not submit the required integrity
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  