-- FINRA Expands Review of Disclosures by 15 Dark Pool Operators
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-02-15T21:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/finra-expands-review-of-disclosures-by-15-dark-pool-operators.html
U.S. securities regulators are
expanding their inquiry of private broker-run trading venues
known as dark pools as they look to better understand how the
platforms treat customer orders.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is preparing to
send a new round of letters to operators of 15 dark pools
previously targeted for questions. The initial round of letters
was partly Finra’s response to problems identified through
previous enforcement cases against dark pool operators,  John Malitzis , executive vice president of market regulation at
Finra, said in a phone interview.  “We are evaluating the responses we got back from the
firms and anticipate going back with further inquiry letters,”
Malitzis said.  Finra first sent detailed examination letters to the dark-
pool operators in September. The letters sought information
about how dark pools route, represent, and handle customers’ buy
and sell requests.  Dark pools are broker-operated private venues that don’t
display quotes publicly. They attracted more trading volume as
institutions sought to buy and sell without moving share prices.  Dark pools don’t identify the brokers and institutions that
buy and sell on their systems and aren’t required to tell
regulators how they handle customer orders.  The U.S. has more than 40 dark pools, which have tripled
their share of trading volume since the first quarter of 2008,
according to data compiled by New York-based Rosenblatt
Securities Inc. A third of trading now occurs away from
exchanges, up from 16 percent in early 2008, the Rosenblatt data
shows.  Sweep Letter  Finra’s initial sweep letter asked dark pools whether
whether certain customers get preferred access to information
about orders. Doing so could give the preferred customer an
advantage in trading.  Finra also asked the brokers what they disclose about
customer order types and whether any conflicts of interest exist
because of the broker’s own proprietary trading in the pool.  “Our letter is looking at really the relationship with
customers and concerns about whether the customers understand
how the orders are behind handled,” Malitzis said.  Finra also asked how brokers are paid for their services,
how they handle erroneous trades, and how they protect the
confidential order information supplied by customers. Finra is
reviewing the use of indications of interest, or messages that
let automated computer systems outside the dark pool know of buy
or sell interest within the venue in order to solicit new
orders, according to the letter.  Other Cases  Malitzis declined to say how many ongoing enforcement cases
Finra has against dark pool operators.  Dark pool operator Pipeline Trading Systems LLC settled a
case in October 2011 that alleged it failed to disclose that its
affiliate was responsible for filling most orders on the
platform.  Pipeline paid a $1 million fine to settle the Securities
and Exchange Commission enforcement case. Pipeline’s chairman
and chief executive officer, who also paid fines to settle
claims, later left the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  