-- Fisker Said to Weigh Bids From Suitors Including Dongfeng
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-02-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/fisker-said-to-weigh-bids-from-suitors-including-dongfeng.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the U.S.
plug-in hybrid carmaker seeking a buyer, is weighing several
bids, including a $350 million offer from Dongfeng Motor Corp.
that would give the Chinese carmaker majority control, said
people with knowledge of the matter.  Dongfeng, based in Wuhan, China, would gain 85 percent of
Fisker under the terms of its bid, said one of the people, who
asked not to be named because the process is private. Fisker had
sought bids by Feb. 6, according to that person.  “The company has received detailed proposals from multiple
parties in different continents, which are now being evaluated
by the company and its advisers,”  Roger Ormisher , a spokesman
for Fisker, said in an e-mail. He declined to elaborate.  Teaming up with  Dongfeng  could help Anaheim, California-
based Fisker solidify its turnaround and give it the funds to
pay back loans from the U.S. government. The maker of the Karma
luxury rechargeable-car had to halt production last year after
battery supplier A123 Systems Inc. filed for bankruptcy, and
said on Feb. 7 that it would begin making vehicles again
“fairly soon.”  Calls to Dongfeng’s offices in Wuhan and Hong Kong seeking
comment weren’t answered. Chinese businesses are closed for the
weeklong lunar new year break.  The Karma, which sells for more than $100,000, is an
advanced plug-in hybrid car that runs on an electric motor and
has an on-board gasoline-burning engine that recharges the
battery. The powertrain is similar to that of General Motors
Co.’s Chevrolet Volt.  Potential Investors  Fisker, led by Chief Executive Officer  Tony Posawatz , said
in December that it was working with Evercore Partners Inc. to
find potential investors or partners. Without a partner or a
buyer by midyear, Fisker may face a cash crunch, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. Posawatz once served
as vehicle line director for the Volt.  Fisker still owes the U.S. Energy Department about $200
million from a loan program the agency pulled last year
following the bankruptcy filing of solar-panel maker Solyndra
LLC. Fisker also hired Chicago-based Huron Consulting Group Inc.
to help run day-to-day operations, with Huron’s Hugh Sawyer
serving as chief administration officer.  If Dongfeng’s bid wins and a deal is done, the company may
eventually move Fisker production to China, one of the people
said. The company hired Finnish manufacturer Valmet Automotive
to produce the Karma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  