-- Forint Extends Weekly Decline on Economy, Central Bank Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-15T16:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/forint-extends-weekly-decline-on-economy-central-bank-concern.html
The forint weakened for a second
day, extending this week’s decline amid concern Hungary’s
recession is deepening and increasing uncertainty over the
succession at the helm of the central bank.  Hungary’s currency yesterday fell 0.6 percent against the
euro in the biggest depreciation among major currencies after
reports showed gross domestic product fell 2.7 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the most in three years.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban said today he won’t make changes to
his Cabinet, casting doubt over Economy Minister Gyorgy
Matolcsy’s chances of becoming the next central bank president.  “Yesterday’s bad data is still having an impact today,”
 Karoly Bamli  and  Imre Kerekgyarto , Budapest-based currency
traders at Commerzbank AG, wrote by e-mail today. “The question
of the central bank succession also remains in focus.”  The forint depreciated 0.1 percent to 292.09 per euro by
5:02 p.m. in Budapest, extending the week’s decline to 0.4
percent. The yield on 10-year government bonds fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.36 percent.  Matolcsy, who led the government’s self-described
unorthodox policies such as pension fund nationalizations and
industry tax increases, is the front-runner to succeed Simor,
whose term ends in March, Nomura Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. said in reports on Feb. 12 after meeting with
officials in Budapest.  Mihaly Varga, the minister in charge of negotiations with
the International Monetary Fund, yesterday told Inforadio that
he won’t become central bank president. Varga would accept
another Cabinet post if his job is eliminated as IMF aid talks
end, he said.  ‘Horror Candidate’  Varga’s comments boosted chances for Matolcsy’s nomination
as central bank president in March,  Carolin Hecht , a Frankfurt-
based strategist at Commerzbank, wrote in a research report
today, calling Matolcsy the “forint-horror candidate.”  “The prime minister is trying to wait until the very end”
before announcing his pick, which “is keeping the markets in
uncertainty,” Balint Torok, a Budapest-based analyst at Buda-
Cash Brokerhaz Zrt, said in a note today.  The forint tumbled as much as 3 percent after Matolcsy said
in December that the bank should “bravely” use unorthodox
methods to bolster the economy. Hungary’s currency rebounded
after Matolcsy and the central bank’s rate-setting Monetary
Council each urged caution on using “unconventional” monetary
tools.  The forint rallied in the five days through Feb. 13 as the
government raised $3.25 billion in its first sale of foreign
bonds in 21 months, after getting $12 billion in bids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  