-- G-20 at Odds Over Fiscal Goals as Fails to Meet 2010 Aim
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-02-15T12:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/g-20-at-odds-over-fiscal-goals-as-failure-looms-to-meet-2010-aim.html
Group of 20 governments disagreed
over the strength of new fiscal goals as they risk missing the
targets set three years ago.  After committing at a Toronto summit in 2010 to halve
budget deficits by this year, most advanced nations are now
facing failure on that score and on a related pledge to
stabilize their debt by 2016.  As G-20 finance chiefs  meet  in Moscow, the challenge now is
to find a replacement for the Toronto goals after weak economic
growth hamstrung fiscal consolidation worldwide. While German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  advocated “concrete”
targets, Russian official  Ksenia Yudaeva  said formal commitments
would be “counterproductive.”  “We might want to have long-term principles and particular
strategies for countries with high deficit levels,” Yudaeva,
Russia’s G-20 sherpa, said in an interview. “But I don’t think
we need any precise commitments like during Toronto. It should
be much more flexible.”  The G-20 will discuss adopting a new deadline for deficit
goals and may set 2016 as the new target date, Russian Finance
Minister  Anton Siluanov  said today. Given the debt burden of
industrial nations, “a credible path of debt reduction is
really essential and the positive environment should be used by
the G-20 countries,” Schaeuble said.  Fiscal Stance  Assessing the appropriate stance of fiscal policy has
caused rifts between the major economies since the global
financial crisis began in 2007. It’s pitted the U.S., whose
officials have preferred to focus on boosting economic growth in
the short term, against a European push for immediate austerity
measures.  U.S. Treasury Undersecretary  Lael Brainard  said in Moscow
today that the priority for the G-20 in its talks should be to
find ways to strengthen economic expansion and that fiscal
adjustments should be calibrated.  Recovery has proved much slower than anticipated in
Toronto, said Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development Secretary General Angel Gurria said in Moscow.  “Because growth has been weaker than the context in which
we launched the Toronto agreements, we obviously need the
flexibility,” he said today. “If you are getting more expense
and less revenue it means that you probably need some more
time.”  ‘Very Restrictive’  The European fiscal stance remains “very restrictive,”
leaving room for easing as the region’s debt crisis ebbs,
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The finance chiefs already watered down their Toronto
agreement after November talks in Mexico City, saying they would
ensure “the pace of fiscal consolidation is appropriate to
support recovery.”  In a draft of their latest communique dated Feb. 11 and
obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday, the G-20 officials said
“credible medium-term fiscal plans need to be put in place to
provide flexibility in the near-term pace of fiscal
consolidation in line with economic conditions.”  “Our overriding priority must be to support growth and
jobs and to cement a sustained global recovery,” Australian
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said. “Of course, all governments must all
put in place responsible medium-term budget frameworks to ensure
the sustainability of their finances over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Moscow at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  