-- G-20 Resists Currency War Crackdown
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-15T21:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/g-20-advocates-market-set-currencies-as-japan-defends-policy.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs debated
adopting a tougher stance on exchange rates as they prepare to
reiterate a pledge against competitive devaluations.  With policy makers meeting in Moscow, the Japanese yen fell
after a G-20 official said there isn’t a plan to echo a Group of
Seven promise to avoid using policies to target exchange rates.
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said he was seeing a
“convergence” among participants toward the position on
currencies adopted by the G-7.  Repeating the language the G-20 nations agreed on in
November suggests the group won’t publicly criticize Japan,
failing to address questions over how much a weaker yen features
in its government’s plans to end deflation. It may also reflect
reluctance by emerging markets such as China to fully disavow
currency management.  “The G-20 isn’t singling out Japan, so existing monetary
policies will be allowed to remain in place and the yen will
weaken,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a strategist at  Barclays Plc  in
New York.  The Japanese currency dropped for the first time in four
days toward the end of a week in which rich economies sought to
avert a so-called currency war by vowing not to make exchange
rates a goal of policy. G-7 officials then reignited tensions by
dividing over whether their first joint comment on currencies
since 2011 was an attempt to slow the yen’s fall.  Same Spirit  The draft of a statement, to be released today, instead
repeats that markets should be free to determine exchange rates,
said the official, who asked not to be identified because the
document isn’t public. According to Moscovici, “the spirit is
the same, the message is the same” as in the G-7 position.  Bank of Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  yesterday defended
his country’s economic strategy, arguing it is aimed at beating
15 years of deflation rather than driving down the currency to
lift exports. The yen has tumbled about 7 percent versus the
dollar this year as new Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  seeks more
aggressive monetary policy.  “Japan’s monetary policy is focused on ending deflation
and stabilizing the domestic economy by achieving sustainable
growth under price stability,” Shirakawa, who will retire next
month, told reporters in Moscow.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. has
also deployed “domestic policy tools to advance domestic
objectives,” adding that bolstering the U.S. economy will
support global growth.  Mixed Messages  The week’s mixed messages and speculation that governments
are embracing weaker currencies as a route to stronger economic
growth drew criticism from the G-20’s finance ministers and
central bankers gathering in Moscow.  “Chatter” about exchange rates is “self-defeating,”
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said. Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said talk of a currency war is
“contributing to the uncertainty that is holding back stronger
growth.”  As the talks began in the Russian capital, officials spoke
little about the yen and more about their shared support for
floating currencies.  “All members of the G-20 need to deliver on the commitment
to move toward market-determined exchange rates,” U.S. Treasury
Undersecretary  Lael Brainard  said  Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  framed the debate as one
about the appropriate use of monetary policy, saying as long as
measures are “directed toward getting stronger growth in the
domestic economy, that’s a good thing for the global economy.”  Japanese Boost  That view was shared by Indonesian central bank Deputy
Governor  Hartadi Sarwono , who said a healthier Japanese economy
should be welcomed as a boost for global growth.  “If the Japanese increase their domestic demand, it will
help Indonesia, especially from the export side,” Sarwono said.
“Up to now we don’t really have very much concern on the
depreciation itself.”  Still, Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who
popularized the phrase “currency war” in 2010, said his
government wouldn’t allow the real to over appreciate after
reaching a nine-month high. Mantega has repeatedly criticized
stimulus by developed countries for flooding emerging economies
with capital, pushing up their currencies and threatening asset
bubbles.  ‘Spillover Effects’  Some developing nations said “we should be cautious about
the spillover effects of accommodative monetary policies in
developed countries,” Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso.  Not all G-20 policy makers want a lower exchange rate.
European Central Bank council member  Jens Weidmann  said in a
Feb. 13 interview published yesterday that “the exchange rate
of the euro is broadly in line with fundamentals” and “you
cannot really say that the euro is seriously overvalued.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  blessed both of the recent trends, saying the euro’s
climb and yen’s fall were the results of “welcome policy
developments.”  G-20 members were divided over highlighting the issue of
“currency war” in characterizing currency management,
according to Japan’s Aso.  “There have been some comments calling a monetary and
foreign-exchange policy currency war, but there were many more
voices saying that’s clearly an exaggeration from officials who
made remarks” at yesterday’s meeting, Aso said.  G-20 ‘Glasshouses’  Limiting the G-20’s ability to sign up to the G-7’s
position is the fact that some in the bigger club such as China
use currencies as part of their policy toolkit, said  Douglas Borthwick , a managing director and head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine FX in New York.  “Within the G-20, a lot of economies manage their
currencies so more are living in glasshouses and can’t throw
stones,” he said.  Three months after saying they would identify new debt
cutting goals, the G-20 sided with the U.S. over Europeans in
agreeing to avoid specifying targets in the communique, the
official familiar with the statement said. Most of the advanced
nations are already on course to miss fiscal commitments made in
2010.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called for new
“concrete” targets, only for Brainard to speak of the need to
calibrate fiscal policy with economic performance. The group
will say governments should take account of the strength of
their economies in the near term when trying to restore budget
order, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Moscow at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Moscow at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  