-- Gemalto Sees Sales Boost From U.S. Wireless Speed Upgrades
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-15T15:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/gemalto-sees-sales-boost-by-mobile-phone-speed-upgrades-in-u-s-.html
Gemalto NV , the French smartcard
maker that sells more than a billion SIM cards for mobile
devices annually, predicts a boost in sales and profit from
phone carriers this year as more U.S. consumers switch to faster
wireless services.  Gemalto, scheduled to release fourth-quarter results March
14, at least met its forecast of 300 million euros ($399
million) in profit from operations in 2012, Chief Executive
Officer  Olivier Piou  said in an interview. The increase of 25.5
percent or more -- Gemalto’s biggest in four years -- was helped
by adoption of fourth-generation technology, he said.  “Every time a 4G phone is activated, Gemalto gets paid,”
Piou said. “We already charge a premium for 4G SIM cards. The
next step is growing our revenue from services like mobile
payment and advertising.”  As consumers move to devices such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone 5
and Samsung Electronics Co.’s 4G-enabled Galaxy smartphones,
carriers are upgrading SIM cards and paying to activate them.
New services such as mobile payment and advertising on
smartphones will also drive sales for the Amsterdam-based
company this year in the U.S. and Asia, Piou said.  Gemalto climbed 0.6 percent to 69.90 euros at 4:22 p.m. in
Paris, erasing earlier losses. The stock joined France’s leading
CAC 40 index in December, and has risen almost 60 percent during
the past 12 months.  4G Innovations  European carriers are falling behind their U.S. rivals in
efforts to boost tariffs with faster service, so 4G is slower to
catch on there, Piou said. U.K. mobile-phone company EE, which
is owned by  Deutsche Telekom AG  and  France Telecom SA , uses its
SIM cards, Gemalto said last month.  “We’ve deployed some back-office maintenance and security
systems in Europe, which carriers pre-install regardless of the
number of 4G users,” Piou said. “For innovation in 4G
services, you’ll have to look to the U.S. and Asia.”  Gemalto, which helps clients make everything from bank
transactions to government passports more secure, said in August
it would reach the 300 million-euro operating profit target --
set in 2010 as part of a three-year strategic plan -- a year
early, and would increase revenue and profit in all its main
segments. Gemalto defines the metric as operating income
adjusted for items such as restructuring and acquisition-related
expenses.  The company has said it will unveil a new multi-year
strategic plan in the second half of this year.  Piou, a 54-year-old engineer, has headed the company since
it was created in a 2006 merger of Gemplus and Axalto. He
returned the group to  profit  by shifting revenue from older
commoditized smart chips to new security technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  