-- German Bunds Rise for Second Day After Weidmann Comments
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-15T14:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/german-bunds-rise-second-day-before-euro-area-trade-data.html
German 10-year bonds rose for a
second day after European Central Bank Governing Council member
 Jens Weidmann  said Ireland’s plan to rescue a failed bank may be
in breach of government-funding regulations.  Benchmark  10-year bund  yields approached the lowest level
in three weeks after a report showed exports from the euro area
declined the most in five months in December as the currency’s
gains made European goods less competitive. Weidmann, who heads
Germany’s Bundesbank, said an appreciating euro alone won’t
trigger a cut in interest rates and the currency’s gains are
justified by the economic outlook. Spanish 10-year bonds were
little changed, set for their first weekly advance in five.  “The Weidmann comments show the Bundesbank is taking a
very hard line” on Ireland, said  Owen Callan , an analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in Dublin. “The comments on the rate cut could
have seen bunds falling, but, given the uncertain nature of them
and their slightly risk-off nature, bunds are being supported.”  Germany’s 10-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 2:45 p.m. London time,
after dropping to 1.58 percent on Feb. 8, the lowest since Jan.
25. The 1.5 percent security due in February 2023 gained 0.095,
or 95 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,335) face amount, to 98.79.  The nation’s  two-year  note yield was little changed at 0.18
percent, after falling to 0.16 percent on Feb. 8, the least
since Jan. 24.  Project Red  Ireland’s asset swap via its central bank extends the cost
of rescuing the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp., easing the
nation’s borrowing needs over the next decade by 20 billion
euros. Under the plan, dubbed“ Project Red,” Ireland will
exchange so-called promissory notes used to rescue the failed
bank with 25 billion euros of government bonds with maturities
as long as 40 years.  The transaction “has a fiscal nature, as stated by the
Irish government, that’s clear enough,” Weidmann, who heads
Germany’s Bundesbank, said in an interview on Feb. 13. The ECB
will re-examine the issue and “has to make sure that its
actions are in conformity with its rules and statutes,” he
said. “I’m very concerned about monetary policy being too
closely intertwined with fiscal policy and crossing the line to
monetary financing.”  The ECB will examine the Irish swap further, the central
bank’s President  Mario Draghi  said at a press conference today
in Moscow, where he’s attending a Group of 20 meeting.  Ireland’s five-year note yield climbed two basis points to
2.76 percent.  Trade Data  Exports from the 17-nation currency bloc dropped a
seasonally adjusted 1.8 percent from November, when they rose a
revised 0.6 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. That is the sharpest decline since July.
Imports fell 3 percent and the trade surplus increased to 12
billion euros from 10.5 billion euros in the previous month.  Spanish  10-year  bond yields slid two basis points to 5.18
percent, having dropped 19 basis points this week. The rate on
similar-maturity  Italian  bonds fell five basis points to 4.36
percent, down 20 basis points from Feb. 8.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and Italy,
according to measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the
yield spread between two-year and 10-year securities, and
credit-default swaps.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1.6 percent this
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Italian debt returned 1.2 percent and Spanish
securities gained 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  