-- German Stocks Drop, Extending Third Straight Weekly Slide
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-15T09:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/german-stocks-drop-extending-third-straight-weekly-slide.html
  German stocks  fell for a second
day, with the benchmark DAX Index heading for its third straight
weekly drop, as Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers met in Moscow.  Deutsche Telekom AG slipped 1.6 percent as Paulson & Co.
said it may oppose MetroPCS Communications Inc.’s combination
with the phone company’s T-Mobile USA unit. Commerzbank AG rose
3.2 percent as Germany’s second-largest bank cut bonus payments.
Gerresheimer AG gained 1.9 percent after CA Cheuvreux
recommended investors buy the shares.  The  DAX  declined 0.3 percent to 7,611.11 at 10:50 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The gauge has dropped 0.5 percent this week, for its
longest weekly losing streak since April. The broader HDAX Index
fell 0.2 percent today.  “I’d argue that you re-enter the DAX probably in the next
two to three months,”  Bob Parker , senior adviser at Credit
Suisse Asset Management in London, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Manus Cranny. “But will the DAX
significantly outperform other European markets in 2013 like it
did in 2012? The answer is no, the huge divergence will not be
repeated this year.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 69 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers hold talks in
Moscow today, with investors seeking clarity on how comfortable
they are with a sliding yen. Russia, which holds the group’s
rotating presidency this year, wants to head off a global
currency war by pushing policy makers to make stronger
commitments against exchange-rate manipulation.  Rate Interference  The G-20 should have more “specific” language opposing
exchange-rate interference in the communique that will be issued
after the meeting among finance chiefs ends tomorrow, Russian
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said yesterday.  Separately, European Central Bank council member Jens
Weidmann said an appreciating euro alone won’t trigger a cut in
interest rates and the exchange rate’s gains are justified by
the economic outlook.  “I believe that the exchange rate of the euro is broadly
in line with fundamentals,” Weidmann said in a Feb. 13
interview. “You cannot really say that the euro is seriously
overvalued.”  In the U.S., industrial production climbed 0.2 percent in
January after a 0.3 percent advance the previous month,
according to the median forecast of 81 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before a report due at 9:15 a.m. New York time.  Deutsche Telekom  Deutsche Telekom dropped 13.5 cents to 8.34 euros, the
lowest level since Dec. 7. Paulson & Co. agrees with arguments
presented by P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, which opposes
the merger of MetroPCS and T-Mobile USA, according to an e-
mailed statement late yesterday.  Commerzbank  added 4.7 cents to 1.52 euros, snapping three
days of declines. Chief Executive Officer Martin Blessing gave
up his bonus for last year and cut payouts by an average 17
percent across the firm as he warned of further pressure on
revenue. The bank revised its fourth-quarter loss to 716 million
euros compared with the 720 million euros it had reported last
week in a preliminary earnings statement.  Gerresheimer , the German producer of pharmaceutical and
health-care equipment, gained 80 cents to 42.37 euros. Cheuvreux
upgraded its recommendation on the shares to outperform, the
equivalent of a buy rating, from underperform. The company’s
growth guidance for 2013 is too conservative, according to
analyst  Oliver Reinberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  