-- German Renewables Groups Propose Alternatives to Merkel’s Cuts
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-02-15T19:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/german-renewables-groups-propose-alternatives-to-merkel-s-cuts.html
Germany’s clean-energy lobbies said
government plans to reduce support for the industry will stall
any energy transformation and proposed three alternative
measures to stabilize power prices.  The subsidy cuts announced yesterday, which aim to limit
rising electricity costs for consumers, would greatly reduce
investment in the industry, the country’s largest trade groups
said in a  joint statement  led by the BEE renewable-energy
federation. The alternative measures would prevent further price
increases while allowing continued growth, they said.  German ministers, who aim to more than triple the share of
renewables in the energy mix by 2050, agreed on a plan to limit
power-price increases for consumers caused by subsidies for
renewable energy.  The surcharge consumers pay for renewable energy will soar
about 47 percent this year, according to the four main grid
operators.  “The message for developers and investors will lie in the
precedent these measures would establish as a fall in investment
confidence may be a high price to pay,”  Anna Czajkowska , policy
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London, said today.
“The proposal will now go through the consultation process,
where the proposed alternatives will surely be explored.”  The government proposals will limit the surcharge consumers
pay through a one-time cut in feed-in tariffs, or above-market
rates paid for clean energy, for all existing projects during
one year and phase out tariffs for new projects, among other
measures. From August, new projects with more than 150 kilowatts
will not be eligible for the tariffs and only get a premium
above market prices after six months.  Consumer Benefits  As an alternative, the lobby groups propose to change the
renewable-energy bill so consumers can benefit from reductions
in wholesale power prices stemming from clean energy. Solar and
wind energy reduced German wholesale power prices about 17
percent last year, they said.  In addition, the government should share the increasing
revenue it earns from taxes to electricity generators with
consumers and allow fewer companies to be exempt from paying the
clean energy surcharge, according to the groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  