-- Ghana to Narrow 12.1% Deficit With Tax, Fuel-Subsidy Cuts
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-02-15T13:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/ghana-to-narrow-12-1-deficit-with-tax-fuel-subsidy-cuts.html
Ghana will narrow its budget deficit
this year by reducing fuel subsidies and earning more taxes from
oil companies as crude production in the West African nation
increases, Finance Minister  Seth Terkper  said.  “We will reduce the subsidies on fuel to free resources
for the budget,” he told reporters in Accra, the capital,
yesterday. “We are currently discussing the level by which we
should cut them.”  Ghana’s fiscal gap widened to 12.1 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, almost double the government’s 6.7
percent target, the Bank of Ghana said on Feb. 13. Tax revenue
was 3.7 percent lower than expected mainly because of fewer
payments from oil producers as crude output targets were missed,
according to the central bank.  The government has been curbing the deficit since 2008,
when overspending during an election year widened the shortfall
to 14.5 percent of GDP and sparked a sell-off in the currency.
Ghana held a vote in December, with  John Dramani Mahama  winning
the presidency and his ruling National Democratic Congress party
retaining its majority in Parliament.  The cedi has gained 2.6 percent against the dollar in the
past six months. It added 0.5 percent to 1.895 per dollar as of
1:40 p.m. in Accra, the biggest gain in more than two weeks.  Fuel subsidies will jump to 2.4 billion cedis ($1.3
billion) this year from about 1 billion cedis, the National
Petroleum Authority said on Feb. 11. A liter of premium gasoline
sells for 1.708 cedis, according to the NPA’s website. The rate
has been held since February 2012, when it was cut by 2.7
percent.  Spending Restraint  The deficit may be reduced to 6.5 percent of GDP “as more
restraint materializes on the expenditure side,”   Samir Gadio ,
an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Plc in London,
said in an e-mailed response to questions today. More taxes from
oil companies and subsidy cuts will help narrow the gap, he
said. “We also expect a positive non-oil tax base
performance.”  Higher production at the Jubilee oil field, operated by
 Tullow Oil Plc , and government savings from the subsidy
reductions will boost state revenue and avert the need for an
austerity budget, Terkper said.  “Some of the policies are not necessarily going to be
painful,” he said. The 2013 plan will be presented later this
month or early in March.  Jubilee output is currently at about 110,000 barrels of oil
a day, Tullow Chief Executive Officer  Aidan Heavey  said on Jan.
11. Problems at the site which curbed production last year have
been resolved, he said.  Salary Arrears  Almost all government employees have been moved onto a new
salary plan that saw excess payments of 1.9 billion cedis last
year, according to the Bank of Ghana.  “The salary arrears will be less” as the last workers are
put on the plan, Terkper said.  “It is good that the government is signalling its intent
to cut the budget deficit by proceeding with subsidy reforms as
well as revenue raising measures,”  Razia Khan , London-based
head of Africa research at Standard Chartered Bank Plc said in
an e-mailed comment today. “While this may not erode the entire
budget deficit, it should go some way towards contributing to
fiscal consolidation.”  Inflation Pressure  While cutting the fuel subsidies will offer room to narrow
the deficit, Terkper said the policy will put pressure on
inflation “because transport fares and food items will be
impacted.”  Still, higher prices are not expected to drive up interest
rates because the government will curb its use of local
borrowing to finance the deficit, he said.  “Any borrowing we do this year from the domestic market
will be for capital expenditure that is planned for, not for
projects that have short funds or are not planned for.”  Ghanaian  inflation  was unchanged at 8.8 percent in January
from the previous month, the Ghana Statistical Service said on
Feb. 13. The central bank held its policy  rate  at 15 percent for
a third time the same day, citing the higher-than-forecast
deficit.  The gap last year was mainly financed with 7.1 billion
cedis of domestic borrowing, which helped to push the benchmark
91-day Treasury-bill yield to 23.1 percent at the end of the
year from 10.7 percent in December 2011, according to the Bank
of Ghana.  “The debt-service element of spending is still substantial
and will continue to play a disproportionate role in influencing
public finances,” Khan said. “Measures to raise the revenue
take from elsewhere are long overdue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  