-- Fox, Google, Apple, Harvard Law: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-02-15T12:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/google-apple-samsung-harvard-law-intellectual-property.html
A federal judge in New York ruled
that the Fox Entertainment Group Inc. series “Touch” doesn’t
violate the copyright of author Everette Hallford.  Hallford claimed that the television show, which involves a
widowed father and his autistic son, unlawfully copied his
screenplay “Prodigy,” which centers on an autistic boy and an
investigative journalist.  The suit, filed last March, also named several other
defendants, including Kiefer Sutherland, who produces and stars
in the show.  U.S. District Judge  William H. Pauley III , in his Feb. 13
ruling dismissing the case, found that the show wasn’t
substantially similar to either Hallford’s screenplay or an
earlier novel, “Visionary.”  “Here, the average lay observer -- no matter how
discerning -- would not recognize that Touch was appropriated
from Prodigy because this is not ‘one of those relatively
unusual cases’ where the infringing work copies the ‘particular’
or ‘same’ selections made in the copyrighted work, and the two
works are different in total concept and overall feel,” Pauley
wrote.  Hallford plans to appeal, said his lawyer, Joseph
Nohavicka, a partner at Mavromihalis Pardalis & Nohavicka LLP in
Astoria, New York. In a telephone interview, Nohavicka expressed
disappointment in the ruling, while saying, “Judge Pauley
listened very carefully during the arguments.”  Fox lawyer Jonathan Zavin, a partner at  Loeb & Loeb LLP ,
didn’t return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Hallford v. Fox Entertainment Group Inc., 12-
cv-1806, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Tiffany Sues Costco Claiming It Sells Counterfeit Jewelry  Tiffany & Co.  sued  Costco Wholesale Corp.  in New York
claiming the retailer sells counterfeit Tiffany diamond
engagement rings at discount big-box prices not befitting the
mystique of its iconic blue box.  While Costco sells high-end jewelry from Cartier,
Breitling, Chanel and Movado, it isn’t authorized to sell
Tiffany items, the New York-based jewelry retailer said in a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Tiffany said it was alerted by a customer in November who
saw signs offering “Tiffany” rings in a Huntington Beach,
California, Costco store.  “Costco had apparently been selling different styles of
rings for many years that it has falsely identified on in-store
signage as ‘Tiffany,’” according to the complaint.  The Issaquah, Washington-based company, which runs more
than 600 warehouse stores, has led customers to believe they
were buying authentic Tiffany items at discount prices, Tiffany
said. The sales “unlawfully trade off Tiffany’s goodwill and
brand awareness,” it said.  Tiffany, which has sold trademarked luxury items for 175
years, is seeking to prevent further sales of counterfeit
diamond engagement rings as well as unspecified damages
associated with prior sales, the company said in the complaint.  “We now know that there are hundreds if not thousands of
Costco members who think they bought a Tiffany engagement ring
at Costco, which they didn’t,” Jeffrey Mitchell, a lawyer for
Tiffany, said in a statement. “Costco knew what it was doing
when it used the Tiffany trademark to sell rings that had
nothing to do with Tiffany.”  Joel Benoliel, Costco’s chief legal officer, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment about the lawsuit.  The case is Tiffany and Co. v. Costco Wholesale Corp.,
1:13-cv-01041, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Gordon Ramsay Succeeds in Application for ‘Spotted Pig’ in U.K.  Gordon Ramsay  Holdings International Ltd. obtained the U.K.
trademark for “The Spotted Pig” and immediately handed it over
to owners of the New York restaurant and bar of the same name.  “We have been liaising with The Spotted Pig in New York
for some months, and had arranged for the trademark to be passed
to them once it was registered,” according to an e-mailed
statement from Gordon Ramsay Holdings yesterday. “This has now
happened.”  The New York venue is owned by chefs  Mario Batali  and  April Bloomfield  and a group including restaurateur  Ken Friedman . It
also attracted attention because of investments from celebrities
such as  Bono  and  Jay-Z .  Ramsay’s application for the U.K. trademark caused
controversy after it was reported by Bloomberg News on Nov. 20
last year.  One party expressed an intention to oppose the application,
and the opposition period has now expired, the Intellectual
Property Office said in an e-mailed response to a query by
Bloomberg News. The office doesn’t identify objectors. The right
to use the name lasts for 10 years.  Anthony Bourdain  and  Jamie Oliver  were among chefs who
criticized the application. Bourdain said the attempt to use the
name was shameful.  “Gordon Ramsay registers name ‘Spotted Pig’ in England?”
Bourdain said in a message posted on Twitter on Nov. 20,
according to  Eater.com .  Oliver responded: “April & Ken have built something very
special & one day I hope they will bring it to London. We like
originals,” the  Daily Mail  reported.  Harvard Law Review Receives a Trademark for Its Name  Apparently, it isn’t enough to be on the Harvard Law
Review. Now, the name has received federal trademark protection
as well.  On Feb. 12, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office included
the Law Review among its new registrations. The storied journal,
founded in 1887, joins a short list of others that have
registered, including the Liberty University Law Review, the
Florida Law Review and the Marquette Sports Law Review.
According to the PTO’s website, the Harvard Business Review was
registered in August.  Paul Andrew, a spokesman for Harvard, said in an e-mail
that the university “regularly seeks to expand its trademark
registrations in the U.S. and worldwide in order to protect the
Harvard name from unauthorized use. It is not unusual to file a
trademark long after it has already been in use, and merely
represents our ongoing efforts to reinforce Harvard’s already
existing legal rights via trademark registrations.”  The attorney of record, Peter Karol, of counsel at Sunstein
Kann Murphy & Timbers LLP in Boston, didn’t return a call
seeking comment on the registration.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patent  Myriad Genetics Wins Australian Bid to Patent Human Genes  Myriad Genetics Inc. , owner of patents for genes linked to
cancer risks, won an Australian court ruling allowing it to
patent isolated DNA, a first in the country, with the U.S.
Supreme Court set to hear a similar case.  Federal Court Justice John Nicholas today in Sydney
dismissed a 2010 lawsuit aimed at stopping Myriad and  Genetic
Technologies Ltd.  from patenting a gene mutation associated with
an increased risk of breast and ovarian cancers.  The issue has divided the global medical community with
groups including the  Association for Molecular Pathology  and the
American College of Medical Genetics arguing that Myriad is
attempting to get legal ownership of parts of the human body.
The conflict returns to the U.S. Supreme Court this year after
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit twice ruled
that genes can be patented. The U.S. high court  agreed  on Nov.
30 to hear the Association for Molecular Pathology’s appeal.  Rebecca Gilsenan, a lawyer at Melbourne-based Maurice
Blackburn, the firm representing the opponents, said after the
Australian decision that they will have to review the 41-page
judgment before determining whether to appeal.  “We’re really interested in the U.S. Supreme Court
hearing,” Gilsenan said. “We’ll be watching it very closely.”  The Australian ruling will allow patents on anything that
is artificial, without consideration of the biological material
from which it derived,  Luigi Palombi , a patent lawyer and author
of “Gene Cartels: Biotech Patents in the Age of Free Trade,”
said in an e-mailed statement.  Cancer Voices Australia , a national organization
representing cancer patients, and Yvonne D’Arcy, a Brisbane
resident diagnosed with breast cancer, sued  Myriad Genetics  and
 Genetic Technologies  to block the patenting of genes in the
country.  The case is: Cancer Voices Australia v. Myriad Genetics.
NSD643/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  Apple-Samsung Judge Koh Says She May Put Patent Case on Hold  Apple Inc.  and  Samsung Electronics Co.  were asked by a
federal judge to agree to freeze their smartphone patent dispute
scheduled for trial next year while they separately appeal an
August verdict in an earlier case.  “I was going to ask if we can stay this case while the
other appeal is going on,” U.S. District Judge  Lucy Koh  said
during a hearing yesterday in San Jose, California. Any possible
resolution of the conflict will be “global” and cover
technologies contested in both suits, Koh said. “I don’t know
if we need two cases on this.”  Koh directed attorneys for both sides to file a status
report by March 7 indicating whether they consent to putting the
later case on hold. A lawyer for Cupertino, California-based
Apple,  William Lee , said there are no settlement negotiations
under way in the litigation.  Both companies continued to present the patents at issue in
the newer case, scheduled for  trial  in March 2014. The lawsuit
was filed last year and covers technology in newer smartphones
made by both companies, including Samsung’s Galaxy S III and
Apple’s iPhone 5.  The judge last month rejected Apple’s request to add
additional damages to a $1.05 billion awarded against Samsung in
August by a jury that found the Suwon, South Korea-based company
infringed six of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device patents.  Apple is challenging a decision by Koh that allows Samsung
to continue selling some products that were found by the jury to
infringe Apple patents.  In a Feb. 12 filing with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, Apple said that Samsung has taken
market share based on its “deliberate copying of Apple’s
innovative iPhone and iPad products” and asked the court to
halt the  sales . Samsung hasn’t filed a response, and an appeal
of the August jury verdict hasn’t yet been filed with the
appeals court.  Separately, both companies are appealing rulings requiring
them to reveal financial information they want to keep secret.
Apple calls the information its “treasured trade secrets,”
consisting of data on specific products and market research on
its customers. Arguments in those appeals are to be heard March
26 in Washington.  Last year’s case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846; the case scheduled for trial next year is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-cv-630; both are in
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Actavis Wins Appeal Over Two Patents for Teva’s Fentora Drug  Actavis Inc. ’s generic version of the painkiller Fentora
wouldn’t infringe two patents owned by  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. ’s Cephalon unit, a U.S. appeals court ruled
yesterday.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit  upheld  a
finding that the generic version made by Actavis didn’t copy the
way the drug is delivered into the system through a mucous
membrane. The appeals court did overturn a lower court ruling
that the patents are invalid, reviving the patents so Cephalon
can assert them against other companies.  The infringement decision is largely symbolic as another
patent owned by Cephalon prevents Actavis, which recently
changed its name from Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., from entering
the market until October 2019. Fentora is approved to relieve
sudden episodes of cancer pain in adults already taking opioids,
or morphine-like drugs.  “The decision was favorable in terms of infringement, but
we still can’t launch,” said  Charlie Mayr , a spokesman for
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, bought Cephalon in
2011. The company is asserting the two patents in this case,
along with two others, in a case against Mylan Inc. that is
scheduled for trial in March, said  Denise Bradley , a Teva
spokeswoman.  The case is Cephalon Inc. v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
2011-1325, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Cephalon Inc. v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 08cv330, U.S. District Court for the
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Google Sues BT Group Unit Over Patents for Network Services  Google Inc.  sued  BT Group Plc ’s U.S. unit over claims it
infringed four patents related to network communications,
including through voice-over-Internet services.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine, filed a complaint Feb. 12 in federal court in Los
Angeles. The Mountain View, California-based company seeks a
court order preventing BT Americas from continuing its alleged
infringements of the patents, as well as unspecified damages.  BT, based in London, accused Google in a 2011 lawsuit of
infringing six U.S. patents for mobile-device technology.  “BT has brought several meritless patent claims against
Google and our customers -- and they’ve also been arming patent
trolls,”  Niki Fenwick , a Google spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “When faced with these kind of actions, we
will defend ourselves.”  Kris Kozamchak, a BT spokeswoman, said in an e-mail Feb. 12
that the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The case is Google v. BT Americas, 13-00254, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  HTC Patent Victory Over FlashPoint Upheld by Appeals Court  HTC Corp. won an appeals court ruling that upholds its
victory in a patent-infringement case brought by FlashPoint
Technology Inc. over digital-camera features.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, without
issuing a formal opinion, upheld a decision by the U.S.
International Trade Commission that HTC didn’t violate
FlashPoint’s patent rights. Notice of the appeals court decision
was posted on its website.  AstraZeneca Wins Appeal to Block Generic Copies of Seroquel XR  AstraZeneca Plc won an appeals court ruling yesterday that
will help ward off some generic competition to the extended-
release version of its Seroquel antipsychotic drug.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, without
issuing a formal ruling, upheld a lower court decision that four
generic-drug makers, including Mylan Inc., were infringing a
valid patent on the recipe for making Seroquel XR. The appeals
court, which heard arguments in the case last week, posted a
notice of its decision on its website.  For more patent news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 