-- Greencore Falls After Horse DNA Found in Sauce: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-02-15T17:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/greencore-falls-after-horse-dna-found-in-sauce-london-mover.html
Greencore Group Plc  shares fell the
most in 14 months after the Irish company said it supplied beef
bolognese sauce that Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda chain withdrew
after traces of horse DNA were found.  Greencore is awaiting results of further tests to confirm
the presence and extent of horse DNA in the meat sauce, it said
yesterday in a statement. The shares  plunged  9.5 percent, the
greatest drop today on the  FTSE All-Share Index .  Greencore Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Coveney  is
the brother of Irish Agriculture Minister  Simon Coveney , who
this week convened a meeting of European agriculture ministers
to discuss the horse-meat crisis, which has spread across
the continent.  European Union nations should test thousands of processed
beef products for horse meat to establish the scale of a
labelling scandal that has spread from Ireland to Germany, EU
Health and Consumer Commissioner  Tonio Borg  said in Brussels on
Feb. 13. The scandal began after the Food Safety Authority of
Ireland said last month it found horse DNA in beef burgers sold
by retailers Tesco Plc, Aldi and Dublin-based Dunnes Stores.  Greencore  said the meat used in the sauce supplied in
Asda’s Chosen By You 350-gram beef bolognese sauce was provided
by a plant in County Tipperary, Ireland. The Irish company has a
28 percent market share in the chilled Italian meals market in
the U.K., according to a  presentation  in November.  Precautionary Withdrawals  Asda withdrew three other Greencore products as a
precautionary measure. Greencore  fell  to 92.5 pence at the close
in London, giving the Dublin-based company a market value of 364
million pounds ($565 million). The stock declined as much as 22
percent earlier in the day.  “Clearly, this will negatively affect sentiment but until
the extent of any contamination is confirmed it is difficult to
quantify the impact on Greencore,”  Damian McNeela  and  Graham Jones , analysts at Panmure Gordon & Co., said in a note today.
“The longer the scandal runs, the greater the likely impact on
the group’s financial performance.”  Supermarkets in the U.K., Ireland, France, the Netherlands
and Germany have pulled tainted frozen beef burgers and lasagnas
from shelves. and France has threatened sanctions for negligence
and fraud since the scandal erupted. Borg said passing off horse
meat as beef isn’t considered a food-safety issue. “We are now
treating this as a fraudulent misuse of the labelling system for
economic gain,” Borg said.  Food-Chain Fraud  Simon Coveney, the government minister, said this week in
Brussels that “there is fraud in the food chain.” He called
for a European response, as Ireland currently holds the
presidency of the European Union. “It is becoming clear that
this is an EU-wide problem that needs an EU-wide solution,” he
told reporters.  European Union-wide tests for equine DNA in beef and bute
in horse meat are to begin immediately, the EU said today.  Tesco, Asda and Aldi have removed some ranges of frozen
beef burgers from their shelves in the past month as concern has
escalated over tainted meat. A line of lasagnas produced by
Findus Group Ltd. was found to contain more than 60 percent
horse meat, and Tesco said Feb. 11 that tests found the same
percentage of the meat in some spaghetti bolognese products.  “Of more concern is the potential reputational damage,”
 Liam Igoe , an analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers, said in a note
today. Igoe said he doesn’t expect any long-term loss in
customers for Greencore, though sales of meat sauces and ready
meals containing beef will probably be hurt in the short term.  ‘Overreaction’  Panmure Gordon’s McNeela cautioned that the extent of the
share decline earlier today was a “significant overreaction.”
After the initial screening test, “it hasn’t even been proved
that it is horse DNA” or that any presence of horse meat is at
an actionable level, he said in an interview.  About 1 percent of beef products tested in the U.K.
contained horse meat, the U.K. Food Standards Agency said today.
None of the 2.501 samples tested contained phenylbutazone, a
potentially harmful veterinary drug known as bute, the food
safety watchdog said today at a press conference in London.  Greencore produces about 150 million prepared meals, and
more than 200 million jars of cooking sauces, pickles and
condiments a year, according to its 2012 annual report.  The three other products withdrawn by Asda are 600-gram
beef broth soup, 500-gram Meat Feast pasta sauce and 400-gram
chilli con carne soup, Greencore said.  “The company is participating in full with the intensive
industry testing program to examine the full supply chain in
order to restore consumer confidence,” it said.  The chief executive officers of 11 food providers and
retailers, including Greencore, Tesco and Asda, published a
joint letter today to declare their resolve to restore consumer
confidence “as quickly as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  