-- Apple Accused by Greenlight of Breaking Law by Bundling
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/greenlight-says-apple-violates-law-by-bundling-vote-measures-1-.html
Apple Inc.  is violating the law by
packaging a measure to limit the offering of preferred shares
with other matters up for a shareholder vote, Greenlight Capital
Inc. said in a court filing.  David Einhorn ’s investment firm said in a brief filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan that Apple’s move would
cause “an actual and imminent injury” to investors. The Feb.
27 vote should be stopped unless Apple unbundles the measures
and allows each to be considered separately, Greenlight said in
the filing.  Shareholders “will have been irrevocably stripped of their
right to fair corporate suffrage -- the very right the
unbundling rules were designed to vindicate,” Greenlight said
in the filing, referring to U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission “unbundling” rules it alleges Apple is violating.  “These harms all can be prevented by an injunction before
the vote, and none can be remedied after,” Greenlight said.  Apple said in a filing Feb. 13 that it isn’t breaking SEC
rules and that the preferred share measure isn’t as restrictive
as Greenlight alleges.  Einhorn, whose firm says it holds more than 1.3 million
Apple shares, has argued that the Cupertino, California-based
company should issue high-yielding preferred shares to return
value to investors from a $137 billion cash hoard.  The hedge fund founder told Apple executives that their
proposed preferred stock restriction could pose a “roadblock
that was not needed” to his plan, according to a Feb. 13 filing
by Apple Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer .  Apple contends the measure that Greenlight opposes only
eliminates so-called blank check preferred-stock provisions.
Without those provisions, preferred shares could be issued as
long as investors approve, according to Apple.  The case is Greenlight Capital LP v. Apple Inc., 13-cv-900,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 