-- Libya Starts Anniversary Celebrations With Peaceful Rallies
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-02-15T15:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/libya-starts-anniversary-celebrations-with-peaceful-rallies.html
Libya saw mostly peaceful
celebrations in its two principal cities, Tripoli and Benghazi,
as citizens began a three-day commemoration of the start of the
2011 uprising that ousted  Muammar Qaddafi .  In Tripoli flags and streamers fluttered from walls,
lampposts and cars, and thousands of police and militiamen
backed by armed pick-up trucks formed checkpoints on most major
traffic junctions. A large flag-waving crowd including many
families with children gathered in the afternoon in the
capital’s Martyrs’ Square.  “The mood is great,” said student Hassan Morajea. “Every
car has two or three flags in the windows, everyone wants to
celebrate,” he said in a telephone interview.  The run-up to the celebrations had been overshadowed by
concern that violence may break out, as it frequently has since
Qaddafi’s overthrow and death. In September, an attack on the
U.S. consulate in Benghazi left Ambassador Chris Stevens dead.
Authorities are struggling to bring militias under control,
repair a dilapidated infrastructure and assuage regional
grievances including demands for autonomy in the east and south.  A bomb exploded outside a police station late yesterday in
Benghazi, causing no injuries, said Bilal Bettamer, a prominent
human rights activist, in a telephone interview. He said local
media reported the bomb was the work of criminals, not political
agitators.  “In Benghazi there are celebrations, huge celebrations
actually,” he said.  Bettamar is helping organize a protest later today in
Benghazi against what he said is a lack of government action
against militants. He said he was determined the march to the
city’s Freedom Square would be peaceful.  Still, Benghazi aviation student Mohammed el-Gadari said
many people were staying off the streets, fearing violence.
“Parents told their kids not to go out, there are militia
checkpoints all over the city, each militia is guarding its own
zone,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  