-- Iceland Closer to Debt Sale as Credit Ratings Get Boost
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-02-15T11:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/iceland-ratings-boost-has-government-considering-next-bond-sale.html
Iceland moved closer to its next
international bond sale after the nation’s credit ratings
improved.  Fitch yesterday raised the island to BBB from BBB-, with a
stable outlook. That followed a decision last week at Moody’s
Investors Service to lift the outlook on Iceland’s Baa3 rating
to stable from negative. Both moves followed Iceland’s Jan. 28
court victory over the U.K. and the Netherlands, ending a four-
year depositor claims dispute that had threatened to cost the
island as much as $2.6 billion in damages.  Iceland has tapped international debt markets twice since
its 2008 financial meltdown, which saw its biggest banks default
on $85 billion. Since then, the island has surfaced from an
international bailout stronger than many of the nations inside
the euro area. Iceland, which is now outgrowing the 17-nation
currency bloc, is looking for foreign investments to help speed
its recovery.  “We’re always on the lookout for the best possible
financing for Iceland,” Finance Minister  Katrin Juliusdottir 
said in an interview late yesterday. Now that the country’s
ratings have improved, “we hope that we can obtain even better
financing,” she said.  Dollar Bonds  The island sold a $1 billion dollar 10-year bond in May
last year, and a $1 billion five-year note in June a year
earlier.  The yield on Iceland’s 5.875 percent bond due May 2022
eased three basis points to 4.16 percent as of 11:26 a.m. in
Reykjavik, according to composite Bloomberg bond trader prices.
The yield on its 4.875 percent note due June 2016 rose two basis
points to 2.83 percent.  The biggest hurdle on the path to restoring investor
confidence remains the removal of Iceland’s capital controls,
which have been in place since 2008 to prevent a krona sell-off.
The nation’s improved ratings will help unwind the restrictions,
Juliusdottir said.  The process for scaling back the capital controls “is a
lot clearer now” and Iceland can start executing its plan in
the next 12 months, she said. “We can now begin drawing up
different scenarios on how we intend to control the outflows.”  Bank Creditors  The government is now trying to assess how the krona will
weather capital outflows as creditors in  Kaupthing Bank hf ,
 Glitnir Bank hf  and  Landsbanki Islands hf  start to receive their
shares of the proceeds of the failed banks’ assets, following
composition agreements.  “We have a clearer picture on the failed banks’ estates,”
said Juliusdottir. That will help Iceland “make sure that no
blows will be dealt to Icelandic households or corporations,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 