-- Microphone Buttons Dominate Week as Sept. 11 Case Slows
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/microphone-buttons-dominate-week-as-sept-11-case-slows.html
After a week of hearings ended in
the biggest terrorism case in U.S. history, this much had been
resolved: Court microphones were altered so speakers must push a
button to talk, instead of hitting a button to mute any sound.  Such has been the pace of the proceedings in a military
courtroom in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, since  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed 
and four other accused plotters of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks were arraigned nine months ago -- for a second time.  “It’s painfully slow,” said Eve Bucca, who came to
witness this week’s hearings before a military tribunal after
her husband, a former New York City fire marshal, died in the
World Trade Center more than a decade ago.  The ruling on courtroom microphones by the judge, U.S. Army
Colonel  James Pohl , marked the biggest advance in the week of
pre-trial hearings that ended yesterday. It will be at least a
year before the trial begins, as defense lawyers and prosecutors
wrangle over the fairness of the proceedings.  Defense lawyers have expressed growing distrust in the
tribunal, claiming that the government is eavesdropping on 
confidential meetings with their clients. Those concerns have 
since stalled other preliminary motions in the case.  “It will take a long, long time and it will not be
efficient,” said David Nevin, an attorney for Mohammed, the
accused mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks. He said the military
tribunal system -- with unresolved questions such as whether the
U.S. Constitution applies -- makes it more difficult to provide
an adequate defense.  Death Penalty  As prosecutors seek the death penalty for a crime that
killed almost 3,000 people in the attacks, they defended the
tribunal and denied any eavesdropping.  The chief prosecutor, Army Brigadier General  Mark Martins ,
stressed the importance of “methodically taking up these issues
in a context of national security” and making sure that the
concerns of the accused are properly addressed.  “These are going to be highly adversarial, contested
cases,” Martins said.  He defended the decision to pause consideration of other
pre-trial motions to investigate the eavesdropping claims.  “The court needed to stop what we were doing to look into
it,” he said yesterday.  Defense lawyers focused this week on revelations that some
rooms used for confidential client meetings had microphones in
the ceilings resembling smoke detectors.  The prison camp’s top legal adviser, Navy Captain Thomas
Welsh, testified in court that the microphones were never used
to monitor confidential conversations.  ‘Serious Violation’  At a news conference yesterday, defense lawyers said they
remain concerned and are determined to investigate whether any
monitoring occurred.  “Now it turns out there obviously were listening devices
in the rooms where we met our clients,” said James Harrington,
an attorney for  Ramzi bin al Shibh , a Yemeni accused of
financing the Sept. 11 hijackers.  “It’s a serious problem, a serious violation,” Harrington
said. “We may have to seek remedies.”  Deliberations on the eavesdropping issue were derailed this
week after lawyers said prison guards had improperly seized
confidential legal correspondence from the cells of the accused.
That led to hours of testimony yesterday on how mail is
distributed and screened at the military’s prison camp.  In wrapping up the week’s hearings, Pohl said yesterday he
would postpone issuing an order on the mail controversy to give
both sides time to propose a remedy.  Emergency Motion  Defense lawyers had filed an emergency motion seeking to
bar the military from monitoring their confidential talks with
the accused after discovering two weeks ago that a secret
government official, known as an “original classification
authority,” had cut off audio and video feeds of proceedings
from the military courtroom to the public.  Pohl, who indicated he was as surprised as defense
attorneys by a cutoff that he hadn’t authorized, issued an order
making clear that he has sole authority to censor such feeds.  Defense attorneys said the incident convinced them that
their private conversations also could be monitored by the
government because of sensitive microphones in the courtroom and
listening devices in holding cells.  To ease concerns about monitoring in the courtroom, Pohl
ordered that the microphones be altered so that they remain off
until a speaker pushes a button to talk. The prior system left
the microphones on, requiring anyone near the devices to push a
button to mute it.  Hijacked Planes  The current military tribunal has been under way since the
arraignment in May. Mohammed and the other defendants are
accused of plotting to use hijacked airliners to kill almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in Manhattan, the
Pentagon in Virginia, and in Pennsylvania.  They are charged with conspiring to finance, train and
direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, terrorism,
hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws
of war and attacking civilians.  Bucca, the widow of a Sept. 11 victim, expressed some
frustration at the pace of court proceedings, even as she
defended it.  “It takes as long as it takes,” Bucca said. “I say that
because I don’t want anyone let off on a technicality.”  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  