-- Mike Piazza Compares Taking Drugs to Getting a Face Lift
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mike-piazza-compares-taking-drugs-to-getting-a-face-lift.html
He was the Dodgers’ batboy when they
visited Philadelphia. (His father knew Tommy Lasorda.) Ted
Williams offered him hitting tips. Yet he started at baseball’s
lowest rung, the Instructional League.  Mike Piazza was a “ Long Shot ,” as the title of his new
autobiography says. He may have had family connections and a
surfeit of desire, but on paper (and, worse yet, on the field)
he didn’t seem to have the stuff to make it to baseball’s major
leagues.  Just as presidential candidates write campaign books -- it
worked for Jimmy Carter with “Why Not the Best?” and  Barack
Obama  with “The Audacity of Hope” -- Piazza’s book is part of
his campaign to be elected to baseball’s Hall of Fame.  His is a story of hope and audacity, accent on the latter,
and he wound up with the kind of  statistics  that might propel
him to Cooperstown: Rookie of the Year in 1993, an all-star a
dozen times, the all-time mark for homers by a catcher. It’s a
remarkable record, especially for a player chosen in the 62nd
round of the draft.  Piazza’s progress from hopeless prospect to home-run
producer raises doubts about baseball’s vaunted scouting system,
which was in its ascendancy during Piazza’s youth -- the very
questions that led to “ Moneyball ,” Michael Lewis’s book and
the movie based on it.  Late Bloomer  Piazza was, to be sure, a late bloomer, but he had the
latent talent -- and a special affinity for the position of
catcher. Of his early days in spring-training anonymity, he
writes: “That’s when I really started learning to catch. I
caught good curveballs. I caught pitchers who knew what they
were doing.”  After a career that took Piazza from the Dodgers to the
Marlins, Mets, Padres and Athletics, it’s prurient interest in
his off-the-field exploits that has brought the most attention
to this book. Over the years Piazza was repeatedly asked about
his sexual orientation.  His view: “I found it hugely insulting that people
believed I’d go so far out of my way -- living with Playmates,
vacationing with actresses, showing up at nightclubs -- to act
out a lifestyle that would amount to a charade.” He’s been
married to Alicia Rickter since 2005; they have two daughters.  He writes about resisting the siren calls of the life of
the athletic star. “I didn’t care for the demands of the
spotlight,” he insists, not entirely convincingly.  Drug Rumors  He also deflects persistent rumors -- “bogus
accusations,” he calls them -- that he used drugs to juice his
performance. “I was interested in power, but not prison,” he
says. This is a book about an athlete but also about a time in
sports when performance-enhancing drugs were rampant. In the
end, Piazza seems unsettled by the whole issue.  He raises several questions. Here’s one, probably easy to
answer: Are performance-enhancing drugs for athletes “different
than a woman going in for a face lift”?  Here’s another, requiring further discussion on the field
and in the kind of thoughtful sports books baseball seems to
inspire: Is what Piazza calls “a certain selfishness” actually
“closely related to doing the most you can for your team”?  But the most searing may be this: Can you write your way
into the  Hall of Fame ? Of all Piazza’s achievements, this would
be the most unusual after he fell 17 percentage points short in
January’s balloting. Maybe that’s why the book is called “Long
Shot.”  “Long Shot” by Mike Piazza with Lonnie Wheeler is
published by Simon & Schuster (374 pages, $27). To buy this book
in North America, click  here .  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s  NYC Weekend  and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 