-- Impala Bond Sale Bets on Platinum Revival: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-15T08:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/impala-bond-sale-bets-on-platinum-revival-south-africa-credit.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.  sold
the first bonds by a South African miner of the metal this year,
betting labor unrest and rising costs will give way to an
industry recovery.  The world’s second-biggest platinum producer sold $500
million of convertible bonds in rand and dollars, with a coupon
of 5 percent for the rand debt and 1 percent for the dollar
securities, it said in a statement today. Yields on  Aquarius
Platinum Ltd. ’s convertible bonds due December 2015 fell 227
basis points in the past month to 10.55 percent, compared with
the 25 basis-point increase in average yields of companies in
the JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEMBI Metals & Mining  index .  Impala is sinking three new shafts at its Rustenburg mine,
the world’s largest platinum operation, hoping to profit from
rising metal prices after  Anglo American Platinum Corp. Ltd. ,
the biggest producer known as Amplats, announced plans to shut
shafts and cut output by 13 percent. Impala targeted rand and
dollar markets as the local market for convertible bonds wasn’t
big enough to absorb the full amount, said investors including
 Rashaad Tayob  at Abax Investments (Pty) Ltd.  “They’re going to have quite a big funding call, and
they’re being pro-active,”  Patrice Rassou , who helps manage the
equivalent of about $40 billion at Sanlam Investment Management
in Cape Town, said by phone yesterday. “Depending on how the
Amplats review pans out, there should be some price action as
production is cut.”  Industry Upheaval  Upheaval has plagued South African producers since last
August, when thousands of workers began a series of illegal
strikes, winning pay increases of as much as 22 percent. Impala,
which accounts for a quarter of world output, yesterday  reported 
that first-half net income fell 78 percent, missing analysts’
estimates, after a strike at its Rustenburg mine cut output.  Impala’s debt climbed to 2.97 billion rand ($334 million)
in the six months through Dec. 31, from 2.70 billion a year
earlier, according to regulatory filings. Finance costs rose to
293 million rand in the period, from 131 million rand.  The company, based in Johannesburg, sold 2.67 billion rand
and $200 million of bonds due in 2018, it said.  Conversion Premium  The debt can be switched into shares at a premium of 35
percent to the market value of the stock. UBS AG and  Standard
Bank Group Ltd.  will arrange the sales.  “We could get it all away in U.S. dollars, but we didn’t
want to exclude rand investors” including the Public Investment
Corp., known as the PIC, Chief Financial Officer  Brenda Berlin 
said in an interview. The PIC, which manages the pensions of
government workers, is the company’s second-biggest shareholder.  By selling bonds that investors may exchange for shares,
the company is hoping to keep debt-service costs low, said Tayob
of Abax Investments in Cape Town, where he helps manage the
equivalent of $6.2 billion. Investors typically demand lower
interest rates for convertible bonds in return for the option of
profiting from an increase in the share price.  “They’re probably trying to keep their cost of funding at
a minimum,” Tayob said by phone yesterday. “It’s a balancing
act because there is the risk of dilution if the share price
goes up,” forcing the company to issue shares to bondholders at
a higher price than when the debt was issued.  Profit Drop  Impala’s  profit  excluding one-time items decreased to 1.28
rand a share, in the six months ended Dec. 31, from 5.73 rand a
share, a year earlier. The median estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for adjusted earnings of 2.28 rand a
share. The average price of platinum in the six months through
December fell 6.4 percent to $1,547 an ounce compared with a
year earlier. The price has climbed 12 percent since then.  The rand slipped 0.4 percent to 8.8179 per dollar by 10:39
a.m. in Johannesburg today. That extended its decline this year
to 3.9 percent, making it the worst performer among emerging-
market currencies this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While the “operating environment in South Africa continues
to be challenging,” metal prices may rise “as a result of
tight South African supply and on-going firm demand by the
automotive industry,” Impala said in a statement yesterday.
“Impala takes a long-term view on the business and will
continue to invest in replacement shafts.”  Output Decline  Mining production  slumped 7.5 percent in December from a
year earlier, led by a 23 percent reduction in platinum output,
Statistics South Africa said yesterday.  Investors are growing increasingly wary of South Africa,
credit default swaps show. The cost of protecting South African
debt against non-payment for five years using credit default
swaps has climbed 26 basis points this year to 169, reaching an
eight-month high of 177 on Feb. 4. The  premium  investors demand
to hold South African dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries increased
24 basis points this year to 187. according to JPMorgan indexes.  With developed-nation bond yields near record lows, the
extra yield offered by Impala attracted investors, given the
option to convert the debt to shares, Abax’s Tayob said.  “From an investor’s perspective, you may be willing to
take a lower coupon but with the potential to participate in any
upside in the share price,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  