-- India Moves to Scrap Helicopter Deal After Bribery Arrests
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-02-16T12:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/india-moves-to-scrap-italy-helicopter-deal-after-bribery-arrests.html
India took the first steps to cancel
a $753 million deal to buy helicopters from  Finmeccanica SpA , as
accusations bribes were paid to secure the contract fueled
opposition attacks on  Manmohan Singh’s  government.  The defense ministry in New Delhi yesterday issued a notice
giving AgustaWestland, the Anglo-Italian unit of Finmeccanica,
seven days to explain why the Indian government shouldn’t
terminate the agreement for 12 helicopters under a so-called
integrity pact included in the deal.  Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer  Giuseppe Orsi  was
arrested Feb. 12 on accusations of corruption and tax fraud as
authorities investigate alleged illegal payments tied to the
contract for the sale of AW101 helicopters to India in 2010. The
company has denied wrongdoing. Three of the helicopters have
been delivered.  India’s defense ministry has asked the Central Bureau of
Investigation to investigate the purchase and  suspended  further
payments to AgustaWestland. “With today’s show-cause notice,
the operation of the contract has been put on hold,” the
ministry said in the statement.  AgustaWestland acknowledged the request for information in
an e-mailed statement today, denying it was a cancellation.
“AgustaWestland is preparing its answers to timely meet the
Indian Ministry of Defence’s request,” the company said.
“AgustaWestland is confident that the full compliance with the
relevant laws as well as the good conduct of its past and
present senior executives and managers will be demonstrated as
soon as practicable.”  ‘Strongest Action’  Finmeccanica, Italy’s biggest defense contractor, Feb. 14
promoted  Alessandro Pansa  to CEO to succeed Orsi. Analysts in
the Indian capital said the fall out from the helicopter
purchase could hit other deals between the Italian company and
India’s government.  “Blacklisting of Finmeccanica can’t be ruled out and if it
happens it’s a lose-lose situation for the company and India’s
defense ministry,” said Deba Ranjan Mohanty, chairman of the
Indicia Research & Advisory, a New Delhi-based defense research
organization. The company provides other equipment for India’s
armed forces.  Defense Minister  A.K. Antony , whose personal probity helped
him win charge of the department that has in the past been
plagued by scandals, said Feb. 13 “strongest possible action”
will be taken if investigations uncover evidence of corrupt
payment. “We will not tolerate corruption in defense deals.”  Singh Pressure  Prime Minister Singh and his government have come under
intense fire from opponents led by the Bharatiya Janata Party
following the arrest of Orsi and local media reports, citing
Italian court documents, that bribes were paid to Indians to
secure the helicopter deal.  Allegations of graft surrounding the sale of artillery by
Sweden’s Bofors AB contributed to the defeat of the Congress
party government of then premier  Rajiv Gandhi  at elections in
1989. Congress, elected in back-to-back elections in 2004 and
2009, is now headed by Gandhi’s Italian-born widow, Sonia.  The government headed by Singh has been assailed by rivals
over corruption charges since 2010 as scandals linked to the
hosting of that year’s Commonwealth Games and an earlier sale of
mobile-phone permits emerged. The accusations against his
administration -- which led to a cabinet minister being jailed
and put on trial -- helped trigger a two-year logjam in policy
making and an economic slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  