-- Production Unexpectedly Decreases as U.S. Factories Cool
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-02-15T14:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/industrial-production-unexpectedly-falls-as-u-s-factories-cool.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
unexpectedly shrank in January as factories took a breather
after the biggest back-to-back gain in three decades.  Output at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.1 percent
after a 0.4 percent gain in December, figures from the Federal
Reserve showed today in Washington. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey called for a 0.2 percent rise.  Manufacturing ,
which makes up 75 percent of total production, dropped after
revised data for November and December showed the biggest two-
month advance since 1984.  A pickup in consumer and business spending toward the end
of 2012 and stabilization in overseas markets including China
and Europe will help sales at companies such as  Deere & Co.  and
 Eaton Corp Plc.  At the same time, a higher tax that is trimming
Americans’ paychecks and the risk of across-the-board cuts in
federal outlays may prevent bigger gains in production.  “January showed a bit of a payback after the strength in
manufacturing toward the end of 2012,” said  Sam Coffin , an
economist at UBS Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, who
projected a 0.3 percent drop in factory output. “Manufacturing
will be growing pretty rapidly as companies have to restock
inventories, and there’s overseas as well as domestic demand.
We’re on a slightly better path now.”  New York  Another report today showed factories regained their
footing this month. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic index climbed to 10, the highest since May 2012
and exceeding the highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey, from
minus 7.8 in January. The median projection called for minus 2.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in New York,
northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Stocks were little changed after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,521.59 at
9:49 a.m. in New York.  Estimates for total U.S. production from the 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from a drop of 0.2 percent to an
increase of 0.5 percent. The prior month was previously reported
as a gain of 0.3 percent.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, dropped 0.4 percent last month after jumping 1.1
percent in December and 1.7 percent in November, the biggest
back-to-back gain since January and February 1984.  Auto Production  The output of motor vehicles and parts decreased 3.2
percent after a 2.9 percent gain a month earlier, today’s report
showed. Excluding autos and parts, manufacturing production fell
0.1 percent after jumping 0.9 percent and 1.3 percent in the
previous two months.  Automobiles are likely to be a source of strength this
year, according to other reports. Cars and light trucks  sold  at
a 15.2 million annual rate in January after 15.3 million in
December, data from Ward’s Automotive Group showed. Including
November’s 15.5 million rate, auto sales over the past three
months have been the strongest in five years.  Today’s Fed report also showed that  capacity utilization ,
which measures the amount of a plant that is in use, declined to
79.1 percent from a four-year high of 79.3 percent in December.  Utility output  rebounded 3.5 percent after falling 4.5
percent the prior month. The figures probably reflected a return
to more normal weather after an unseasonably warm December had
led to a decline in utility production.  Mining Output  Mining  production, which includes oil drilling, decreased 1
percent after being little changed the prior month.  The breakdown of the manufacturing figures showed a mixed
reading last month with computers and metals in addition to
autos showing declines, while machinery, furniture and clothing
advanced.  Deere, the largest agricultural equipment maker, raised its
full-year profit forecast and posted quarterly earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates. First-quarter revenue from machinery
gained 18 percent in the U.S. and Canada and 2 percent in the
rest of the world, the Moline, Illinois-based company said.  “John Deere has entered 2013 on a strong pace,” Susan
Karlix, manager of investor communications, said on a Feb. 13
conference call with analysts. “Our key markets remain in good
shape, for the most part, and we’re looking for another solid
year. True, our near-term outlook is tempered by uncertainties
over fiscal, economic and trade issues. This is hurting business
confidence and restraining growth.”  Overseas Demand  Eaton, an industrial equipment manufacturer, also is poised
to gain from improving demand. China’s economy is accelerating
while in the U.S., housing and non-residential construction will
help drive economic growth, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sandy Cutler said in an interview following Eaton’s quarterly
earnings report on Feb. 4.  President Barack Obama, in his State of the Union address
this week, unveiled proposals to revive manufacturing and create
jobs, as falling energy prices in the nation and rising labor
costs in China make U.S. producers more competitive. His ideas
included efforts to bolster clean energy subsidies, hire
hundreds of people to lobby foreign companies to open U.S.
plants, end tax breaks to firms that ship jobs overseas, and
expand free-trade pacts.  Some recent reports show an improving outlook. The
Institute for Supply Management’s  factory gauge  advanced to a
nine-month high of 53.1 in January, exceeding the highest
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Growth in jobs and incomes may help cushion the hit to
consumer spending from the higher payroll levy used to pay for
Social Security benefits. Starting January, that tax rate
returned to the 2010 level of 6.2 percent, from 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  