-- Intel Wins X2Y Patent Case Said to Threaten U.S. Jobs
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-02-16T01:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/intel-wins-x2y-patent-case-said-to-threaten-u-s-jobs-1-.html
Intel Corp.  won a patent-
infringement case some U.S. lawmakers said could have threatened
jobs at the chipmaker’s U.S. manufacturing plants.  The U.S. International Trade Commission upheld, with
modifications, trade Judge  David Shaw ’s findings that Intel
didn’t violate the patent rights of closely held X2Y Attenuators
LLC. Hewlett-Packard Co. and Apple Inc., which use Intel chips,
were also named in the ITC complaint.  Notice  of the decision was
posted yesterday on the agency’s website.  X2Y asked the trade agency to block Intel’s chips using its
technology from entering the U.S. The case drew the attention of
lawmakers from both political parties who said a loss for Intel
could harm U.S. jobs, because Intel does initial manufacturing
work in the U.S. and final assembly in other countries.  The X2Y patents cover ways to overcome electromagnetic
interference that can damage electronics. The company, which
develops methods for improving the performance of circuits,
licenses its inventions to Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
biggest maker of computer-memory chips. It doesn’t make any
chips of its own.  Shaw said Intel didn’t infringe the three patents and two
are invalid. The commission altered the judge’s interpretation
of some patent terms without changing his underlying finding.
The commission said it would more fully explain its reasoning in
an opinion to be issued later.  Overseas Assembly  Intel has facilities in Arizona, California, Oregon,
Massachusetts and New Mexico. X2Y’s complaint centers on Intel’s
activities at test and assembly plants in Costa Rica, Malaysia,
the Philippines and China.  Since the chips originate in the U.S., any disruption in
the supply chain could hurt American jobs, Intel has said in ITC
filings.  Oregon’s congressional delegation, including Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat, said in an Aug. 8 letter that, because X2Y
doesn’t make competing products, a loss for Intel “could have
serious implications for the numerous U.S. industries that rely
on a steady supply of Intel microprocessors and the Apple and
Hewlett-Packard computers that use them.”  The ITC, whose job is to protect U.S. markets from unfair
competition, has tightened its standards, requiring patent
owners to have “significant licensing activities” while
weeding out complaints from some with no real business
operations.  Shaw found that X2Y met the threshold requirement of having
a domestic industry worthy of protection based on its
engineering and research activities.  Civil Lawsuits  Two civil suits that X2Y filed in federal court in its
hometown of Erie, Pennsylvania, were put on hold pending the
outcome of the ITC case. Those cases, which include additional
patents, seek cash compensation from Intel.  “We’re gratified they upheld the judge’s opinion and now
we can focus on defending ourselves in federal court in
Pennsylvania,” said  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara,
California-based Intel.  Anne Standley of Edelman, a spokeswoman for X2Y’s law firm
Alston & Bird, said the firm and company had no immediate
comment.  The case is In the Matter of Microprocessors, Components
Thereof, and Products Containing Same, 337-781, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  