-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Assets Rises on Global Slowdown
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-15T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-rises-on-global-slowdown.html
International purchases of U.S.
stocks, bonds and other  financial assets  rose more than forecast
in December as investors sought shelter from slowing global
growth.  Net buying of long-term financial assets totaled $64.2
billion during the month, up from net purchases of $52.4 billion
in November, the Treasury Department said today in Washington.
 Economists surveyed  by Bloomberg projected net buying of $35
billion of long-term assets, according to the median estimate.  “The significant increase in December is a reflection of
the heightened concern among global investors about the U.S.
economy being pushed into a recession by the fiscal cliff,”
Millan Mulraine, senior U.S. strategist for TD Securities Inc.
in New York, said after the report was released. “Investors who
feared the adverse impact of a U.S. economic slowdown on global
activity fled to the safe haven of Treasuries.”  In December, President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in
Congress were at a standoff over tax increases and spending cuts
that threatened growth in the world’s biggest economy. The U.S.
House of Representatives on Jan. 1 passed legislation that
avoided what had been called the “fiscal cliff.”  IMF Forecasts  The International Monetary Fund in January cut its global
growth forecasts and now projects a second year of contraction
in the euro region as progress in battling Europe’s debt crisis
fails to produce an economic recovery.  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, less
than the 3.6 percent forecast in October, the Washington-based
IMF said in an update of its World Economic Outlook report.
While the fund projects growth this year increasing from last
year’s 3.2 percent pace, it expects the 17-country euro area to
shrink 0.2 percent in 2013, instead of growing 0.2 percent as
forecast in October.  President  Obama  and Republicans are locked in a standoff
over how to avert $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts set
to take effect on March 1 unless Congress acts to stop or
replace them. In addition, a temporary suspension of the
nation’s $16.4 trillion debt ceiling only runs through May 18.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $25.2 billion in December, down from net
purchases of $29.7 billion the previous month.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in December after its holdings rose $19.7 billion to $1.2
trillion, according to the Treasury. Japan, the second-largest
holder rose $2.5 billion to $1.12 trillion in holdings.  Foreigners bought a net $29.9 billion of Treasuries in
December, according to today’s report, up from $26.4 billion the
month before.  Estimates of foreign transactions in long-term U.S. assets
in December ranged from net buying of $28.5 billion to $60
billion, according to five economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  