-- Iran’s Nuclear Gains Suggest Sanctions May Backfire
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-21T19:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/iran-s-nuclear-technology-gains-suggest-sanctions-are-backfiring.html
(Corrects 8th paragraph of story published Feb. 15 to say
 Iran  has the capacity to manufacture a Fomblin-like oil product
rather than that is is manufacturing Fomblin oil.)  International sanctions designed to
punish Iran for its nuclear program may be counter-productive,
said scientists and security analysts tracking the decade-long
dispute over the Persian Gulf nation’s atomic work.  While trade and financial sanctions have choked off Iran’s
access to materials such as aluminum and  maraging steel  used to
make its first generation of nuclear equipment, they have
spurred the Islamic Republic to find its own solutions for
subsequent technological innovations. Now, Iran is positioned to
both build better nuclear devices and export them.  “The serious consequence of all of these sanctions are
that you drive the indigenous production of these parts,”
Ferenc Dalnoki-Veress, a physicist at the Monterrey, California-
based James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, wrote in
response to questions. “This means the proliferator learns more
about the technology and so now they don’t only know how to
produce the parts, but they could also sell them to other
states.”  As embargoes strangle Iran’s ability to import high-quality
metals and fibers needed to build nuclear components, the
country’s own resources, including oil, sand and zinc, mean it
can overcome technical hurdles. Last month, Iran notified United
Nations International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors it would
begin installing 3,000 domestically built centrifuges that can
produce more enriched uranium in less time.  Raw Materials  “Most technologies in use are decades-old, well-proven,
well-published concepts,” said Andreas Persbo, executive
director of the London-based Verification Research, Training and
Information Center, a non-governmental observer to the IAEA.
“The key thing is to get access to the raw material. If you
have the raw material, and a talent base to process them, you
can construct whatever you need.”  Iran, with the world’s fourth-biggest proven oil reserves,
began in 2011 to make its own carbon fiber, the strong, light
material used in wind turbines, airplanes and centrifuges. Like
the uranium-enrichment market, which is led by a handful of
companies such as Urenco Ltd.,  Areva SA (AREVA)  and Rosatom Corp.,
carbon-fiber production is driven by a few multinational
businesses including  Hexcel Corp. (HXL) ,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Toray
Industries Inc. (3402)   “While the sanctions regime certainly slowed down Iran’s
technological progress initially, it has also made Iran self-
sufficient in a number of key areas,” said Yousaf Butt, a
physicist and nuclear non-proliferation analyst who advised the
U.S. National Academy of Sciences on Iran’s nuclear work. “Iran
is likely the most technologically advanced nation in the Middle
East, aside from  Israel .”  Self-Sufficient  The Islamic Republic’s research into  polymers  and
nanotechnology has given it self-sufficiency in other vital
technology areas touched by sanctions. For example, the country
has the capacity to make a product like  Fomblin  oil, a lubricant
used inside centrifuges, according to Persbo. At a September
IAEA meeting in Vienna, Iran displayed a copy of a domestically
made nuclear-fuel panel destined for a research reactor in
Tehran.  “If in the past the country needed finished products and
technologies for its program which squarely fell under
sanctions, now the required level of imported inputs is
continuously going down to more simple and basic items which
Iran still needs but can upgrade on its own,” according to Igor Khripunov, the Soviet Union’s former arms-control envoy to the
U.S. who is now at the  Athens , Georgia-based Center for
International Trade and Security.  Kazakhstan Meeting  Iran, which maintains its atomic program is peaceful, has
ruled out suspending its activities as the UN Security Council
demands. It’s willing to discuss its nuclear work when it meets
world powers in Kazakhstan next week, Foreign Minister Ali Akbar
Salehi said Feb. 4. Talks between Iran and IAEA officials that
concluded Feb. 13 in Tehran failed to clinch a deal that would
give investigators wider access to alleged nuclear sites.  While Iran allowed wider access to sites, including
centrifuge-manufacturing workshops, until 2005, it reversed
course after accusations about its nuclear work escalated. The
first UN sanctions were imposed in 2006. The country hasn’t
restricted IAEA access to sites it’s legally bound to let
inspectors visit.  Diplomats should focus on returning to greater transparency
of Iran’s nuclear facilities rather than trying to enforce a ban
on enrichment, said Paul Ingram, executive director of the
London-based British American Security Information Council, a
policy-advisory group.  “Iran has a sophisticated economy relative to most states
outside of North America,  Europe  and the Far East, so it should
be no surprise that they can develop the technologies to
substitute for sanctioned materials,” Ingram wrote in reply to
questions. “The experience of sanctions proves this time and
time again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  