-- Egypt Islamists Rally in Support of Mursi in Show of Strength
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-15T13:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/islamists-plan-pro-mursi-rallies-in-egypt-to-oppose-violence.html
Thousands of supporters of Egyptian
President  Mohamed Mursi  rallied in their first major show of
force since the Islamist leader’s November move to expand his
powers triggered weeks of violent protests.  The rally organized by Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya, a Salafist
group, was billed as “Together Against Violence.” Islamists
have criticized Mursi’s secularist and youth-activist opponents
for provoking clashes by challenging the president’s rule.  “With our souls and our blood, we sacrifice for you
Islam,” some chanted, while others called out: “He who loves
Egypt doesn’t destroy it.”  Protests against Mursi have boiled over into violent
clashes in recent weeks, deepening the turmoil that has marred
the country’s transition since the overthrow of  Hosni Mubarak 
two years ago. The unrest has hobbled Egypt’s economy, growing
at the slowest pace for two decades as investors and tourists
stay away.  Thousands of Islamists gathered by Cairo University. A
stage erected in front of the protesters bore a banner of Sheikh
Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric imprisoned in the
U.S. Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood has said it will only take part
in the rally in a “symbolic” way.  The Islamists have largely steered clear of protests for
more than a month, cautious that taking to the streets may
result in clashes like those that followed Mursi’s Nov. 22
decree giving him temporary extra powers. Following its
announcement, protesters attacked several Muslim Brotherhood
offices, torching them and clashing with police.  Renewed Violence  After a lull of several weeks, violence broke out again on
the Jan. 25 anniversary of the start of the uprising against
Hosni Mubarak.  “Opposition forces should respect people’s choice, adopt
peaceful methods to come to power through the ballot box,” Nasr
Abdel Salam, the head of Al-Gamaa’s political arm, said by phone
yesterday, blaming the secular National Salvation Front
opposition bloc for the latest wave of violence.  Mursi’s critics accuse the president, who became the
country’s first democratically elected civilian leader in June,
of seeking to advance the interests of the Brotherhood while
failing to revive the economy or end police brutality. His
supporters say it’s too early to judge the president’s
accomplishments and that frequent protests undermine the
government’s efforts to stabilize the country.  Revolutionary Youth  More than 30 activist groups plan a march today to the
presidential palace in Cairo’s Qubba district to protest Mursi’s
rule, Tamer el-Qady, a spokesman for the Revolutionary Youth
Union, said in a television interview late yesterday. The other
presidential palace in Heliopolis has been the site of some of
the past month’s clashes.  In Alexandria, Egypt’s second-largest city, clashes broke
out during a funeral service for a man who died while reportedly
in police custody, fueling anger over allegations that police
have used excessive violence recent protests.  Abdel Salam said that more than 12 Islamist groups are in
talks to join forces for upcoming parliamentary elections. No
date has been set for the vote. Muslim Brotherhood spokesman
Ahmed Aref confirmed that there are efforts to coordinate with
other parties, without giving details.  Islamists held about 70 percent of seats in the lower house
of parliament which was dissolved by court order last year. Some
opposition groups have said they may boycott the upcoming vote
unless demands including amendments to the Islamist-drafted
constitution are met.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tarek El-Tablawy  in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
 Salma El Wardany  in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  