-- Israeli Inflation Stays Below Target Mid-Point for Fourth Month
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-15T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/israeli-inflation-stays-below-target-mid-point-for-fourth-month.html
Israeli  inflation  remained below the
mid-point of the central bank’s target range for a fourth month
in January as growth moderated and the shekel appreciated.  The inflation rate fell to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent the
previous month, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics
reported today. The median estimate of 11 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg was 1.6 percent. The government’s target is 1 percent
to 3 percent. In the month, consumer prices fell 0.2 percent.  “The economy is growing at a moderate pace, so there are
no special inflation pressures,” said  Ofer Klein , head of
research at Harel Insurance & Financial Services Ltd. in Ramat
Gan. “The appreciation of the shekel is also helping to
moderate inflation.”  The Bank of Israel monetary policy committee, led by
Governor  Stanley Fischer , left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.75 percent last month, after gradually reducing
it from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to shore up the
economy amid the European debt crisis. Fischer said in a Feb. 13
press briefing that Israel doesn’t “have an inflation problem
at the moment.”  Israeli  growth  slowed to 3.3 percent in 2012 from 4.6
percent the previous year, the Central Bureau of Statistics
reported Dec. 31, based on preliminary figures. About 40 percent
of Israel’s gross domestic product is made up of exports, with
Europe one of the largest markets.  The shekel hit a 15-month high against the dollar on Feb.
1. Quantitative easing in the U.S., Europe and Japan supports
the strengthening of the shekel, the Bank of Israel said in
minutes of its last rate-setting meeting, released this week.
The start of production from offshore natural gas reservoirs,
expected this year, may also boost the currency.  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  rose to 2
percent on average from 1.9 percent the previous month, the
central bank said on Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  