-- J&J Tested Vaginal Mesh and Warned of Risks, Lawyer Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-15T21:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/j-j-failed-to-warn-of-vaginal-mesh-risks-lawyer-says.html
Johnson & Johnson ’s Ethicon unit
properly designed a vaginal mesh implant and adequately warned
of its risks, a company lawyer told jurors weighing a lawsuit by
a woman who blames the device for her 18 surgeries.  Christy Jones  urged state jurors in Atlantic City, New
Jersey, to reject a lawsuit by Linda Gross, who contends
Ethicon’s design of her Gynecare Prolift was defective. Gross
claims J&J failed to warn her and her doctor of the risks. The
case is the first of 1,800 such lawsuits to go to trial.  “Prolift has been studied and studied extensively,” Jones
said today in her closing argument. “It is not a defective or
unreasonably dangerous product. Our position is that Prolift is
a safe and effective product, that Ethicon adequately warned
doctors of the risks, that doctors knew of the risks.”  Gross accuses J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-
care products, of hiding Prolift’s risks before she had it
implanted on July 13, 2006, to shore up pelvic muscles. Her
attorney, Adam Slater, claims her chronic pain and other health
problems were risks Ethicon knew about before first selling
Prolift in March 2005.  “What we’ve established during this trial is this is
something that shouldn’t have been sold,” Slater said in his
summation of a trial that began Jan. 10. “We know that there
was a failure to warn, and there was causation as a result of
the failure to warn. We know that tragic decision to put in the
Prolift destroyed Linda’s life.”  Caused Pain  The Prolift, made of a polypropylene mesh, was inserted
through an incision in the vagina. Slater said Ethicon knew the
device caused pain and often became exposed through the vaginal
skin. He said it hardened in women’s bodies, caused pain, and
was difficult for surgeons to remove.  Slater said Ethicon failed to warn doctors of risks it knew
and didn’t tell them how to remove mesh. He said the written
instructions were “completely inadequate” and should have
warned of 28 complications not mentioned.  He cited the testimony of Gross’s implanting surgeon who
said he didn’t know all the risks, and wouldn’t have used the
Prolift if he had. Gross, a mother of three, worked as a nurse
in South Dakota.  “If Linda had gotten a much more extensive discussion of
the risks, she would have said, ‘I’m not doing it,’” he said.  Gross had many operations to remove the mesh and can’t
comfortably sit for long. She stood throughout the arguments.  Sales End  In August, J&J stopped selling four mesh devices in the
U.S., including the Prolift. The company, based in New
Brunswick, New Jersey, said in June that it would end sales
worldwide because of the products’ lack of commercial viability,
and not based on their safety and effectiveness.  Jurors will weigh these questions: Was Prolift defectively
designed? Did J&J fail to provide adequate warnings to Gross,
and to her implanting surgeon? Did J&J make a fraudulent
misrepresentation to Gross? If the answer is yes to any of those
questions, were they a proximate cause of Gross’s injuries?  If answering yes to any of those sets of questions, jurors
would then consider damages for Gross’s pain, suffering, lost
wages and medical expenses, as well as the loss of companionship
and conjugal affections for her husband. Gross worked as a nurse
in South Dakota.  Superior Court Judge  Carol Higbee  said today that she won’t
rule on whether Gross may be entitled to punitive damages unless
the jury awards compensatory damages.  Organ Damage  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration told J&J,  C.R. Bard
Inc.  and 31 other manufacturers last January to study rates of
organ damage and complications linked to vaginal mesh implants.
In 2010, doctors implanted more than 70,000 such devices in
women in the U.S.  Gross can no longer work as a nurse because of her pain,
and she has suffered many other physical complications because
of the failure of the mesh in her body, Slater told jurors. Her
“chronic, debilitating nerve pain,” he said was directly
related to inflammation from her mesh.  Gross had “chronic pain syndrome” and jurors heard that
some doctors advised her about the “inadvisability of removing
whatever small amounts of mesh might remain, not only because it
probably would not relieve the pain, but it might exacerbate her
existing pain syndrome,” Jones said.  ‘No Impact’  “She wanted the pain, the mesh out, no matter what, and
that’s understandable,” Jones said. “The fact of the matter
is, though, removal of the mesh had no impact on the pain.”  J&J began  selling  Prolift without filing a new application
under the FDA’s so-called 510(k) application process, which
requires companies to show that a device is “substantially
similar” to others on the market. The company determined on its
own that it was substantially similar to the Gynecare Gynemesh,
one of its devices already approved by the FDA.  The FDA disagreed with J&J’s interpretation and required a
new application in August 2007, saying Prolift sales began
“without appropriate” clearance. J&J began sales after citing
an FDA guidance document, “Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for
a Change to an Existing Device.” The FDA cleared the device in
May 2008 after nine months of negotiations with J&J.  “They were rushing to market, and in the rush, they threw
aside the rules, they threw aside the need to go to 510(k),”
Slater said.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  