-- JPMorgan Said to Fire Traders, Realign Pay Amid Slump
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   H e a t h e r   H a u s w i r t h
-- 2013-02-15T17:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/jpmorgan-said-to-fire-traders-realign-pay-amid-slump.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , grappling with
Wall Street’s worst year for stock-trading since 2008, cut pay
at the equities unit about 4 percent and pushed out about three
dozen employees, people with knowledge of the moves said.  About two dozen U.S. traders and sales staff were fired,
and some senior employees left voluntarily as the unit aligned
pay more closely with revenue, said the people, asking to not be
identified because the measures aren’t public. The  bank  also
dismissed equity analysts last week, three people said, with one
saying about a dozen were affected. Industrywide equities-
trading revenue fell 5 percent last year, the third straight
annual drop, according to analytics firm Coalition Ltd.  JPMorgan  has pared equities jobs each year since 2008,
former and current executives said. Equities-trading chief  Tim Throsby  has been reviewing the unit since around March, these
people said. Assisted by  Marc Badrichani  and  Jason Sippel , he
found that pay for equities traders and sales staff was too high
compared with revenue, the people said.  The unit posted a 1.8 percent drop in revenue to $4.4
billion last year, compared with a 4 percent gain in fixed-
income trading revenue to $15.4 billion. About three managing
directors and 18 executive directors were cut, including  Andrew Crofton  and  Julian Plant , current and former executives said.
 Kevin Smart , a vice president, also left, two people said.  Stock Gain  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
company, said she couldn’t comment on the departures. Plant
declined to comment, while Crofton and Smart didn’t respond to
messages. The bank’s stock gained 12 percent this year through
yesterday and declined 31 cents to $48.91 at 12:52 p.m. in New
York.  JPMorgan eliminated teams of equity analysts in New York
and San Francisco around Feb. 6, including  Dane Mott  who covered
accounting,  Chris Blansett , who covered semiconductors,  Scott Levine , who covered engineering and environmental services and
 Matthew Heimermann , who covered insurers, according to two
people familiar with the cuts. The analysts didn’t return calls
for comment.  Equities trading was hardest-hit by job cuts in 2012, with
the top 10 investment banks eliminating 2,700 front-office
workers, or about 14 percent, according to data released
yesterday by Coalition. Equities-trading revenue at the 10 banks
was $33 billion, the lowest since 2008, Coalition said.  Cash Equities  Cash equities, the trading of common shares on public
exchanges, produced $10 billion in revenue at the 10 largest
 investment banks , down 40 percent from 2008 as firms grappled
with plunging volume, the data show.  Equities account for about a quarter of total trading and
investment-banking revenue. They include commissions and gains
from buying and selling stocks, futures, options and other
equity derivatives, as well as fees and interest income from
providing services and lending to hedge funds.  Throsby and other executives prepared staff in the Americas
for reductions and lower pay with a conference call on Jan. 17,
the day after the bank reported a record $21.3 billion in net
income for 2012.  Headcount , executives said, would be coming
down, according to two people on the call. The bank would
probably replace more highly paid senior executives with less-
costly junior traders and sales staff, they said.  Pay in the broader investment bank, which includes
dealmakers and fixed-income traders, fell by about 3 percent in
2012, people briefed on the compensation said this month.  Throsby, who joined  JPMorgan  from Citadel Investment Group
LLC almost three years ago, was promoted in September from
running derivatives trading and sales to head all equities
trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, ousted top
managers and shuffled others around after traders in the chief
investment office lost more than $6.2 billion on a bad
derivatives bet in the first three quarters of last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Hauswirth in New York at 
 hhauswirth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  