-- Kenyatta Can Run for Presidency After Court Declines Ruling
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-02-15T13:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/kenyan-court-says-it-lacks-jurisdiction-on-kenyatta-eligibility.html
Uhuru Kenyatta , the son of Kenya’s
founding president who’s due to go on trial for crimes against
humanity at the International Criminal Court, was cleared to run
for the presidency by the country’s High Court.  The court “lacks jurisdiction” to rule whether Kenyatta
and his running mate  William Ruto  are eligible to stand for
office next month, Judge Hellen Omondi, reading the ruling of a
five-member bench, said today in the capital, Nairobi. It’s the
“exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.” Their ICC
trials are scheduled to begin in April.  The ruling boosts the campaign of Kenyatta, the deputy
prime minister, and Ruto. The Hague-based court has accused them
of orchestrating clashes in the ethnic violence that erupted
after disputed elections in 2007 when more than 1,100 people
died, 350,000 others fled their homes and growth in East
Africa’s largest economy slowed. They both deny any wrongdoing.  Four non-governmental organizations filed a petition
contending that Kenyatta and Ruto’s candidacies are in breach of
Kenya’s constitution, which says holders of public office must
demonstrate “personal integrity, competence and suitability.”  Kenyatta, who’s running a close second to Prime Minister
 Raila Odinga  according to opinion polls, and Ruto haven’t been
convicted of a crime and are presumed innocent until proven
guilty, Judge Mbogholi Msagha said in the ruling.  Ruling Welcomed  Kenyans will vote in a run-off if no single presidential
candidate garners more than 50 percent in the initial round on
March 4.  Odinga said he welcomed the ruling.  “I have repeatedly said that my main competitor should
have the opportunity to face me in a free and fair election
whose outcome is determined by the people of Kenya,” he said in
an e-mailed statement.  The violence after the 2007 vote stopped after former
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan mediated a power-
sharing agreement between Odinga, then the opposition leader,
and President  Mwai Kibaki , who’s retiring in line with the
constitutional term-term limit.  The court judgment builds momentum for Kenyatta and Ruto in
the race, Katwa Kigen, Ruto’s lawyer, said by phone from
Nairobi.  “It was the last issue between them and the elections,”
Kigen said. Kenyatta has repeatedly said he can fight the ICC
case and perform presidential duties.  The ruling marks the “official death” of Chapter Six of
the constitution, which spells out the leadership and integrity
principles of elected and appointed government officials, Lempaa
Suyianka, a lawyer representing the International Center for
Policy and Conflict that was part of the petition, said in a
phone interview after the ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  