-- Knight Vinke Patience Snaps as Darty Profit to Miss Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-15T12:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/knight-vinke-patience-snaps-as-darty-profit-to-miss-estimates.html
Darty Plc’s  largest investor plans
to exercise its right to install a representative on the board
of France’s biggest electronics retailer, losing patience after
the company warned that annual profit is set to miss  estimates .  Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC, which owns 25 percent of
the stock, said it will take the action after Darty’s failure to
implement all the strategic changes it recommended in July.  “We fail to note any increased sense of urgency in its
deliberations, despite a deterioration in the trading
environment that was not unexpected,”  David Trenchard , vice
chairman of Knight Vinke, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Knight Vinke has an eight-point plan for Darty which it has
discussed with the board. While most of it has been implemented,
including the appointment of a new CEO and chairman, a name
change, a 20 million-euro ($27 million) cost-savings goal and
the appointment of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as advisers, the
activist investor has also asked it to eliminate  money-losing
businesses , which the board says it plans to do.  By taking a board seat, Knight Vinke is aiming to “speed
up the process,” said  Kate Calvert , a retail analyst at Cantor
Fitzgerald. “Sometimes negotiations to get rid of businesses
can take longer than expected. We’ve always felt restructuring
would create shareholder value, it’s just how quickly.”  Knight Vinke is also calling for a share repurchase funded
by a partial sale and leaseback of property, and for all staff
to have the opportunity to become shareholders.  Shares Slump  Darty shares fell as much as 16 percent today, the most in
more than four years, after the retailer said it will probably
miss profit estimates for the year ending April 30. Sales
“softened” at the end of the third quarter, while high levels
of promotional activity are harming profitability, it said.  Adjusted pretax profit is unlikely to reach the lower end
of analyst estimates of about 30 million euros, it said.  “Overall this is a weak update from Darty given softening
market trends at the end of the period,”  Georgina Johanan , an
analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove who has an underweight
recommendation on the stock, said in a report. “Given the
magnitude of the potential downgrade, maintenance of a flat
full-year dividend is looking increasingly less likely.”  The retailer said in December that subject to performance
it intended to maintain its dividend for the full year. The
total dividend for the previous year was 3.5 cents a share.  Darty shares fell as much as 8 pence to 41.75 pence, the
biggest intraday drop since October 2008. The stock was down 6
percent at 46.75 pence as of 12 p.m., giving the company a
market value of about 246 million pounds.  Unprofitable Businesses  The retailer has vowed to eliminate losses in unprofitable
businesses in Spain, the Czech Republic and Slovakia and has
sold its Italian unit to ease the profit decline.  Gross margins, a measure of profitability, narrowed by 1.1
percentage point in the third quarter, Darty said today.  “We can’t expect any material improvement in the coming
year and I think there will continue to be pressures,” acting
Chief Executive Officer  Dominic Platt  said on a conference call.
“The consumer is tightening its belt in difficult circumstances
and responding perhaps more to promotional activity and I think
that will continue in the short term.”  The executive said that while November was “tough,” the
run-up and through Christmas was good with strong sales of
multimedia items such as tablet devices, which “gave us some
hope that things were going to be in line with expectations.”  French Economy  “What we’ve seen at the end of that peak season, people
are returning perhaps to type, the economy in France isn’t
getting any better, and people are responding more to
promotions,” he said.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 0.5 percent,
following a 3.4 percent decline in the second quarter. Sales in
France gained 0.4 percent on the same basis, compared with the
prior quarter’s 3.2 percent decline.  The company announced this month that  Regis Schultz , the
former manager of French furniture and electronics retailer BUT
SA, is taking over as CEO in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  