-- Krugman Says Fed Low Rates Key to Housing Rebound: Tom Keene
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-15T13:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/krugman-says-fed-low-rates-key-to-housing-recovery-tom-keene.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said the Federal Reserve must keep interest rates low to
sustain the U.S.  housing recovery .  “We have the beginnings of a housing recovery, it’s just
starting to kick in,” the Princeton University economics
professor said in an interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen. “If the Fed were
to raise rates, they would kill that.”  Central bank policy makers have said they will keep their
benchmark lending rate near zero as long as  unemployment  remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. U.S. unemployment rose to 7.9 percent in January,
even as the economy added 157,000 jobs.  The housing market has been a bright spot in the economy,
with  housing starts  rising 12.1 percent in December to cap the
industry’s best year since 2008.  Krugman called the housing recovery the “best chance” the
U.S. economy has to expand. The U.S. should have learned from
Japan, which “repeatedly aborted its recovery by tightening too
soon” during that nation’s own crisis.  The U.S. is already five years into a crisis that mirrors
the Asian nation’s so-called “lost decade,” Krugman said. The
period in the 1990s saw Japan’s economy slip in and out of
recession and grow at an average rate of about 1 percent a year
after the collapse of a real-estate bubble.  Like Japan  “We already are Japan-like, we’re worse than Japan ever
was,” he said. “The human misery here is much worse than Japan
has ever suffered.”  He said the U.S. needs to build infrastructure and that it
is acceptable to pump money into the economy to jumpstart
growth.  “At times like this, the usual rules don’t apply,” he
said.  America’s problem now is unemployment, he said, and, while
the nation should worry about its long-term  debt , it first needs
to get joblessness in check.  “There is no debt crisis,” he said. “The state of our
budget in the year 2030 is an issue, but that issue should not
get in the way of creating jobs right now.”  Americans are “asking too much” of the central bank,
Krugman said, as fiscal policies that slash spending threaten to
undermine the recovery.  “To have fiscal austerity, be cutting back on the U.S.
government, and then expecting the Fed to make up for that when
interest rates are already zero, that’s placing too much on the
Fed,” Krugman said.  Krugman said he supports President Barack Obama’s proposal
to raise the U.S. minimum wage to $9 an hour.  “It is going to help some vulnerable people,” he said.  Speaking about the economic crisis in Europe, Krugman said
he is surprised Greece hasn’t left the euro yet, though he still
thinks a Greek exit is “more likely than not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  