-- N.J. to Join Federal Health-Care Exchange, Christie Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-02-15T21:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/n-j-to-join-federal-health-care-exchange-christie-says-1-.html
Governor  Chris Christie  said he gave
formal notice to the U.S. Department of  Health and Human
Services  that  New Jersey  will join a federally administered
exchange in 2014.  Today was the deadline for states to join the federal
system, declare a state-federal partnership or create their own.
Christie, 50, a first-term Republican seeking re-election, said
in a statement that his administration “is committed to meeting
our obligation to comply with the Affordable Care Act, but only
in a manner that is the most effective and efficient for the
residents of New Jersey, and the businesses that will carry the
costs of this new program.”  The health-care exchanges, where consumers may compare
providers and buy insurance coverage, are to start operating in
2014. The federal government will establish the markets in
states that haven’t created them.  Christie had advocated repeal of the Affordable Care Act
signed by U.S. President  Barack Obama  in 2010. He said it may
benefit a small segment of the population at the expense of the
whole. In May 2012, he vetoed the Democratic-controlled
legislature’s proposal to create a health-coverage purchasing
pool. Today’s action was “the most responsible choice” for New
Jersey, he said.  New Jersey has 8.8 million residents, with an average 1.3
million uninsured from 2009 to 2011, according to U.S. Census
data.  Sixteen states have committed to create their own
exchanges. The Obama administration will meet an Oct. 1 deadline
for setting up the systems, Gary Cohen, director of the
Department of Health and Human Services consumer information
division, said yesterday at a Senate Finance Committee hearing
in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  