-- Najib May Hold Malaysian Election ‘Very Soon,’ Bernama Says
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-02-15T09:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/najib-to-dissolve-malaysia-parliament-very-soon-bernama-says.html
Prime Minister  Najib Razak  plans to
dissolve Malaysia’s parliament for elections “very soon,”
Bernama reported, citing the premier after meeting political
leaders in the commodities-rich eastern state of Sabah.  Najib, whose ruling coalition won the 2008 vote by its
narrowest margin in five decades, must dissolve parliament by
April 28, after which the Election Commission must hold polls
within 60 days.  “The market will likely react negatively to the increased
political risk premium but it will settle down quite quickly,”
 Yeah Kim Leng , chief economist at Kuala Lumpur-based RAM
Holdings Bhd., said by phone. “Whoever comes into power will
likely put market stability as well as the economy as number one
priorities.”  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  has fallen 3.9 percent
after hitting a record on Jan. 7 on concern that Najib’s
governing National Front alliance may lose seats in parliament,
making it the worst performing leading benchmark stock index in
Asia Pacific this year. The ringgit has fallen 1.2 percent this
year, the fourth-worst performer within a basket of 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Parliament may be dissolved in March, with voting by month-
end, Yeah said.  Investors should shun Malaysia’s bonds and currency before
the poll as the ruling coalition’s grip on power may be weakened,
 Kelvin Tay , Singapore-based chief investment officer for the
southern Asia-Pacific region at UBS AG’s wealth management unit,
said in an interview today.  Continuing Growth  Twelve-month non-deliverable ringgit forwards fell 0.1
percent to 3.1548 per dollar as of 5:01 p.m. today, the first
drop in four days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts to buy or sell the ringgit in a year traded at a 2
discount to the spot rate, which rose 0.2 percent to 3.093.  Growth in Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy has
 exceeded  5 percent in the five quarters through September as
Najib boosted spending ahead of elections, extending cash
handouts to low-income families and raising civil servants’
minimum pensions. Fourth-quarter data is expected Feb. 20.  In the last election in 2008, the governing parties lost
the two-thirds parliamentary majority they had held for four
decades. An opposition alliance headed by former deputy prime
minister  Anwar Ibrahim  currently controls four of Malaysia’s 13
states, including Selangor and Penang.  Najib is on the ground explaining the government’s policies
and direction to voters, Bernama reported yesterday during his
Sabah trip. The prime minister was due to visit Perak in
Peninsular Malaysia today, the national news service said.  The premier’s approval rating fell to 63 percent in
December, down from 65 percent in November, the lowest since he
received 59 percent support in August 2011, the Merdeka Center
for Opinion Research said Jan. 10. The survey included 1,018
voters and had a margin of error of about 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  