-- Natural Gas May Gain as Cold Sparks Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2013-02-15T20:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/natural-gas-may-gain-as-cold-weather-sparks-demand-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may advance next
week as colder-than-normal weather boosts demand for the heating
fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Six of 12 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast that gas
futures will rise on the New York Mercantile Exchange through
Feb. 22. Four, or 33 percent, said futures will fall and two
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 50 percent
of participants said gas prices would decline.  Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland,
predicted below-normal temperatures across most of the lower-48
states Feb. 19 through Feb. 23. Gas tumbled the most in six
weeks yesterday after a government report showed U.S.
inventories fell by less than forecast last week.  “I expect that prices will correct further in the
aftermath of today’s sell-off,”  Teri Viswanath , director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in an
e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “We have witnessed a
trend where prices improve slightly on cooler temperatures in
between storage releases.”  Natural gas for March delivery dropped 11.9 cents, or 3.6
percent, to settle at $3.153 per million British thermal units
this week in New York. Prices have declined for four weeks.  The low in Minneapolis on Feb. 19 may be minus 1 degree
Fahrenheit (minus 18 Celsius), 15 lower than usual, according to
 AccuWeather Inc . in State College, Pennsylvania. About 50
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, data from the
Energy Information Administration show. The agency is part of
the Energy Department.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  6       4        2  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 Cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  