-- New Brunswick Premier Lobbies Quebec on Eastern Pipeline
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-15T16:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/new-brunswick-premier-lobbies-quebec-on-east-coast-pipeline-plan.html
New Brunswick Premier  David Alward 
is lobbying his Quebec counterpart to back a proposal to ship
Alberta oil to Eastern Canadian refineries as opposition mounts
to pipeline projects to the Pacific and Gulf Coasts.  Alward will meet Quebec Premier  Pauline Marois  in Montreal
on Feb. 18 to discuss converting part of  TransCanada Corp.’s 
Alberta-to-Quebec gas pipeline to oil. Alward said he will also
discuss a potential new link to Saint John, New Brunswick, in
his fourth talk with Marois about the proposal since her
September election. While the project falls under federal
government jurisdiction, the provinces must be supportive for it
to advance, he said by phone today from Fredericton.  “You only see what has taken place with Keystone, what has
taken place with the Northern Gateway project, what can happen
if you don’t engage,” Alward said, referring to project delays
caused by political and landowner opposition to TransCanada’s
Keystone XL pipeline from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf Coast and
Enbridge Inc.’s Northern Gateway proposal to the Pacific Coast
of Canada.  TransCanada and Enbridge, based in Calgary, are proposing
conduits from Alberta to the continent’s coasts as rising crude
supplies and pipeline bottlenecks widen the price gap between
the U.S. benchmark and Canadian crude, which is among the
cheapest in the world. TransCanada’s project would move as much
as 900,000 barrels a day from Western Canada and the U.S. to
eastern refineries, including Canada’s largest in Saint John.  The pipeline would allow Quebec, with refineries in
Montreal and Quebec City, to bring in Alberta crude to replace
supplies that are now imported, securing jobs in Quebec and New
Brunswick, Alward said.  Quebec Benefits  “I believe I have an opportunity to demonstrate why I
believe the West-East pipeline can benefit Quebec,” he said.  The  gap between  oil-sands benchmark Western Canada Select
and West Texas Intermediate reached a record $42.50 a barrel on
Dec. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, narrowing to
$23.50 yesterday.  Patrick Ney, a spokesman for Quebec Natural Resources
Minister Martine Ouellet, said the province is “currently
studying the file” when contacted about TransCanada’s pipeline
proposal this week. Ney didn’t elaborate in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  