-- Nielsen SoundScan Says Music Sales Jump After Grammys
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-02-15T21:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/nielsen-soundscan-says-music-sales-jump-after-grammys.html
Music sales by Grammy winners
including Gotye and Mumford & Sons jumped this week following
the Feb. 10 broadcast of the awards show.  Sales of Mumford & Sons’ “Babel,” winner of album of the
year, increased 50 percent from the previous week, Nielsen
SoundScan said today in a statement. Sales of the track “I Will
Wait,” a song the band performed during the program, more than
doubled while sales of the group’s prior album “Sigh No More,”
which was released three years ago, climbed 37 percent.  The Grammys offer the music industry one of its biggest
annual audiences to introduce new artists. Gotye’s “Somebody
That I Used to Know,” winner of record of the year, climbed 101
percent and sales of his album “Making Mirrors” climbed 124
percent, SoundScan said. Song-of-the-year-winner Fun saw sales
of “We Are Young” jump 182 percent and sales of the band’s
album “Some Nights” rose 87 percent, SoundScan said.  “It’s clear that the award show effect is alive and
well,”  David Bakula , senior vice president of client insights
at Nielsen, said in the statement. “More than 28 million
viewers in the U.S. watched the music industry’s big night,
which inspired many of them to quickly seek out their favorites
and add them to their collections.”  The Black Keys, which swept the rock categories with its
album “El Camino” and the hit song “Lonely Boy,” also
received an uptick. Sales of the album rose 72 percent from the
prior week, SoundScan said.  The Grammys, which aired on  CBS Corp .’s TV network, was
watched by 28.4 million viewers, according to Nielsen data.  The music industry consists of three major record companies
after EMI Group was sold in pieces to  Vivendi SA ’s Universal
Music Group and a  Sony Corp. -led investor group for a combined
$4.1 billion. Mumford & Sons and Gotye record for labels owned
by Universal Music, while Fun and The Black Keys are on  Warner
Music Group  labels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  