-- Nordic Power Prices Fall as German Contracts, Carbon Prices Drop
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-02-15T15:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/nordic-power-prices-fall-as-german-contracts-carbon-prices-drop.html
Nordic electricity retreated for a
second day as German prices and costs for carbon permits fell.  The March contract dropped 0.9 percent to 37.80 euros
($50.49) a megawatt-hour as of 4:08 p.m. on Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo. The benchmark next-quarter
contract fell 0.8 percent to 36.25 euros.  EU carbon permits for December declined as much as 3.2
percent to 5.08 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. Emission prices can influence generation
costs at coal- and gas-fed plants. German power for baseload
delivery next quarter fell as much as 0.8 percent to 37.50 euros
a megawatt-hour, broker data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A soft CO2 market weighs on German power and also on
Nordic electricity,”  Antti Salonen , portfolio manager at
Finnish energy trading company EM Finance Oy, said today by
phone from Kerava, Finland.  The European Parliament’s environment committee is
scheduled to vote on Feb. 19 on an European Commission proposal
to amend the bloc’s emissions trading directive, to reaffirm the
regulator’s right to alter a supply schedule to fix a glut and
prop up carbon prices.  “Next week will offer direction for carbon prices, which
together with power markets, are currently driven by politics,”
Salonen said.  The Nordic region meets more than half its power needs by
running water through turbines. Nordic hydropower reservoirs
were 50.9 percent full on Feb. 10, 4.2 points below the seasonal
average, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Reserves may
decline by 10 percentage points by Feb. 24, Swedish power-
trading company Bixia AB said yesterday in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  