-- Leaky Tank at Hanford Nuclear Site Roils Waste Cleanup
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-02-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/nuclear-waste-tank-is-leaking-at-u-s-site-in-washington-state.html
A storage tank at the Hanford
nuclear site in Washington state is leaking as much as 300
gallons of radioactive sludge a year, Governor  Jay Inslee  said,
marking the latest setback in a decades-long clean-up effort.  The leak doesn’t pose an immediate public health risk,
Inslee said yesterday in a statement, citing information from
the U.S. Energy Department, which owns the facility and is
overseeing the clean-up. Still, he said, the release of the
hazardous sludge left him “deeply concerned.”  “This was a problem we thought was under control years
ago,” said Inslee, who is to meet with Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  during a previously scheduled trip next week to Washington
to discuss the progress in cleaning up Hanford. “I know this is
a time of tight budgets, but with an active leak of high-level
radioactive material into the environment, money can’t be an
excuse for inaction.”  The leaky tank is among 177 stored underground at Hanford,
a federal government site for radioactive waste generated by
U.S. nuclear weapons production. Decontamination of the facility
has been stymied by delays and technical issues, causing its
projected cost to triple since 2000, according to a U.S.
Government Accountability Office  report  in December.  Multiple safety violations and design deficiencies have
been found with the project to clean up Hanford, located about
170 miles southeast of Seattle, according to the GAO report. The
GAO, Congress’s investigative arm, recommended stopping
construction on pre-treatment and waste facilities there until
the design meets nuclear-industry guidelines.  ‘Significant’ Challenges  The Energy Department faces “significant technical
challenges” in successfully constructing and operating the
Hanford facility, the report said.  Bechtel National Inc. was awarded a contract to design and
build the waste-treatment facility in 2000. Since then, the
estimated completion cost has tripled to $13.4 billion and the
plant’s opening has been delayed until 2019, according to the
GAO report.  Michelle Michael, a spokeswoman for Bechtel, referred calls
to Washington River Protection Solutions, the company contracted
to handle the waste until Betchel finishes building the
processing plant. Their spokesman, Rob Roxburgh, did not
immediately respond to a voice message seeking comment left
after business hours.  Lori Gamache, an Energy Department spokeswoman, said the
agency observed that liquid levels in the tank had fallen and
was still evaluating how best to respond. Radiation monitors
haven’t picked up any significant changes in the soil at Hanford
since the low level was discovered, she said in an interview.  ‘Fact-Finding Visit’  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has scheduled “a
fact-finding visit” to Hanford on Feb. 19 that will include “a
briefing on efforts to clean up the estimated 56 million gallons
of radioactive waste stored at the facility,” according to a
Feb. 14 statement on his website.  Nine nuclear reactors and processing facilities produced
plutonium at Hanford, which operated from 1944 to 1987. The man-
made radioactive element was used in atomic bombs, including the
one dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, in 1945 that helped to end World
War II. Workers are trying to clean up millions of gallons of
toxic waste at the complex.  The leaky tank, which can hold 530,000 gallons of liquid,
is one of 149 constructed with a single shell. It was built in
1943-1944 and was thought to have been stabilized in 1997 when
all pumpable liquids were removed as part of a clean-up effort,
according to an Energy Department statement.  Columbia River  The tank holds about 447,000 gallons of sludge, which is a
mixture of solids and liquids with a mud-like consistency, the
Energy Department said. Inslee said the tank is leaking from 150
gallons to 300 gallons a year.  The Energy Department has expressed concern that
contamination from the single-shell tanks may be making its way
toward the nearby Columbia River, which supplies drinking water
and agricultural irrigation, according to the GAO report.  “Containing, stabilizing, and preparing this highly
radioactive liquid waste for final disposal is one of the
highest priority cleanup activities at the Hanford site,” the
GAO report said. “It is also one of the most complex.”  The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, an independent
panel that advises President  Barack Obama  and the Energy
Department, is monitoring the agency’s response to the leak,
according to  Peter S. Winokur , the board’s chairman.  So far, the Energy Department has taken all of the
appropriate measures, Winokur said yesterday in an interview.  “This is not a new issue or concern for them at the tank
farms,” he said. “There have been a fair number of leaks among
tanks at the site in the past, and the department is well aware
of that and that’s why they’re continually checking the liquid
levels.”  The Energy Department has lowered the liquid levels on the
tanks to get them below known leak sites, Winokur said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  