-- NYC School Bus Drivers Union Says It’s Suspending Strike
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-02-16T01:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/nyc-school-bus-drivers-consider-next-step-in-monthlong-strike.html
The union representing New York City
school bus drivers said it will suspend its strike after five
weeks and return to work Feb. 20.  The decision late yesterday came after five Democratic
mayoral candidates pledged to consider job guarantees in future
contracts. The union’s leadership announced its intentions to
its membership in a telephone conference.  “Though our strike has been suspended, the principles that
we fight for remain pressing issues that the city will have to
address,” Michael Cordiello, president of Local 1181 of the
 Amalgamated Transit Union , said in a statement. “A safe
workforce is an experienced workforce.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , 71, refused to negotiate with the
union, saying the largest U.S school system needed to reduce its
busing costs, which have skyrocketed to $1.1 billion a year --an
average of $6,900 per child -- from $100 million in 1979.
Bloomberg also said court decisions prohibited the city from
negotiating job security in contracts with private bus
companies, which union leaders disputed.  The city has spent less offering free MetroCards to pay for
buses and subways, and to reimburse parents for taxi and car
services, than it would had the buses been running, Bloomberg
said yesterday during his weekly appearance on WOR radio. The
city intends to announce its choices of new bus companies from
about 65 bidders in the next two weeks, he said.  “For decades, the monopolistic bus contract process
benefited the bus companies and unions at the expense of the
city’s taxpayers and students -- but no longer,” Bloomberg said
in a statement yesterday. “The end of this strike reflects the
fact that when we say we put children first, we mean it.”  Candidates Request  The union’s executive board voted to suspend the strike a
day after City Council Speaker  Christine Quinn , Public Advocate
Bill DiBlasio, Comptroller  John Liu , former New York City
Comptroller  Bill Thompson , and former City Councilman Sal
Albanese sent a letter to  Larry Hanley , the ATU’s international
president, calling on the union to end the walk-out.  They pledged that if elected they would ensure that the
union’s concerns “are protected within the bidding process,
while at the same time are fiscally responsible.”  The candidates “understand the value of experienced
drivers and matrons to the safety of our kids,” Hanley said in
a statement.  “In January when Mayor Bloomberg is gone, we are
comfortable that his entire scheme will be rejected,” Cordiello
said.  Bloomberg leaves office Dec. 31. The three-term mayor is
barred by law from seeking a fourth four-year term.  Job Guarantees  The union walked out Jan. 16, forcing tens of thousands of
the city’s 1.35 million public and parochial students to find
alternate ways to get to class. Drivers, matrons who escort
special-needs students and mechanics said safety and fairness
required the city to guarantee jobs based upon seniority in any
new bus-service contracts.  About 39 percent, or 3,000, of the city’s 7,700 yellow
school bus routes remained covered by operators whose drivers
and matrons aren’t represented by Local 1181, the mayor’s office
has said. About 152,000 public and private-school students
receive bus service.  Drivers earn an average of $35,000 a year and matrons make
at most $28,000 a year, Cordiello said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg news
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  