-- Obama Eases Into Second Term With Golf Weekend in Florida
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-16T23:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/obama-eases-into-second-term-with-weekend-of-golf-in-florida.html
President  Barack Obama  spent last
year’s Presidents Day weekend at the White House. This year, he
lined up a trip with friends to an exclusive  Florida  golf course
owned by a campaign supporter.  Obama golfed today with course owner  Jim Crane , U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk, Chicago friend  Eric Whitaker  and
businessmen  Anthony Chase  and  Milton Carroll , according to White
House spokesman  Josh Earnest . Obama also played “a few holes”
with  Tiger Woods ’ former coach  Butch Harmon , who designed the
club’s instructional facility, Earnest said.  Obama flew on Air Force One yesterday from an official
event to promote his economic proposals in his adopted hometown
of Chicago to West Palm Beach, Florida, for the weekend getaway
at the Floridian in Palm City while his wife and daughters are
on a ski vacation.  Accompanying Obama on Air Force One was  Whitaker , a Chicago
friend who played golf with the president during the first
family’s August 2010 vacation on Martha’s Vineyard off the
Massachusetts coast.  With no election campaign ahead of him, Obama, 51, is
beginning to embrace some of the political freedom that comes
along with the lame-duck status of a second-term presidency.
The White House has kept details about the weekend to a minimum.  Tom Fazio  The  Tom Fazio -designed private course and club is owned by
 Crane , owner of the Houston Astros baseball team.  Crane, 59, an avid golfer, and chairman and chief executive
officer of Houston-based Crane Capital Group, has been an Obama
campaign backer, according to donor records.  He and his wife, Franci, have donated $57,700 to Obama and
to the Democratic National Committee since 2007, when Obama
announced his candidacy for president, according to data
compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  Crane and Chase, chairman and chief executive officer of
ChaseSource LP, a staffing and management-services company, held
back-to-back fundraising events for Obama in Houston one evening
last March that were reported at the time to raise an expected
$2.8 million for the president’s re-election campaign and the
Democratic Party.  Campaign Supporters  Chase resigned as the director and deputy chairman of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in 2008 to campaign for Obama.
The U.S. central bank prohibits directors from participating in
partisan politics.  Carroll is founder of Houston-based Instrument Products
Inc. and chairman of Centerpoint Energy Inc., which provides
electricity and natural gas to more than 5 million customers in
six states.  Crane greeted the president personally on arrival last
night, Crane said in  remarks  published on Major League
Baseball’s website, MLB.com.  Crane bought the Floridian from  Wayne Huizenga , chairman of
Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Huizenga Holdings, in 2010. Among
its members at the time were conservative talk-radio host and
Obama critic  Rush Limbaugh . Limbaugh, on his show yesterday,
mentioned the connection.  “I was a proud and honored member of the Floridian,”
Limbaugh said, according to a transcript on his show’s website.
“The president’s got himself a good, old-fashioned guys golf
weekend.”  According to the website for the Floridian, members and
guests also have the use of eight cottages; a deep-water marina;
a 61-foot Viking Yacht; a private helicopter service; a spa and
fitness center and a teaching facility.  Between 50 and 60 people can sleep at the club and it will
be close to capacity tonight, according to the MLB website,
citing Crane. The area where the president is staying will be
private, the website said, citing Crane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  