-- Obama Says Expanded Opportunity to Help Curb Gun Violence
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/obama-says-expanding-opportunity-linked-to-cutting-gun-violence.html
President  Barack Obama  said
expanding economic opportunity is one of the ways the nation can
reduce gun violence, linking two of the issues on which he’s
staking his second-term agenda.  Violence in many parts of the country stems from a sense of
hopelessness, Obama said yesterday in Chicago.  “In too many neighborhoods today, whether here in Chicago
or the farthest reaches of rural America, it can feel like, for
a lot of young people, the future only extends to the next
street corner or the outskirts of town,” he said at the Hyde
Park Academy, a public school about a mile from his family’s
home. “This is not just a gun issue. It’s also an issue of the
kinds of communities that we’re building.”  The school where the president spoke is near the park where
15-year-old Hadiya Pendleton, a Chicago student who attended
Obama’s inauguration, was fatally shot Jan. 29 as she and
friends sought shelter from the rain. The girl’s parents were in
the Hyde Park Academy audience yesterday.  Obama cited the teenager’s death as well as the mass
shooting at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school that left
20 first-graders and six adults dead.  “Unfortunately, what happened to Hadiya is not unique,”
the president said. He again urged Congress to vote on proposals
to make background checks universal for firearms sales and for
bans on military-style semiautomatic rifles and high-capacity
ammunition magazines.  Mother’s Ad  Pendleton’s mother, Cleopatra Cowley-Pendleton, who
attended this week’s State of the Union address as a guest of
First Lady  Michelle Obama , released an yesterday urging U.S.
lawmakers to act to curb gun violence. The ad was funded by
Mayors Against Illegal Guns, a group whose co-chairman is New
York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Before delivering his remarks, Obama spoke privately about
gun violence with a group of 16 students enrolled in an anti-
violence mentoring program for at-risk men.  Chicago had 506 homicides in 2012, the most in four years,
and is on pace to match that number again. By comparison, New
York City, with a population about three times larger, had 419
homicides.  Obama said Chicago’s rate of youth casualties from firearms
has been “the equivalent of a Newtown every four months.”  He said his proposals to expand preschool access and raise
the minimum wage to $9 an hour will create for poorer children
“ladders of opportunity they can climb into the middle class
and beyond, and most importantly keeping them safe from harm.”  Wider Responsibility  Likewise, Obama said, “It’s very hard to develop
economically if people don’t feel safe. Commerce dries up.”  White House spokesman  Josh Earnest , traveling with the
president on Air Force One, told reporters that while “there
are important steps we can take as a country to keep guns out of
the wrong hands and get weapons of war off the street,” Obama
also believes, “It’s not enough to debate the role of
government in reducing violence.”  “It’s up to parents, teachers, principals, neighbors and
communities as a whole to make a difference in the lives of our
young people and steer them away from a life of gang violence
and toward the classroom,” Earnest said.  Obama yesterday was highlighting his proposal to put pilot
programs in 20 communities to coordinate federal, state and
private-sector investments aimed at reviving areas hardest hit
by the  recession  that ended in June 2009.  Obama Agenda  The Chicago visit follows trips by Obama to Decatur,
Georgia, and Asheville, North Carolina, this week to promote the
programs he outlined in his State of the Union address. In those
cities, Obama highlighted proposals to create manufacturing
innovation centers and establishing universal access to pre-
kindergarten education.  The administration hasn’t put a price tag on Obama’s
proposals, leaving that to the budget he will submit to Congress
by mid-March. Obama in his address to a joint session of
Congress on Feb. 12 promised they wouldn’t increase the U.S.
deficit “by a single dime.”  Republicans, such as Senate minority leader  Mitch McConnell 
of Kentucky, have expressed skepticism about Obama’s plans and
promised to oppose new spending.  The White House and congressional Republicans already are
at an impasse over how to avoid a March 1 deadline for $1.2
trillion in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts to begin
taking effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  