-- Jesse Jackson Jr.’s Career Derailed by Corruption Charge
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-16T06:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/obama-pal-jesse-jackson-jr-derailed-by-corruption-charge.html
Jesse Jackson Jr. , the son and
namesake of a civil rights icon and once a rising Democratic
Party star, would have likely flown on Air Force One yesterday
had corruption charges not short-circuited his political career.  Instead, as his friend President  Barack Obama  was flying to
Chicago for a speech, accompanied by members of the Illinois
congressional delegation, federal prosecutors filed criminal
charges against Jackson yesterday in Washington. He resigned
from Congress on Nov. 21 as the probe in the case unfolded.  Jackson, 47, was accused of misusing $750,000 in campaign
funds for purchases including a $43,000 Rolex watch and a hat
that belonged to the late pop singer  Michael Jackson  (no
relation). He intends to plead guilty to one count of conspiracy
to commit wire fraud, mail fraud and making false statements,
one of his lawyers, Brian Heberlig of Steptoe & Johnson LLP,
said in an e-mail.  “Over the course of my life I have come to realize that
none of us are immune from our share of shortcomings and human
frailties,” Jackson, who faces a maximum sentence of five years
in prison, said in an e-mailed statement. “Still I offer no
excuses for my conduct and I fully accept my responsibility for
the improper decisions and mistakes I have made.”  The ex-lawmaker’s wife,  Sandra Stevens Jackson , was charged
in a separate case with filing false tax returns and will plead
guilty to one count of tax fraud, her lawyers, Dan Webb and Tom
Kirsch of Winston & Strawn LLP, said in a statement.  Couple’s Downfall  The downfall of the couple, once viewed as a budding
Chicago powerhouse, derails the Jackson family’s role in
politics and blemishes its almost five-decade legacy of public
service.  Jesse Jackson Jr., benefiting from name recognition as the
son of the Reverend  Jesse Jackson Sr. , entered the U.S. House in
1995 after winning a special election for a vacant seat. In
subsequent general elections, he never garnered less than 81
percent of the vote until last year when he won a 10th term with
63 percent.  The younger Jackson was often mentioned for higher office,
including mayor of Chicago, considered by many as the most
powerful political job in Illinois.  Jackson’s political fortune started to shift shortly after
Obama won the White House in 2008, when the congressman pressed
to replace the president-elect in the U.S. Senate and ended up
getting caught up in the scandal surrounding former Illinois
Governor  Rod Blagojevich ’s attempts to sell the seat.  ‘Candidate 5’  Identified in court papers as “Senate Candidate 5” and
someone willing to raise money for the governor’s re-election,
Jackson denied the allegations and said he wasn’t a target in
the federal probe. Blagojevich was convicted in June 2011 and
sentenced to 14 years in prison.  Educated at the elite Washington prep school St. Albans,
Jackson graduated from North Carolina A&T State University in
1987. He earned a master’s degree in theology from Chicago
Theological Seminary and a law degree from University of
Illinois College of Law.  Before entering politics, Jackson worked as the national
field director of the Rainbow Coalition, the group founded by
his father. He both benefited from his father’s name and was
often overshadowed by it as well. In Chicago, the son is still
often simply referred to as “Junior.”  The elder Jackson, 71, was a lieutenant in the civil rights
movement led by  Martin Luther King Jr . He was with King when the
civil rights leader was assassinated in 1968 in Memphis,
Tennessee.  Father’s Candidacy  Jesse Jackson Sr. emerged as a power among national
Democrats, as he sought the party’s presidential nomination in
1984 and 1988. The younger Jackson, in a speech that won
positive reviews, introduced his father at the 1988 Democratic
National Convention in Atlanta.  In Congress, Jesse Jackson Jr. held a spot on the
influential House Appropriations Committee.  Tension between father and son surfaced in 2008, when Jesse
Jackson Sr. was recorded on a live microphone before a
television interview criticizing Obama as a presidential
candidate. The elder Jackson had used coarse language as he
suggested Obama and his campaign were “talking down to black
people.”  The son -- then a co-chairman of Obama’s campaign --
responded with a statement that sought to distance himself from
his father’s remarks.  “I thoroughly reject and repudiate his ugly rhetoric,”
Jesse Jackson Jr. said. “He should keep hope alive and any
personal attacks and insults to himself.”  Six-Month Absence  Jackson’s resignation from the House followed a roughly
six-month absence from Congress. His office initially said he
was suffering from exhaustion, although later it was revealed he
had depression and bipolar disorder and had been hospitalized at
the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota.  “Over the past several months, as my health has
deteriorated, my ability to serve the constituents of my
district has continued to diminish,” Jackson wrote in his
resignation letter. His district deserves “a full-time
legislator in Washington, something I cannot be for the
foreseeable future,” he said.  His wife cited her husband’s illness when she resigned as a
Chicago alderman last month, a position she’d held since 2007.  Special Primary  A special primary to start the process of replacing Jackson
in Illinois’ 2nd Congressional District will be held Feb. 26.
The winner of the Democratic primary in the heavily Democratic
district will most likely win the special election that follows
and represent and area that includes parts of Chicago’s South
Side and southern suburbs.  One of the best-known names to replace Jackson is  Debbie Halvorson , a former one-term congresswoman. She is alone among
leading contenders in the race to oppose an assault weapons ban,
instead favoring tougher penalties for gun crimes.  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s super political
action committee, Independence USA, has spent heavily on the
race, attacking Halverson’s gun control views with television
advertising and mail pieces. Bloomberg is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Through Feb. 12, the super-PAC had spent $1.4 million on
the race, according to Federal Election Commission records.  Halvorson has accused Bloomberg, an ally of Chicago Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel , of using his wealth to try to “buy an election in
Illinois.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  