-- Obama’s Climate Call May Hasten EU Carbon Fix, IETA Chief Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-15T17:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/obama-s-climate-call-may-hasten-eu-carbon-fix-ieta-chief-says.html
President Barack Obama’s call for
Congress to act on climate change may embolden European Union
policy makers to fix the bloc’s ailing carbon market, said the
president of the International Emissions Trading Association.  A proposal for stricter emissions rules in northeast
America may also provide the impetus for EU nations to tackle
the oversupply of carbon allowances in the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade market,  Dirk Forrister , president of the Geneva-based
lobby group, said yesterday.  EU carbon permits surged 15 percent in the past two days as
the bloc’s policy makers prepare to vote next week on a plan to
fix a glut of the allowances that pushed prices to record lows.
In the U.S., the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative covering
northeast states including New York last week proposed a 45
percent cut in its available permits to mend the surplus there.  Obama’s State of the Union address on Feb. 12 referred to a
climate-protection law previously sponsored by Republican
Senator John McCain, a signal the president is attempting to
draw that party into supporting new policy, said Forrister, who
was a climate adviser to former president Bill Clinton.  “We still think there is more support for a market-based
measure than any other solution,” Forrister said. “What’s
missing here is a senior statesman from the Republican side
who’s willing to step in and show some leadership.”  Congress should pursue a “bipartisan, market-based
solution to climate change,” Obama said in his address. “If
Congress won’t act soon to protect future generations, I will.”  EU Vote  The European Parliament environment committee votes Feb. 19
on a proposal that involves postponing the sale of 900 million
tons of allowances until the end of the decade. The entire
parliament votes later this year on the measure, which must also
clear the Climate Change Committee of national governments.  At stake is the reputation of carbon markets as a climate-
protection tool, which the EU will struggle to sell in the
latest round of global climate negotiations if prices fall to 1
euro a metric ton, said  Andrei Marcu , a Brussels-based adviser
at the Centre for European Policy Studies.  “Those that sell the emissions trading market short should
think twice,” said  Andrei Marcu , a Brussels-based adviser at
CEPS, said Feb. 13. “The cavalry may be on its way.”  EU carbon permits for December declined 1 percent to 5.20
euros ($6.95) a metric ton today on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London at 4:30 p.m. They dropped to a record 2.81
euros last month.  Climate Combat  Obama said he will order his cabinet to identify new
executive actions to combat climate change, including reducing
emissions, helping the nation prepare for the worsening effects
of global warming and speeding the transition to lower-polluting
energy sources.  The U.S. will probably first tackle emissions from coal and
natural-gas burning power stations by using its Environment
Protection Agency to set new rules, said  Nick Robins , head of
HSBC Holdings Plc’s Climate Change Centre in London. Lawmakers
are already debating a potential carbon tax, he said yesterday
in an interview.  “It could go back to cap and trade,” he said.  The EPA may set a total reduction target for fossil-fuel
power plants and allow states to decide how to meet those
limits, IETA’s Forrister said.  There was a “glimmer of hope” that U.S. coal-fired power
stations may in future years be able to buy international
emission credits to offset some of their carbon dioxide output,
he said, citing rules of California’s carbon market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  