-- Occidental Board Searches for CEO Chazen's Successor
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-15T01:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/occidental-board-searches-for-ceo-chazen-s-successor.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp ., the
largest onshore crude producer in the continental U.S., said its
board has started a search for a successor to President and
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Chazen .  Occidental’s board has formed a committee to work with an
executive search firm, the Los Angeles-based company said today
in a statement after the close of markets. The company said it
will review both internal and external candidates, and doesn’t
have a time table for choosing a successor.  “Succession planning and best corporate governance
practices have been a high priority for the board over the past
number of years,” Occidental Director Margaret Foran said in
the statement.  Occidental’s  stock  has lost more than 20 percent of its
value since Chazen, now 66 years old, succeeded  Ray Irani  as CEO
in May 2011. Irani, who serves as executive chairman, will
retire at the end of 2014, the company has previously said.  The oil producer has been plagued by delays and ballooning
costs at its California oilfields, prompting Chazen to institute
cost-saving measures such as simplified well designs and cheaper
drilling methods.  The company reported fourth-quarter profit last month that
beat analysts’ estimates as domestic production reached a record
high for the ninth consecutive quarter. Quarterly results
included a $1.1 billion writedown for the value of natural gas
assets.  Corporate Governance  Occidental may be considering separating its chairman and
CEO roles if Chazen steps into the executive chairman position
when Irani retires, Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones
in St. Louis, said in a telephone interview.  “The company is a little more challenged now,” said
Youngberg, who rates the company’s shares a “buy” and doesn’t
own any. “They have some cost pressures, which they are
addressing. The stock has lagged some of its peers.”  Strengthening its corporate governance may help ward off a
move by an activist investor, he said.  “We have seen increased activity with activist investors
with companies who have lagged their peers,” Youngberg said.
“The thing an activist may look for would be a change in
executive compensation and separation of the CEO and chairman,”
he said.  Occidental did not immediately return a phone call and e-
mail seeking comment.  Executive Pay  Occidental said today it had increased the company’s
dividend 18.5 percent to an annual rate of $2.56 a share, from a
previous rate of $2.16 a share. The company fell 0.03 percent to
$86.91 in New York.  Occidental has been criticized by investors in the past for
paying its top executives too highly. Last March, Occidental
reduced Chazen’s compensation package after facing complaints
about Irani’s CEO salary in 2010.  Chazen received $31.7 million in 2011 compared with $38.1
million the year before when he was president, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission. Chazen’s
compensation included $1.27 million in salary, a $1.34 million
bonus and $28.6 million in cash and stock awards.  Irani received $49.8 million in cash, stock and other
benefits versus $76.1 million in 2010, when his compensation
nearly doubled, making him the highest-paid CEO in the energy
industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  