-- Office Depot Said to Be in Talks to Sell Rest of Mexico Unit
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-15T21:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/office-depot-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-rest-of-mexico-unit.html
Office Depot Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. office-supply chain, is in talks to sell the
remaining 50 percent of its Mexican unit to Grupo Gigante SAB,
said people familiar with the situation.  Grupo Gigante , which already owns the other half of Office
Depot de Mexico, is in discussions with local banks to get
financing for the deal, said the people, who asked not to be
named because the talks are private. The parties are considering
other options and the talks may still fall apart, said one
person.  Office Depot is pursuing the sale amid pressure from its
top shareholder, Starboard Value LP, to improve earnings.
Starboard disclosed a stake in Boca Raton, Florida-based Office
Depot last September and said then that the chain should cut
general expenses, lower advertising costs and move to smaller
stores.  The retailer’s shares climbed as much as 8.2 percent
following Bloomberg’s report. They advanced 2 percent to $4.59
at the close in New York.  Office Depot entered the joint venture in 1994, and the
business has since expanded to more than 200 stores, according
to regulatory filings. The stake in Office Depot de Mexico,
which also operates in Colombia and Central America, may be
valued at $700 million, the people said.  In the year through Sept. 29, the venture generated $860.8
million in revenue, and Office Depot’s share of earnings
amounted to about $24 million.  Brian Levine , a spokesman for
Office Depot, declined to comment on the process. Jorge
Hernandez Talamantes, an investor relations official with
Gigante, said he didn’t have information about a pending deal
with Office Depot and declined to comment further.  Starboard’s Stake  Starboard, based in New York, owned about 14.8 percent of
Office Depot as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In October, Office Depot’s board approved a
shareholder rights plan that would entitle its investors to
additional shares if one entity acquires 15 percent or more of
the company’s stock.  The retailer, which has about 1,680 locations worldwide,
has posted four straight years of shrinking  sales . Office Depot,
Staples Inc. and OfficeMax Inc. are facing more competition from
online retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. while selling fewer
traditional supplies as more workers use computers, tablets and
smartphones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  