-- Okada to Ask Judge to Halt Wynn Resorts Removal Meeting
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/okada-to-ask-judge-to-halt-wynn-resorts-removal-meeting.html
Kazuo Okada , the Japanese
billionaire  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  is trying to remove from its board
of directors, is asking a judge to halt the Feb. 22 meeting of
the casino operator’s shareholders to vote him out.  Lawyers for Okada are scheduled to present their arguments
at a hearing today before U.S. District Judge  James C. Mahan  in
Las Vegas. Okada claims Wynn Resorts’ Jan. 3 proxy statement
calling for the shareholders meeting “was grotesquely slanted”
and violated U.S. securities law by making false and misleading
statements.  Okada’s bid to block the shareholders’ vote is the latest
front in his fight with Wynn Resorts Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Wynn  that burst into the open last year
when Wynn Resorts accused Okada of making illegal payments to
Philippine gaming regulators and forcibly redeemed his 20
percent stake in the company.  “The company seeks Mr. Okada’s removal because he
represents a threat to Steve Wynn’s power and asked too many
questions about the company’s shady dealings in Macau,” Okada
said in his Jan. 28 motion for a preliminary injunction to halt
the shareholders meeting.  Okada, 70, is the chairman of Tokyo-based  Universal
Entertainment Corp.  He helped Steve Wynn finance the casino
operator that went public in October 2002 and was its largest
individual shareholder until February of last year. He has said
Steve Wynn wants him out because he opposed a $135 million gift
to the University of Macau.  Forced Redemption  On Feb. 19, 2012, Wynn Resorts said it had redeemed Okada’s
20 percent stake in the company for a 10-year $1.9 billion
promissory note, which Okada claims is $800 million less than
what his shares were worth. Wynn Resorts argued Okada was
“unsuitable” as a controlling shareholder of a licensed gaming
business because of the alleged illegal payments.  Okada is fighting the redemption of his shares in Nevada
state court, where Wynn Resorts has sued him for breaching his
fiduciary duty as a board director.  In the federal court case, Okada is arguing that Wynn
Resorts is misleading shareholders by claiming the investigation
it commissioned by former FBI Director  Louis Freeh  into the
alleged illegal payments was independent. Okada said the
investigation was an “ambush” with a preordained outcome and
was directed and controlled by Wynn Resorts’ management.  `Solitary Pillar'  “As the solitary pillar of purported evidence
substantiating the executive committee’s argument that Mr. Okada
should be removed as a director, the truth of the Freeh report’s
preparation is vitally important to the removal proposal,”
Okada said.  The proxy statement also misleads shareholders about the
“imperative” need to remove him so that the company can seek
additional gaming licenses, Okada said. The urgency is
contradicted by the company’s waiting for almost a year after it
found him “unsuitable,” Okada said.  Wynn Resorts said in its Feb. 6 response to Okada’s request
to block the shareholders’ meeting that he has engaged in a
“litigation vendetta” against the company and that U.S.
securities law doesn’t require Wynn Resorts to include in its
proxy statement what “Okada believes, or says he believes, to
be accurate.”  “Rather than acting as a director and pursuing Wynn
Resorts’ interests, Mr. Okada has been behaving as an adversary,
using his knowledge of the company from his years on the board
to concoct spurious theories in an effort to harm Wynn Resorts
and deflect attention from his own wrongful conduct,” the
company said.  Gaming Board  Okada’s alleged illegal payments to Philippine regulators
has resulted in continuing investigations against him by the
Nevada Gaming Control Board, the U.S. Justice Department and
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Osaka Stock Exchange and the Philippine
government, Wynn Resorts said.  Wynn Resorts will have no chance of obtaining the gaming
licenses it is applying for in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts
unless Okada is removed as a director, the company said.  Wynn Resorts said Feb. 4 that the Nevada Gaming Control
Board had concluded an investigation of the University of Macau
donation by Wynn Macau Ltd. and found that Okada’s allegations
that the donation was improper were unfounded.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, 13-00136, U.S. District
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Vegas federal courthouse at
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 