-- Hong Kong’s Bankruptcy Requests Climb to Almost Two-Year High
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-02-15T06:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/hong-kong-s-bankruptcy-requests-climb-to-almost-two-year-high.html
Hong Kong’s number of bankruptcy
petitions filed last month rose to the highest in almost two
years after economic growth slowed to what the government
predicted would be the weakest since 2009.  The number of bankruptcy requests submitted in January
increased 62 percent from a year earlier to 837, according to
data posted on the  website  of the Official Receiver’s Office
today. That was the highest number since March 2011 when 866
were filed, the data showed.  Hong Kong officials are balancing the need to stoke growth
with efforts to cool a housing market that the International
Monetary Fund said last year is at risk of an abrupt correction.
The city’s economy may have expanded about 1 percent last year,
 K.C. Chan , the financial services secretary, said yesterday.  “The bankruptcy data is a signal that is worthy of
attention but there is no strong evidence to conclude that the
situation is worsening,”  Raymond Yeung , a Hong Kong-based
senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
said by phone today. “Hong Kong is still fundamentally strong
with a low jobless rate. The major risk is an earlier reversal
of interest rate cycle which may aggravate the situation.”  Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
this month warned that household debt is “near historic high
levels” and adds to repayment risks in the housing market.  The ratio of household debt amounted to 58 percent of gross
domestic product in the third quarter and 59 percent in the
fourth, nearing 2002’s historic high of 60 percent, Chan told
lawmakers on Feb. 4.  The city’s economy grew 4.9 percent in 2011, 6.8 percent in
2010 and contracted 2.5 percent in 2009, according to government
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  