-- Monti Says He’s Open to Alliance With Forces Backing Berlusconi
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-15T11:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/monti-says-he-s-open-to-alliance-with-forces-backing-berlusconi.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said his forging an alliance with forces now backing  Silvio Berlusconi  is as likely as any other deal he may make after
elections next week.  “You can’t take anything for granted,” Monti said today
in a televised interview on state-broadcaster RAI3. “There is
absolutely no more probability that we’ll form an alliance with
the center-left than with the post-Berlusconi center-right.”  Monti, 69, is appealing to Berlusconi supporters to
maximize his influence over the next government. For more than a
month now, Monti has stated his openness to a coalition with the
frontrunner  Pier Luigi Bersani  of the center-left.  “I think many center-right voters want a modern social and
market economy without too many obstacles from the state and
politics,” Monti said.  Monti is fourth in opinion surveys, with 13.4 percent in a
Feb. 6 poll by SWG Institute. That compares with 33.8 percent
for Bersani’s coalition, 27.8 percent for Berlusconi, a three-
time former prime minister, and 18.8 percent for  Beppe Grillo ’s
euro-skeptic party, according to SWG.  Monti’s role may be decisive after the vote if Bersani
fails to win a Senate majority. Bersani’s lead in opinion polls
has narrowed since December, potentially increasing Monti’s
influence. The Democratic Party, which Bersani leads, criticized
Monti this week for his appeals to both the center-right and the
center-left.  Decision Time  “It’s time for Monti to decide what side he’s on,”  Anna Finocchiaro , chief whip of Italy’s Democratic Party in the
Senate, said Feb. 13.  Monti, an unelected former economics professor, governed
for 15 months with the support of both Bersani and Berlusconi,
who put aside their traditional rivalry in November 2011 as
Europe’s debt crisis threatened Italy. Monti imposed austerity
that helped reduce borrowing costs, while deepening the
country’s economic downturn.  “We had to exacerbate the recession a little bit this past
year,” Monti said. “Interest rates could fall further, but
we’re at natural levels.”  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 3 basis points to 4.38
percent at 11:47 a.m. in Rome. That’s down from 5.74 percent a
year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in Trento at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 