-- Orban Rules Out Hungary Shuffle Ahead of MNB Chief Pick
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-15T11:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/orban-rules-out-hungary-shuffle-ahead-of-mnb-chief-pick.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said he won’t shuffle his Cabinet, casting doubt over
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy ’s chances of becoming the next
central bank president.  “I don’t know of a Cabinet shuffle,” Orban said in an MR1
state radio interview today. “A Cabinet shuffle is when we swap
ministers and I have no such plans, let’s make that clear.”  Matolcsy, who spearheaded the government’s self-described
unorthodox policies such as pension fund nationalization and
industry tax increases, was the frontrunner to succeed Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President  Andras Simor , Nomura Holdings Plc and
 Standard Bank  Group Ltd. said in reports Feb. 12 after meeting
with officials in Budapest. Simor’s six-year term expires on
March 3. Orban has said he will name a successor the day before
the current MNB chief’s term expires.  “The prime minister’s statement appears to be an obstacle
in the way of Matolcsy becoming central bank president and if
that’s true, that would upset the market consensus,”  Gabor Orban , who helps manage $2.5 billion at Aegon Fund Management in
Budapest and is not related to the premier, said by phone. “His
words still leave room for interpretation.”  The forint dropped 0.2 percent against the euro to 292.4 by
8:46 a.m. in Budapest. Media including the news websites Index
and hvg.hu have reported that Matolcsy is the favorite to take
over the central bank next month.  ‘Brave’ Moves  Matolcsy, who cut the budget deficit below 3 percent of
gross domestic product at the cost of driving the economy into
its deepest recession in three years, urged the new central bank
leadership to “bravely” use “unorthodox” monetary- policy
tools to boost growth. The comments, made Dec. 22, sparked a
weakening of the forint and a rise in bond yields.  The minister then “essentially backtracked” on earlier
comments to endear himself to investors, Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc said on Feb. 1, after Matolcsy told the Wall Street Journal
in a Jan. 30 interview that the central bank should pursue a
“conservative” policy course, avoid “surprises,” and
“absolutely not” engage in budget financing.  Orban today defended Matolcsy’s record of reducing the debt
level and the budget deficit. He added that he expects the
Economy Ministry “to put in place programs that help boost
economic growth,” which is the Cabinet’s priority for this
year.  Waiting Game  Gross domestic product  shrank  2.7 percent in October-
December from a year ago, contracting for a fourth consecutive
quarter, the statistics office in Budapest said yesterday citing
preliminary data. The median estimate of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 1.9 percent drop.  Orban’s statement today “shows that the prime minister is
trying to wait until the very end” before announcing his pick
and “is keeping the markets in uncertainty” until then,  Balint Torok , a Budapest-based analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt, said
in an e-mailed note today.  Minister for International Aid Talks Mihaly Varga, who said
his post may be eliminated because discussions with the
International Monetary Fund are ending, yesterday ruled himself
out for the central bank post. Varga was considered a “moderate
candidate” by investors, Commerzbank AG currency strategist
 Carolin Hecht  said in an e-mail today.  “As a result, the chances for the forint-horror candidate
Gyorgy Matolcsy have risen again,” Frankfurt-based Hecht said.
“As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the leadership of
the central bank, risks in euro-forint rate are concentrated at
the upper end again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  