-- Horse-Meat Suspect Spanghero Denies Beef Scam Responsibility
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-15T11:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/horse-meat-suspect-spanghero-denies-scam-admits-some-negligence.html
Spanghero SAS, the French meat-
processing company accused by the government of shipping horse
as beef, denied responsibility for the scam and said it may have
been negligent about labeling the origin of the meat.  “We didn’t change the labels,” Chief Executive Officer
 Barthelemy Aguerre  said in an interview today on Europe 1 radio.
“We receive, and we have a paper trace for that, beef and we
resell beef, without touching it.”  Spanghero received at least 750 tons of meat coded as horse
from Romania that left its facility labeled as European Union
beef,  Benoit Hamon , junior minister for consumer affairs, told
reporters in Paris yesterday. The meat was supplied to Comigel,
which used it to produce prepared meals including beef lasagna
and spaghetti bolognese later found to contain horse.  The horse-meat scandal has shown European consumers and
regulators the global and opaque nature of the food chain that
serves them. The horse-for-beef switch affected more than 4.5
million processed products representing at least 1,000 tons of
food, the French finance ministry said yesterday.  Supermarkets in the U.K., Ireland, France, the Netherlands
and Germany have pulled tainted frozen beef burgers and lasagnas
from shelves in the past month. U.K. food processor  Greencore
Group Plc  plunged as much as 22 percent today after the company
said it supplied beef bolognese sauce withdrawn by retailer Asda
Group Ltd. after traces of horse DNA were found.  Spanghero Tests  In France, Aguerre refuted Minister Hamon’s charge, saying
“it wasn’t Spanghero that created the scam.”  “There may have been a little negligence,” he  said on
Europe 1 . “We put EU instead of EU-Romania, we didn’t put
Romania. That can be held against us.”  Recent tests by Spanghero found horse meat and beef mixed in
blocks of meat it received, which Aguerre said shows the French
company isn’t responsible. He said the government has been “a
bit quick” to accuse the company.  France will hand over information on Spanghero to
prosecutors who will determine if charges will be filed, Hamon
said yesterday.  “It’s either a major case of absentmindedness or a massive
deceit,” he said. “It’s very possible that complicity exists
on a European level.”  EU Health and Consumer Commissioner  Tonio Borg  told
reporters after a meeting of European ministers in Brussels this
week that criminal investigations will be coordinated by
Europol. Comigel should have been alerted about the meat it
received, according to Hamon.  Horse Drug  “Once the meat was unpacked and unfrozen, Comigel could
have questioned the fact that the color and smell of the meat
was not that of beef,” Hamon said. Also, fresh meat in the
European Union must indicate the country of origin, he said.  EU nations should test thousands of processed beef products
for horse meat to establish the scale of the labeling scandal
and analyze slaughtered horses for the veterinary drug
phenylbutazone, known as bute, the EU said yesterday.  The U.K. Food Standards Agency will announce the results of
industry tests on beef products for the presence of horse meat
today. The FSA said yesterday that no bute was found in Findus
Group Ltd. products withdrawn after horse meat was detected.  Six slaughtered horses that tested positive for bute may
have entered the food chain in France, the agency said. The drug
poses a very low risk to human health, the U.K. chief medical
officer said in a statement. A person would have to eat 500 to
600 burgers of pure tainted horse meat a day to consume close to
a human’s daily dose.  Three horse carcasses contaminated with bute entered France
from the U.K., and French inspectors found the dead animals
yesterday at a company in the northern Nord-Pas-de-Calais
region, Agriculture Minister  Stephane Le Foll  told reporters
yesterday. The carcasses were found after France was alerted by
U.K. authorities and will be destroyed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  