-- Moscow Bourse Raises $498 Million, IPO Price at Low End
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-15T15:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/moscow-bourse-raises-498-million-biggest-russia-ipo-since-07.html
The  Moscow Exchange  raised 15
billion rubles ($498 million) in the biggest initial public
offering on Russia’s bourse since 2007, pricing at the bottom of
its target range.  The deal values the exchange at 126.9 billion rubles,
according to a website  statement  today. The shares were priced
at 55 rubles each, the lowest end of the Moscow Exchange’s range
of 55 rubles to 63 rubles. The stock, which trades under the
 MOEX RX  ticker, closed unchanged at 55 rubles, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The bourse, which is the centerpiece of President  Vladimir Putin ’s push to turn Moscow into a financial hub, said Feb. 4
that it wanted to raise at least 15 billion rubles selling
shares on its own platform. The sale makes it the biggest IPO on
Russian markets since OAO Polymetal’s $630 million IPO in 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The company has no track record, it’s a risk,”  Elena Loven , who helps manage 70 billion euros as a fund manager at
Swedbank Robur, said by phone today. “We can say it’s not
cheap. On the other hand, fast-growing companies are expensive
everywhere, in Russia and abroad.” Swedbank Robur’s funds
purchased shares in the IPO and sought to buy at the low end of
the range, she said.  The exchange runs Russia’s 50-stock Micex and dollar-
denominated RTS indexes and is modernizing its systems to lure
more foreign capital. It marketed its shares to investors in the
U.S., Europe and Russia. The Micex fell 0.7 percent to 1,508.17
today.  China Fund  The Kremlin-backed Russian Direct Investment Fund, or RDIF,
and Chengdong Investment Corp., a unit of Chinese sovereign
wealth fund CIC International Co., bought shares in the IPO, two
people who also asked not to be identified said. The offering
gives the exchange a 30 percent free float, according to today’s
statement.  “We have a long way to go,”  Dmitry Pankin , head of
Russia’s Federal Financial Markets Service, told reporters in
Moscow after the shares started trading. “It has to become a
real competitor for London, Frankfurt and New York. This is a
good sign, an important test that shows that one can list in
Moscow, this experience will be useful during the upcoming
privatization deals.”  Russia plans to push ahead with a record $10 billion of
asset sales this year as it seeks to stem capital flight and
pare back the state’s hold over the economy, First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said last month.  Attracting Investors  RDIF invested $80 million into the IPO and attracted $200
million more from other investors, the fund’s chief executive
officer  Kirill Dmitriev  said today in comments broadcast on
state television from a conference in Krasnoyarsk. After the
investment, RDIF holds a 4.5 percent stake in the exchange,
which it plans to keep for three to five years, Dmitriev said by
phone today.  “The decision was to do an IPO early before many of the
changes take place,” Dmitriev said. “What’s important is that
we’re making foreign investors appreciate an IPO on the Russian
exchange.”  Shareholders will be subject to a 180-day lock-up period
after the offering, according to a Feb. 4 statement.  China Investment Corp. and the RDIF  set up  a $2 billion
fund in June, seeking returns of at least 20 percent on
investments in companies benefiting from growing trade between
the two countries, according to the RDIF’s website. Of that, 70
percent will be invested in Russia, the rest in China.  Political Matter  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest asset manager, bought
shares in the Moscow Exchange from RDIF in September, the fund
said Sept. 28, without providing details. RDIF had 2.7 percent
in July. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
has a 5.8 percent stake in the exchange, while VTB Group,
Russia’s second-largest lender after Sberbank, held 5.6 percent.  BlackRock and  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.  bid for shares in
the exchange IPO, Vedomosti reported today, citing an organizer
it didn’t identify.  Putin  said last month the stake sales should happen mainly
on Russian exchanges.  The decision to list in Moscow “was more of a political
matter,”  Anton Rakhmanov , general director at Sberbank Asset
Management, which oversees about 80 billion rubles in assets,
said on Jan. 29. “Once you limit a listing to a certain
geographic territory, you cut off investors who can’t
participate due to the regulatory or physical reasons. Right now
the goal is to make Russia as popular of an investment
destination as possible.”  Retail Investors  About 850 retail investors participated in the IPO, the
Moscow Exchange’s Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Afanasiev 
said today in an interview. The biggest investment was $80
million, with investors from the U.S., Asia, continental Europe
and the U.K. participating, Afanasiev said. The exchange doesn’t
plan to list on any other platforms, Afanasiev said.  “Considering the high demand for our shares, we could have
slightly increased the price,” Afanasiev said in a Bloomberg TV
interview with  Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow today. “We didn’t do it
because otherwise we could have lost some very good investor
names. Our choice was for the quality of the investor base.”  The exchange plans to use its share of the IPO proceeds to
upgrade its trading system and to boost the capital of its
clearing subsidiary, the National Clearing Center. The bourse,
which handles most stock and bond trading in Russia, will start
working with Euroclear Bank SA, operator of the world’s largest
bond-settlement system, to trade ruble-denominated government
debt next month, according to Euroclear.  Trading Reform  The bourse will move to settling trades over two days, or
the so-called T+2 settlement, from the current immediate
settlement, by the end of 2013,  Sergey Sinkevich , the exchange’s
head of primary markets, said last year. Russia merged its two
competing depositories on Nov. 6 to bring settlement procedures
into line with international norms.  The introduction of a central depository may over time
undermine one of the exchange’s sources of revenue as it
diminishes the need for repurchase transactions since investors
no longer have to keep their money with the bourse,  Mattias Westman , who helps oversee about $4 billion in Russian assets as
chief executive officer of Prosperity Capital in London, said
Feb. 12.  The exchange’s nine-month net income rose 22 percent to 6.4
billion rubles from the same period a year earlier, according to
an e-mailed statement on Jan. 18. The revenue for the same
period climbed 37 percent from a year earlier to 15.9 billion
rubles, according to the statement.  Trading Volumes  Trading volumes  on the Micex Index halved in December from
a year earlier, while the 30-day average value of trades in 10
Russian companies tracked by Bloomberg in London is about 51
percent higher than the same companies’ Moscow-listed shares.
The comparison includes  OAO Gazprom , OAO Lukoil and eight other
companies with at least five years of history in both markets.  In September,  Sberbank  raised 159 billion rubles as
Russia’s central bank reduced its stake in the country’s largest
lender. The company received 2.9 percent of that amount from
selling the stock on the Moscow Exchange, with the remainder
placed in London, according to a statement from the Moscow
Exchange.  OAO MegaFon , Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone provider,
has rallied 19 percent in London since raising $1.7 billion in
November in the biggest IPO by a Russian company in three years.  Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Sberbank CIB
and VTB Capital organized the Moscow Exchange’s IPO. Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Morgan Stanley , Renaissance
Capital and UBS AG’s investment bank were joint bookrunners.  “For long term investors it’s a winner,”  Matt Krueger , a
portfolio analyst at Global Finance Private Capital in Sarasota,
Florida, said by e-mail yesterday. “In the short term there are
risks which outweigh the benefits for many potential foreign
investors.” Global Finance didn’t participate in the exchange’s
IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  