-- Pistorius to Seek Bail Over Charge He Murdered Girlfriend
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-02-16T15:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/paralympian-pistorius-to-seek-bail-after-model-killed.html
Oscar Pistorius , the South African
gold-medal winning Paralympian, will remain in jail until a bail
hearing on Feb. 19 after he was charged with murder in the
shooting death of his girlfriend, model Reeva Steenkamp.  Pistorius , 26, held his face and wept yesterday during his
first appearance in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court. Magistrate
Desmond Nair delayed the bail hearing to allow the runner’s
lawyers more time to investigate the circumstances surrounding
the death of Steenkamp, 29, at his home in the city on Feb. 14.
Pistorius’s brother, Carl, who was sitting alongside his father
and sister, laid a hand on the sprinter’s back as Nair ordered
he be sent to a Pretoria jail.  The prosecution will argue it was “premeditated murder”
and will oppose bail, prosecutor Gerrie Nel said. Pistorius’s
family expressed disagreement with the charge today.  “We have no doubt there is no substance to the allegation
and that the state’s own case, including its own forensic
evidence, strongly refutes any possibility of a premeditated
murder or indeed any murder at all,” Arnold Pistorius, the
runner’s uncle, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are all
grieving for Reeva, her family and her friends. Oscar -– as you
can imagine -– is also numb with shock as well as grief.”  ‘Blade Runner’  Pistorius, dubbed the “ Blade Runner ” because of his
double leg amputation and prosthetic running blades, has won six
Paralympic gold medals. He became the first amputee runner to
compete at an Olympic Games in London last year and was included
on Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most-influential
people. Pistorius was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee at 11 months old.  Pistorius and Steenkamp “had plans together and Oscar was
happier in his private life than he had been for a long time,”
his uncle said. “The lives of our entire family have been
turned upside down forever by this unimaginable human tragedy
and Reeva’s family have suffered a terrible loss.”  Police have interviewed witnesses, including neighbors, who
heard noises from Pistorius’s home in Silver Woods Country
Estate, a gated community on the eastern outskirts of Pretoria,
in the hours before the shooting, Police Brigadier Denise Beukes
said on Feb. 14. There were previous incidents of “a domestic
nature” at the house, she said, declining to give further
details.  Silver Woods describes itself as a “prestigious security
estate” enclosed by a “solid, electrified security wall,”
according to its  website .  Corporate Sponsors  Some companies were reviewing their sponsorship of
Pistorius.  “We’ll look into this matter,”  Jon Sigurdsson , chief
executive officer of Ossur Hf, which manufactured his Flex-Foot
Cheetah Blades, said by phone yesterday from Reykjavik,
Iceland’s capital.  Multichoice, a South African satellite TV company owned by
 Naspers Ltd. , pulled an advertising campaign and removed
billboards featuring Pistorius “out of respect and sympathy to
the bereaved,” spokeswoman Lani Lombard said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Nike Inc. and BT Group Plc, a U.K.
telecommunications provider, expressed condolences in separate
e-mails and declined to comment further.  Steenkamp got a degree in law from Nelson Mandela
Metropolitan University and was voted among the Top 100 most
attractive women last year in FHM’s South Africa edition,
according to her publicist, Sarit Tomlinson.  Murders Decline  South Africa recorded 30.9 murders per 100,000 people in
the 12-month period through March 2012, down from 31.9 per
100,000 a year earlier, the South African Police Service said on
Sept. 20. The murder rate has fallen since reaching 67.9 per
100,000 in 1995, when the police force was integrated after the
end of all-white apartheid rule. South Africa’s murder rate is
more than six times that of the U.S.  Pistorius competed in his first able-bodied elite event at
the 2011 track and field world championships in Daegu, South
Korea. He got his chance after sport’s highest tribunal, the
Court of Arbitration for Sport, in 2008 overturned a ban on him
competing against able-bodied athletes imposed by the
 International Association of Athletics Federations , which said
his blades give him an advantage.  As a child, he played sports including water polo, cricket,
tennis and boxing. As part of his rehabilitation after injuring
his knee while playing rugby as a 16-year-old, Pistorius took up
track running. A year later he won the gold medal in the 200
meters at the 2004 Athens Paralympics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  