-- Park May Face Prolonged Korea Growth Underperformance: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-15T01:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/park-may-face-prolonged-korea-growth-underperformance-economy.html
South Korea’s incoming President
 Park Geun Hye  may be saddled with an economy that underperforms
for a prolonged period, increasing the allure of stimulus
spending that could undermine the nation’s fiscal strength.  Growth may stay below potential for a “considerable
time,” the Bank of Korea said yesterday after officials voted
to keep interest rates on hold. Policy makers are concerned
about the need to regain momentum after last year’s 2 percent
expansion, the weakest since 2009. Governor  Kim Choong Soo  sees
a potential rate of 3.8 percent.  The yen’s slide against the won is adding to challenges for
Park by aiding the Japanese rivals of Korean companies such as
 Hyundai Motor Co.  and Samsung Electronics Co. Deutsche Bank AG
says Park, who takes office on Feb. 25 after campaigning on
pledges to boost welfare spending, may announce a 10 trillion
won ($9 billion) extra budget in March.  “Fiscal stimulus is like a shot in the arm, but when
growth is slowing in a protracted fashion, then that really
doesn’t help,” said  Erik Lueth , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Leuth said the government
needs to boost productivity in the services industry, aid small
businesses and increase female participation in the labor force.  Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings boosted South Korea’s debt rating last year, with all
three citing strong fiscal fundamentals and room to respond to
external shocks.  Economic Slowdown  Asia’s fourth-biggest economy grew an average 4.3 percent
over the five years through 2007, before a U.S. housing market
crash triggered a global recession. In the fourth quarter of
last year, gross domestic product expanded 1.5 percent from a
year earlier, less than the 1.8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “If growth stays low for long, it’s difficult, or even
impossible, for it to return to its potential,” Kim, the
central bank governor, said last month.  The Bank of Korea said yesterday that growth remains at “a
weak level” after declines in consumption, and the pace of the
country’s expansion will be capped by a slow global recovery. At
the same time, the domestic economy is showing signs of gradual
improvement, according to the central bank. Frontloading of
government spending in the first half of the year may help to
support growth.  Currency Debate  South Korea is among nations to voice concern about Japan’s
economic policies as Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  drives
down his nation’s currency as part of a campaign to revive
growth and end deflation. Exchange rates will top the agenda for
Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers as they begin
two days of talks in Moscow today.  The won gained about 23 percent against the yen in the past
six months.  Commenting on currencies yesterday, Governor Kim, who will
attend the meetings in Moscow, told reporters that it’s “most
desirable” for foreign-exchange rates to be set by market
fundamentals. He added that the currency plays an important role
in his nation’s interest-rate decisions without being the
deciding factor.  The Bank of Korea kept the benchmark  seven-day repurchase
rate  at 2.75 percent yesterday after a 25 basis-point cut in
October. For a second month, the decision was not unanimous.
Fourteen of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted
the decision and one forecast a cut.  Stocks Slip  Asian stocks fell today from an 18-month high with the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index down 0.4 percent as of 10:48 a.m. in Tokyo.
In South Korea, the Kospi Index rose 0.1 percent. Elsewhere in
the Asia Pacific region, New Zealand reported today that retail
sales rose the most in six years in the fourth quarter, adding
to signs of a recovery.  In Europe, the U.K. will release retail sales data today.  In the U.S, a report today may show that industrial
production climbed 0.2 percent in January after a 0.3 percent
advance the previous month, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of economists. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan consumer sentiment gauge may have climbed in
February, another survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  