-- Paulson Buys Sprint, MetroPCS in Telecom Takeover Plays
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/paulson-buys-sprint-metropcs-in-telecom-takeover-plays.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager who has vowed to return to his roots in event-
driven investing after two years of losses in some funds, bought
shares of Sprint Nextel Corp. and added to his MetroPCS
Communications Inc. stake, two companies involved in takeovers.  Paulson & Co., based in New York, bought 127.7 million
shares of Sprint last quarter, the firm’s largest new purchase
in the period, according to a filing yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Softbank Corp., the Japanese
mobile carrier, is seeking to buy Sprint for $20 billion to
expand into the U.S.  Paulson added 8 million shares of MetroPCS in the fourth
quarter. Paulson & Co., the biggest shareholder of MetroPCS,
said the wireless company’s planned combination with Deutsche
Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA unit would take on too much debt,
echoing investor Peter Schoenfeld, who is recruiting allies for
a fight with the German phone company over the MetroPCS
takeover.  Paulson has told clients he’s focusing on event-driven
investing this year after losses on wrong-way bets on the U.S.
and European economies over the previous two years left the firm
with with $18 billion in assets, down from a peak of $38 billion
in 2011. Event-driven managers bet on companies facing mergers,
spinoffs and bankruptcies.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the filing.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  Oldest Strategy  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management’s arguments against the
MetroPCS transaction “make a lot of sense,” Paulson said in an
e-mailed statement. Paulson is withholding its decision on
whether to vote for the deal until it sees the final proxy
statement, it said.  The new company “has too much debt, the interest rate on
Deutsche Telekom’s debt financing is too high, and the exchange
ratio is too low for PCS stockholders,” Paulson said. “It may
be more prudent for PCS to remain independent and explore other
higher value alternatives.”  Paulson’s oldest strategy is merger-arbitrage, which he
started trading in 1994, according to a letter to investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  