-- Payton, Hardaway Are Among 12 Basketball Hall of Fame Finalists
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/payton-hardaway-are-among-12-basketball-hall-of-fame-finalists.html
Former All-Star guards  Gary Payton 
and  Tim Hardaway  are among 12 finalists for entry into the
Basketball  Hall of Fame .  Tom Heinsohn , 78, already a member of the Hall as a player,
is a finalist for entry as a coach. He led the  Boston Celtics  to
National Basketball Association championships in 1974 and 1976.  Richie Guerin, a standout guard for teams including the New
York Knicks in the 1950s and ’60s, was elected to the
Springfield, Massachusetts-based shrine from a veterans
category.  Payton, 44, a nine-time NBA All-Star, and Hardaway, 46, an
All-Star five times, are among six first-time finalists, the
Hall said yesterday in a  release . The others are Heinsohn (as a
coach); Sylvia Hatchell, a three-time national college women’s
coach of the year;  Dawn Staley , a five-time Women’s NBA All-
Star, and  Mitch Richmond , a six-time All-Star in the NBA.  Repeat finalists are former players  Maurice Cheeks ,  Spencer Haywood  and Bernard King, and coaches Guy Lewis,  Rick Pitino  and
 Jerry Tarkanian .  Five men already have been chosen for 2013 entry through
 special panels:  Roger Brown, who was voted in by the American
Basketball Association Committee; Edwin B. Henderson, from the
Early African-American Pioneers Committee; Oscar Schmidt, from
the International Committee; Guerin, from the Veterans
Committee, and  Russ Granik , a former NBA deputy commissioner,
from the Contributor Direct Election Committee.  The complete class of 2013 will be introduced April 8 at
the NCAA men’s basketball Final Four in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  