-- Performance Tops Pedigree in Money Managers’ Fortunes
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-02-15T21:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/performance-tops-pedigree-in-money-managers-fortunes.html
Virtus Investment Partners Inc.  and
Artio Global Investors Inc. set out on their own in 2009 within
nine months of one another. The paths of the two money managers
couldn’t have been more different.  Virtus, which started as a virtually unknown money manager,
has surged 19-fold since its  public debut  as assets have soared.
 Artio , which listed in September 2009 after spinning out from
Switzerland’s 122-year-old wealth manager Julius Baer Group
Ltd., saw its life as an independent firm come to an abrupt end
with its Feb. 14 acquisition by Aberdeen Asset Management Plc
after assets slumped and shares plunged about 90 percent.  Virtus, spun off four years ago from a small Connecticut-
based insurer under pressure to boost its share price, advanced
the most of any U.S. money manager after a diverse fund lineup
and top managers attracted investors. At Artio, returns at its
mainstay international stock funds slumped, prompting
redemptions and a 75 percent decline in assets. The diverging
journeys underscore the importance of diversification and, more
so, performance, said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates in Chicago.  “Timing is everything,” Schwartz, who covers asset
managers including Virtus and Artio, said in a telephone
interview. “Virtus since it went public has had some funds that
have done phenomenally well while Artio’s performance turned
down at exactly the wrong time.”  Share Record  Virtus’s broad range of strategies increased the chances it
would have something to offer that captured the public’s
attention, said Schwartz. Artio’s concentration left it with
nothing to fall back on when its international funds faltered,
he said.  Virtus, which went public at $9 a share on Jan. 2, 2009,
and a capitalization of about $50 million, rose 0.5 percent to
close at $167.11, giving it a market value of $1.3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock reached a
record of $167.99 earlier today. Of the three analysts who
follow the Hartford, Connecticut-based company, two, including
Schwartz, have a buy recommendation. The stock was the best
performer in the 20-member Standard & Poor’s index of asset
managers and custody banks every year since it started trading.  Six analysts had recommended holding Artio shares and only
one had a buy rating on the stock prior to the takeover
announcement. Aberdeen agreed to pay $175 million, or $2.75 per
share, for New York-based Artio. The shares closed at $2.05 on
Feb. 13, the day before the transaction was announced, 92
percent lower than the $26 debut price on Sept. 23, 2009.  Declining Assets  “With the decline in our assets under management over the
last couple of years, we felt there would be a significant
benefit in partnering with an organization like Aberdeen, which
has vast financial strength and a global footprint of analytical
resources,” Artio Chief Executive Officer Tony Williams said
yesterday in a conference call after the deal was announced.
Williams declined to comment beyond what he said on the call,
Neil Shapiro, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Both firms went public in a difficult market for asset
managers, as investors, reeling from losses during the 2007-2009
financial crisis, fled actively run stock funds for the
perceived safety of bonds. Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which specializes in bonds, attracted more than $60 billion to
its mutual funds in 2012 while American Funds run by Capital
Group Cos., known for stock picking, had redemptions of about
the same amount, according to Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Live, Die  Virtus, which was spun off from The Phoenix Cos., has what
is known as a multimanager model, owning money-management firms
such as Duff & Phelps Investment Management Co. and Euclid
Advisors LLC, and hiring others as sub-advisers to run its
mutual funds. Virtus has 48 traditional mutual funds and eight
closed-end funds that cover the spectrum of investment choices,
from domestic and global stocks to bonds in developed and
emerging markets.  “We don’t want to live or die on one strategy,”  George Aylward Jr.,  CEO of Virtus, said in a telephone interview.  The rising share price provides an incentive to managers at
the fund units, who are compensated, in part, with stock, said
Aylward.  Virtus’s multimanager structure is different from the model
used by Artio, which controls its own mutual funds under a
single brand. Yet like Virtus, the managers at Artio did stand
to benefit from rising shares. Artio managers Richard Pell and
Rudolph-Riad Younes were the second- and third-largest investors
in the company as of November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Industry Accolades  “Structure and how you handle compensation can’t always
explain success in money management,” Geoff Bobroff, a mutual-
fund consultant based in East Greenwich, Rhode Island, said in a
telephone interview.  Some of Virtus’s fund strategies have caught on with
investors. The $7.6 billion  Virtus Emerging Markets
Opportunities Fund  attracted $3.4 billion in 2012, according to
data from Morningstar. The research firm last month named the
manager, Rajiv Jain, international stock manager of the year.  In 2011, the fund lost 2.9 percent compared with a decline
of 18 percent, including reinvested dividends, for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $7.4 billion  Virtus Multi-Sector Short Term Bond Fund 
won $1.9 billion in deposits last year. It outperformed 99
percent of rivals over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has been run since 1993 by David
Albrycht.  Investors Rewarded  Virtus, which manages $45.5 billion in assets, got $6.7
billion in deposits in 2012, the company reported. Franklin
Resources Inc., which had $782 billion in assets at year-end,
attracted about twice the money in that same period.  Since Jan. 3, 2009, Virtus has returned almost 1,500
percent. The next-best performing stock in the asset manager
index is Beverly, Massachusetts-based Affiliated Managers Group
Inc., which gained more than 200 percent.  Jeffrey Thorp, founder of New York-based Sonoma Capital
Management, bought Virtus shares in 2009 because he thought the
stock was cheap and ignored by other investors.  “We have been well rewarded from a change in the market
and a management team that has done an excellent job,” he wrote
in an e-mail. Sonoma owns 9.5 percent of Virtus’ shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Glory Years’  Artio previously was the U.S. arm of Zurich-based Julius
Baer, the Swiss wealth manager founded in 1890. While the
company runs stock and bond offerings, it is best known for its
focus on non-U.S. funds, with funds including the  Artio
International Equity Fund , run by Younes and Pell.  “This mutual fund is like the Boston Celtics or the New
York Yankees in their glory years,” Morningstar’s Gregg Wolper
wrote in a Dec. 2006 note.  Between 1993 and 2008 the fund gained 6.2 percent a year
compared with 1.8 percent for its benchmark index. Then the pair
missed out on the rally in bank stocks that began in March 2009,
and bet too heavily on a 2011 rebound in Chinese stocks that
failed to materialize, Wolper said in a telephone interview.  The result: Over the past three years Artio International
trailed 96 percent of rivals.  ‘Below Par’  Investors responded by taking their money elsewhere. The
fund and a similar strategy run by the same two managers have
experienced redemptions of more than $17 billion since the end
of 2008, Morningstar data show. The firm’s assets shrunk to $14
billion as of Jan. 31, down from almost $56 billion in September
2009.  James Meynard , the executive director of the Georgia
Firefighters’ Pension Fund, was part of the exodus. The Conyers,
Georgia-based pension fund, which has almost $600 million in
assets, pulled $46 million from Artio last year.  “They had gotten below par,” he said of the international
managers.  Artio’s Williams replaced Pell as CEO so the latter could
concentrate on investment management, the company said in an
Oct. 30 statement. Williams had been president and chief
operating officer.  “It is essential that we turn around performance in our
international equity strategy,” Williams said in an October
conference call.  In August, the company closed four U.S. equity funds with
$143 million in assets and said it would cut 25 positions. Artio
cut the same number of people in September 2011.  ‘Turn Again’  Michael Kim, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
in New York, who had a hold rating on the stock, said Artio’s
bond funds have fared better than its equity funds. The $2.1
billion Artio Total Return Bond Fund beat 78 percent of peers
over the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
$2.9 billion Artio Global High Income Fund beat 68 percent of
rivals over the same stretch.  Schwartz of Raymond James said the managers of the
international funds did “fantastically” for many years and
have done well again in the early part of 2013.  “Things could turn again,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  