-- Peru’s Sol Falls Most in Two Weeks on Central Bank Purchases
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-02-15T20:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/peru-s-sol-falls-most-in-two-weeks-on-central-bank-purchases.html
Peru’s sol posted its steepest
decline this month after the central bank boosted dollar
purchases to curb gains in Latin America’s best performing
currency of the past year.  The sol fell 0.2 percent to 2.5735 per U.S. dollar at
today’s close for the biggest decline since Jan. 31, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank said on its
website it bought $210 million of U.S. currency today, taking
total purchases this year to $3.3 billion.  The central bank is buying “significant” amounts of
greenbacks as “dollar flows are still very strong,” said
 Gonzalo Navarro , the head trader at Banco Santander Peru SA.  The monetary authority has increased purchases and raised
reserve requirements to curb dollar supply. Foreign-currency
inflows have risen amid increased demand for the Andean nation’s
bonds and as Peruvian companies seek financing abroad.  Demand for soles usually increases in the first quarter
before an April 2 deadline for companies’ annual income tax
payments.  The sol appreciated 0.2 percent this week and its 4.3
percent gain in the past year is the strongest among the six
most-traded Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Peru’s economy grew at the slowest pace in three years in
December as construction activity eased. Economic activity rose
4.3 percent, the government’s statistics agency said in a report
issued today in Lima. The median forecast of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 6 percent increase.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.75 percent at 2:43 p.m. in Lima,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The price climbed
0.18 centimo to 126.32 centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  