-- Peru’s Economy Slows More Than Expected on Construction Dip
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-02-15T18:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/peru-s-economy-slows-more-than-expected-on-construction-1-.html
Peru’s economy grew less than
analysts expected in December, expanding at the weakest pace in
three years, as a construction boom waned.  Economic activity  rose 4.3 percent from the year earlier,
compared with 6.8 percent in November, the government’s
statistics agency said in a report issued today in Lima. The
median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 6
percent increase.  Growth in Peru’s construction industry, a mainstay of South
America’s fastest growth rate in 2012, eased to 5.3 percent in
December from 17 percent the month before, the agency said.
Still, a pick-up in cement demand in January indicates that
domestic demand will continue to shield the commodity-dependent
economy from weak export demand this year, said  Pablo Nano , an
economist at Scotiabank Peru.  “December saw a dip but it doesn’t change the trend,” Nano
said in a phone interview from Lima. Gross domestic product
“will probably grow 6.3 percent in the first quarter. Given
this pace of growth, and with inflation sitting within the
central bank’s target range, for the moment there’d be no reason
to alter the benchmark rate.”  Peru’s sol was unchanged at 2.5675 per U.S. dollar at 12:04
a.m. in Lima, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has fallen 0.6 percent this year, after a 5.4 percent
gain in 2012, as the central bank increased U.S currency
purchases and raised reserve requirements to contain the
appreciation.  Exports Tumble  Peruvian exports tumbled 16 percent in December from a year
earlier and were down 1.7 percent for the whole of 2012. Cement
demand rebounded last month, rising 18 percent, while
electricity demand rose 6.5 percent, the agency said.  The central bank left its overnight rate unchanged for a
21st month at its Feb. 7 meeting, saying inflation will slow to
2 percent this year, the mid-point of its target range, amid
stable economic growth.  December’s increase brought the growth in economic activity
last year to 6.3 percent. GDP will probably expand about 6.3
percent this year, the fastest pace in South America, as exports
rebound and domestic demand expands, Finance Minister  Miguel Castilla  said in a Jan. 26 interview.  A drop in anchovy catches caused a 47 percent drop in
fishing output in December and contributed to a 2 percent fall
in manufacturing as fishmeal output contracted. Retail, which
rose 7 percent in December, and construction together accounted
for a third of Peru’s 2012 growth, Alejandro Vilchez, the
statistics agency’s head, told reporters.  Lima’s unemployment rate climbed to 6.1 percent last month
from 5.6 percent in December, the agency said in a separate
report issued today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 