-- Peru Tightens Security to Restart TGP Pipeline Expansion
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-02-15T20:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/peru-tightens-security-to-restart-tgp-pipeline-expansion-1-.html
Transportadora de Gas del Peru , the
Andean country’s largest pipeline operator, aims to restart work
on a delayed $800 million conduit expansion by April as the
government beefs up security against Maoist rebels, general
manager  Ricardo Ferreiro  said.  The government is investing $500 million in equipment and
10 new army and police bases in the southeastern jungle after
guerrilla attacks last year, Ferreiro said. The Lima-based
company known as TGP aims to expand the Camisea pipeline in the
Cuzco region by 36 percent to 830 million cubic feet per day by
the first quarter of 2015.  “These are complex issues because they take time,”
Ferreiro said today at a press conference in Lima. “There are
many difficulties which we’re working on, and we will only
restart work if security conditions improve.”  The government is counting on TGP to supply gas to
petrochemical projects being developed by  Orica Ltd.  and Sigdo
Koppers SA and power plants and pipelines. The projects are part
of $16 billion in energy investments expected over the next
decade, according to the country’s Energy Ministry.  TGP, a seven-company group whose shareholders include
Dallas-based Hunt Oil Co., hasn’t received any specific threats
from the Shining Path movement after the U.S. State Department
this week warned U.S. citizens risked being kidnapped in the
Cuzco area, Ferreiro said. The pipeline runs through the Cuzco
region.  The group, which began its insurgency in 1980, last year
blew up helicopters and kidnapped employees working on the
pipeline, delaying the project by a year and threatening $1.5
billion in annual gas exports and 40 percent of the country’s
power supply.  Sara Alcantara, a Lima-based spokeswoman for the Peruvian
Defense Ministry, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  