-- Pianalto Says Benefits From Securities Purchases May Fade
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-02-15T15:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/pianalto-says-benefits-of-fed-securities-purchases-may-wane.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the gains from the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchase may fade.  “Over time, the benefits of our asset purchases may be
diminishing,” Pianalto said today in a speech at Florida Gulf
Coast University in Fort Myers, Florida.  “Given how low interest rates currently are, it is
possible that future asset purchases will not ease financial
conditions by as much as they have in the past,” she said. “It
is also possible that easier financial conditions, to the extent
they do occur, may not provide the same boost to the economy as
they have in the past.”  Fed officials are debating how long they should continue
their bond buying, designed to foster economic growth and reduce
7.9 percent unemployment. The  Federal Open Market Committee  last
month kept the monthly purchase pace unchanged at $40 billion in
mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion in Treasury
purchases.  The central bank has said the purchases will continue until
the labor market improves “substantially.”  “In addition to the possibility that our policies may have
diminishing benefits, they also may have some risks associated
with them,” Pianalto said.  Financial institutions may take on excessive credit risk or
interest rate risk from holding too much long-term debt,
Pianalto said. Also, the Fed’s pace of bond purchases may
disrupt financial markets and the central bank could slip up
while withdrawing stimulus and allow too much inflation, she
said.  ‘More Attractive’  “To minimize some of these risks, we could aim for a
smaller sized balance sheet than would otherwise occur if we
were to maintain the current pace of  asset purchases  through the
end of this year, as some financial market participants are
expecting,” Pianalto said. “This course of action would be all
the more attractive if the economic outlook continues to
improve, as I expect it will.”  The economy will probably grow 2.5 percent this year and
about 3 percent in 2014, Pianalto said. Her outlook is more
optimistic than that of private economists, whose median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for 1.9 percent growth this
year and 2.7 percent next year.  The pace of growth is “not strong enough to dig us out of
the deep unemployment hole we’re in -- at least, not for the
next several years,” Pianalto said. She forecasts unemployment
will fall to 7.5 percent by the end of 2013 and 7 percent by the
end of 2014.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent today to
1,522.77 at 10:30 a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury rose to 2.02 percent from 2 percent yesterday.  Fed Presidents rotate voting on  monetary policy  with
Pianalto, 58, not voting until next year. She is the longest-
serving regional bank president, having led the Cleveland Fed
since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
 Anna Edgerton  in Fort Myers, Florida at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  