-- Poland to Ease Environmental Rules Slowing Shale Search
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-02-15T15:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/poland-plans-to-ease-environmental-rules-hindering-shale-search.html
Poland’s Environment Ministry plans
to ease environmental regulations that slowed exploration for
shale gas and boosted costs for investors.  A number of rules will be clarified, while environment
impact assessment reports will be required only for a drilling
site rather than the whole acreage of a license, the ministry
said today in a statement.  Rules requiring investors to seek permits any time they
want to drill deeper or in a different direction than originally
planned have slowed down Poland’s goal of cutting its dependence
on Russian gas. The eastern European country has granted 113
exploration licenses to companies including state-controlled
 Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  and  Chevron Corp.  to
tap shale gas resources estimated at about 50 years of
consumption.  “Our goal is to start shale gas production as soon as
possible and that requires regulation that will be friendly for
investors,” Environment Minister  Marcin Korolec  said today in
an interview in Warsaw. “The new rules will be very attractive,
probably the best one can find.”  About 25 percent fewer exploration wells were completed
last year than forecast by the ministry as some projects were
delayed.  Under the new rules, investors will be able to drill as
deep as 5,000 meters (16,400 feet) during exploration without
all the environmental permits needed under current rules,
Korolec said. The permits will be required during production, he
said.  Hydrocarbon Taxes  The ministry said that a new tax regime for the industry
will be included in a separate draft that is being prepared by
the Finance Ministry. As announced last year it will cap levies
on hydrocarbon production at a total of 40 percent of profit.  The draft will call for setting up a state-run company to
oversee oil and gas production and become a shareholder in
ventures responsible for output. It will also create a
hydrocarbon fund to benefit from proceeds from exploration,
according to the guidelines. It will need to be approved by the
government and the parliament.  Under the proposed licensing regime all permits will be
granted in tenders, while holders of existing exploration
concessions will have the option to invite the state fund, known
as NOKE, to become a shareholder. The fund’s share in costs of
the venture will be capped at 5 percent, and NOKE won’t be
taking on the role of operator, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  