-- Polish Central Banker Wins Libel Appeal, Keeps MPC Seat
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-02-15T09:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/polish-central-banker-wins-libel-appeal-keeps-mpc-seat.html
Polish central banker  Jan Winiecki 
was acquitted of libel charges by an appeals court, a verdict
that will allow him to keep his seat on the rate-setting
Monetary Policy Council.  The charges against Winiecki were brought by former
Governor  Slawomir Skrzypek , who died in a 2010 plane crash
together with then-Polish President Lech Kaczynski and 94
others. Under Polish law, libel claims can be brought in
criminal courts. Skrzypek’s widow pursued the case after a lower
court ruled in 2009 that Winiecki had libeled Skrzypek in a
newspaper article saying the governor wasn’t qualified to run
the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski.  “A person aspiring to such an important post as central-
bank governor has to take into account that he could become a
target of harsh and subjective criticism,” Judge Leszek
Matuszewski told the court in Poznan today, adding that the case
is now dismissed. “Even if it’s objectively unfair, it cannot
be regarded as libelous.”  A guilty verdict would have cost Winiecki his place on the
council, as Polish law requires MPC members who’ve been
convicted in criminal cases and exhausted all appeals to be
removed from office. Winiecki joined the body in 2010 as one of
three rate setters approved by the Senate.  Monetary-policy makers have trimmed borrowing costs by 1
percentage point since November as the economy has slowed amid
the debt crisis in the euro area, which buys more than half of
Polish exports. After the latest rate cut on Feb. 6, Governor
 Marek Belka  told a news conference that the bank is maintaining
its informal easing bias, meaning another cut or a decision to
keep rates unchanged are “equally probable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  