-- Portugal’s Revival Means 10-Year Bond Sale Likely, BlueBay Says
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-15T12:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/portugal-s-revival-means-10-year-bond-sale-likely-bluebay-says.html
Portugal may announce plans to sell
10-year government bonds for the first time in two years as soon
as this month as it regains access to long-term debt markets,
according to BlueBay Asset Management.  Seeking to wean itself off international aid, the nation
sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of five-year notes through
banks last month, benefiting from borrowing costs that have
fallen to the lowest since 2010. Portugal, which took a 78
billion-euro bailout in 2011, intends to gain “full market
access in the next few months,”  Joao Moreira Rato , the
country’s debt chief, said in an e-mail today.  “We see Portugal regaining market access and in our
opinion the European Central Bank’s definition of market access
is three issues at different maturities,” said  Mark Dowding , a
London-based senior fixed-income manager at BlueBay, which
oversees $47 billion including Portuguese bonds. “We may next
expect a possible tap of a 10-year bond and then an issue at the
short-end. It could be announced before the end of this month.”  Portugal’s  10-year bond yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 6.20 percent at 12:33 p.m. London
time. The rate, which was higher than 12 percent a year ago,
reached 5.80 percent on Jan. 23, the least since October 2010.  The nation is ranked below investment grade by Fitch
Ratings, Moody’s Investors Services and Standard & Poor’s. It
needs to meet a 5.8 billion-euro September 2013 bond repayment
without relying on its rescue program, which extends until the
middle of next year, according to the bailout plan.  Yield Trend  “We have been rebuilding an investor base” after
downgrades caused some bondholders to sell their Portuguese
securities, debt chief Rato said. His agency has been meeting
with money managers for the past six months, he said.  Portugal can monitor the evolution of the markets and
select the optimal moment for sales,  Luis Marques Guedes , the
secretary of state for the presidency of the council of
ministers, said yesterday.  “The 10-year bond yield will need to go back below 6
percent before we see supply from Portugal in this part of the
curve,” said  Alessandro Giansanti , a senior rates strategist at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “It depends on the trend of the
yields. We are quite positive on Portugal. At the moment they
have good demand up to five years but they may struggle to get
demand beyond that.”  Portugal last auctioned 10-year bonds in January 2011 at a
yield of 6.716 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fair Value  “We are working to increase the liquidity in our secondary
markets across the yield curve so that we can issue on a
sustained basis,” the debt agency’s Rato said. A yield curve is
a chart consisting of bonds of different maturities.  BlueBay is positive on Portuguese debt, Dowding said,
because current yield levels adequately compensate investors for
the risks involved.  Investors demand a yield premium of 458 basis points to
hold Portugal’s 10-year debt instead of similar-maturity German
bunds. Fair value for the so-called spread is 314 basis points,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists  Francesco Garzarelli  and  Silvia Ardagna . “Portuguese bonds still offer
value,” they wrote in a note to clients on Feb. 12.  “We’re interested in rebuilding all of Portugal’s yield
curve, which will imply issuing 10-year debt at a given time and
when adequate,” Secretary of State for Treasury  Maria Luis Albuquerque  told reporters at a press conference in Lisbon on
Jan. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  