-- Edwards Says Mining Boom Yet to Come as Output Set to Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-15T05:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/rba-s-edwards-says-mining-boom-yet-to-come-as-output-set-to-rise.html
Reserve Bank of Australia board
member  John Edwards  said higher mining output may support gross
domestic product growth even after resource investment peaks.  “We haven’t actually had the mining boom yet,” he said in
an interview in Sydney today. “It makes quite a big difference
if, say, we had an increase in mining output of 10 percent over
the next year or two. That makes quite a big difference to a GDP
outcome.”  The central bank, which reduced the  benchmark interest rate 
by 1.75 percentage points since late 2011, on Feb. 8 lowered its
growth and inflation forecasts as investment outside mining
remains elusive, the labor market softens, and a high local
currency contains prices. While the RBA noted the global outlook
has been “more positive in recent months” and China’s economy
has stabilized, it also said it expects the mining-investment
boom to crest in coming quarters.  Edwards, a former economic adviser to and biographer of
Labor Prime Minister  Paul Keating , said it’s “quite
remarkable” that mining as a share of the economy “in volume
terms” is the same as it was 30 years ago.  Christopher Kent , assistant governor responsible for the
RBA’s economics department, echoed those sentiments in a  speech 
in Perth today.  ‘Operational Phase’  “As mining investment tails away, we’ll increasingly move
into the operational phase of the mining boom,” Kent told a
Committee for Economic Development of Australia forum. “This is
when exports will increase significantly in response to all of
the investment that’s been undertaken.”  Edwards also said today the government’s attempts to curb
spending were appropriate.  “If you are in a circumstance where you think you can have
growth not very far below trend, you can have unemployment that
is not very much higher than it is now, then in my view it’s
difficult to seriously argue that we need a huge kind of impulse
from government spending,” he said. “Now probably is a good
time to continue to work to bring budgets back into balance.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government in late
December abandoned a pledge to return the budget to surplus this
financial year, citing the sustained strength of the nation’s
currency that’s curbed tax receipts. The local currency traded
at $1.0368 at 4:29 p.m. in Sydney, extending its longest stretch
above parity since it was freely floated in 1983.  Currency Puzzle  “There’s a general sense that it would be useful if the
exchange rate was a bit lower,” said Edwards, a former chief
economist in Australia for HSBC Holdings Plc who joined the
RBA’s nine-member board in 2011. “It’s puzzling that given
what’s happened to commodity prices we didn’t see it coming off
a bit more.”  Traders are pricing in a 43 percent chance the RBA board
will reduce rates by a quarter percentage point to a record 2.75
percent when it meets next month, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are reasons to think that we will, in my view, be
able to make the transition from the mining investment boom that
we’ve had over the last two years to a still reasonable rate of
growth,” Edwards said. “It’ll be supported by a bit of an
upswing in housing construction, which is employment intensive,
and also a bit of an upswing in mining output.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  