-- RBA’s Kent Says Chinese Demand for Commodities to Remain Strong
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-15T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/rba-s-kent-says-chinese-demand-for-commodities-to-remain-strong.html
China’s demand for commodities will
grow “strongly” for some time, albeit at a slower pace,
Reserve Bank of Australia Assistant Governor  Christopher Kent 
said.  “Because the Chinese economy is so much larger now, even a
somewhat slower rate of growth represents a large quantity of
new demand for raw materials,” Kent said in the  text  of a
speech to be delivered today in Perth, capital of Western
Australia state.  Demand from China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, for
iron ore and coal has fueled a resource investment boom that the
RBA predicts will crest this year. Prices of Australia’s key
export, iron ore, have rebounded since reaching a three-year low
in September, when concern mounted that a slowdown in the
world’s second-largest economy would curb demand for
commodities.  “For much of the past year we have been looking for signs
that China’s growth might stabilize,” Kent told the Committee
for Economic Development of Australia forum. “A broad range of
indicators suggest that this has now occurred, with economic
conditions improving through the second half of 2012.”  China’s economic expansion is likely to pick up to 8.1
percent this quarter from 7.9 percent in the previous three
months, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts in January.
The nation’s central bank said in its fourth-quarter monetary-
policy report released Feb. 6 that growth momentum is
“relatively strong” while highlighting concern that inflation
risks will increase.  Rate Cuts  The RBA reduced its  benchmark interest rate  to 3 percent in
December, matching a half-century low, as it tries to spur
investment in industries outside mining in preparation for the
mining investment peak this year.  Traders are pricing in a 43 percent chance the RBA board
will reduce rates by a quarter percentage point to a record 2.75
percent when it meets next month, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kent said that, as Australian mining investment “tails
away,” the nation will boost shipments of commodities.  “This is when exports will increase significantly in
response to all of the investment that’s been undertaken,” he
said. “Despite the potential for further growth in the demand
for commodities, from China and other developing economies, we
expect commodity prices to gradually decline over the next few
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  