-- Reports of ’Peak Oil’ Have Always Been Exaggerated
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o r r i s
-- 2013-02-15T17:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/reports-of-peak-oil-have-always-been-exaggerated.html
M.  King Hubbert , a geologist with
Shell Oil Co., first proposed the idea of peak oil in 1956.  Hubbert was respected in his field. His outlook on oil
production, now called the Hubbert curve, seemed prescient when
U.S. domestic production began to decline in the 1960s and ’70s.
Both the Hubbert curve and the concept of peak oil quickly
gained wide, if not universal, acceptance that has hardened into
conventional wisdom.  Yet there have been moments in the history of oil and gas
exploration that should give pause before we declare that the
world is about to hit a wall in the production of fossil fuels.  Consider, for example, what happened in Titusville,
Pennsylvania, after the first commercial finds in the U.S.
Within months of the discoveries, the “oil regions” of
northwestern Pennsylvania gave birth to the first oil-boom
towns. The area remained a major source of crude for decades. By
some estimates, it accounted for as much as half the oil
produced in the world until the gusher at Spindletop in 1901
brought the giant fields of east Texas into production.  Pennsylvania Boom  Yet even as oil production was rising in the early days of
the first Pennsylvania boom, there were concerns that it might
not last. And as oil production from individual wells, and then
whole fields, began to decline, the concerns turned to worry.  True, by this time, fields had been discovered in Ohio and
Indiana. But much of the Indiana oil was tainted with sulfur,
giving it a foul odor that made it impossible to refine.  John Archbold , an executive at Standard Oil Co., expressed
doubt that commercial quantities of oil could be found farther
west. He famously scoffed, “I’ll drink every gallon of oil
produced west of the Mississippi.”  The brains behind Standard Oil,  John D. Rockefeller ,
thought otherwise, and he pushed the company to expand into
these regions. When the Standard Oil board balked at buying the
sulfur-laden crude being produced in Ohio and Indiana, or
investing in sulfur-removal research, Rockefeller threatened to
do so on his own nickel -- and to keep the profit.  Shamed, the board relented. Ohio crude was bought and
stored, and by 1889  Herman Frasch  developed an effective and
inexpensive way to remove sulfur.  Rockefeller was a shrewd capitalist, but not a chemist. He
didn’t have any particular way of knowing if Frasch was on to
something; rather it is likely he was confident that sound
research backed by ample funding could solve any chemical or
mechanical challenge. He was right: The Frasch process is still
used for desulfurization. The first of many barriers to
production had been overcome.  None of this suggests that “peak oil” was (or is) a
complete fallacy: Hydrocarbons are a finite resource; it is
theoretically possible to run out. But history suggests this is
highly unlikely to happen anytime soon: Every barrier to
production has eventually been surmounted by new technology,
enabling companies to extract oil or gas that was previously
undiscovered, or considered unrecoverable.  In fact, just as Hubbert’s concept of “peak oil” became
conventional wisdom about 30 years ago, a company called
Mitchell Energy & Development Corp. brought the C.W. Slay No. 1
well, in southeast Wise County, Texas, just north of Fort Worth,
into production. This was at the heart of the Barnett Shale, a
vast formation containing vast quantities of natural gas and
oil. Like the oil fields of Ohio and Indiana, this region’s
riches had been considered off-limits. Mitchell and other
companies soon changed that, using unconventional methods
ranging from directional drilling (steering the active drill bit
off to an angle, even to the horizontal, rather than just
straight down) to hydraulic fracturing.  New Discoveries  In recent years, wells have been sunk not only in the
Barnett Shale, but in other so-called tight formations, places
where oil and gas had been thought impossible to extract. These
include the Monterey Shale in California; the Bakken in North
Dakota; and the Marcellus in Pennsylvania. The result has been a
boom in natural-gas production.  Oil production  has soared, too:
U.S. oil supply grew almost 12 percent to 10.1 million barrels a
day in 2011 from 9.1 million in 2009, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. That makes the U.S. the
third-largest global producer, almost even with Russia, and not
far behind Saudi Arabia’s 11.2 million barrels a day.  Much of this production is controversial for environmental
reasons. But if history is any guide, the idea that the world
will soon run out of oil and gas is as unrealistic as it was in
Rockefeller’s time.  ( Gregory Morris  is a member of the editorial board of the
Museum of American Finance, a Smithsonian affiliate, and a
contributor to the Echoes blog. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Gregory Morris at  gdlm@enterpriseandindustry.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  