-- Repsol LNG Sale Seen Delayed as Shale Goring Canaport
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a ,   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-02-15T16:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/repsol-lng-sale-seen-delayed-as-shale-goring-canaport.html
Repsol SA’s effort to sell a
liquefied natural gas business for about $2.7 billion has bogged
down over its unsuccessful 25-year commitments to ship gas into
Canada, two people familiar with the matter said.  Spain’s biggest oil explorer has found that  Canaport , its
underutilized LNG import hub, was a hurdle to closing a deal,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the sale
talks are private. Royal Dutch Shell Plc has negotiated for the
assets, which are mostly in southeastern Canada, Trinidad and
Tobago, Peru and Spain, one of the people said.  For six months, the sale has been a centerpiece of Repsol’s
$6 billion divestment program needed to avoid a debt-rating
downgrade to  junk . None of the 30 biggest oil companies is rated
below investment grade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Repsol’s contracts to supply foreign gas to North America have
soured after the extracting of natural gas from shale rock
created a glut of the commodity and caused prices to plunge.  Canaport “has become a big white elephant for Repsol due
to the North American gas-supply demand fundamentals,” said
Cameron Gingrich, senior manager of gas services at Calgary-
based consultancy Ziff Energy Group.  Repsol is still negotiating a price for the assets in a
“restructured” deal that may include Canaport, one of the
people said. The Spanish company had expected to complete it by
early February, a person familiar with the deal said in mid-
January.  Argentine Seizure  Finding buyers for the other  LNG businesses , in the
Caribbean, Peru and in Spain, will be easier, Gingrich said.
 Gail India Ltd . and partner  Electricite de France SA  placed a
non-binding bid for Repsol’s LNG assets in Trinidad and Tobago,
Reuters reported, citing the company’s chairman.  Canaport could be turned into an export terminal or a
storage site, said  Ricardo Barcelona , who advises senior
executives on energy issues as managing director at Barcino
Capitas Ltd.  The required investment to enable Canaport to serve as an
export terminal would be about $2.5 billion to $4 billion,
according to estimates from an October  report  by Atlantica
Centre for Energy, a Saint John-based energy think-tank.  The buyer may also be interested in turning Canaport into a
storage facility, as “it is becoming increasingly profitable to
store gas and sell during the winter or at peak prices,”
Barcelona said.  Repsol’s shares fell 2.7 percent to close at 15.38 euros in
Madrid, the second-worst performer on the benchmark  IBEX 35
Index . The 13-company  Euro Stoxx Oil & Gas Index  fell 0.2
percent.  Argentina Nationalization  Spokesman Kristian Rix in Madrid at Repsol and Jonathan
French, a London-based Shell spokesman, declined to comment.  Kate Shannon, a spokeswoman for Canaport LNG in Saint John,
declined to comment. Carolyn Van der Veen, a spokeswoman for
Irving Oil in Saint John, did not immediately reply to phone and
e-mail messages.  Repsol put the assets up for sale after Argentina seized
its YPF unit and refused to pay. The nationalization followed
the Spanish company’s January announcement of the discovery of
22 billion barrels of potential oil in shale rock in Argentina.
Repsol is seeking $10.5 billion for a 51 percent stake in YPF.  Selling the LNG division “is one of the main corrective
measures that we expect Repsol to implement in order to cut debt
meaningfully,”  Francois Lauras , VP-senior credit officer at
Moody’s said in an e-mailed response to questions.  U.S. Market  Canaport imports LNG from ships and turns the fuel into gas
for moving by pipeline to southeast Canada and to the far larger
U.S. market. The import value of all LNG shipments into Canaport
totaled about C$49.5 million ($49.4 million) in 2012, 61 percent
less than in 2011, according to LNG import data from the
Canadian National Energy Board.  Shipments from its location in New Brunswick into New
England fell an annual 51 percent in the first 10 months of
2012, Bentek Energy LLC data reported by U.S. regulators show.  Canaport, 75 percent owned by Repsol, has a  capacity  to
send out 1.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and
averaged just 0.325 billion cubic feet a day into the New
Brunswick pipeline for the week ending Feb. 7, according to El
Paso, Texas-based LCI Energy Insight data.  The terminal, jointly owned with Canada’s Irving Oil Corp.,
was built primarily to supply the U.S. market.  In 2006, the Spanish driller signed a contract with Emera
Brunswick Pipeline Co. Ltd. to move gas from Canaport to the
U.S. border, and another with Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline
LLC, to take it 420 miles south to Dracut, Massachusetts,
according to Repsol’s 2011 annual report.  Profitable Business  The 25-year leases became effective in 2009 and were booked
as $1.8 billion in liabilities, according to the annual report.
The plant is part of a multicontinent LNG business that earned
Repsol 386 million euros in operating profit in 2011, or 8
percent of the total.  LNG import terminals in Canada and the U.S. were mostly
undermined by the boom of shale-gas production that could supply
America for almost 20 years, U.S. Energy Information
Administration data show.  GDF Suez SA , the biggest buyer of gas in Europe, bid for
some but not all of Repsol’s LNG assets, said a person familiar
with the situation without naming the assets left out. The
person asked not to be identified as talks were private.  Russia’s Gazprom OAO, the world’s biggest gas producer,
dropped out of bidding because it wasn’t interested in Canaport,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  “There’s no future whatsoever for import terminals in the
U.S. or Canada,” Stuart Joyner, head of oil and gas analysis at
Investec Securities Ltd. in London, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Todd White at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net  