-- Rogers CEO Plans to Step Down in January 2014
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-15T21:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/rogers-ceo-plans-to-step-down-in-january-2014.html
Rogers Communications Inc.  Chief
Executive Officer  Nadir Mohamed  plans to retire next January, a
surprise move that sent Canada’s largest wireless carrier in
search of a new leader for the second time in four years.  The board will appoint a search firm and begin looking
internationally for a replacement, the Toronto-based company
said yesterday in a statement. Neither  Ed Rogers  nor  Melinda Rogers , the children of founder  Ted Rogers , will put their names
forward for the top job, the company said. Rogers is controlled
by a family trust through a dual-class stock structure.  While Mohamed’s decision was unexpected, the fact the
Rogers children aren’t in the running signals that the move
wasn’t forced on him, said  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins
Securities in Montreal. A global CEO search also provides the
opportunity to look for someone with a fresh approach, he said.  “If you need new ideas, new ways of thinking, you might
look outside Canada,” Yaghi said. “An executive from an
international firm could bring some insight into what works in
other countries.”  Separately, Rogers reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, helping bolster the stock today. The shares
rose 4.1 percent to C$47.32 at the close in Toronto, the biggest
gain since July. Rogers shares have climbed 25 percent in the
past year, outpacing its biggest rivals.  Low-Cost Competition  Mohamed, 56, took over as CEO in March 2009, following the
death of Ted Rogers at the end of 2008. During his tenure,
Mohamed has sought to fend off a challenge from new low-cost
carriers like Mobilicity by introducing Rogers’s own no-frills
brand Chatr. He’s also made acquisitions to bolster the range of
programming it could offer customers, including buying a stake
in pro-sports business Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd.  “I feel very good about what we’ve achieved as a
company,” Mohamed said in an interview. “If you look at where
the company is at right now from a financial perspective, our
balance sheet has never been stronger.”  Rogers’s fourth-quarter profit rose to 88 cents, excluding
one-time charges. Analysts had predicted 72 cents on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 3.4
percent to C$3.26 billion ($3.24 billion), helped by consumer
spending on data-hungry devices such as  Apple Inc. ’s new iPhone
5. Analysts had projected C$3.19 billion on average.  Buyback, Dividend  The company’s board also authorized the buyback of as much
as C$500 million in stock and increased its annual dividend 10
percent to C$1.74 a share.  Rogers is plowing profits back into its mobile-phone
business, the fastest-growing part of the company, to bolster
its network and satisfy demand for Web surfing and video on
wireless devices. Rogers agreed last month to spend C$300
million for wireless capacity from  Shaw Communications Inc.  to
keep up with what Mohamed has called a data-use “explosion.”  Still, Rogers added less than half as many mobile-phone
users on lucrative long-term contracts as its rivals. BCE Inc.’s
Bell Mobility, the country’s No. 2 mobile provider, gained
143,834 contract subscribers, while  Telus Corp.  added 123,000.  While Rogers stock is up today, Desjardins’s Yaghi expects
the slow subscriber gains to weigh on the shares this year.  ‘Limited Upside’  “Rogers continues to underperform Telus and Bell in
wireless subscriber additions, which we believe will continue in
2013,” said Yaghi, who has a hold rating on the shares. “Given
the uncertainty presented by the upcoming CEO transition period
and the stock’s premium valuation versus Telus and BCE, we see
limited upside.”  Telus, Canada’s No. 3 carrier, reported quarterly profit
today of 86 cents a share, excluding tax gains. That was just
below the 87 cents analysts predicted. Sales climbed 6 percent
to C$2.85 billion in the period. Telus, based in Vancouver,
expects sales to climb as much as 6 percent this year, with
earnings per share rising as much as 14 percent.  Average revenue per customer at Telus climbed 3.2 percent
to C$60.95. At Rogers, the figure grew 2.8 percent to C$60.48.  Rogers’s net income climbed to C$529 million, or C$1.02 a
share, from C$327 million, or 63 cents, a year earlier.  Operating profit, excluding acquisition costs and other
expenses, will be C$4.87 billion to C$5.05 billion this year,
Rogers said. Network revenue at its main wireless business will
be C$6.79 billion to C$6.96 billion, the company said.  Timing’s Right  Mohamed said that now is the time to seek a new leader,
while the company is strong. Before becoming CEO, he was
president of  Rogers Wireless  from 2001 to 2005 and built up the
company’s smartphone business just as devices like the
BlackBerry began to gain mainstream appeal. From 2005 to 2009,
he was Rogers’s chief operating officer.  “It really felt like now was a good time to pass on the
helm to the next generation of leadership,” he said.  Mohamed wants to use the next 12 months to make the most of
recent investments and acquisitions he’s made, including the
37.5 percent stake in Maple Leaf Sports for which he paid C$533
million. The Toronto Blue Jays baseball team, which Rogers owns,
also has made a number of high-profile trades.  “I’ve got a year to continue what we’ve been doing and
build on the platforms we have,” Mohamed said. Referring to
 Paul Beeston , president of the Blue Jays, he said, “I’m fully
counting on Beeston delivering the World Series for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  