-- Romanian Leu Weakens for First Time in Three Days
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-15T15:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/romania-s-leu-weakens-first-time-in-three-days.html
Romania’s leu weakened for the first
time in three days, retreating after the second-biggest advance
this year among emerging-market peers.  The currency has beaten all peers bar the the Brazilian
real this year as Romania’s entry to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Barclays Plc’s emerging-market bond indexes from March boosts
foreign investors’ appetite for the nation’s debt. The Finance
Ministry plans to sell 500 million lei ($152 million) in one-
year bills on Feb. 18 and 800 million lei of five-year debt on
Feb. 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With the next leu bond auction due on Thursday, we may
see foreign demand for local debt subsiding somewhat over the
next couple of days, something which should favor a slight leu
depreciation,”  Mihai Tantaru , a Bucharest-based economist at
ING Bank Romania SA,wrote in a research note today.  The leu depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 4.3846 per
euro by 4:50 p.m. in Bucharest, paring its appreciation this
year to 1.4 percent.  The nation’s October 2015, January 2016 and July 2017 bonds
currently meet the criteria for index inclusion as they
demonstrate the highest degree of liquidity, according to
JPMorgan.  Romania sold $1.5 billion of 10-year dollar bonds at a
yield of 4.5 percent as demand exceeded $7 billion,  Diana Popescu , the head of Treasury at the Finance Ministry, said in a
phone interview today.  “We consider this issuance positive for leu-denominated
paper,” analysts including Ana-Maria Morarescu and  Nicolae Covrig  at Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA wrote in a research note
today. “The ministry has a comfortable buffer and could limit
the supply of debt paper, supporting a correction of recent
increases in yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  