-- Russia Says Lavrov, Kerry May Hold March Talks After Missed Call
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-15T14:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/russia-says-lavrov-kerry-may-hold-march-talks-after-missed-call.html
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  may meet Secretary of State  John Kerry  in March, Interfax
cited a top Russian diplomat as saying, after the U.S. said
Lavrov hadn’t returned his counterpart’s call for three days.  The two officials have busy international schedules and it
isn’t yet clear when they’ll find time to meet, Deputy Foreign
Minister  Sergei Ryabkov  said in an interview with the Moscow-
based news service published today.  Kerry, who became the top U.S. diplomat this month, first
tried to call his Russian opposite number on Feb. 12 and Lavrov
still hadn’t got back in contact three days later, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. The
Russian foreign minister has been on an African tour.  Russia’s ties with the U.S. have soured in recent years,
with the rift worsening after disagreements over Syria and
American efforts to promote democracy in Russia. Lavrov also
declined last January to take a call from Kerry’s predecessor,
 Hillary Clinton , while he was in Australia.  “The secretary would like to talk to him,” Nuland said.
“It’s up to him whether he wants to take that opportunity.”  Kerry said Jan. 24 that the U.S. and Russia have “some
ground to make up” after a Russian decision to bar Americans
from adopting orphans from Russia in retaliation for U.S. human
rights sanctions. “Hopefully we can get the relationship with
Russia back to a place” as it “slid backward for the last
couple of years,” he said.  Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Alexander Lukashevich 
denied yesterday that Lavrov had snubbed Kerry, explaining that
his “busy schedule” in Africa had made it impossible to hold
phone talks on Feb. 12. Since then, Kerry hadn’t been in touch
again, Lukashevich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  