-- Russia Threatens HSBC in Police Inquiry, Hermitage Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-15T09:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/russia-threatens-hsbc-in-police-inquiry-hermitage-says.html
Russian police are threatening to
seize documents unless  HSBC Holdings Plc  hands over information
required for a criminal investigation into Hermitage Capital
Management Ltd., the investment fund said.  Under a new criminal case alleging “fraudulent actions,”
Russia’s Interior Ministry is demanding that HSBC’s Moscow unit
provide financial and banking information about the fund’s
companies dating back to 1996, Hermitage said in an e-mailed
 statement  today. Otherwise, the documents can be taken by force,
it said, citing a request from the ministry to HSBC.  Andrei Pilipchuk, a ministry spokesman, declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg. Evgenia Efimova, a spokeswoman for
HSBC in Moscow, said she couldn’t comment immediately.  Russia is prosecuting on tax-evasion charges London-based
Hermitage head  William Browder  and a lawyer who worked for the
fund,  Sergei Magnitsky , who died in a Moscow prison in November
2009. The trial opened last month.  Magnitsky died at age 37 while in pretrial detention after
alleging the biggest known tax fraud in Russia, a theft of $230
million from the national treasury. The case sparked a
diplomatic row, with the U.S. imposing sanctions on Russian
officials accused of playing a role in Magnitsky’s death and
Russia’s government retaliating by barring American citizens
from adopting Russian orphans.  In Absentia  Browder is being tried in absentia on the same tax-evasion
charges as Magnitsky, and has denied any wrongdoing by either of
them. He has lobbied for U.S. and European legislation targeting
60 Russian officials who he says are responsible for Magnitsky’s
death with visa bans and asset freezes. Hermitage was once
Russia’s biggest foreign equity investor.  The Prosecutor General’s Office said Nov. 29 that Browder
and Magnitsky are accused of evading taxes of 522 million rubles
($17 million). Browder, a British citizen, is refusing to take
part in the proceedings and the U.K. authorities aren’t
cooperating in the case, the prosecutor’s office said.  HSBC said in October that it’s focusing on organizing
Russian debt sales and providing loan financing and export
credit a year after selling its consumer business in Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  