-- Russian Industrial Production Unexpectedly Contracted in January
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-02-15T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/russian-industrial-production-unexpectedly-contracted-in-january.html
Russia’s industrial output
unexpectedly contracted in January for the first time in more
than three years, bolstering the case for interest-rate cuts.  Output  at factories, mines and utilities shrank 0.8 percent
from a year earlier, the first decline since October 2009,
compared with a 1.4 percent advance in December, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed
statement. The result trailed all 19 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, which forecast a median increase of 1.4 percent.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter expanded
last year at the slowest pace since 2009 as Europe’s debt crisis
and a slowdown in China sapped demand for its commodities. Bank
Rossii, the only major central bank to raise interest rates last
year, refrained from increasing borrowing costs this week,
defying calls by President Vladimir Putin to ease monetary
policy to stoke expansion.  Putin has made economic growth a priority for his third
term as president. Russia can’t return to its “pre-crisis
growth model” and needs investment, he said Jan. 31. There’s
room for Russia to boost industrial growth and domestic demand
by easing monetary and fiscal policy, Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  said last month.  Russian manufacturing shrank 0.3 percent from a year
earlier in January, the weakest pace since at least 2011. Output
at mines declined 1.2 percent, also the weakest in at least a
year, while production at utilities rose 1.8 percent after a 4.7
percent increase in December.  Still, new orders for manufacturing grew in January at the
fastest pace since March 2011, helped by an increase in domestic
business, HSBC Holdings Plc said Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  