-- Samsung Chairman’s Brother Appeals Court Ruling on Group Stake
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-02-15T07:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/samsung-chairman-s-brother-appeals-court-ruling-on-group-stake.html
Samsung Electronics Co.  Chairman  Lee Kun Hee ’s brother appealed part of a Seoul court’s ruling
against him and other relatives seeking a 4.1 trillion-won ($3.8
billion) stake in the family group.  The chairman’s older brother,  Lee Maeng Hee , is seeking
about 9.6 billion won, Yoo Seung Nam, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said by phone today. Samsung Group declined to
comment,  Kevin Cho , a spokesman for the South Korean company,
said by phone. Oh Jong Han, a lawyer for Lee Kun Hee, said the
chairman’s legal team will respond after studying the appeal,
which sends the case to a higher court.  The Seoul Central District Court ruled Feb. 1 that Lee
Maeng Hee and four other family members failed to prove their
claims to stakes in Samsung Electronics and Samsung Life
Insurance Co. The court also ruled that the period for relatives
to make inheritance claims had expired.  Samsung Electronics surged 44 percent in Seoul trading last
year while barreling ahead of competitors including  Apple Inc. 
and Sony Corp. as the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones and
TVs, boosting the value of the disputed stakes in Samsung Group.
A victory for the plaintiffs could lead to a dispute over
control of Samsung Electronics, Chae Yi Bai, a researcher at the
 Center for Good Corporate Governance  in Seoul, said before the
Feb. 1 ruling.  It also would have meant that Lee Kun Hee, South Korea’s
richest man, no longer would be the largest investor in Samsung
Life.  Not a Dime  Lee Maeng Hee and sister  Lee Sook Hee , who don’t have any
role in Samsung Group, sued in February 2012, claiming they were
entitled to additional stakes.  Lee Kun Hee holds 41.5 million shares, or about 21 percent,
of Samsung Life, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
elder brother wanted at least 9.65 million shares and the sister
wanted 2.6 million shares.  Lee Kun Hee said before the Feb. 1 ruling he wouldn’t give
“a dime” to his family because inheritance matters had been
settled by his father, and he would appeal a loss, according to
media reports.  The public holdings of Lee Kun Hee are valued at $11.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The family
conglomerate, Samsung Group, controls more than 80 companies
making armored vehicles and artillery guns for South Korea’s
military, oil tankers, amusement parks and apartment complexes.  Dried Fish  Suwon-based Samsung Electronics boosted fourth-quarter
profit 76 percent after shipping one of every three smartphones
globally and  selling  one of every four flat-panel TVs. The
company accounted for 44 percent of Samsung Group’s total
revenue in 2011.  The group generates about 20 percent of South Korea’s gross
domestic product.  Lee Byung Chul  founded what is today South Korea’s biggest
business group in 1938 and died in 1987 without leaving a will.
Lee Kun Hee transformed the dried-fish and produce company into
the maker of Galaxy smartphones and TVs using organic light-
emitting diode technology.  The chairman’s lawyer said the family patriarch repeatedly
expressed his desire for Lee Kun Hee to take over the group.  The dispute dragged Lee Kun Hee, a lung cancer survivor,
back into a courtroom following a series of run-ins with the
law. He was convicted of paying bribes to former Presidents  Chun Doo Hwan  and Roh Tae Woo in 1996 before receiving a pardon from
then-President  Kim Young Sam  a year later.  Lee quit as chairman of the group and electronics company
in 2008 after being charged with tax evasion. He received
another presidential pardon in 2009 and reassumed his post
running Samsung Electronics in 2010.  In December, he promoted his son,  Lee Jae Yong , to vice
chairman of Samsung Electronics, putting him a step closer to
succession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  