-- Sao Paulo Prison Contracts Fail to Lure Foreign Bidders
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-02-15T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/sao-paulo-prison-contracts-fail-to-lure-foreign-bidders.html
Sao Paulo’s first bid to get private
investment for prisons is failing to lure Corrections Corp. of
America and  Geo Group  Inc., two of the world’s top operators,
because the rates of return trail global standards.  The 750 million reais ($383 million) in contracts to run
three facilities near Sao Paulo city will return about 8.5
percent, local operator Reviver Administracao Prisional Privada
Ltda. estimates. That compares with about 14 percent that
operators outside of Brazil usually get, said  Kevin Campbell ,
managing director of equity research at Avondale Partners LLC.  Sao Paulo state is joining President  Dilma Rousseff  in
seeking lower rates of return after her administration cut the
benchmark lending rate by 5.25 percentage points to a record
7.25 percent and increased below-market state loans to boost
investment in infrastructure. The federal government had to
sweeten the terms on contracts for toll roads after the strategy
failed to attract bidders for an auction originally scheduled
for Jan. 30.  “Regardless of the project, you always have to be careful
-- you can’t force low returns all the time,”  Sergio Monaro,
director of project finance at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “If the project is good,
that will automatically lower the price. The question is to
allow flexibility for the market to decide using a reasonable
price ceiling.”  Road Show  State officials went on a road show in London last month to
pitch the plan to investors after receiving bids from groups led
by local prison operators Reviver, CCI Concessoes Ltda. and
Advance Construcoes & Participacoes Ltda.  Sao Paulo state, home of the 1992 Carandiru prison massacre
in which police killed more than 100 inmates who were rioting
amid overcrowding, is struggling to house a prison population
that has risen fourfold in the past 15 years. It now numbers
190,000 people, almost twice the capacity of current facilities.  The state doesn’t have the capacity to handle new
infrastructure projects and is seeking to privatize hospitals,
transit lines and pharmaceutical production with contracts
representing investments of about 40 billion reais, said Julio
Semeghini, Sao Paulo state planning and regional development
secretary.  Money and No Capacity  “We have the money but not the capacity to implement
projects,” he said in an interview on Feb. 6.  It’s still unclear whether the London road show has
attracted new investors, Flavia Goiriz, a spokeswoman for the
planning office, said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  The state is seeking investments of 750 million reais in
the three new prison complexes to house a total of 10,500 male
inmates, all within 100 kilometers (62 miles) of the city of Sao
Paulo. The 30-year contracts to build, operate and maintain the
prisons will be remunerated at a rate of 383 million reais a
year, Semeghini said.  That represents a return of about 8.5 percent, assuming
subsidized financing from state bank BNDES is used to fund
projects, said Odair de Jesus Conceicao, president of Reviver,
which operates eight of Brazil’s 26 private prisons and is
bidding for the Sao Paulo contracts.  “We consider that as reasonable for the project,” he said
in a telephone interview from Serrinha, Bahia state. “We just
need for the state to offer good enough guarantees.”  ‘Big Opportunity’  Banco do Brasil SA and state-run Caixa Economica Federal,
among the first to lower rates and fees last year, are expected
to provide 5.7 billion reais for infrastructure projects in Sao
Paulo this year, Semeghini said.  Even with low rates of return, Sao Paulo may be able to
lure foreign investors, said Campbell, the managing director at
Avondale, an investment banking and wealth adviser in Nashville,
Tennessee.  “At that 8 percent, it’s still a little low, but maybe
given the size of the opportunity you have to consider it
anyway,” he said in a telephone interview. “To the extent that
they have this big opportunity in Brazil, they would be
interested.”  Steve Owen, a spokesman for Nashville-based Corrections
Corp., said in an e-mail the “company is not currently engaged
in this opportunity.”  Pablo Paez , a spokesman for Boca Raton,
Florida-based Geo Group, also said in an e-mail the company
isn’t “considering” making a bid.  London’s G4S Plc, which registered to participate in the
bidding for the Sao Paulo contracts and already operates in
Brazil, didn’t respond to e-mail and phone-call requests for
comment.  ‘Profitability Potential’  Geo shares have more than doubled in the past 12 months,
and Corrections Corp. gained 60 percent, beating the 13 percent
gain for the  Russell 3000 Index . Geo traded at about 26 times
its earnings and Corrections Corp. traded at 24, compared with
an average multiple of 16 for companies in the index. G4S gained
0.2 percent to 284.8 pence today in London.  The terms on Sao Paulo’s contracts are unlikely to attract
foreign companies, said  Tobey Sommer , director of equity
research at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. The accords don’t
include services such as security, which is a state
responsibility under Brazil’s constitution.  “I don’t think that the  profitability  potential is the
same if security is not involved because the security is the
valuable part,” Sommer said in a telephone interview from
Atlanta. “The opportunities in Brazil aren’t likely to attract
a whole lot of interest in international players, and it has to
do with the model being used.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  