-- Singer Upends Bonds as Default Endgame Nears in Argentina
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-02-15T18:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/singer-upends-bonds-as-default-endgame-nears-argentina-credit.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager  Paul Singer  is roiling Argentina’s bondholders as he steps up
pressure on the nation to repay holdout creditors from its $95
billion default in 2001.  Yields on Argentina’s dollar-denominated bonds due on 2017
have jumped 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 15.43
percent since Feb. 11, when a unit of Singer’s Elliott
Management Corp. won approval from U.S. District Court Judge
 Thomas Griesa  to demand information on the nation’s assets held
at state-owned Banco de la Nacion Argentina. Average yields for
 Latin American  bonds rose 10 basis points to 5.48 percent in the
same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The ruling comes two weeks before a U.S. appeals court
convenes to decide whether to uphold Griesa’s Nov. 21 decision
requiring President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to repay in
full Elliott’s NML Capital Ltd. and other holders of defaulted
bonds that rejected earlier debt swaps at about 30 cents on the
dollar. Singer seized an Argentine navy vessel in Ghana in
October and tried to freeze central bank funds held in New York
in 2010 as part of his decade-long attempt to confiscate assets
in the face of Argentina’s refusal to pay back the holdouts.  Griesa’s decision, “made the market pay close attention to
the case after pretty much ignoring it for the past few years,”
said  Jorge Piedrahita , the chief executive officer of Torino
Capital LLC, a brokerage that specializes in emerging-market
debt, in a telephone interview from New York. “So this recent
ruling with Banco de la Nacion becomes more relevant. It’s one
more step in a trend where NML is getting more aggressive in its
demands while Argentina becomes weaker.”  Unresolved Litigation  Peter Truell , a spokesman for New York-based Elliott,
declined to comment on the Banco de la Nacion ruling. Norma
Madeo, a spokeswoman at the Economy Ministry, and press
officials at the Buenos Aires-based bank and the presidential
palace didn’t respond to e-mail messages from Bloomberg seeking
comment on the ruling.  Piedrahita recommended investors sell Argentine bonds in
October, after being bullish on the debt in June, as a U.S.
appeals court upholding Griesa’s Feb. 23 ruling that Argentina
must pay so-called holdouts increased the probability of
default. His firm also hired attorneys to receive legal counsel,
he said.  Argentina’s unresolved litigation is pushing up government
bond  yields  to the highest in major emerging markets, according
to Piedrahita.  Yields on Argentine government bonds average 13.2 percent,
versus 9.2 percent for Venezuela and 3.8 percent in Brazil,
according to JPMorgan.  Borrowing Costs  Argentine debt securities due 2017, which were issued in
the 2010 restructuring and governed by New York law, surged to a
record 19.7 percent after Griesa’s Nov. 21 ruling that the
government had to pay so-called holdout creditors when it made
its next debt payment in December. An appeals court, which
delayed the ruling a week later, will reconvene on Feb. 27.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 14 basis
points to 1,079 basis points at 1:20 p.m. in New York, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years with credit-default swaps rose 15 basis points to
2,324 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to comply with debt agreements.  ‘Alter Ego’  Griesa, 82, said Elliott’s NML can file a subpoena
requiring BNA, as the bank is known, to produce documents
“relating to any assets or accounts maintained at BNA by
Argentina or for Argentina’s benefit, any debts owed by BNA to
Argentina and transfers into or out of Argentina’s accounts.”  NML is seeking more information on the government’s assets
outside Argentina as part of its attempt to obtain repayment on
its debt, according to  Arturo Porzecanski , a professor of
international economic policy at American University in
Washington. In 2011 court testimony, he supported the statement
that BNA is an “alter ego” of the Argentine government.  “I’m not going to be naive and say that the discovery is
just for the sake of learning how the payment process works,”
he said by telephone from Washington. “The ultimate purpose is
to obtain money that belongs to the government of Argentina.
It’s well-known that the government has used BNA in the past to
pay bills, move money and to operate.”  Financial Agent  BNA has offices in New York, Miami, Panama, Chile, Bolivia,
Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela and Spain, according to its
 website .  Central bank notes, and government loans and bonds
accounted for 44.7 percent of BNA’s assets, or 89.6 billion
pesos ($17.9 billion) as of September, according to a Nov. 30
Fitch Ratings report. Deposits from the government and state
agencies corresponded to 55.1 percent of the bank’s liabilities,
or 32 billion pesos, according to Fitch.  One of the bank’s “main functions is to act as a financial
agent for the government and as such, receives government
deposits and makes payments for and on behalf of the nation,”
wrote Fitch analysts Maria Fernanda Lopez and Dario Logiodice in
a September report.  The risk that bondholders face from Singer’s lawsuit has
already been reflected in the price of the notes, according to
 Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed-income strategy
at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York.  “You start to be immune to these headlines because they
are constant,” she said by telephone from New York. “It’s a
fiscal skeleton that eventually could amount to something
important but doesn’t seem to be an imminent risk.”  Toxic Assets  NML and other hedge funds including EM Ltd., which is run
by billionaire  Kenneth Dart , are seeking payment on bonds that
weren’t swapped in two restructurings in 2005 and 2010.
Investors owning about 94 percent of defaulted bonds accepted
the offers of 30 cents on the dollar.  The funds have tried to seize assets from Argentina’s
national pensions fund and state-owned telecommunications and
energy companies, according to Eugenio Bruno, a lawyer at Buenos
Aires-based law firm Estudio Garrido. They also tried to ground
the Tango 01 plane during a maintenance trip to the U.S.  Fernandez, who spent $880,000 to rent a jet for a trip to
Cuba and Asia last month to avoid a repeat of the Ghanaian navy
ship incident, has vowed never to pay investors she calls
“vultures.”  “By disregarding courts and isolating itself from the
international community, Argentina has pushed away foreign
investment in the past 10 years,” Torino’s Piedrahita said.
“Argentine assets are viewed as toxic. We’re staying away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  