-- SNS Reaal Investors Appeal Expropriation to Dutch Court
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-02-15T17:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/sns-reaal-investors-appeal-expropriation-to-dutch-court.html
The top Dutch administrative court
heard appeals from investors today against the government’s
decree to expropriate  SNS Reaal NV .  Lawyers argued the state’s decision was disproportionate
and relied too heavily on one assessment of the company’s real
estate loans. Representatives of international bond investors
said it infringed on the free movement of capital.  “The minister said bond holders should contribute to the
costs of nationalization,” William Schonewille, a lawyer
representing subordinated bondholders including Aviva Plc’s
French asset manager, said at the hearing. “That is, however,
not a ground for expropriation.”  Dutch Finance Minister  Jeroen Dijsselbloem  took control of
SNS Reaal on Feb. 1 after real estate losses brought the bank to
the brink of collapse. The nationalization included shares and
subordinated bonds in SNS Reaal NV and SNS Bank NV. The
expropriation of subordinated creditors reduced the rescue costs
for the state by about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
Dijsselbloem said.  The Hague-based Dutch Council of State said it received
about  700 appeals  from investors, including Italian insurer
Unipol Assicurazioni SpA and Dutch trade union FNV Bondgenoten,
in the 10 days following the nationalization. The court’s ruling
is scheduled for Feb. 25.  Capital ‘Redistribution’  Dijsselbloem, sworn in on Nov. 5, became the first finance
minister to use powers granted under legislation introduced last
year allowing the  Dutch central bank  to transfer assets and
liabilities in a troubled bank. The finance minister can decide
to expropriate in case of a grave and immediate threat to the
stability of the financial system.  “The effect of the way the nationalization was shaped
results in unfair gains for senior bondholders and unfair losses
for subordinated debt,” Schonewille said. “The law’s purpose
is not to come to a redistribution of capital.”  SNS Bank NV’s 6.625 percent senior notes due 2016 have
rallied since Jan. 31.  “I scrutinized all alternative solutions involving market
parties,” Dijsselbloem, 46, said on Feb. 1. “I found myself
compelled to conclude no acceptable total solution was offered.
I therefore had to use the instrument of last resort, which is
nationalization.”  ‘Taking Risks’  Dijsselbloem had to choose between letting SNS fail and
nationalizing it, said Eric Daalder, a lawyer at Pels Rijcken &
Droogleever Fortuijn in The Hague, representing the finance
minister. The government applied a systematic “ladder of
bankruptcy” in assessing which investors were expropriated.  “The state doesn’t intervene in banks to protect their
investors,” Daalder said. “If you invest, you know you are
taking risks.”  The intervention also met the legal requirement of a grave
and acute danger. Between Jan. 16 and Feb. 1, 2.5 billion euros
of savings were withdrawn from the bank. SNS bank had a cash
position of about 4.5 billion euros at the end of last month,
which would have been depleted by mid-February if outflows
continued at the same pace, and considering other obligations,
Daalder said.  The company’s real estate investments had a book value of
8.55 billion euros at the end of June, the finance ministry
said. That compares with SNS Bank’s balance sheet of 82.3
billion euros.  Property Study  A study by Cushman & Wakefield Inc. commissioned by the
Dutch government found SNS Property Finance would face
additional losses of as much as 3.2 billion euros in a worst-
case scenario, the Finance Ministry said in its decree.  In a base case, estimated losses were 2.4 billion euros,
1.4 billion euros more than foreseen by Ernst & Young in a
separate study, the central bank said in a letter on Jan. 24.  “Why did the minister rely solely on the Cushman &
Wakefield report -- why not an average?” Schonewille said.
“Subordinated bondholders will have to hand in about 1 billion
euros, a loss that may not even exist.”  The bailout of SNS Reaal will cost taxpayers 3.7 billion
euros in write-offs and capital injections, and the government
is also providing 6.1 billion euros in loans and guarantees.  Independent Expert  An independent expert should look into the valuations of
the real estate, lawyers on behalf of Dutch investor association
VEB said. The VEB appealed on behalf of more than 5,300
shareholders and bond investors. Schonewille repeated that
request.  Cushman & Wakefield used a discount factor to value the
property finance loans of 7 percent, lawyers said, citing a
letter from SNS Reaal to the finance ministry dated Jan. 13. SNS
Reaal said a factor of 4 percent to 5 percent would be more
appropriate.  A percentage point change in the discount rate may result
in a change of the expected loss figures of about 600 million
euros, SNS said in the letter, which was also published on the
website of Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad today.  “The notion that it was all about the Cushman & Wakefield
report is incorrect,” said Daalder. “It was merely one of the
elements” that brought the minister to his decision.  Ciska Bequet, an Amsterdam-based spokeswoman for Cushman &
Wakefield, declined to comment.  Assigning Blame  “Investors question whether the decision violates the
European Convention on Human Rights,” Ben Baldwin, a lawyer at
CMS Derks Star Busmann in Amsterdam, said in an interview before
today’s hearing. “Moreover, my clients question whether the
minister’s decision was taken with due care and whether it was
proportional.” Baldwin represents investors in subordinated
debt from Italy and Switzerland.  Kadier Yuksel, 40, an airplane maintenance worker who
attended the hearing as an expropriated shareholder, bought
stock two days before the state took over amid speculation a
solution with private investors could be found.  “We should look into who caused this,” Yuksel said. “We
can look at the company’s management, previous ministers who
misjudged the situation, the financial crisis. Shareholders will
not be on that list.”  The case is: Council of State, case no. 201301173/1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  