-- SodaStream Inside Samsung Fridges Spurs Rally: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-15T00:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/sodastream-inside-samsung-fridges-spurs-rally-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd.  rose
to the highest level in three weeks in New York on prospects a
partnership with Samsung Electronics Co. will help the Israeli
company beat analysts’ revenue estimates this year.  Shares of the maker of home soda machines climbed 3.3
percent to $51.49 yesterday, the highest level since Jan. 25.
The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index  of the largest U.S.-traded
Israeli companies lost 0.1 percent to 88.26 in a second day of
declines, as Mellanox Technologies Ltd. slipped.  EZchip
Semiconductor Ltd.  pared the worst weekly drop in six months
after Oppenheimer & Co. recommended buying the shares.  SodaStream said yesterday that sparkling water dispensers
using its system will be available in refrigerators built by
 Samsung , the Korean company that controls more than 13 percent
of the  global market . The four-door appliance will be sold in
the U.S. in April at $3,899, the companies said in a statement.
Airport City, Israel-based SodaStream will next week report
record sales of $425 million for 2012, according to the mean
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The more convenient it is for a customer to make their
own sparkling water, the more they’re going to use SodaStream,”
 Jim Chartier , an analyst at Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co. who
rates the stock buy, said by phone yesterday from New York. “It
takes the carbonation system from that thing sitting on your
countertop taking up space to walking up to your fridge and
pushing a button.” The agreement with Samsung will have a
“significant impact” on long-term sales, he said.  ‘Big Partner’  SodaStream’s product won’t require much additional
investment to meet demand as its standard gas canisters can be
used in Samsung’s refrigerators, according to  David Kaplan , an
analyst at Barclays Plc.  “Having a big kitchen appliance partner is a great
start,” Kaplan, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on the
stock, said by phone yesterday from Tel Aviv. “The sodamaker
they did on their own, and here they’re going to be integrated
with a big partner, and that’s important.”  SodaStream’s revenue has surpassed analyst estimates for
the past six quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company may reach sales growth of 35 percent for the year,
Kaplan said, above the 18 percent increase projected by nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  SodaStream, which has gained 15 percent this year, aired
its first Super Bowl commercial on Feb. 3. The pro football
championship game was seen by an average of 108.4 million
viewers this year, according to data from Nielsen Holdings NV.  Super Bowl  The company’s 2013 outlook should reflect a “continuation
from the momentum” from last year,  Scott Van Winkle , an analyst
with Canaccord Genuity Inc. who has the equivalent of a neutral
rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients on Feb. 13.  Van Winkle raised his price target on the shares to $52
from $45, saying the company can mirror its European growth in
the U.S. and Asia. SodaStream received more than  half of its
revenue  from Western Europe in 2011.  Israel’s  TA-25  index slipped 0.4 percent to 1,220.71
yesterday, paring a weekly gain of 0.8 percent.  EZchip climbed 5.6 percent to $26.98 after sinking 21
percent on Feb. 13. The shares in Tel Aviv plunged 18 percent to
97.2 shekels, or the equivalent of $26.38.  ‘Investment Potential’  “EZchip still offers attractive investment potential,”
 Andrew Uerkwitz , an analyst at Oppenheimer in New York, wrote in
a Feb. 13 note. “The sell-off is overdone and exaggerates the
impact of management’s reduced long-term revenue target.”  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company tumbled on
concern more customers may develop the Israeli chipmaker’s
technology in-house, reducing revenue growth.  Mellanox  fell 1.6 percent to $53.28. Shares of the
technology company traded in Tel Aviv jumped 4 percent to 198
shekels, or $53.73.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, rose 0.5 percent to $38.92 after shares
in Israel declined 0.9 percent to 141.9 shekels, or the
equivalent of $38.53. The company’s generic version of Shire
Plc’s Adderall XR drug was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration on Feb. 12, according to the agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  