-- Spreadtrum Slides Amid Housing Concerns: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-02-15T23:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/spreadtrum-slides-amid-housing-concerns-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
posted their first back-to-back weekly declines since November
on speculation policy makers are shifting their focus from
supporting the economy to curbing asset prices.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. fell 0.4 percent to 96.35 this
week, after losing 4.2 percent in the five days to Feb. 8.
Chipmaker  Spreadtrum Communications Inc.  sank the most in two
months.  LDK Solar Co.  led gains among solar stocks on optimism
alternative energy demand is growing. Mainland Chinese markets
resume trading Feb. 18 after the week-long New Year holiday.  China’s new leaders, to be installed at the National
People’s Congress starting March 5, are set to announce fresh
measures to damp growth in the property market before the
meeting, the Shanghai Securities News reported Feb. 6. While the
government has refrained from easing monetary policy to push the
economy out of its  slowdown , data this month showed new home
prices rose the most in two years in January.  “The government doesn’t want an overheating housing market
and there’s a slight worry that they will take action sooner
rather than later,”  Elena Ogram , who manages $50 million in
emerging-market assets, including Chinese stocks, at Bank am
Bellevue AG in Zurich, said by phone yesterday. “Housing prices
are one of the sensitive indicators.”  American depositary receipts of  Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd.  fell 0.5 percent this week to $20.78, after rallying to a
six-year high Feb. 1. The ADRs traded 1.2 percent below the
Macau casino company’s Hong Kong shares, the biggest discount
since Feb. 6. The U.S.-listed stock traded at a 5.1 percent
premium to Hong Kong Feb. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ambow Rebounds  ADRs of Spreadtrum, based in Shanghai, slumped 4.2 percent
in the week to $15.49, the lowest level since Feb. 4.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. , a Beijing-based education
provider, rallied 21 percent to $1.64 in New York, the biggest
gainer on the China-US gauge this week. Ambow has tumbled 56
percent since July 5, when the company said it would conduct an
internal investigation into allegations by a former employee of
financial impropriety and wrongful conduct in connection with
the purchase of a training school in 2008.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.1 percent this week,
climbing for a seventh week in the longest stretch of gains
since January 2011. The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the
biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.2
percent this week to $40.32, the highest level since Feb. 6.  The decline in Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. is a
“healthy correction” after the equities rallied about 8
percent over December and January, Bank am Bellevue’s Ogram
said. “I don’t expect a huge slump overall.”  Probable Rally  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Hong Kong-traded
stocks added 1.7 percent to 11,845.20 over the two days that the
market was open after the holiday. The  iShares FTSE A50 China
Index ETF , which tracks the mainland stocks, gained 0.7 percent
in Hong Kong.  Mainland stocks will probably rally Feb. 18 to catch up
with the gains in Hong Kong,  Steven Leung , an institutional
sales director at UOB Kay Hian Ltd. based in the city, said by
phone yesterday.  New home prices in China rose 1 percent in January, the
biggest increase since January 2011, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
country’s biggest real estate website owner, said Feb. 1.  Some of China’s largest cities may curb sales approvals for
housing projects in in the first half to tame price-growth
“momentum,” the China Securities Journal reported Feb. 7,
without citing anyone. First-tier cities, including Beijing,
will institute new restrictions on the market, according to a
Feb. 6 Shanghai Securities News report, which cited an
unidentified person close to the city’s housing commission.  Suntech Jumps  Sales at shops and restaurants during the New Year holiday
increased 15 percent from a year earlier, from a 16 percent
growth in 2012, China’s Commerce Ministry said on its website
today. The People’s Bank of China hasn’t cut key rates since
July and last reduced banks’ reserve requirements in May.  LDK Solar’s ADRs surged 21 percent to $1.88 in the U.S.
this week, the steepest advance in a month.  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. , the biggest solar-panel maker globally, climbed
6.2 percent to $1.54 in the week.  Wacker Chemie AG, a Munich-based polysilicon producer, said
Feb. 11 that it’s boosting output as orders from solar makers
exceed production. Polysilicon prices rose above $16 per
kilogram for the first time in three months, according to a
Bloomberg Industries report Feb. 7.  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. who rates Suntech equivalent to “sell,” said the gains in
Chinese solar companies may be short-lived because there’s still
a glut of supply in the market.  “It’s a junk rally,” Molchanov said by phone from Houston
yesterday.  China, the world’s biggest supplier of solar modules, has
provided subsidies and assistance to manufacturers as European
nations cut back on aid for alternative energy. LDK has slumped
66 percent in the past year, while Suntech is down 55 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  