-- Statoil Gets Consent for $7 Billion Mariner Development Plan
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-02-15T11:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/statoil-gets-consent-for-7-billion-mariner-development-plan.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, got approval from the U.K. government for its
plan for the Mariner project, the largest offshore development
in the U.K.’s North Sea in more than a decade.  Statoil, based in Stavanger, will spend more than $7
billion developing the Mariner heavy oil field with its
partners, which include Japan’s JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration
Corp., it said in a  statement  today. The field will start
production in 2017 and plateau output is seen at about 55,000
barrels a day, Statoil said.  While Mariner was discovered about 30 years ago, it’s only
recently that the technology has become available to exploit it,
U.K. Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change  Edward Davey  told reporters in Oslo. “We’ve had to wait for Statoil to
innovate.”  Mariner will be developed with a production, drilling and
quarters platform on a steel jacket, and a floating storage unit
with a capacity of 850,000 barrels, Statoil said. The company
will set up an operations centre in Aberdeen with the creation
of more than 700 full-time jobs, it said.  The contract for engineering, procurement and construction
of Mariner’s jacket, used to fix the platform to the seabed, was
awarded to Dragados Offshore SA. Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. won the contract for the topside, the upper part
of the platform. The two agreements are valued at a total of 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion).  Mariner is located about 150 kilometers (93 miles) east of
the Shetland Isles in the North Sea. Statoil has a 65.1 percent
stake in the field and 81.6 percent of Bressay, also in the
North Sea. The Norwegian company expects to make a final
investment decision on Bressay at the end of 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  