-- Swiss Stocks Advance; SMI Rallies to 4 1/2-Year High
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-15T16:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/stocks-in-switzerland-climb-novartis-transocean-advance.html
Stocks in Switzerland  advanced, with
the Swiss Market Index rising to the highest since June 2008,
amid optimism about a meeting of finance ministers from the
Group of 20 nations and a rally in  Novartis AG .  Novartis, which makes up about 19 percent of the benchmark
index, led gains. Transocean declined as Deutsche Bank AG
recommended selling the shares.  The SMI gained 0.3 percent to 7,500.57 at the close of
trading in Zurich. The gauge has  soared 9.9 percent  this year as
the Swiss franc depreciated against the euro. The broader Swiss
Performance Index added 0.2 percent today.  “It’s astonishing how positive sentiment is,”  Peter Braendle , who helps manage $60 billion at Swisscanto Asset
Management in Zurich, said by telephone. “Small pullbacks are
quick to rebound, and the earnings season wasn’t bad at all.
Some investors are waiting for a bigger dip as a buy
opportunity, but they are still waiting.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 50 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Russia wants to head off a global currency war by pushing
policy makers to make stronger commitments against exchange-rate
manipulation as G-20 officials search for common ground in
Moscow.  The G-20 should have more “specific” language opposing
exchange-rate interference in the communique that will be issued
after the two-day talks among finance chiefs end tomorrow,
Russian Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov  said yesterday. Russia
holds the G-20’s rotating presidency this year.  U.S. Manufacturing  Manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly expanded
in February, suggesting the area’s factories are emerging from a
slump that began in August.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  climbed to 10, the highest since May 2012 and exceeding
the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, from minus
7.8 in January. The median projection called for minus 2.
Readings of less than zero signal contraction in New York,
northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Novartis added 1.1 percent to 63.90 Swiss francs,
 contributing the most  to the SMI’s gain. A gauge of European
health-care companies was among the best performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Sonova Holding AG 
increased 1.1 percent to 114.60 francs, while Actelion Ltd.
jumped 3 percent to 48 francs.  Transocean lost 3.2 percent to 51.65 francs, after an
earlier gain of as much as 1.4 percent. The company won approval
to plead guilty to violating the U.S. Clean Water Act for its
role in the April 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner of the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig that burned and sank in the gulf,
agreed last month to pay a $400 million criminal fine and $1
billion in civil penalties to the U.S. Transocean pleaded guilty
to one misdemeanor count.  Separately, Deutsche Bank cut the stock to sell from hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  