-- Sulzer Names Wennemer Chairman Easing Vekselberg Domination Fear
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-15T09:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/sulzer-proposes-wennemer-as-chairman-sees-rising-orders-sales.html
Sulzer AG  proposed former
 Continental AG  chief executive officer  Manfred Wennemer  as
chairman, easing concerns over the dominance of shareholder
Viktor Vekselberg.  Vekselberg , who is Russia’s second richest man, owns a
31.2 percent stake in Sulzer and 48.3 percent of OC Oerlikon AG,
another Swiss engineering firm, through his Renova group of
companies. Vekselberg’s opponents have accused him of trying to
merge the two firms.  “There was a concern regarding a Renova-dependent person
becoming chairman,” said Fabian Haecki, an analyst with Bank
Vontobel AG in Zurich said by email. “Hence, this move is
positive in my view. He is very experienced indeed and
independent.”  Sulzer’s board of directors unanimously voted for Wennemer,
who is independent and not a Vekselberg representative, company
spokesman Thomas Gerlach said.  Wennemer, who will replace
 Juergen Dormann , worked for auto-parts maker Continental from
1994 to 2008 including a seven year stint as CEO, during which
time the company’s market value rose to 12 billion euros from
1.5 billion euros as he expanded the product range and made
acquisitions.  From 2011 to 2012 he was chairman of the supervisory board
of  Hochtief AG . Dormann, 73, chairman since 2009, is stepping
down because of internal age-limitation rules.  Shares Soar  Sulzer CEO Klaus Stahlmann, who joined from MAN SE a year
ago, presided over a 44 percent share gain last year as orders
for pumps to supply the oil and gas industry boomed from the
U.S. to Russia. That compared to a 15 percent rise in the Swiss
Market Index.  Sulzer today reported full-year earnings before interest
and taxes of 410 million Swiss francs ($444.5 million), meeting
the average of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 12 percent to a record 4.02 billion francs, beating the
average estimate of 3.95 billion francs.  Sulzer confirmed its mid-term targets. Emerging markets and
North America are likely to remain the growth drivers for the
company, it said in a  statement . The Winterthur, Switzerland-
based firm proposed a dividend of 3.20 francs a share, beating a
Bloomberg forecast of 3 francs. Sulzer forecast “moderate”
growth for orders and sales this year.  “Further growth is expected for parts of the oil and gas
and for the water markets in 2013,” the company said.
“Activities in the power and the transportation industries are
forecast to continue at similar levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  