-- Swedish Krona Declines After Exporters Complain of Earnings Drop
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-15T14:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/swedish-krona-declines-after-exporters-complain-of-earnings-drop.html
Sweden’s krona fell from the
strongest level in four months against the euro as exporters
voiced concern that the currency’s recent appreciation was
eating into earnings.  Sverker Martin-Loef , chairman of Swedish companies
including SSAB and Industrivaerden, said the Riksbank’s monetary
policy was making the krona stronger than it should be.
 Fagerhult AB , a Swedish maker of lighting systems, said in an
earnings statement released today that the currency’s
appreciation had lowered profit.  The krona has risen 6.8 percent in the past year, the most
among 10 major peers tracked by Bloomberg, as investors
attracted by economic growth forecast to rise 1.2 percent this
year sought a haven from the euro-area crisis. It climbed to the
most since Oct. 1 versus the euro yesterday after Swedish
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said businesses in the largest
Nordic economy need to accept the krona’s advance, predicting it
will stay strong for a “couple of years.”  “The smaller exporters who sell into the euro zone do face
a problem here,” said  Richard Falkenhall , a currency strategist
at SEB AB in Stockholm. “Big exporters are fairly relaxed when
it comes to the krona because they have become more
globalized.”  The krona depreciated 0.3 percent to 8.4595 per euro at
2:23 p.m. London time and weakened 0.4 percent to 6.3349 per
dollar. It declined versus most of its 16 major peers.  The Riksbank kept its key rate at 1 percent on Feb. 13,
when chairman  Stefan Ingves  said the krona’s appreciation has
brought it to an appropriate level. The central bank maintained
its growth forecasts this week, predicting the Swedish economy
will expand 1.2 percent this year, consumer prices will remain
below the 2 percent target until 2015 and unemployment will ease
in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  