-- About 1% of U.K. Beef Products Have Horse Meat, Tests Show
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-15T16:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-k-food-industry-chiefs-determined-to-restore-consumer-trust.html
About 1 percent of beef products
tested in the U.K. contained horse meat, the U.K. Food Standards
Agency said today as retailers and food makers joined forces in
an attempt to regain consumer trust in meat products.  Of 2,501 test samples, 2,472 returned negative results, the
food safety watchdog said today at a press conference in London.
Twenty-nine products had more than 1 percent horse meat, the FSA
said, including a number of multiple positive results on a
single product. None of the samples contained phenylbutazone, a
potentially harmful veterinary drug known as bute.  “The results show that the overwhelming majority of beef
products in this country do not contain horse,” FSA Chief
Executive Officer  Catherine Brown  said. “The examples we have
had are totally unacceptable. But they are the exceptions.”  Retailers across Europe have withdrawn products such as
frozen beef burgers, lasagnas and meat balls from their shelves
when they were shown to contain horse DNA. The scandal has led
regulators and policy makers across the region to put pressure
on the industry to make the food chain less opaque.  European Union-wide tests for equine DNA in beef and bute
in horse meat are to begin immediately, the  EU said today .  School Dinners  Brown said the results of 900 further industry tests and
200 of its own probes are still being awaited and the FSA will
give further updates on Feb. 22.  The first case of horse DNA in school dinners was also
discovered, in cottage pies delivered to 47 schools in
Lancashire, in north-west England, the BBC reported.  The chief executive officers of 11 food providers and
retailers today  published  a joint letter setting out their
resolve to restore consumer confidence “as quickly as
possible.”  The CEOs, including  Tesco Plc ’s  Philip Clarke , Asda Stores
Ltd.’s  Andy Clarke ,  Justin King  from J Sainsbury Plc and  Dalton Philips  of  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc , said in the letter
that “fraudulent activity or even as alleged, an international
criminal conspiracy” may be to blame for the horse-meat crisis.  Three men were arrested at two meat-processing plants shut
down by the U.K. food-industry regulator over the sale of
mislabeled horse meat, the police and FSA said yesterday. Brown
said it’s “possible” there may be further arrests.  The FSA said earlier that computers and further evidence
were seized today in Hull and London.  Retailers’ Responsibility  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said retailers “bear
a real responsibility,” as “at the end of the day they are
putting products on their shelves.”  Sainsbury and Iceland Foods Ltd. said today that no horse
meat has been found in their products, while Tesco said new test
results on 149 products are all clear.  U.K. Environment Secretary  Owen Paterson  said food
companies must demonstrate to their customers they’ve taken the
right steps to deal with the horse-meat scandal.  “Food businesses now have a lot of work to do,” Paterson
said in a statement on his ministry’s website today. “They need
to move quickly to complete these tests and they need to show
their customers they’ve taken the right steps to make sure this
doesn’t happen again.”  The signatories of the letter included  Richard Cousins , CEO
of contract-caterer Compass Group Plc, and  Patrick Coveney , head
of  Greencore Group Plc , the Irish prepared-meals processor that
said today it supplied beef bolognese sauce that was withdrawn
by Asda after traces of horse DNA were found.  Greencore  shares  fell 9.5 percent to 92.5 pence in London,
the biggest drop in more than 14 months, reducing the company’s
market value to 363.8 million pounds ($565 million).  Supply Chain  Separately, Tesco’s Clarke said in a blog on the grocer’s
website that he has ordered a review of the company’s “approach
to the supply chain.” Tesco, which this month dropped one of
its suppliers after the discovery of horse DNA in some products,
will set a benchmark for the testing of products, the executive
said, adding that new processes won’t mean more expensive food
for customers.  Shares of Tesco and Sainsbury fell today, though “that may
be due to the noise surrounding the horse meat issue” rather
than “many concerns that it’s going to really hurt long-term
business,” according to  Andrew Gwynn , a food retail analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas in London.  “Let’s not forget, it’s not a food safety issue yet and
once the dust settles it may be good news in that people trade
up to more expensive fresh meat,” Gwynn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  