-- U.K. Farmers Face Seed Shortage as Spring Planting Set to Surge
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-15T13:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-k-farmers-face-seed-shortage-as-spring-planting-set-to-surge.html
Farmers in the U.K. are facing a
shortage of seeds as planting of spring crops is set to surge,
after record rainfall last year in England muddied fields and
left less land available to be sown with winter crops.  Farmers are paying about 30 percent more than usual for
spring seeds as rising demand has led to shortages of domestic
supplies and spurred an increase of imports, said David Neale, a
business development manager at Andoversford, England-based farm
adviser Agrii. As much as 20 percent of U.K. fields intended for
winter crops including wheat and rapeseed last autumn went
unplanted because of excess rain, leaving that ground now
available to be sown with oilseed and grain, he said.  “We pretty much exhausted some time ago supplies of U.K.-
produced seed, and there’s been massive imports of seed from
Germany, France and eastern Europe,” Neale said in a telephone
interview today. “Spring barley planting will have a big
increase, and spring wheat, and there will be some increase in
spring rapeseed and other minor crops” including peas and
linseed, he said.  Feed-wheat futures for May delivery rallied to a record 230
pounds ($357) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in London in November.
Last year’s wheat harvest was 13.3 million metric tons, 13
percent less than the previous season, as excess rain slashed
 yields , the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs
said. The U.K. had its second-wettest year ever last year, while
England, the biggest wheat-growing region, was the rainiest on
records dating to 1910, according to the Met Office, the
national forecaster.  Total Wheat  Total wheat area in Great Britain was already expected to
decline by 12 percent from last season to 1.76 million hectares
(4.3 million acres), according to a survey from the Andersons
Centre that was distributed by the Agriculture & Horticulture
Development Board in November. Planting may be even smaller than
that because moisture persisted in December and January, Jack
Watts, a senior analyst at the AHDB, said in an interview Feb.
13.  Even some fields that farmers did manage to plant last year
may need to be re-sown with spring varieties, after flooding
washed out crops in some areas and young plants were attacked by
slugs. Fifteen to 20 percent of winter rapeseed fields planted
last winter may not make it through the spring, Neale said.  Largest Crop   Winter wheat, the U.K.’s largest arable crop, is usually
planted beginning in September. The grain goes dormant during
winter and is harvested from July. Spring crops are sown from
February and harvested in August. Winter wheat, which tends to
yield more than spring crops, usually accounts for more than 95
percent of the grain used by  millers  in the country, according
to the National Association of British and Irish Millers.  The majority of fields planted this spring probably will be
sown with barley crops, said Neale, who expects seeding of the
grain to jump 40 percent from last year. Spring varieties
accounted for about 56 percent of all barley production in the
U.K. last year, according to Defra.  Barley seed for spring planting currently costs about 500
pounds ($774) a ton, about 150 pounds a ton more expensive than
in a normal year, Neale said.  “We’ll see a notable increase in spring planting,” said
Watts, from Kenilworth, England-based AHDB’s Home-Grown Cereals
Authority. “Spring planting in the U.K. is normally constrained
by the amount of land available. Now we’ve got plenty of land
available but we may be constrained by the availability of
seed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  