-- Most U.K. Stocks Advance on New York Manufacturing
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-15T16:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-k-stocks-little-changed-as-g-20-finance-chiefs-meet.html
U.K. stocks  rose, with the benchmark
FTSE 100 Index completing a weekly gain, after a report showed
that manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly expanded.  Anglo American Plc climbed 1.3 percent after posting full-
year underlying earnings that beat estimates. Tesco Plc, the
country’s biggest supermarket chain, declined as U.K. retail
sales fell in January. Fresnillo Plc dropped the most in nine
months after Citigroup Inc. lowered its recommendation for the
silver producer.  The  FTSE 100  advanced 0.9 point, less than 0.1 percent, to
6,328.26 at the close in London, as 58 shares on the gauge rose
and 43 fell. The equity benchmark rallied 1 percent this week,
extending its gains so far this year to 7.3 percent. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also added less than 0.1 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.4 percent.  “Good news is still filtering through from the U.S.
economy,” said  Oliver Wallin , who helps oversee 2.9 billion
pounds as investment director at Octopus Investments Ltd. in
London. “The positive start to the year for equity markets has
continued and a bullish mood amongst investors remains.”  Manufacturing in the New York region unexpectedly expanded
in February. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index climbed to 10, the highest since May 2012, from
minus 7.8 in January. The median projection in a Bloomberg
survey of economists had called for minus 2. Readings less than
zero signal contraction.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies was 10 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  G-20 Meeting  Group of 20 finance chiefs are meeting in Moscow amid
concern Japan is boosting measures to weaken it currency. The
Asian nation is in the spotlight after the yen tumbled about 12
percent in the past three months on the bet that Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe will pursue an aggressive monetary policy. That has
led to concern other countries may retaliate with similar
measures.  A Feb. 12 statement by Group of Seven officials commits the
major industrial countries to refrain from using domestic
policies to target exchange rates.  “There’s a very diverse set of expectations going into
this meeting from policy makers,”  Ian Stannard , head of
European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley told Guy
Johnson on Bloomberg Television. “The most we can hope for is
for the G-20 to adopt the G-7 statement which was put out
earlier this week.  Anglo American climbed 26 pence to 2,039 pence after
reporting full-year underlying earnings of $2.84 billion,
exceeding the average analyst estimate of $2.4 billion.  Retail Stocks  U.K. retail sales unexpectedly fell in January for a second
month, a report showed. Sales including fuel fell 0.6 percent
from December, when they dropped a revised 0.3 percent, the
Office for National Statistics said. The median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted a 0.5
percent gain.  ‘‘The data from the U.K. has disappointed once again and
that’s going to be a continued concern,’’ Stannard said.  A gauge of retail stocks in the FTSE 350 Index slid 0.8
percent. Tesco dropped 1.6 percent to 364.75 pence and J
Sainsbury Plc lost 1.4 percent to 331 pence.  Fresnillo fell 6.3 percent to 1,550 pence after Citigroup
downgraded the shares to sell from neutral, citing concern about
silver prices and the stock’s valuation. The world’s biggest
primary producer of silver is trading at 21 times estimated
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tullett Prebon Plc, the British inter-dealer broker run by
Terry Smith, slumped 5.9 percent to 282.8 pence. The Financial
Times reported that one of Tullentt’s employees has been
implicated in the interest-rate manipulation scandal. The
company said no regulator has informed it of any probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  