-- U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop Amid Winter Weather
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-15T11:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-k-retail-sales-unexpectedly-drop-as-snow-deters-shoppers.html
     Feb. 15 (Bloomberg) --  U.K. retail sales  unexpectedly fell
in January for a second consecutive month as cold weather kept
consumers at home and incomes remained under pressure, hurting
spending on food, household goods and auto fuel.  Sales including fuel fell 0.6 percent from December, when
they dropped a revised 0.3 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. The median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 0.5 percent
increase. From a year earlier, sales declined 0.6 percent.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that
inflation may accelerate in the coming months, intensifying a
squeeze on consumers that has curbed spending. With snowfall
also likely to have disrupted construction last month, today’s
data raise the possibility that the economy will shrink in the
first quarter, according to  Rob Wood , a London-based economist
at Berenberg Bank.  “The underlying picture is that the economy is bouncing
along the bottom, so weather disruptions can easily tip it into
negative territory,” Wood said. “If the snow disruption is
reflected in other industries, with construction being the most
likely candidate, then we could well see a quarterly
contraction.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar at $1.5488
as of 11:32 a.m. in London. The yen strengthened for a fourth
day against the dollar and the euro weakened as Group of 20
finance chiefs and central bankers begin talks in  Moscow  today.  Food Sales  Food sales fell to their lowest level since April 2004 in
January, declining 1.6 percent on the month and 2.6 percent from
a year earlier, the statistics office said. Sales of household
goods dropped 0.3 percent from December and sales of auto fuel
declined 2 percent. Sales of clothing and footwear rose 0.4
percent.  Non-store sales including internet purchases fell 0.5
percent. Excluding fuel, retail sales declined 0.5 percent and
were up 0.2 percent from a year earlier.  The fall in sales in December was larger than the 0.1
percent initially estimated. In the three months through
January, U.K. sales dropped 0.8 percent, the biggest decline
since the first quarter of 2010.  The British  economy  shrank 0.3 percent in the last three
months of 2012 and is facing the threat of an unprecedented
triple-dip recession. Still, purchasing-management surveys for
January showed expansion in both manufacturing and services,
which together account for almost 90 percent of gross domestic
product.  Recession Risk  “Given it has come early in the quarter, there is some
chance of catch-up in February and March,” said  David Tinsley ,
an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. Still, “overall sales
growth in the first quarter now probably looks weaker. At the
margin this increases the risk of a decline in first-quarter
GDP, though we wouldn’t overstate that for now.”  The weakness of Britain’s retailers has also been
underscored by the collapse of companies including  HMV Group
Plc , the U.K.’s biggest seller of CDs and DVDs, and camera
retailer Jessops Plc.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc , Britain’s
largest clothing chain, said last month that pressure on
household incomes will probably continue in 2013 and it is
“cautious” about the outlook.  “Relative to previous recoveries, consumer spending
remains weak,” the Bank of England said in its quarterly
Inflation Report on Feb. 13. “The peak-to-trough fall in
consumption was larger during this recession than previous ones,
and the recovery has been more subdued.”  Pressure on Consumers  Pressure on consumers may continue after some of the U.K.’s
biggest utilities raised gas and electricity prices.  Inflation ,
which was at 2.7 percent last month, may accelerate in the near
term and remain above the BOE’s 2 percent goal for two years,
the central bank said. By comparison, annual wage growth was 1.4
percent in the quarter through November, ONS data show.  Today’s report showed the annual retail sales deflator, a
measure of changes in shop prices, was 0.8 percent. The deflator
on food was 3.7 percent.  Separate data today from the National Statistics Institute
in Madrid showed Spain’s core  inflation  rate, which excludes
energy and fresh food prices, accelerated to 2.2 percent in
January. That’s more than the 2.1 percent median of four
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Elsewhere in Europe, a report today showed euro-area
exports declined the most in five months in December as the
currency’s gains made European goods less competitive abroad.
Exports dropped a seasonally adjusted 1.8 percent from November,
when they rose a revised 0.6 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said.  Draghi Comments  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said that,
while the ECB doesn’t target the exchange rate, it plays an
important role in assessing the economic outlook.  The ECB’s mandate is to pursue price stability “in both
directions,” Draghi said at a press conference in Moscow, where
he’s attending the G-20 meeting. “The exchange rate is not a
policy target but important for growth and price stability,” he
said, adding the central bank will publish new projections next
month.  Reports today will probably show U.S. industrial output and
consumer confidence increased while manufacturing in the New
York region contracted for a seventh month, according to
economists surveys.  A report at 9:15 a.m. New York time may show industrial
production climbed 0.2 percent in January after a 0.3 percent
gain the previous month, according to the median of 81 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of  consumer
sentiment  for February rose to 74.8 from 73.8 at the end of
January, a separate survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  