-- U.K. Treasury ‘Does Not Understand’ QE Risks, Panel Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-k-treasury-does-not-understand-qe-risks-panel-says.html
The U.K. Treasury fails to
understand the risks and potential benefits of the Bank of
England’s asset-purchase program, a cross-party panel of
lawmakers said today.  The department, headed by Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne , does not know what has happened to the 375
billion pounds ($581 billion) that has been injected into the
economy as part of the so-called quantitative-easing program and
the effect on output, the House of Commons Public Accounts
Committee said in a report.  “The Treasury has not convinced us it understands either
the risks it has taken on by indemnifying the Bank of England
against losses on quantitative easing or the expected economic
benefits,” the committee chairwoman,  Margaret Hodge  of the
opposition Labour Party, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The Treasury has also funded lending programs that have
failed to significantly increase credit, the committee said, and
the department has failed to properly monitor the results.  “It has not set out its goals and intended outcomes, and
it has limited management information to help it monitor
progress, giving the impression of a series of expensive
experiments indemnified with taxpayers’ money,” the report
said. “We expected the Treasury to have a better understanding
of the risks it had taken on and the effects of the money
injected into the economy.”  High staff turnover in the Treasury has reduced its ability
to deal with crises and effectively manage public spending, the
panel said. Though turnover reduced to 16 percent in 2012
compared with 28 percent in 2011, it is still “very high,” the
committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  