-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Increases to Three-Month High
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-15T15:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-rose-to-76-3-in-february.html
Consumer confidence in the U.S. rose
in February to a three-month high, which may help to preserve
recent gains in household spending.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment climbed to 76.3 this month from 73.8
in January. The gauge was projected to rise to 74.8, according
to the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Increased property values, a strengthening job market and
stocks at five-year highs are providing a boost to Americans’
balance sheets. A pickup in wealth would help make up for recent
gains in gasoline prices and the hit to take-home pay from a two
percentage-point increase in the payroll tax.  “We saw a meaningful improvement in overall financial
market conditions and home prices, and those are the kind of
drivers now for consumer confidence,” said  Millan Mulraine ,
director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA LLC in New
York, who projected a sentiment index of 76. “As attitudes
continue to improve, we are likely to see that possibly be
reflected in improved spending.”  Stocks were little changed after the figures, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling less than 0.1 percent to
1,521.13 at 10:41 a.m. in New York.  Other data today showed manufacturing is on the mend. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York said its general economic  index 
climbed to 10 in February, the highest since May, from minus 7.8
in the prior month. Readings greater than zero signal expansion
in New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Industrial Production  The report showed factories regained their footing after
taking a breather in January. Industrial production at
factories, mines and utilities fell 0.1 percent in January after
a 0.4 percent increase, the Fed said today. Manufacturing, which
makes up 75 percent of total production, dropped 0.4 percent
last month after the biggest two-month advance since 1984.  Estimates of the 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 70 to 78. The index averaged 64.2 during the last
recession, and 89 in the five years before the 18-month economic
slump that ended in June 2009.  The report is in line with Bloomberg’s weekly Consumer
Comfort Index, which climbed to minus 35.9 in the period ended
Feb. 10 from minus 36.3 the prior week.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
assesses how Americans perceive their financial situation and
whether they think it is a good time to buy expensive items like
cars, rose to 88 from a six-month low of 85 in January.  The index of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of consumer spending,
advanced to 68.7 from 66.6 last month.  Inflation Expectations  Consumers in today’s preliminary confidence report said
they expect an inflation rate of 3.3 percent over the next  12
months , the same as in January. Over the next five years,
Americans expected a 3 percent rate of inflation, compared with
2.9 percent in the previous month.  Americans are benefiting from rising house values as low
mortgage rates drive the recovery in housing. Prices for single-
family homes climbed in about 88 percent of U.S. cities in the
fourth quarter, the National Association of Realtors said in a
report earlier this week.  Stocks are also making households wealthier. The S&P 500
climbed 5 percent in January, its biggest increase for the month
since 1997. The benchmark has extended the gain this month.  Improvements in the labor market are another reason for
optimism. The economy added 157,000 jobs in January after a
revised 196,000 gain in December and a 247,000 surge in
November. Firings are starting to wane as well. Initial jobless
claims decreased by 27,000 last week, the most in a month, Labor
Department data showed.  Payroll Tax  At the same time, Americans face some headwinds that
threaten to restrain consumer spending. Congress and President
Barack Obama allowed the payroll tax to return to its 2010 level
of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. An American who earns $50,000
is taking home about $83 less a month because of the levy.  Trips to the gas station are becoming more expensive as
well. The average price of a gallon of gasoline has climbed
about 42 cents since last year’s low of $3.22, reached on Dec.
19, according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  “In the United States we see some signs of improvement,
 Muhtar Kent , chief executive officer at Coca Cola Co., said on a
Feb. 12 call with analysts. “‘We need to wait and evaluate the
impact of the payroll taxes as well as the higher gasoline
prices. It’s too early to say, but it’s a recovery that is at
best lukewarm, but we feel that it could get better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  