-- U.S. February Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-02-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-s-february-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The February 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey
indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers improved
for the first time since the summer of last year. The general
business conditions index rose into positive territory,
advancing eighteen points to 10.0. The new orders index also
rose sharply, climbing twenty points to 13.3, and the shipments
index increased to 13.1. The prices paid index pointed to a
continued acceleration in selling prices, and the prices
received index, while positive, inched lower. The index for
number of employees rose for a third consecutive month and, at
8.1, registered its first positive reading since September,
though the average workweek index remained negative. Indexes for
the six-month outlook were noticeably higher and suggested a
firming in the level of optimism about future business
conditions.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were
asked about their 2013 capital spending plans and how the plans
compared with actual spending for 2012. Roughly the same
proportion of respondents indicated that they expected to raise
as to lower capital spending this year. However, the median
amount budgeted for 2013 was up 11 percent from what had
reportedly been spent in 2012. The most widely cited factor
constraining 2013 capital investment plans was tax and
regulatory considerations. In the February 2012 and 2011
surveys, more respondents had identified this as a positive than
a negative factor.  Business Conditions Improve for the First Time in Months  Business activity expanded for New York manufacturers,
according to the February survey. The general business
conditions index rose into positive territory for the first time
since July 2012, climbing eighteen points to 10.0. Twenty-nine
percent of respondents reported that conditions had improved
over the month, while 19 percent -- a significantly lower
percentage than in the January survey -- reported that
conditions had worsened. The new orders index also rose sharply,
climbing twenty points to 13.3, its highest level since mid-
2011. The shipments index advanced sixteen points to 13.1, and
the unfilled orders index rose six points to -2.0. The delivery
time index moved up four points to 2.0, suggesting that delivery
times were slightly longer. The inventories index rose nine
points to zero -- a sign that inventory levels flattened after
declining in recent months.  Employment Levels Rise  Input price increases continued to pick up this month. The
prices paid index rose for a third consecutive month, advancing
four points to 26.3. The prices received index inched down three
points to 8.1, pointing to slightly smaller selling price
increases. The index for number of employees rose for a third
consecutive month, climbing twelve points to 8.1, its first
positive reading since September of last year. The average
workweek index remained slightly negative and was little changed
at -4.0.  Level of Optimism Firms  Indexes for the six-month outlook were noticeably higher
this month. The future business conditions index rose eleven
points to 33.1, its highest level in several months. The future
new orders and shipments indexes also rose, though less steeply.
The future prices paid index climbed six points to 44.4,
indicating that price increases were expected to pick up, while
the future prices received index fell to 13.1. Future employment
indexes were positive and higher than last month, suggesting
that labor market conditions were expected to improve in the
months ahead. The capital expenditures index moved up ten points
to 14.1, and the technology spending index climbed to 11.1.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of New York 