-- U.S. Lawmaker Expects Request for IMF in March Budget Plan
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-02-15T22:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-s-lawmaker-expects-request-for-imf-in-march-budget-plan.html
A 2010 global agreement that gives
emerging markets such as China a bigger say at the International
Monetary Fund may be sent to Congress next month for approval
needed to take effect, a lawmaker with an oversight role said.  Representative  John Campbell , a California Republican who
heads a House subcommittee with jurisdiction over the IMF, said
he thinks the Obama administration will submit a request along
with budget plans expected around mid-March. While no fresh
money is needed, Congress has to agree to transfer U.S. funds
from a temporary credit line into permanent IMF resources as
part of the package.  “Presuming that we do get that request, and I expect that
we will sometime mid, late March, then that is something that we
as the committee will then take up and we will have hearings and
review this whole issue,” Campbell said in a telephone
interview today.  Lack of action by the U.S., the IMF’s largest shareholder,
has prevented emerging markets including South Korea and Turkey
from getting a voting share that better reflects their growing
weight in the world economy. It’s also complicated the work of
officials negotiating the next realignment of so-called quotas,
which determine voting rights and access to financing, and must
be agreed on next year.  Treasury Plans  Asked about the U.S. Treasury Department’s plans for
submitting the request, spokeswoman Holly Shulman referred to
recent comments by  Lael Brainard , the undersecretary for
international affairs.  “Passage of IMF quota legislation is important to enable
us to maintain our strong leadership position and influence in
the fund, and to restore the primacy of the IMF quota-based
financial structure in which the United States has the largest
share,” Brainard told reporters on Feb. 11. “We are actively
working with Congress to secure legislation implementing the
2010 IMF quota reform.”  The changes in voting rights mean congressional approval is
required to increase by about $64 billion the permanent U.S.
share at the IMF. That would be transferred from an existing
$100 billion temporary credit line.  Campbell, who is chairman of the subcommittee in charge of
monetary policy and trade within the House Financial Services
Committee, called the topic “complicated.”  Republican Lawmakers  Some Republican lawmakers in recent years introduced
legislation to rescind the U.S. temporary credit line. Campbell
said he doesn’t see any “pre-conceived feeling” about the
request among committee members.  To allow the package to enter into effect, lawmakers will
also need to agree on a plan changing the composition of the
fund’s executive board.  If confirmed, the request would be “an important
development,” said  Domenico Lombardi , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington. Without U.S. approval “the
whole effort to make the IMF a more accountable, more legitimate
institution worldwide cannot really be fulfilled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  