-- Treasuries Post Weekly Drop as Data Suggest Momentum
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-18T03:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/u-s-10-year-yields-set-for-weekly-gain-before-production-data.html
(Corrects percentage point amount in fourth paragraph of a
story that originally ran on Feb. 15.)  Treasuries dropped after reports
showing increases in manufacturing in the New York region and
consumer confidence added to optimism the U.S. economy is
gaining momentum.  Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds climbed above 2 percent
after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index unexpectedly increased to 10, the highest since May 2012.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to a three-month high.  “The data suggests the recovery, while not in acceleration
mode, continues to edge along,” said  Ian Lyngen,  a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  The  yield  on the 10-year note rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It rose five basis
points on the week. The 2 percent note due February 2023 fell
1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 31/32.  The University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment
advanced to 76.3 in February from 73.8 the prior month.
Economists in a Bloomberg poll forecast a rise to 74.8.  “It’s another piece of reasonably good data,” said  Ira Jersey , an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Speculative Positions  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
bets 10-year note futures will gain in the week ending Feb. 12,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative  long positions , or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 51,549 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions rose by 4,643 contracts, from
a week earlier, the CFTC’s Commitments of Traders report showed.  Short positions on 30-year bond  futures  were reduced. Net
short positions outnumbered long positions by 23,679 contracts,
falling by 5,226 contracts, the data showed.  Even with the evidence of economic growth and renewed
investor optimism, investors continue to buy U.S. government
debt as a refuge against a renewal of turmoil in global
financial markets and concern the U.S. recovery may falter.  “Anytime you get to 2.06, there seem to be decent buying
despite the overwhelming bearishness that seems to be
confronting the marketplace,” said  Thomas di Galoma , a managing
director at Navigate Advisors LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors in Stamford, Connecticut.  International Demand  China remained the biggest foreign owner of Treasuries in
December after its holdings rose $19.7 billion to $1.2 trillion,
according to the Treasury data released today. The holdings of
Japan, the second-largest, rose $2.5 billion to $1.12 trillion.  Foreigners bought a net $29.9 billion of Treasuries in
December, according to today’s report, up from $26.4 billion the
month before.  Treasuries have lost 0.9 percent this year, according to an
index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of shares has gained 7 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.33 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Should they turn out to be correct, investors who buy the
securities today would lose 1.1 percent by the year-end.  The Fed  said  on Dec. 12 that interest rates will remain
near zero “at least as long as” the unemployment rate stays
above 6.5 percent and inflation “between one and two years
ahead” is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. Government
figures showed this month that the  jobless rate  was 7.9 percent
in January.  Monthly Purchases  Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto
said the gains from the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchase may fade.  “Given how low interest rates currently are, it is
possible that future asset purchases will not ease financial
conditions by as much as they have in the past,” Pianalto said
today in a speech at Florida Gulf Coast University in Fort
Myers, Florida. “It is also possible that easier financial
conditions, to the extent they do occur, may not provide the
same boost to the economy as they have in the past.”  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  yesterday
said a growing balance sheet could be complicated to unwind.  The Fed is scheduled on Feb. 19 to buy as much as $1.75
billion of Treasuries maturing between February 2036 and
February 2043, the Fed Bank of New York’s  website  showed. U.S.
financial markets are closed Feb. 18 for Presidents’ Day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  