-- Mugabe Paves Way for Zimbabwe Election With Referendum
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-02-15T15:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/mugabe-paves-way-for-zimbabwe-election-with-referendum.html
Zimbabwe’s President  Robert Mugabe ,
who has ruled the country for more than three decades, set March
16 as the date for a referendum on a new constitution, paving
the way for elections needed to end a four-year impasse.  Mugabe, 88, made the announcement in the Government Gazette
today. Last month he agreed on a draft of the constitution with
Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , his main political rival.  An agreement brokered by the 15-nation Southern African
Development Community in 2009 led to a coalition government
between Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
and Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change. Under that pact
a referendum on a new constitution must be held before elections
can be called.  “I do, by this proclamation, appoint Saturday March 16,
2013 as the day on which the referendum will be held,” Mugabe
said.  Negotiations on the constitution stalled over issues
including dual citizenship, reform of the security forces and
land rights. The impasse has hampered Zimbabwe’s economic
recovery from a decade-long recession.  The MDC is “content” with the date,  Nelson Chamisa , a
party spokesman, said in a phone interview from Harare today.
Calls to Zanu-PF spokesman  Rugare Gumbo  weren’t answered.  Voting Irregularities  Mugabe and Tsvangirai, 60, have fought a series of
elections since 2000, all of which have been judged by observers
including those from the European Union as having been marred by
violence, mainly against Tsvangirai’s supporters, and electoral
irregularities.  Zimbabwe’s next election must be held by the end of
October, which is four months after the life of the current
parliament ends, Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  said in January.
The MDC wants the vote to be held in July, Biti, who is also
secretary-general of the party, said at the time.  The MDC won a parliamentary ballot in 2008, then withdrew
from a presidential vote, citing an increase in violence against
its supporters by members of Mugabe’s Zanu-PF party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  