-- Under Armour Finds Feminine Side to Go Beyond $2 Billion
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-02-16T01:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/under-armour-finds-feminine-side-to-go-beyond-2-billion.html
Under Armour Inc. , founded by a
football jock, has long lured hardcore athletes, mostly men.  What was once a selling point has become a hurdle. To
maintain the rapid growth that’s seen it double sales every
three years since going public in 2005, the company is pushing
into fashion and softening the brand to win over more women.  Tomorrow, Under Armour is opening a test store in hometown
Baltimore that has ditched the company’s prevailing locker-room
vibe for natural light, cheery colors and 10 times as many
mannequins. Call it a pitch to the Lululemon crowd. The outreach
to women is part of efforts to broaden out beyond performance
apparel and become the next Nike Inc. or Adidas AG.  “It was a pretty masculine store, pretty dark, pretty
heavy,” said  Henry Stafford , a senior vice president who is
overseeing the new concept. This store will be “a lot more
balanced in terms of being exciting for our male consumers as
well as our female consumers.”  Like other brands, Under Armour may be taking some of its
cues from Lululemon Athletica Inc. The Vancouver-based maker of
pricey workout-wear has been  doubling sales  every two years with
stores featuring yoga studios staffed mostly by women. Gap Inc.
has rolled out a chain of stores dubbed Athleta with their own
yoga classes and feminine vibe. Foot Locker Inc., too, has been
toying with how to remake its women’s chain, Lady Foot Locker,
more in the Lulu mold.  High Valuation  While Under Armour’s  earnings valuation  is about twice that
of Nike and Adidas, its focus is too narrow to become a global
brand. Under Armour will need to keep up its sales growth rate,
which reached 25 percent last year, to maintain that premium.
The shares trade at 2.8 times sales. That’s more than double the
multiple for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Discretionary
Index.  Under Armour shares  rose  1.3 percent to $49.55 at the close
in New York. The stock has gained 18 percent in the 12 months,
compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  At a press event this week announcing a new ad campaign and
a performance-tracking device, Under Armour Chief Executive
Officer and founder  Kevin Plank  poked fun at the brand’s manly
past by playing “Protect This House,” a commercial featuring
muscle-bound men chanting in a weight room, that put the brand
on the map a decade ago.  In an interview, he said: “I can’t lie. That was us.”  $2 Billion  Under Armour is  headed toward  more than $2 billion in sales
this year, doubling revenue from 2010. Yet its $400 million
women’s business last year generated less than half the sales of
men’s, though the women’s athletic apparel category is about 10
percent larger in the U.S., according to NPD Group.  “The general view is Under Armour stinks at women’s,”
said  Nathan Brown , an assistant portfolio manager at Overland
Park, Kansas-based Waddell & Reed Financial Inc., Under Armour’s
third-largest holder with 6.7 million shares.  “What is interesting is every single year women’s
continues to grow as a percentage of the company,” he said.
“If the product is so terrible and they are growing faster than
the base business, just think if they actually get the product
right?”  Under Armour’s female apparel has actually improved its fit
and look, Brown said. Now it’s a matter of getting the brand in
front of more women. That’s where the new store, and a second
location later this year, may help. The overwhelming majority of
Under Armour’s products are sold at such big boxes as  Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc.  and Sports Authority Inc. Those aren’t
common destinations for women and neither are Under Armour’s 100
outlet locations and five full-price stores.  “The problem with the women’s business isn’t the
product,” said  Michael Baron , a vice president with New York-
based Baron Capital Inc., the fifth-largest Under Armour holder
with 3.8 million shares. “The problem is distribution.”  Fashion Brand  While Under Armour has placed some of its women’s line in
department stores such as Macy’s Inc. and Nordstrom Inc., the
re-designed store will have as much women’s gear as men’s and
may serve as way for potential retail partners and consumers to
see Under Armour showcased as a head-to-toe fashion brand that’s
more than mock turtlenecks.  “What Gap did for going to school, or going out on a
Friday night, is the same thing we should do for sending people
to the gym,” Plank says. “Most people look awful going to the
gym.”  Leading the evolution of the women’s business is Leanne
Fremar, who  joined  the company in November after a decade as
creative director at luxury women’s apparel brand Theory and
stints at Gucci and Ralph Lauren Corp. She is working on opening
Under Armour’s first New York office, where she’ll tap design
talent. She also inherits a unit that has been growing 30
percent a year and added the Studio, a yoga-inspired line, and
Armour Bra brands last year.  Urban Markets  “She will bring that L.A.-New York component,” said
Plank. “Women’s should be larger than men’s.”  Besides appealing to women, the new store design may help
Under Armour find its way in two other markets it’s trying to
crack: cities and footwear. Selling most of your products at
suburban sporting goods stores means being underrepresented in
urban markets like New York. And aside from becoming a market
leader in a niche category like football cleats, it hasn’t made
much headway in athletic shoes. The new store will put the shoes
center stage.  Plank, a former college football player, started Under
Armour in 1996 with a synthetic shirt pitched as better than
cotton for soaking up sweat during workouts. The gear sold so
well that Under Armour became a generic term, like Kleenex or
Rollerblades, for tight-fitting workout apparel.  Nike Misses  Nike initially missed the shift, giving Under Armour time
to grow. Under Armour has since taken its initial idea for a so-
called compression shirt and translated it to shorts, pants,
gloves and so on. While that got the company to $1 billion in
sales, Plank has preached diversification as a way to keep the
growth going. That’s translated into the company expanding to
sunglasses, backpacks and even boots.  As a result, Under Armour relies less on compression gear,
which makes up 14 percent of apparel revenue, compared with 64
percent when it went public. And it now has a $240 million
footwear unit. Still, apparel is its  biggest business . And to
truly become the next Nike, which has more than 20 times the
revenue, it needs to make it in shoes.  Shoes, International  “Eventually the baton will have to be handed over to
footwear and international,” Brown said. Under Armour generates
94 percent of its revenue from North America, compared with 37
percent for Nike, the world’s largest athletic brand.  To become a major footwear company, cultivating a presence
in America’s urban culture that Nike and Adidas dominate will be
important. Especially if it wants to ever achieve its goal of
becoming a significant basketball shoe brand.  “There’s a void in certain cities and regionally,” said
Stafford, who led merchandising for teen chain  American Eagle
Outfitters Inc.  before joining Under Armour in 2010. “We have
opportunities out west, New York. We could go on and on.”  For now, Under Armour will unveil this one store, learn and
tweak, before possibly expanding.  “We aren’t going to move too too quickly, but at the same
time our track record with this brand is that when something
works, and we’re able to build on that formula, the groundswell
moves pretty quickly,” Stafford said. “That’s what we’re
getting prepared for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  