-- Munger, Kirkland, Davis Polk, Latham, Weil: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/munger-kirkland-davis-polk-latham-weil-business-of-law.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. and Jorge Paulo Lemann’s 3G Capital agreed to buy HJ Heinz
Co. for about $23 billion as the billionaires increased their
bets on consumer products. Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP
represented Berkshire Hathaway. Kirkland & Ellis LLP represented
3G Capital, and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP provided legal counsel
to the ketchup maker.  The Munger Tolles team included  Robert E. Denham ,  Mary Ann Todd , Judith T. Kitano, Stephen D. Rose,  Brett J. Rodda  and
Sarah L. Graham.  The New York-based Kirkland team acting for 3G Capital is
led by corporate/mergers and acquisitions partners  Stephen Fraidin ,  William Sorabella  and  David Feirstein , debt finance
partner Jay Ptashek, capital markets partners  Joshua Korff  and
Michael Kim, and corporate partners Christopher Torrente and
 Daniel Michaels . Also on the Kirkland team were executive
compensation partner Scott Price, tax partners  Greer Phillips 
and  Steven Clemens , private funds partner Andrew Wright,
competition partner  Mark Kovner  and litigation partner  Peter Doyle .  Davis Polk, advising H.J. Heinz, had a corporate team
including partners  Arthur F. Golden ,  John A. Bick  and  Michael Davis . Partner  Kyoko Takahashi Lin  is providing employee
benefits advice. Partner  Kathleen L. Ferrell  is providing tax
advice. Partners  James A. Florack  and  Michael Kaplan  are
providing financing advice. Partner  Ronan P. Harty  is providing
antitrust and competition advice.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal adviser
to the Transaction Committee of Heinz’s Board of Directors.
Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by corporate partners  Edward D. Herlihy  and David E. Shapiro.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represents Centerview Partners,
financial adviser to H.J. Heinz. The S&C New York-based mergers
and acquisitions team includes partners  Frank Aquila  and  Brian Hamilton  together with associate Marshall Yuan. Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP represented BofA, also financial advisor to Heinz.
The deal was handled by partners  Steven Seidman  and Laura
Delanoy.  The buyers will pay $72.50 a share, compared with the Feb.
13 closing price of $60.48, according to a statement. Berkshire
will spend about $12 billion to $13 billion on the deal for the
maker of condiments and Ore-Ida potato snacks, Buffett told
CNBC. The deal will also be financed with cash from 3G
affiliates, plus the rollover of existing debt, and is valued at
about $28 billion including debt, according to the statement.  Heinz will retain its corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh,
according to the statement. The company traces its roots back to
1869, when  Henry John Heinz  and neighbor L. Clarence Noble began
selling grated horseradish, according to Heinz’s website. The
company introduced its famous Tomato Ketchup in 1876.  For more, click here.  Latham, Weil Among Law Firms on US Airways Merger with American  Twelve law firms including Latham & Watkins LLP and Weil
Gotshal & Manages LLP were involved in the  US Airways Group Inc. 
combination with bankrupt  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines in an
$11 billion all-stock deal to create the world’s largest
carrier.  Latham & Watkins LLP ,  O’Melveny & Myers , Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP, and  Dechert LLP  are serving as legal
counsel to US Airways.  American’s legal adviser is Weil Gotshal.  Jones Day , Paul
Hastings LLP,  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP  and  K&L Gates LLP  also
provided advice.  The creditors committee’s legal counsel is Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Togut, Segal & Segal LLP.  Latham & Watkins is representing US Airways Group with a
deal team led by Silicon Valley corporate partners  Pete Kerman ,
Tony Richmond and Josh Dubofsky, New York bankruptcy partners
D.J. Baker and Paul Harner and Los Angeles bankruptcy partner
Robert Klyman.  Assistance was provided to the teams by Latham San
Francisco tax partner Kirt Switzer; Silicon Valley benefits and
compensation partner James Metz; Chicago benefits and
compensation partner Robin Struve; New York finance partners
Kevin Fingeret and Graeme Smyth; New York corporate partner Greg
Rodgers; Los Angeles real estate partner Kim Boras; and Houston
environmental partner Joel Mack.  Cadwalader’s  Charles Rule  and  Andrew Forman  provided
antitrust counsel. O’Melveny & Myers partners  Bob Siegel ,  Chris Hollinger , and Mark Robertson advised on labor issues for US
Airways. Dechert partner Paul T. Denis is leading a team serving
as antitrust counsel to US Airways.  Weil’s team on behalf of American was led by corporate
partner  Thomas Roberts  and bankruptcy partner  Stephen Karotkin .
Additional partners included  Glenn West ,  Corey Chivers  and  Ted Waksman , corporate; Alfredo Pérez and  Stephen Youngman , business
finance and restructuring;  Stuart Goldring , tax;  Michael Kam ,
executive compensation and employee benefits;  Richard Rothman ,
litigation; and  Holly Gregory , public company advisory group.  Jones Day is representing American Airlines as U.S.
antitrust co-counsel with Paul Hastings. The Jones Day team is
led by partners  Joe Sims  and  J. Bruce McDonald , antitrust and
competition. Paul Hastings antitrust co-counsel included: MJ
Moltenbrey and Tim Longman. American is represented in its
Chapter 11 case by John J. Gallagher,  Scott M. Flicker ,  Jon A. Geier ,  Neal D. Mollen  and Todd C. Duffield of Paul Hastings.  Debevoise is special aircraft counsel to American Airlines
in its bankruptcy case. The Debevoise team is led by partners
Jasmine Ball,  John T. Curry  and  Richard F. Hahn  and includes
partners  Vadim Mahmoudov ,  Robert J. Staffaroni , My Chi To and
 Michael E. Wiles , the firm said. Dallas corporate partner  Mary Korby  led a K&L Gates team.  Skadden is advising the unsecured creditors committee of
AMR Corp., the parent company of American Airlines. Leading the
Skadden team are corporate restructuring partners  John Butler ,
Jr. and  Jay Goffman , together with partners  John K. Lyons ,  Ron Meisler  and  Felicia Gerber Perlman , corporate restructuring;
 Eric Cochran  and  Sean Doyle , mergers and acquisitions;  James Keyte , antitrust;  Sarah Ward , banking;  Neil Leff , executive
compensation and benefits;  Jose Esteves , intellectual property
and technology;  John Furfaro , labor and employment; Albert L.
Hogan III, litigation; Paul J Huff, Jr., real estate;  David Polster , tax; and  Don J. Frost , Jr., environmental.  Shearman & Sterling LLP represents Barclays, financial
advisors to US Air. The Shearman & Sterling team included
partners Peter Lyons and David Connolly mergers and
acquisitions;  Douglas Bartner , bankruptcy and reorganization;
and  Alan Goudiss , litigation.  Chief Executive Officer  Doug Parker  of US Airways will run
the new airline, which will retain American’s name, as AMR CEO
 Tom Horton  becomes chairman, the companies said yesterday in a
statement. AMR creditors will own 72 percent of the stock, while
28 percent will go to US Airways shareholders.  The merger will produce annual savings and new revenue
totaling more than $1 billion by 2015, the airlines said, and
cap a wave of consolidation that swept up five of the 10 biggest
U.S. carriers since 2005.  Along with  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and  Delta Air
Lines Inc. , American will be one of just three U.S. full-service
carriers with trans-oceanic routes.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  AB InBev to Sell U.S. Corona Rights to Meet Deal Demands  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP are advising  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s
biggest brewer, which offered to cede full control of Corona
distribution in the U.S. to  Constellation Brands Inc.  for $2.9
billion in a bid to salvage its purchase of Grupo Modelo after
U.S. regulators sued to block the deal. Nixon Peabody LLP
advised Constellation in the deal.  The S&C team includes partners Francis J. Aquila,  George J. Sampas  and Krishna, mergers and acquisitions;  Nader A. Mousavi ,
intellectual property; and  John E. Estes , finance.  The Skadden team includes mergers and acquisitions partners
 Paul Schnell ,  Thomas Greenberg  and  Marie Gibson ; antitrust
partners  Steven Sunshine ,  Ian John , James Keyte and  Karen Hoffman Lent ; litigation partner  Gregory Craig ; tax partner
 Victor Hollender ; and intellectual-property partner  Bruce Goldner .  Nixon Peabody’s mergers and acquisitions team was led by
 Jim Bourdeau , Jeff LaBarge and John Moragne. The Nixon Peabody
finance team was led by  Craig Mills , Sarah Abel and John LaBoda.
Nixon Peabody real estate attorneys  Paul Schrier  and J.R.
Garabaldi also advised Constellation in the transaction.  Nixon Peabody worked closely with Constellation’s in-house
counsel including Tom Mullin, EVP, general counsel; Ron
Fondiller, SVP, commercial counsel; David Sorce, SVP, corporate
counsel; and Barbara LaVerdi, associate counsel. Nixon Peabody
also worked closely with McDermott Will & Emery LLP, antitrust
counsel; Baker McKenzie LLP, which provided international
counsel; and Kenyon & Kenyon LLP on licensing issues, the firm
said.  Constellation will gain Modelo’s brewery in Piedras Negras,
which is in Mexico near the Texas border, and perpetual rights
for the Corona and Modelo brands in the U.S., Leuven, Belgium-
based AB InBev said in a statement.  The deal is aimed at appeasing U.S. authorities, who sued
to block AB InBev’s proposed $20.1 billion purchase of the rest
of Modelo on Jan. 31, arguing the merger would hurt competition
and lead to higher prices. AB InBev controls almost half the
U.S. beer market, while Corona is the country’s biggest imported
brand. The complaint triggered plunges in shares of AB InBev,
Constellation and Modelo.  For more, click here.  Wachtell Advises Cardinal Health on AssuraMed Purchase  Wachtell Lipton Rosen  and Katz advised  Cardinal Health
Inc ., the second-largest U.S. drug distributor by revenue, said
it agreed to buy closely held AssuraMed for $2.07 billion to add
home delivery services of health-care products.  AssuraMed shareholders Clayton, Dubilier & Rice and  GS
Capital Partners  were advised by  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP . The
Debevoise deal team is led by partner  Paul S. Bird  and includes
partners  Jonathan F. Lewis , Kevin A. Rinker and  David H. Schnabel .  Wachtell Lipton’s team is led by corporate partners David
A. Katz and David K. Lam and consists of: Michael J. Segal,
executive compensation and benefits;  Deborah L. Paul , tax; and
 Eric M. Rosof , restructuring and finance.  The purchase price will be $1.94 billion once the present
value of tax benefits is added, Dublin, Ohio-based  Cardinal
Health  said in a statement yesterday. The company plans to
finance the deal with $1.3 billion in senior unsecured notes and
the rest in cash.  AssuraMed, based in Twinsburg, Ohio, has about $1 billion
in revenue and more than 1 million customers. With the purchase,
Cardinal Health will start supplying 30,000 products in areas
such as diabetes and wound care to patients in their homes, an
important service as the elderly and chronically ill
increasingly receive care there, according to the company.  The deal is expected to close by early April, and to add 2
to 3 cents a share to adjusted earnings in 2013, the company
said. In 2014, the acquisition will add at least 18 cents a
share, Cardinal Health said.  For more, click here.  Moves  Cross-Border Employment Lawyer Joins DLA Piper  DLA Piper LLP hired Ute Krudewagen, formerly with Baker &
McKenzie LLP, in the firm’s labor and employment practice as a
partner in the Silicon Valley office.  Krudewagen advises clients on complex labor and employment
matters, including background checks, employment agreements,
discrimination and harassment claims and social media issues,
the firm said. She also counsels on employment issues associated
with cross-border and national transactions, including mergers
and acquisitions, the firm said.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries
throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle
East.  Litigation  Merck to Pay $688 Million to Resolve Litigation Over Vytorin  Merck & Co.  said it will pay $688 million to resolve class-
action litigation claiming it defrauded shareholders by
withholding adverse results of a clinical trial of the anti-
cholesterol drugs Vytorin and Zetia.  The settlement needs the approval of U.S. District Judge
 Dennis Cavanaugh  in federal court in Newark, New Jersey. He was
to oversee a trial starting March 4. The accord benefits holders
of securities of Merck and Schering-Plough, which Merck acquired
in 2009. The companies had earlier joined to develop Vytorin,
which combined Merck’s Zocor and Schering’s Zetia.  The drug trial sought to determine whether adding Zetia to
less-expensive Zocor helped lower atherosclerosis more than
Zocor alone. Investors claimed the drug, Enhance, was an
“unqualified disaster” showing no benefit to Vytorin in
slowing atherosclerosis compared to Zocor. Investors said Merck
withheld those findings for a year before releasing top-line
results on Jan. 14, 2008, and full results on March 30, 2008.  “We think it’s a terrific settlement,” said  Daniel Berger , an attorney for investors at Grant & Eisenhofer PA.
“When you have material information about the results of a drug
trial on an important product, you’re required to disclose it so
that investors can make an informed decision.”  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, said
holders of Schering-Plough securities will receive $473 million
and holders of Merck securities will get $215 million, according
to the statement. Merck anticipates that it will receive $493
million in insurance recoveries, the company said.  “This agreement avoids the uncertainties of a jury trial
and will resolve all of the remaining litigation in connection
with the Enhance study,” Merck general counsel  Bruce N. Kuhlik 
said.  Merck’s lead trial attorney was  Theodore V. Wells Jr.  of
 Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP .  “Hopefully, this will serve as a deterrent in the
pharmaceutical industry,” said investor attorney  Salvatore Graziano  of  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP . “It
continues to be a widespread problem that companies report good
results in clinical drug trials quickly and delay or don’t
report at all adverse results.”  The case is In re Schering-Plough Corp./Enhance Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-397, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 