-- Universal Music Group to Sell Black Sabbath Label to BMG
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-15T09:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/universal-music-group-to-sell-black-sabbath-label-to-bmg.html
Vivendi SA ’s Universal Music Group,
the world’s biggest record company, agreed to sell the label of
Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden and Megadeth to BMG Rights Management
as part of disposals required by regulators.  The deal for Sanctuary Records is among the asset sales
asked for by European regulators after Universal Music’s
acquisition of  EMI Group  and is the second label bought by BMG
Rights among those on offer, BMG Rights said in a statement
today. The Sanctuary label was sold for 40 million pounds ($62
million), two people with knowledge of the transaction said.  Sanctuary, which also holds rights to The Kinks and
Motorhead, is the second label Universal Music has sold this
month. Last week, the record company agreed to sell Parlophone,
home to Coldplay, the Pet Shop Boys and Tina Turner, to Warner
Music Group for $784 million. BMG Rights, controlled by  KKR &
Co. , is a Berlin-based management and rights company expanding
into recorded music.  “We have made no secret of our ambition to create a new
force in the music industry focused on delivering service and
revenue to artists,” BMG Chief Executive Officer  Hartwig Masuch 
said in the statement.  BMG Rights bought EMI’s Mute record label, home to Depeche
Mode, in December.  Remaining Assets  Remaining assets to be sold include Cooperative Music, a
London-based group of independent labels, and EMI’s European
portion of the NOW Series, a CD collection of top radio-played
songs, said one person familiar with the situation. The
businesses have more than a dozen suitors, the person said.  Vivendi , which also owns 61 percent of Activision Blizzard
Inc., the Santa Monica, California-based video-game company,
rose 0.7 percent to 15.51 euros at 10:22 a.m. in Paris.  Citigroup agreed in November 2011 to sell EMI’s recorded
music and publishing business in separate transactions for a
combined $4.1 billion.  Universal Music, based in Los Angeles, paid $1.9 billion
for the recorded music businesses while a Sony Corp.-led group
paid $2.2 billion for the publishing assets.  The bank seized EMI from  Guy Hands ’s private equity firm,
Terra Firma Partners Ltd., in February of that year after it
failed to meet loan terms. Hands bought EMI for 4 billion pounds
in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  