-- Hunter Says Ban From Addressing NBA Union on Fate Disturbing
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-02-16T05:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/hunter-says-ban-from-addressing-nba-union-on-his-fate-disturbing.html
Billy Hunter  said he’s disturbed
that he won’t be allowed to address National Basketball
Association union members today when they determine his fate as
executive director.  The former federal prosecutor was suspended with pay on
Feb. 1 after a union-financed investigation found that he had
put the interests of himself and his family ahead of those of
the National Basketball Players Association.  “As we have all been taught from childhood, there is
always another side to the story that should be evaluated in any
circumstance and before any judgments are made or actions, once
taken, cannot be reversed,” Hunter said yesterday in an online
response to the investigation’s findings.  The 229-page report by the New York law firm Paul Weiss
Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP, released last month, said the
70-year-old Hunter failed to manage conflicts and didn’t
disclose that his $3 million a year contract wasn’t properly
ratified.  It also said Hunter hadn’t done anything illegal. The U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan is investigating union practices.  The league’s 30 player representatives -- one from each
team -- meet today in Houston during the All-Star break and may
decide whether Hunter keeps his job.  Hunter’s response criticized  Derek Fisher , the union’s
president who last year called for an independent audit of the
group’s business and hiring practices. His concerns led to the
nine-month Paul, Weiss investigation and the federal probe.  Union spokesman  Dan Wasserman  declined immediate comment on
the response, saying he hadn’t read it yet.  Ready Response  As part of the  response , Hunter included a 15-slide
PowerPoint presentation on what he would have said to the
players had he been invited to address them at today’s
gathering.  The union constitution requires a two-thirds vote of player
representatives to approve an executive director. It doesn’t
address how many votes would be needed to fire one. It is
possible that players won’t vote on whether to fire Hunter since
the Paul, Weiss report said his contract isn’t valid.  Atop the presentation, Hunter said the union, which was in
debt when he took over in 1996, has net assets of more than $80
million today.  Hunter said he’s owed more than $10 million if dismissed.
The Paul, Weiss report said the players have no obligation to
pay him because the contract wasn’t properly ratified.  Two Years  One of Hunter’s lawyers, Corey Worcester of firm Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, said he “cannot see how anyone
could argue that a signed contract that has been in effect for
more than two years is invalid.”  The PowerPoint presentation offered a rebuttal of the Paul,
Weiss report’s findings, including concern about Hunter’s
contract and his decision to accept $1.3 million for unused
vacation days.  The response said the responsibility for properly ratifying
the executive director’s contract “rested squarely on the
shoulders” of Fisher. Jamie Wior, a spokeswoman for Fisher,
declined to comment on Hunter’s response in an e-mail.  The presentation also said Hunter was improperly placed on
administrative leave.  The Paul, Weiss report found “an unacceptable pattern” of
nepotism at the union, which since 2001 paid $4.8 million to
Hunter’s family members and their professional firms according
to a Bloomberg News report in April that cited public records.  Family Purge  Hunter purged family members from the association after the
report was released. The response yesterday also said Hunter has
ended the tradition of giving gifts to executive committee
members.  Hunter spent more than $100,000 in union funds on luxury
gifts, including a $22,000 Patek Philippe watch to Fisher,
according to the Paul, Weiss report. Hunter’s response said no
executive committee member returned the gifts.  Hunter also said his contract provided for payment of
unused vacation days.  Union attorney  Ron Klempner  is serving as the association’s
acting executive director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in Houston at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
 Eben Novy-Williams  in Houston at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  