-- Van Hollen Open to Medicare Cuts in a Tax Deal (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-02-15T21:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/van-hollen-open-to-medicare-cuts-in-a-tax-deal-transcript-.html
Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a
Maryland Democrat, said during an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s recent bid to
remake the Republican Party is little more than public relations
while expressing a willingness to consider one Republican
proposal to restructure Medicare.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Democratic Congressman
Chris Van Hollen, ranking member of the House Budget Committee.
Congressman, thank you for being with us.  CHRIS VAN HOLLEN: It’s great to be with you, Al.  HUNT: The dreaded sequester takes effect in 10 days. I know
you hate it, say it’s going to cost 750,000 jobs. But let me ask
you, how’s it going to -- how will it play out? Is some kind of
compromise possible?  Will Republicans capitulate?  Or are they
going to hang tough, do you think?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, the question is whether Republicans will
compromise, because it will cost 750,000 jobs between March 1
and the end of the year. That’s not my number. That’s the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office number -  HUNT: CBO. What’s your gut feel of whether they’ll
compromise?  VAN HOLLEN: My gut feeling is that they will not compromise
before March 1st, and then the question is, once the sequester
begins to kick in, whether there will be enough pain for them to
agree they have to compromise, meaning that we have to replace
the sequester through a different deficit-reduction mechanism
that takes place over a period of time, balanced approach,
which, by the way, Al, in the House, the Democrats have four
times put forward an alternative that would achieve the same
amount of deficit reduction without the job loss.  HUNT: Do you think they will -- that the Republicans
eventually will see that pain so great that they will have to go
along with some kind of compromise?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, I think that, in the Senate, some of the
Senate Republicans have indicated that they would prefer to
close some of these special interest tax loopholes, in
combination with some targeted cuts, rather than have the
across-the-board defense cuts take place. Senator McCain -  HUNT: Let me ask -  VAN HOLLEN:  -  and others have indicated -  HUNT: Said that the other day.  VAN HOLLEN:  -  a willingness to consider that.  HUNT: The president in the State of the Union said, as part
of a longer 10-year package, he would be willing to go along
with Medicare cutbacks, like Bowles-Simpson. That’s about $325
billion over 10 years.  Would House Democrats support that, if it was part of an
overall package?  VAN HOLLEN: Yes, if it was structured the right way. And
the big difference, Al, between the Republican approach to
Medicare reductions and the Democratic approach, Republicans
want to simply pass on these rising health care costs in the
form of vouchers and otherwise. The president, for example,
specifically mentioned asking the big pharmaceutical companies
to contribute more. That’s about $130 billion in the president’s
budget.  HUNT: But if you did it that way, maybe have means testing,
but not have a raise -- not raise the eligibility age and raise
about $300 billion, and did it with revenue increases, that’s
something Democrats might buy off on?  VAN HOLLEN: Yes, again, depending entirely on how it’s
done, if you do it, as I said, with the higher rebates, also
improving the coordination of care, accelerating the ways we did
it in the Affordable Care Act. There is money to be saved by
moving away from a strict fee-for-service system toward one that
changes the incentives to focus on quality of care, not quantity
of care.  HUNT: Would Democrats consider entitlements without any
revenue increases, without Republicans going along with revenue
increases as part of a deal?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, we’ve always said you need to have a
balanced approach.  HUNT: So you wouldn’t do it without?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, no, because we think that it is totally
unfair to consider asking somebody who has a median income of
$22,000 on Medicare to see some change, when you’re not asking
millionaires to pay the same effective rate as their
secretaries, applying the Buffett rule.  HUNT: The House majority leader, Eric Cantor of Virginia,
gave a speech last week, put a new face on Republicanism. I’m
sure you’ve read it. What did you think? Is it a new face?  VAN HOLLEN: I haven’t seen any evidence of it. I saw some
new words and sort of a softer image, saying things like we’ve
got to smile more, but as others have said, I mean, you’ve got
to change the product, not just the salesmanship here. And I
think when it comes to economics and the Republican approach to
jobs and the economy, it’s more about changing the smile and the
way you present the case. They’ve got to change their approach.  And, you know, I think the evidence of the last 50 years
shows that one of the reasons the United States has become an
economic powerhouse is we were willing to make important public
investments in our infrastructure, basic science and research,
educating our kids, and if we got to those important
investments, it will be at the expense of our -- our future and
our competitiveness -  HUNT: One of Mr. Cantor’s specific proposals was to combine
Medicare Parts A and B, which he said would result in more -- in
more efficiency and it would not hurt beneficiaries.  VAN HOLLEN: Right, well, this is one where the devil is
entirely in the details. This is a proposal the Congressional
Budget Office has laid out as an option. It’s something that we
looked at during the Biden talks. So I would not say no off the
cuff to that kind of idea. Again, the devil’s entirely in the
details, and it gets back to this fundamental question. You’ve
got to do it in a way that’s not changing the burden. And there
may be ways to do it and make the program overall more
efficient. Medigap reform is part of this discussion, because
right now, the fact that Medigap policy can allow you to
essentially have total first-dollar coverage. It means Medicare
is essentially subsidizing a lot of those plans.  So there are ideas there. The president’s actually proposed
them in his last budget, many of them.  HUNT: Let me ask you about immigration. Do you think that
Speaker Boehner will permit a vote on immigration to be held, if
a majority of his caucus does not support a bill?  And would you
support any bill that doesn’t have a pathway to citizenship?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, first of all, I think a bill needs to
have a pathway to citizenship. I think there can be lots of
hurdles along the way -  HUNT: But that’s the bottom line?  VAN HOLLEN:  -  those that have been laid out by the
president. I think people need to get to the back of the line,
and certainly can’t cut in front of people who are going through
the normal process, and all the other conditions that people
have heard, penalties -  HUNT: But some pathway?  VAN HOLLEN: I think there should be a pathway. Otherwise,
you end up with a system where you have sort of, you know, two
classes of people in the country. I think Speaker Boehner will -
- will allow a vote ultimately. Assuming the Senate passes a
bill -- and Speaker Boehner has already said, you know, Senate,
you’ve got to go first, we’re not acting. But assuming the
Senate, on a bipartisan basis, passes an immigration reform
bill, I believe there are enough voices in the Republican caucus
in the House that would insist on bringing that bill to a vote,
along with Democrats and the public, even if a majority of the
House Republicans didn’t support it.  HUNT: Congressman, one of the many hats you wear is the
chief advocate of campaign finance reform in the House of
Representatives. I want to talk about Organize for Action, the
Obama-related political fundraising committee. No limits on
contributions. Corporations can give money. They said bundlers
have a minimum of $500,000. In return, you get quarterly
meetings with the president, and they won’t disclose the exact
amounts that are given. Does that bother you?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, I always have believed that total
disclosure is -  HUNT: But is everything that they’re doing, OFA is doing,
does that bother you?  VAN HOLLEN: My understanding -- and I will go back and
check -- is that they do intend to disclose the contributions -  HUNT: Not by -- not by specific amounts.  VAN HOLLEN: Well, that -- I would -- I would far prefer --I
believe that everybody should be disclosing. That’s why I
introduced the DISCLOSE Act to do this. Now, I also understand
that people say that, you know, they want to play by the same
rules, which is why we should change the rules by adopting the
DISCLOSE Act -  HUNT: But how about -  VAN HOLLEN:  -  to require that kind of disclosure.  HUNT:  -  a group -- a group so closely entwined with the
president raising big corporate money and big -- and big rich
special interest money?  Isn’t that exactly antithesis of what
you want?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, I want -- I want disclosure at a minimum.
And so I would urge them to have disclosure. My understanding is
that they were going to disclose, so I’ll have to look more into
it.  But let me say one thing. Mitch McConnell, the Republican
leader in the Senate, has been on a warpath against the idea
that the public has a right to know who’s funding all these
campaigns. And the president supports the DISCLOSE Act. And so
let’s get that act done. Then everybody would be required to
tell the American people who’s funding these campaigns and these
ads.  HUNT: Chris Van Hollen, thank you so much for joining us.  VAN HOLLEN: Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 