-- Chavez Using Breathing Tube as Venezuela Publishes Photos
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-15T21:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/venezuela-state-television-broadcasts-photo-of-chavez-in-cuba.html
Venezuela’s government showed the
first photos of President  Hugo Chavez  in more than two months,
as pressure builds to obtain more information about the leader’s
battle with cancer in a Cuban hospital.  In one photo, a smiling Chavez is propped up on a pillow,
his face puffy and flushed, reading yesterday’s copy of the
Cuban Communist Party newspaper Granma in the company of his
daughters Rosa and Maria.  The photos were released as the government struggles to
manage the aftermath of a 32 percent currency devaluation that
went into effect this week. A group of students opposed to the
government were jailed yesterday after trying to chain
themselves to the gates of the Cuban embassy in Caracas to
demand a truthful account of Chavez’s illness, which has plunged
Venezuela into a period of uncertainty.  “This is the first step in knowing what the president’s
real condition is,” said Carlos Romero, a political analyst at
the Universidad Central de Venezuela in Caracas. “The Chavistas
are tired of waiting for honest information about the
president’s health.”  At the same time it released the four photos, the
government provided new details about the president’s health.  Breathing Tube  Information Minister  Ernesto Villegas  said Chavez continues
to suffer from a “delicate” respiratory infection that has
left him speechless and breathing through a tracheal tube.
Instead, the 58-year-old former paratrooper communicates with
his cabinet by writing, and was responsible for determining the
final details of last week’s devaluation of the bolivar, said
Technology Minister  Jorge Arreaza , who is Chavez’s son-in-law.  “He has trouble communicating normally, but we understand
him perfectly,” Arreaza said. “We hope we’ll be able to hear
him again. He hasn’t lost his voice permanently.”  In contrast to the periods following past treatments,
Chavez hadn’t been seen or heard from since traveling to Cuba on
Dec. 10 for his fourth surgery in 20 months. That’s fueled
speculation that his health is worse than the government is
letting on and that he may be forced to step down, a move that
would trigger an election.  Tracheal Tube  Chavez may be using the tracheal tube to breathe more
comfortably than with a machine and avoid damage to his upper
airway or because the airway is damaged and a tube would allow
him to “bypass the place where the windpipe is narrowed or
blocked off,” Michael Pishvaian, an oncologist at the Lombardi
Comprehensive Cancer Center at Georgetown University in
Washington, said in a phone interview. Pishvaian has not treated
Chavez or been given more information than what is publicly
available.  “If the tube is hooked up to a machine, he cannot speak.
If the tube is in place but he’s not dependent on the machine,
they can put in a special kind of tube that allows him to
speak,” Pishvaian said.  The government statement didn’t say whether Chavez is using
the tracheal tube with a breathing machine. If Chavez continues
to use a machine, that would mean his lungs have not recovered,
and he may never become independent of it, Pishvaian said.  Tough Recovery  During Chavez’s prolonged absence, the government has tried
to project an image of stability, with Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  saying in December that Chavez was walking and
exercising.  The photos and comments today indicate that the president’s
recovery is slow-going, confirming the outlook shaped by vague
health updates provided by the government and reports by
newspaper columnists, said Saul Cabrera, vice president of
Caracas-based polling company Consultores 21.  “The fact that he’s prostrate and not even sitting up, yet
alone standing, shows that he remains severely limited
physically,” said Cabrera in a telephone interview.  The government hasn’t disclosed what type of cancer Chavez
is suffering from. Before leaving for Havana for his last round
of treatment, Chavez threw his “irrevocable, absolute” support
behind Maduro should his illness prevent him from carrying out
another six-year term.  Venezuela’s dollar bonds have returned 3.6 percent this
year, and 35 percent in the past 12 months, as investors bet
that any post-Chavez government would retreat from policies that
over the past decade curtailed output in South America’s largest
oil producer.  The yield on the benchmark dollar bonds due 2027 fell three
basis points to 8.93 percent at 3:30 p.m. in New York, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opposition Criticism  The opposition rushed to criticize the government for
allegedly misleading Venezuelans.  “A few days ago the liars said they were speaking with the
president and now they say he can’t speak,” Miranda state
Governor  Henrique Capriles Radonski , who lost to Chavez by 11
percentage points in October’s election, wrote on Twitter.
“They keep thinking the people are fools.”  Maduro, who spoke on state television today at a political
rally in Bolivar state, condemned the comments made by Capriles
and the student protest outside the Cuban embassy in Caracas.  “Chavez’s smile enrages them,” said Maduro. “We’ll hold
Capriles responsible for any violence caused by that neo-fascist
group at the embassy. The police acted because they had to act.
You can’t attack our beloved Cuba.”  In Caracas, Jhonny Herrera said he was happy to see the
president overcoming his illness.  “We Venezuelans believe what we see, not what we’re
told,” said Herrera, a 39-year-old chef who said he’s neither a
supporter of the government or the opposition. “They should
have done this from the beginning to have more credibility with
the people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  