-- Vodafone Said to Consider Kabel Approach as Early as Next Week
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/vodafone-said-to-consider-kabel-approach-as-early-as-next-week.html
Vodafone Group Plc  may approach
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG , Germany’s largest cable provider
with a market value of 6.1 billion euros ($8.1 billion), about a
potential takeover bid as early as next week, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Vodafone’s management, which is in favor of pursuing talks,
is waiting for Kabel Deutschland’s  earnings release , scheduled
for Feb. 20, before initiating negotiations, said the person,
asking not to be named because the deliberations are private.  The world’s second-largest wireless carrier is building up
fixed-line assets to offload surging traffic from its mobile-
phone networks. Kabel Deutschland, which provides TV, Internet
and phone services to more than 8 million German households,
would help Vodafone protect its market share from other cable
rivals, which are increasingly offering mobile packages.  Representatives for Newbury, England-based Vodafone and
Kabel Deutschland, based near Munich, declined to comment.  Kabel Deutschland had an  enterprise value , which includes
debt, of 7.8 billion euros at the end of September, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares closed yesterday at 68.44
euros in Frankfurt and have risen 7.6 percent since reports of
the takeover intention this week. Vodafone added 0.2 percent to
167.80 pence on the London exchange yesterday.  Deals involving telecommunications and media companies
fetched more than $57 billion so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Virgin Deal  Billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. , last week
entered Newbury, England-based Vodafone’s home market with a $16
billion agreement to acquire  Virgin Media Inc.   If a Vodafone-Kabel Deutschland deal takes place, Liberty
Global, which bought Germany’s second- and third-biggest cable
operators in the past three years, would become Vodafone’s
biggest competitor in the country.  Liberty Global would benefit from making further
acquisitions in the German cable market,  Lutz Schueler , head of
the Unitymedia KabelBW unit, said in an interview this week.  He
declined to comment on a potential bid for Kabel Deutschland by
Vodafone.  Kabel Deutschland sells TV, Web and phone services on cable
networks inherited from former phone monopoly  Deutsche Telekom
AG . An acquisition by Vodafone would intensify competition in
the fixed-line market. Vodafone and  Deutsche Telekom  also vie
for the top spot in the German wireless market.  Owning Kabel Deutschland would also help Vodafone avoid
paying Deutsche Telekom rental fees on copper lines for its  TV,
Internet and fixed-line offers to mobile customers. Vodafone
Germany has 3.2 million fixed-line Internet subscriptions, some
of which could be migrated to Kabel Deutschland’s network.  Any deal will likely require antitrust approval.  Antoine Colombani , a Brussels-based spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s competition commissioner, declined
to comment.  Kay Weidner , a spokesman for Germany’s Federal
Cartel Office in Bonn, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  