-- Weavering Employees Lose Appeal on Fund Loss Repayments
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-15T17:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/weavering-employees-lose-appeal-to-repay-hedge-fund-swap-losses.html
Two former employees of Weavering
Capital (UK) Ltd. must participate in paying liquidators of the
collapsed hedge fund $450 million after they failed to persuade
a London court they weren’t responsible for its losses.  Weavering’s former deputy investment manager  Edward Platt 
and director Charanpreet Dabhia denied knowing about the fraud
uncovered by liquidators at  MCR , a unit of Duff & Phelps Corp.
They are among 10 employees, including fund founder  Magnus Peterson , ordered last year to repay a total of $450 million.  Platt and Dhabia’s roles “in negligently enabling this
business to continue, caused the loss claimed,” Judge  Richard McCombe  said, affirming the earlier ruling that they should have
investigated Weavering’s trades more fully. The two were the
only defendants to appeal the 2012 decision.  Peterson told Weavering’s investors he achieved returns of
as much as 12 percent a year, while covering losses with sham
swap contracts, MCR said at a London trial in 2011. While the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office initially decided not to bring
criminal charges over the fund’s 2009 collapse, the agency re-
opened the case in June of last year.  Dabhia denies being negligent and said in a phone interview
that he was a whistle blower who alerted accountants to the
fraud when he discovered it.  “I have been a victim of the whole thing as much as
investors,” Dabhia said. “I’ve lost my career.”  Katie Powell, Platt’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails seeking comment.  The men’s cases were “always without merit and had to be
opposed,” MCR partner  Geoff Bouchier  said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  