-- Weidmann Says Exchange Rates Should Be Determined by Markets
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-02-15T06:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/weidmann-says-exchange-rates-should-be-determined-by-markets.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Jens Weidmann  comments on exchange rates,
monetary policy and Ireland’s promissory note swap.  He made the remarks in an interview in Frankfurt on Feb.
13.  On currencies:  “The G-7 communiqué is in line with the Bundesbank
position, making clear that foreign exchange rates are to be
determined by the markets. That’s the main line of the
communiqué.”  In earlier reported comments “I was referring to the
strained relationship between the government and the Bank of
Japan, which I found worrisome, and I argued that the central
bank and the exchange rate shouldn’t be politicized. That was my
starting point in the debate. We have to disentangle two issues.
One is the effect of policies geared toward domestic monetary
policy needs, the other is about influencing the exchange rate
to gain a competitive edge. The communiqué made clear that the
latter approach to the exchange rate is clearly not what the G-7
wants.  “I fear a politicization of the exchange rate, and I saw
indications of that in Japan, but you could as well refer to
recent statements by European politicians not too far from here.
We should make clear that the exchange rate enters our policy-
making through the effect on the inflation outlook, but we will
abstain from manipulating or directly targeting the exchange
rate.  “I don’t want to discuss the appropriateness of specific
domestic monetary policies, even if they might have debatable
externalities on other countries. What we are discussing here
are policies geared toward the exchange rate. Sometimes the
intentions aren’t even disguised. If we’re asked to steer the
exchange rate, it’s a clear case for the latter.”  On the euro exchange rate:  “I believe that the exchange rate of the euro is broadly
in line with fundamentals. You cannot really say that the euro
is seriously overvalued. I never said there is a currency war,
but there is a danger of competitive devaluation that we have to
guard against.  “The exchange rate enters our data set relevant for
decision making as far as it influences price developments, but
it isn’t a policy target.  “I don’t think that  Mario Draghi  was trying to talk the
euro up or down. What Mario did was to lay out how the exchange
rate enters our policy deliberations.  “If the appreciation of the exchange rate reflects a
regained confidence in the euro area and an improved growth
outlook, then this is fully in line with fundamentals.  “If all central banks unambiguously target price
stability, this will go a long way toward reducing exchange-rate
volatility. At least in the case of the Eurosystem, the target
is clearly price stability.  “The exchange rate is one factor among many in determining
future inflation rates. We will certainly not justify any
monetary policy decision with one single factor.  “The Governing Council just met last week and the press
statement referred to broadly balanced risks for price
stability. I don’t see there is any major change between then
and now.  “I wouldn’t get too excited about exchange rate movements.
The whole debate underlines the importance of getting your
competitiveness right. It’s in the interest of those countries
to increase competitiveness and implement the structural reforms
that have been agreed or announced.”  On the role of currencies at the G-20 meeting:  “I don’t think it’s the main topic. Our agenda is pretty
broad. We will discuss a wide range of issues, of which the
exchange rate is one. The G-7 declaration has already channeled
this debate. We have a lot of other issues on our agenda like
commitment to fiscal sustainability and financial regulation.  “I consider these summits part of a gradual process. One
step at a time. This focus on the outcome of one summit misses
the broader picture.  “I don’t think there is a currency war. But we have to
beware of countries embarking on competitive devaluation. I
welcome the G-7 statement, which is going to be discussed at the
G-20 summit as an element to fend off this potential risk. We
are in a situation where there is a lot of pressure, especially
on monetary policy. This is an ongoing debate which we will have
to face for a longer period of time, because the adjustment
processes in different countries will go on for a while and the
temptation to look for a quick fix is always there.”  On Ireland’s promissory note swap:  “It’s important that we draw a clear line between monetary
and fiscal issues. The transaction in Ireland demonstrates how
difficult it is for monetary policy to free itself from the
embrace of fiscal policy once you’re engaged. The Irish
government in its very own statements underscored the fiscal
elements in this transaction.  “I’m rather strict when it comes to the definition of
monetary financing. It’s important to draw a clear dividing line
and accept the limitations of Article 123 for our actions. It’s
not difficult from that to guess what my position is.  “The Irish government liquidated the IBRC. That has
repercussions on net financial assets and has to be assessed
against the background of Article 123. Of course the Eurosystem
has to make sure that its actions are in conformity with its
rules and statutes.  “I’m not passing a legal judgment on a particular
transaction, but I think it is clear from what I said that I’m
very concerned about monetary policy being too closely
intertwined with fiscal policy and crossing the line to monetary
financing. That’s why I was very skeptical about some of the
decisions in the past, and you can be sure that I apply the same
benchmark to this transaction.  “Once you cross a certain line, setting a precedent, it’s
very difficult to come back and argue against the next similar
transaction. That’s why it is important to define our mandate
narrowly, so we’re not drawn into fiscal policy matters. There
is a reputational issue, there’s a credibility issue. It might
make it more difficult to focus on our main objective credibly.
If governments had wanted to provide additional funding to
Ireland, they could have tapped the ESM.  “We took note of this issue in the Governing Council. Our
deliberations aren’t public. Apart from that, the transaction is
out there, it’s known, it’s very transparent. Everybody has his
own judgment on this -- I have mine.  “The transaction as such is technically a bit complex but
it has a fiscal nature as stated by the Irish government. That’s
clear enough.”  On the economic outlook:  “The confidence indicators are in line with our
projections, in which we see a gradual recovery taking place in
the second half of the year. I see it as a confirmation of our
projections.  “The situation in the euro area is quite heterogeneous.
Take the German labor market which is in quite a robust shape,
whereas unemployment in Spain is above 25 percent. It depends on
the country you’re looking at.  “Our forecast, which I think is still in line with what
we’ve seen so far, is one of a gradual recovery in the second
half of this year, lagging the upswing of the world economy. I
have no reason to doubt this baseline or to speculate about
scenarios, and the recent figures for GDP in Germany and the
euro area came as no surprise.  “One of the major risk factors that we debate every time
is of course the development of the European debt crisis. This
partly has to do with political uncertainties about the
continuation of the reform process in some member countries and
at the EU level.”  On Cyprus:  “Governments defined two preconditions for financial
assistance under the ESM. One is systemic relevance and the
other is public debt sustainability. Cyprus is the first case
where these new rules have to be applied. I guess my definition
of systemic effects would be a narrow one in that it is not
enough that we might see an effect on another country, but on
the system as a whole. Whether we have these effects depends a
lot on how the adjustment in Cyprus is framed, which then in
turn will of course affect debt sustainability in Cyprus. To
meet the debt sustainability criteria a potential program will
certainly need a substantial bail-in component. Besides, there
are other issues that I would say are more political, like
money-laundering and so on.  “Whether a program upsets markets and creates contagion
will depend on its design, specifically how a bail-in is spelled
out, but I don’t want to speculate about this. There might be an
issue - either regarding the systemic effects of the program or
debt sustainability. I am confident that finding a balanced
approach is the heart of the current debates with Cyprus.”  On further debt relief for Greece:  “I don’t see that.”  On LTRO repayment:  “It’s a sign of the eased tensions on financial markets,
especially when it comes to the refinancing of banks and the
interbank market. So I would take it as it is. It’s a sign of
increased confidence. And banks know that we are still in full
allotment mode, so there is no reason to worry about liquidity
shortage.  “Banks can get back to us at any time. We are in full
allotment mode, the interest rates are very low. The banks
aren’t risking much by partially repaying the LTRO. They’ve
reduced liquidity they didn’t need anymore. This is a good sign.
That’s the story.  “We are still operating in an environment of abundant
liquidity despite the partial repayment of the LTRO. I don’t
think that the next repayment is going to change this
fundamentally. So in that sense, higher market rates aren’t my
major concern at this juncture.”  On the ECB’s bond-purchase program:  “My criticism was never related to the fact that I doubted
a positive market reaction. I don’t find the market reaction
surprising. But the market reaction shouldn’t be the relevant
benchmark in judging this decision. The decision has been taken
and now we have to limit the risks that emanate from this
program. That’s a view that we all share. Conditionality is a
very important element of the OMT, but for it to be credible we
must avoid being drawn into fiscal policy matters. Otherwise,
it’s difficult to argue credibly that we enforce conditionality.  “Monetary policy has very powerful tools but that doesn’t
mean that each one of them is always appropriate. The same
effect on markets could have been achieved by the Eurogroup
announcing euro bonds from tomorrow on: whether or not this
would have been a sensible decision for the long-term stability
of the EMU, it would have also calmed markets because what
counts for them in the end is that risk is seen to be shared.
The finance ministers would have had the political legitimation
to do it. But they didn’t. So we’re back to the question of who
is legitimized to do what, and where are the limits of monetary
policy. We all agree in the Governing Council that central banks
cannot solve the euro-area crisis. There is unanimous agreement
that only structural reforms and fiscal consolidation can solve
the euro-area crisis.  “I hope we don’t have to buy bonds under the OMT. However,
experience with similar announcements is that it is quite likely
that someday you will be asked to show your hand.  “The program has to be seen in the broader context of
monetary policy decisions. It leads to a blurring of the line
between fiscal and monetary policy, with repercussions on
decisions-making in other cases.  “Fiscal policy has the means to react. The question for me
is: Do central bank actions alleviate the pressure on fiscal
policy to act or compensate for a lack of fiscal policy action?
You have numerous examples from the recent history of the crisis
where this is the case. Once such a pattern emerges, it should
not come as a surprise if fiscal policy is very reluctant to
act. And that has to do with the reluctance to tap the ESM,
which is there to fulfil this task.”  On Berlusconi’s election promises:  “It’s a very illustrative point of my concerns. If policy
makers refuse to implement the necessary reforms, can you then
expect the central bank to fight against the market reaction to
this deviation from the reform course? That’s why credible
conditionality is of key importance. The way in which the
necessity of reforms is questioned in the Italian electoral
campaign is a good illustration of this risk.”  On the single supervisory mechanism:  “Only a change in the Treaties would allow an unambiguous
separation between monetary policy and the supervisory
functions, but that has not been decided. So we have to work
with what we have and try to separate the two functions as much
as this is possible under the current Treaty, which leads to
complicated constructions.  “There is a reputational risk. Supervisors will make
mistakes. We have to minimize them and minimize their
consequences, but the possibility can’t be ruled out that a
supervisor will make a mistake. So there is a reputational risk
that could also impact on our capacity as monetary policy
makers. So we have to minimize these risks through efficient
structures, and the quality of the staff for instance. The
decision has been taken, so we have to proceed from there. We
can only minimize the risks. There are potential conflicts of
interest. That’s why I believe that a system with a very clear
separation is ultimately better for monetary policy. At the very
least we have to ensure that there are strong Chinese walls
between the two areas.  “I would find it reassuring to set up the supervisory
mechanism with the ultimate objective to separate it from the
central bank or at least build much more reliable Chinese walls
between monetary policy and supervisory decisions. Thus we would
act as an incubator. I think this is a view shared by others.  “The very tight schedule is a challenge but I’m not
questioning the timetable.  “We are playing our part to make the SSM work. At the
Bundesbank we have staff who are up to the task. We as the
Eurosystem have to perform this task efficiently, and there will
be a division of labor between the national central bank and the
ECB.  “The SSM is a key issue for us, but it’s only half of the
story. At least as important is a European resolution scheme. If
the two of them aren’t put in place together, you have a system
difficult to work in.”  On the role of central banks:  “The recent discussion about the role of central banks is
really a cause for concern. We have a wide-ranging debate and
when I listen to some commentators who applaud the Japanese
government for -- they say -- having domesticized their central
bank, this is of course for me a worrisome development.  “We are reliving a debate about the role of the central
bank that we have already had in the past. The independence of
central banks is being questioned more and more, academically
and politically. I think that’s a serious mistake -- not because
I’m sticking to principles but because it’s a key lesson learnt
from history. Independent central banks focused on the primary
goal of price stability are best suited to deliver on that
without jeopardizing growth.  “To tinker with this proven framework could well be a
self-defeating exercise, as it would hamper the effectiveness of
monetary policy: it would risk undermining the credibility of
central banks and unanchoring inflation expectations.”  On rumors about his resignation:  “You shouldn’t believe all the rumors. It’s clear, I’ve
made the point numerous times, I deliberately came to the
Bundesbank in a difficult time, I know what there was to expect
here. I get a lot of pleasure from serving here at the top of
the Bundesbank, it’s a very sensible task, and in that sense
don’t believe the rumors you are hearing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  