-- Won Leads Weekly Gains in Asian Currencies Before G-20 Meeting
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-16T03:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/won-leads-gains-in-asian-currencies-as-yen-rebounds-before-g-20.html
South Korea’s won led gains in Asian
currencies this week amid speculation the region’s policy makers
would refrain from reining in exchange rates before a meeting of
the Group of 20 nations.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index had its first
weekly advance in a month as a draft statement obtained by
Bloomberg News showed G-20 leaders would reaffirm a pledge to
avoid competitive devaluation at a meeting that began in Moscow
yesterday. The yen, which had advanced in Asian trading, fell
after a G-20 official said there isn’t a plan to echo a Group of
Seven promise to avoid using policies to target exchange rates.  “We are unlikely to see any strong action from Korea or
other Asian central banks before the G-20 meeting,” said  Roy Teo , a currency strategist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Singapore.
“The impact of yen weakness on Asian economies is likely to be
relatively muted” because of the rise of China as one of the
top markets for the region’s exports, he said.  The won strengthened 1.6 percent this week to 1,078.20 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.7 percent to 3.0780 and the
Philippine peso rose 0.2 percent to 40.602. The yen fell 0.7
percent to 93.49 per dollar yesterday, taking its weekly decline
to 0.9 percent. Markets in China and Taiwan were closed this
week for the Lunar New Year holiday.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, climbed 0.1 percent in the
first five-day advance since the period ended Jan. 18.
The gauge touched a three-month low on Feb. 12 after Ha Sung
Keun, a Bank of Korea board member, said Jan. 28 that a global
currency war seems to be breaking out as monetary easing in
Japan drags the yen lower. South Korea competes with Japan in
the world market for electronics and autos.  Korea Rates  The won touched the highest level in February yesterday
after the Bank of Korea kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged for a fourth month on Feb. 14, maintaining the yield
advantage on local assets over developed nations. The bank’s
policy rate of 2.75 percent compares with a maximum of 0.25
percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in Japan.  The ringgit appreciated for a second week as reports showed
Japan’s economy unexpectedly shrank and the euro-area recession
deepened, increasing the appeal of Malaysian assets.  The Southeast Asian economy grew 5.5 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, after expanding 5.2 percent in the previous
three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey before data
due Feb. 20. Japan’s gross domestic product shrank an  annualized 
0.4 percent in the fourth quarter, while the  euro-area’s GDP 
fell 0.6 percent from previous three months, according to
official data released in Tokyo and Luxembourg on Feb. 14.  Trade Deficit  India’s rupee had its worst week in 2013 as provisional
data showed the nation’s trade deficit widened last month. The
currency weakened 1.3 percent to 54.2250 per dollar.  Merchandise  shipments  climbed 0.8 percent from a year
earlier and imports advanced 6.1 percent, leaving a trade gap of
$20 billion, Director General of Foreign Trade Anup Pujari said
Feb. 13. Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Feb. 11
that the current-account shortfall in the year through March may
be “significantly higher” than a record 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product in the previous 12 months.  “The pressure on the rupee is going to continue until the
monthly trade deficit drops to about $15 billion or $16
billion,” said Samiran Chakraborty, an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Mumbai.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed from a
week ago at 9,670 per dollar and the Thai baht declined 0.2
percent to 29.86.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  