-- Yen Weakens Versus Dollar Amid Wagers G-20 Won’t Criticize Japan
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-15T22:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/yen-falls-versus-dollar-as-g-20-draft-said-not-to-mention-rates.html
The yen fell versus the dollar the
first time in four days after a Group of 20 official said there
isn’t a plan for a statement by the nations to echo a Group of
Seven pledge to avoid using exchange rates as policy targets.  The Japanese currency, which has lost 7.2 percent this year
versus the dollar as Japan seeks to spur growth, declined for
the week amid bets G-20 finance chiefs won’t publicly criticize
the Asian nation. The latest draft of a statement to be released
tomorrow will urge members to avoid competitive devaluations and
let exchange rates be set by markets, said the official, who
sought anonymity because the document isn’t public.  “The statement is basically in line with what people have
been expecting, with not singling out Japan and letting the
market determine the exchange rate,”  Brian Kim , a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview.
“People are still looking for a weaker yen.”  Japan’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 93.50 per
dollar at 5 p.m. New York time after gaining as much as 0.7
percent earlier. It lost 0.9 percent this week. The yen fell 0.7
percent to 124.96 per euro after gaining to 122.90, the
strongest since Jan. 30.  Europe’s 17-nation currency traded little changed at
$1.3360, after sliding earlier to $1.3306, the lowest since Jan.
24. The euro was little changed on the week.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers at a two-day
meeting that began today in Moscow will reaffirm a pledge to
“refrain from competitive devaluation” and commit to
monitoring “possible monetary-policy spillover,” according to
a Feb. 11 draft obtained by Bloomberg.  Swedish Krona  Sweden’s krona fell for a second day against the dollar
after central-bank Governor Stefan Ingves said Feb. 13 the
currency’s appreciation has brought it to an appropriate level
and the exchange rate will probably remain where it is.  The krona weakened 0.2 percent to 6.3222 per dollar and
fell 0.2 percent to 8.4477 per euro. It has climbed 6.4 percent
over the past 12 months against the U.S. currency and was up 2
percent this week.  The Riksbank’s interest-rate policy is “unfortunate” for
the nation’s exporters and employment, as it’s encouraging a
strong krona,  Sverker Martin-Loef , chairman of Swedish companies
including SSAB AB and Industrivaerden AB, said in an interview
with the Swedish financial newspaper Dagens Industri.  Norway’s Krone  The Norwegian krone touched a three-week low against the
greenback after Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said policy
makers are ready to cut interest rates further to counter gains
in the currency that interfere with the inflation target. The
currency depreciated as much as 0.6 percent to 5.5673 per
dollar, its weakest level since Jan. 24, before trading at
5.5435, down 0.1 percent.  Canada’s dollar fell for the first time in four days
against its U.S. counterpart after a report showed the nation’s
manufacturing sales dropped in December more than forecast. It
weakened 0.6 percent to C$1.0064 to the greenback.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped as commodities fell, with
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index down 0.4 percent in its first
decline in four days. The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, sank 0.7
percent to 84.51 U.S. cents.  The yen tumbled 16 percent over the past three months, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar declined 1.3
percent and the euro rose 3.7 percent.  Reignited Tensions  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers are meeting at
the end of a week in which rich economies sought to avert a
currency war by vowing not to make exchange rates a goal of
policy. Group of Seven officials then reignited tensions by
dividing over whether their first joint comment on currencies
since 2011 was an attempt to slow the yen’s fall.  Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said today
that the G-20 communique won’t include the words “currency
war,” and Russia won’t issue a separate statement on Japan.  “The lack of direct reference to foreign-exchange
targeting would cause investors to interpret that as the G-20
saying they don’t mind where the yen has gone so far,”  Charles St-Arnaud , a currency strategist in New York at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It’s kind of like giving
a seal approval to what’s happening in Japan.”  The premium for one-month options granting the right to
sell the yen versus the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases touched 0.205 percentage point today, the least since
Oct. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The risk-
reversal rate reached a 1.068 percentage-point premium for yen
puts on Feb. 6. A put option gives the right, but not the
obligation, to sell a currency.  BOJ Governor  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is close to choosing his nominee
for the top Bank of Japan post, and the decision may come in a
few days, Reuters reported. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa,
criticized by politicians for not doing enough to end deflation,
said last week he’ll step down on March 19, about three weeks
before his five-year term is due to end.  The euro fell yesterday after reports signaled that the 17-
nation currency bloc’s recession deepened more than forecast
last quarter. Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, the European
Union’s statistics office said, the worst performance since the
first quarter of 2009.  European Central Bank Governing Council member Jens
Weidmann said today a rising euro alone won’t trigger interest-
rate cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  