-- Yen Drop Means Wheat Gains as Foodmaker Profits Hit, Nomura Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-02-15T01:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/yen-drop-means-wheat-gains-as-foodmaker-profits-hit-nomura-says.html
Wheat prices in Japan, Asia’s
second-biggest importer of the grain, are poised to climb the
most since 2011 as the weakening yen increases costs for food
producers, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  The government, which controls wheat imports and domestic
sales to stabilize supply, is likely to boost prices for flour
mills by about 10 percent from the current average of 50,130 yen
($539) per metric ton,  Satoshi Fujiwara , vice president at
Nomura’s equity research department, said in an interview. Any
change in prices, which are reviewed twice a year, will be
announced by the end of this month and take effect in April,
said Hiromi Iwahama, a director of grains trading at the
agriculture ministry.  Japan’s currency has weakened against all of its major
peers in the past three months and touched 94.46 per dollar on
Feb. 11, the lowest since May 2010. Wheat climbed 19 percent in
2012, the best performer among the 24 commodities tracked by the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, and futures for the grain in
Chicago are down 4.5 percent this year.  “If the yen declines further, it will have a major impact
on earnings of foodmakers,” Fujiwara said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday. “Flour millers will probably start raising
prices around June and this will increase costs for bread and
noodle makers.”  Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  pushed the Bank of Japan to
expand stimulus and double its inflation target to 2 percent to
jolt the economy onto a growth path. In Japan, where 60 percent
of farm produce is imported, the weaker yen has spurred an 8.8
percent advance in the benchmark Nikkei 225  Stock  Average this
year and helped exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp. raise
profit forecasts.  Costing Billions  An increase of 10 percent in wheat prices would add about 1
billion yen in costs for noodle makers  Nissin Foods Holdings Co. 
and  Toyo Suisan Kaisha Ltd. , Fujiwara said. It would also boost
costs for  Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. , a maker of processed foods
including pasta and soup based in in Tokyo.  Yuka Kaneko, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Toyo Suisan,
declined to comment on Nomura’s estimates. Masashi Kanaya, a
spokesman for Osaka-based Nissin Foods also declined to comment,
as did officials at Nisshin Seifun.  Masaaki Kadota, executive director at Japan’s Flour Millers
Association, also said a 10 percent increase in wheat prices was
likely, adding about 25 billion yen a year in costs to the
industry.  This would be the biggest gain since the agriculture
ministry raised prices by 18 percent in April 2011, followed by
a further 2 percent in October that year. In 2012, the ministry
cut prices by 15 percent in April, then boosted then by 3
percent in October.  Food Producers  “Food producers and distributors will probably pass on the
higher raw-material costs to consumers while companies that
benefit from a weaker yen may increase payments to workers,”
said  Tetsuhide Mikamo , director at Marubeni Research Institute
in Tokyo.  Consumer prices  in Japan fell in 2012 for a fourth straight
year. Inflation may begin to accelerate as early as 2014,
according to Fujiwara.  Japan depends on imports for almost 90 percent of its
wheat, according to the agriculture ministry. The U.S. was the
largest supplier last fiscal year, even as the worst drought
since the 1930s hurt crops, accounting for 58 percent or 5.6
million tons of imports, ministry data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  