-- Yen Yields Frozen by BOJ Skip G-7 Jump on Slowdown
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-02-15T06:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/yen-yields-frozen-by-boj-skip-g-7-jump-on-slowdown.html
Japan’s debt yields are the lowest
in seven months relative to its major economic peers as a
surprise contraction in the world’s third-largest economy
cements expectations the central bank will print more money.  Yields on Japanese government bonds declined to 92 basis
points below the rates on an index of sovereign bonds from Group
of Seven counterparts this week, the widest gap since June 30,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Ten-year JGB
yields were 1.29 percentage points lower than similar maturity
Treasuries on Feb. 13, the  most  since March 20.  Japan’s lower yields underscore expectations the central
bank will still be bolstering monetary stimulus to end deflation
as its peers put the brakes on easing, according to Resona Bank
Ltd. and Nomura Research Institute Ltd. Data yesterday showed
the nation’s economy shrank for a third-straight quarter, giving
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ammunition in his argument that the
Bank of Japan should pursue more aggressive stimulus.  “The outlook for monetary policy is totally different
between Japan and other countries,” said  Koichi Kurose , chief
economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank, which oversees about $160
billion. “The BOJ’s monetary easing is expected to focus on how
to avoid an increase in yields.”  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his fellow policy makers
refrained from adding to stimulus yesterday after a two-day
meeting. Japan’s 10-year yields fell 1 1/2 points, or 0.015
percentage point, to 0.75 percent today, following a 2 1/2 basis
point climb yesterday.  BOJ Leadership  The central bank  increased  the size of its asset-purchase
fund by 15 percent to 76 trillion yen ($820 billion) in December
and adopted Abe’s 2 percent inflation goal the following month.  Shirakawa and two deputies will step down on March 19,
allowing Abe to choose successors to prosecute his plan for
expanded easing. The yen has weakened against all of its major
peers in the past three months and touched 94.46 per dollar on
Feb. 11, the lowest since May 2010. It strengthened to 92.57 at
3:01 p.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.4 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31, government figures showed yesterday,
while economists had estimated a 0.4 percent expansion. The GDP
 deflator , a measure of price changes across the economy, slid
for a 13th quarter.  “The weak GDP data probably give Abe a convenient excuse
to ask for additional monetary easing from the BOJ,” said
 Satoshi Shimamura , the head of rates and markets at the
investment-strategy department of MassMutual Life Insurance Co.
in Tokyo.  DoCoMo Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, NTT DoCoMo Inc. is
considering a possible debt sale, Chief Financial Officer  Kazuto Tsubouchi  said in an interview on Feb. 13. The nation’s biggest
wireless operator has 130 billion yen of bonds maturing this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese corporate notes have handed investors 0.43 percent
so far this year, compared with a 0.78 percent decline in
company bonds worldwide, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan index  of credit-default swaps for
50 companies dropped to 117.3 basis points on Feb. 13, the
lowest since July 2011, and was little changed yesterday,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A drop in the contracts signals improving
perceptions of creditworthiness.  Global Easing  Merrill Lynch’s index for G-7 nations excluding Japan
consists of sovereign bonds issued by the U.S., U.K., Germany,
France, Italy and Canada. They have lost 1.3 percent in the past
three months, while Japan’s debt returned 0.1 percent.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said on Feb. 13 that he wants “to see through the spring at
least” before recommending a decrease in the Fed’s bond
purchases. The U.S. central bank buys government and mortgage
debt at a rate of $85 billion a month in its third round of so-
called quantitative easing.  In the U.K., inflation has remained “stubbornly” above
the Bank of England’s 2 percent target, the central bank said on
Feb. 7. The European Central Bank left policy unchanged the same
day with President Mario Draghi saying policy makers foresee a
“ gradual ” recovery.  “Once the Fed starts debating how to gradually reduce QE3,
it could drive Treasury yields higher,” said  Tetsuya Inoue , a
former BOJ official who is now the chief researcher for
financial markets at Nomura Research in Tokyo. “The euro area
doesn’t have Japan’s deflation problem and there are some
economies that are resilient, so the ECB isn’t in a situation
where it can execute aggressive measures.”  BOJ Candidates  Candidates for the next BOJ governor include  Kazumasa Iwata , a former BOJ deputy governor;  Kikuo Iwata , an economics
professor at Gakushuin University; and Asian Development Bank
President  Haruhiko Kuroda , Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analysts led by Tokyo-based chief economist  Masayuki Kichikawa ,
wrote in a report this month.  Former BOJ deputy governor  Toshiro Muto  is the leading
candidate to head the central bank, Reuters reported today,
citing people close to the selection process. Muto is the most
conservative among probable choices, according to Citigroup Inc.  Kazumasa Iwata told reporters yesterday a decline in the
yen to 90 to 100 per dollar is within the range of a correction.
Kuroda said in an interview with Bloomberg on Feb. 11 that Japan
has “substantial room for monetary easing.”  “The prevailing atmosphere is that you won’t be a governor
candidate unless you pledge to adopt a reflationary policy,”
said  Teruyoshi Sotome , a Tokyo-based senior bond strategist at
Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to
bid at government debt sales. “The yield gaps between Japan and
other countries will continue to widen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  