-- Zinc Rises as Meteorite Explosion Causes Damage at Russian Plant
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-15T10:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-15/zinc-rises-as-meteorite-explosion-causes-damage-at-russian-plant.html
Zinc rose in London, narrowing this
week’s drop, after an exploding meteorite caused damage at a
Russian plant producing the metal.  A shock wave caused by the blast destroyed a wall in a
concentrate warehouse at the Chelyabinsk Zinc Plant site and
smashed windows in other buildings, spokesman Evgeny Ponomarev
said today. The plant is working as usual, he said. Chelyabinsk
Zinc produced 160,000 metric tons of refined zinc and alloys
last year, according to the company  website .  “Your immediate knee-jerk reaction is that this is
potential supply being taken out of the market,”  Nic Brown ,
head of commodity research at Natixis SA in London, said by
phone today. “And then you spend time thinking, ‘How much
impact does this have?’”  Zinc for delivery in three months added 0.2 percent to
$2,193 a ton by 10:03 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange, paring
a climb of as much as 0.9 percent. Prices are down 0.5 percent
this week. Copper was little changed at $8,237 a ton and $3.754
a pound for May-delivery metal on the Comex in New York.  Chelyabinsk Zinc is a unit of billionaire Iskandar
Makhmudov’s Ural Mining & Metallurgical Co. The meteorite broke
apart at about 7:25 a.m. Moscow time, the Emergencies Ministry’s
division in the Urals district said today on its website.  Copper headed for a first weekly decline in three after
figures this week showed the euro-region economy shrank the most
in almost four years in 2012’s final quarter. Inventories of the
metal tracked by the LME rose above 400,000 tons for the first
time since November 2011 today on deliveries in Malaysia’s Johor
and New Orleans, exchange figures showed.  “We do expect the copper market to be moving into surplus
at some point this year, but we think it’s a little bit soon to
be suggesting that the rise in stockpiles is an indication that
it’s already happening,” Brown said.  Inventories gained 0.6 percent to 401,675 tons as orders to
draw copper from warehouses fell 1.7 percent to 30,350 tons.  Aluminum, lead, tin and nickel rose in London. Financial
markets in China, the world’s biggest consumer of industrial
metals, are closed this week for the Lunar New Year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnieszka Troszkiewicz  in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  