-- H&R Block Climbs After CEO Predicts More Filings: Chicago Mover
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-08T15:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/h-r-block-climbs-after-ceo-predicts-more-filings-chicago-mover.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, rose to the highest since 2008 after Chief Executive
Officer William C. Cobb said he expects this year’s filing
season to yield more business following an initial delay.  Shares of the Kansas City, Missouri-based company jumped
8.9 percent to $27.21 at 10:39 a.m. in New York. That’s the
highest intraday price since September 2008. The shares climbed
35 percent this year through yesterday.  “We continue to believe that industry filings this tax
season will grow in line with historical levels of approximately
1 percent to 2 percent,” Cobb said yesterday on a conference
call with analysts. “While it’s still early in the season, we
believe we are outperforming the market thus far in both the
assisted and digital categories.”  The Internal Revenue Service  opened  the U.S. filing season
Jan. 30, about a week later than originally planned, after
Congress passed changes to the law. Cobb, 56, is seeking to
expand services as taxpayers adjust to new health-care laws and
navigate changes linked to the expiration of George W. Bush-era
tax cuts. The CEO also is paring expenses as H&R Block vies to
recapture market share lost to TurboTax maker  Intuit Inc. (INTU)   H&R Block posted a third-quarter net loss yesterday of
$16.9 million, or 6 cents a share, from continuing operations
for the three months ended Jan. 31. That compared with a loss of
$3.6 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier, the company said in a
statement. The  average estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a loss of 2 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  