-- Abe Adviser Says Can Miss 2% Inflation If Economy Heals
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-03-09T03:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/abe-adviser-says-japan-can-forgo-2-inflation-if-economy-heals.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
economic adviser said failing to reach the central bank’s 2
percent inflation target will be acceptable so long as the
 economy  heals.  A “fully-fledged recovery” is the key “even if price
growth reaches only 1.5 percent,” Koichi Hamada, 77, a retired
Yale University professor, said in a speech in Tokyo yesterday.
“It can be said the inflation target is a secondary goal.”  Japan returned to growth in the fourth quarter, bolstering
Abe’s campaign to end 15 years of deflation and revive the
world’s third-biggest economy, a report showed yesterday. Kikuo Iwata, a nominee to be a central bank deputy governor, suggested
this week that  Bank of Japan (8301)  leaders could resign if they failed
to achieve the 2 percent target within two years.  “Hamada probably wanted to make it clear that the real
goal is to end deflation, not 2 percent price growth,” said
Takeshi Minami, chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Co.  Investors’ expectations for aggressive easing are driving
down the yen and boosting the nation’s stocks. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average gained 2.6 percent to close at 12,283.62 in Tokyo
yesterday, the highest since before Lehman Brothers filed for
bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008.  The dollar rose to its strongest
level since August 2009 against the yen.  Abe’s Policies  “We don’t aim at weakening the yen, but we thought
excessive appreciation in the yen needs to be corrected,” Abe
said on BS Asahi television today. “With bold monetary easing,
one of our ‘three arrows’ policies to end deflation, its effects
come out in currencies and stocks at first. That’s appearing
just right now.”  Abe said so-called Abenomics is aimed at overcoming
deflation and boosting growth. He said he doesn’t comment on 
foreign-exchange rate levels.  Abe consulted with Hamada before last year’s election
campaign, won by Abe after he pledged aggressive monetary easing
to spur growth. Hamada also advised him on choosing a nominee
for central bank governor, with Asian Development Bank President
Haruhiko Kuroda picked as the candidate to succeed Masaaki Shirakawa.  Economic Growth   Gross domestic product rose an annualized 0.2 percent in
the three months through December, the Cabinet Office said in
Tokyo yesterday, compared with a preliminary calculation of a
0.4 percent contraction.  Shirakawa, who is stepping down on March 19 along with two
of his deputies, said this week that achieving the price target
will take “considerable efforts” as the bank expects 0.9
percent inflation in the year starting in April 2014.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell 0.2 percent in
January. The price gauge hasn’t advanced 2 percent -- the
central bank’s target since January -- for any year since 1997,
when a national sales tax was increased.  The yen traded at 95.51 per dollar as of 6:36 p.m. in Tokyo
yesterday.  Private consumption and public investment fueled the
nation’s growth in the fourth quarter, while a less-than-
initially estimated fall in capital spending suggests that a
weakening yen may be easing corporate pessimism. Exporters from
Toyota Motor Corp. to Nintendo Co. have raised their profit
forecasts.  Recession Over  “Japan’s recession is over and the economy is heading to a
recovery,” said Koya Miyamae, an economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo who accurately predicted yesterday’s
GDP result. “I expect the pace of growth to pick up in coming
quarters backed by government spending, improving corporate
profits and the global recovery.”  Net exports subtracted 0.2 percentage point from GDP growth,
unchanged from the initial estimate. Japan recorded a record
trade deficit in 2012 as exports fell and energy imports costs
remained high with almost all nuclear reactors closed after the
2011 earthquake and tsunami disaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  