-- Accused Colorado Shooter Loses Challenge to Insanity Law
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-08T16:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/accused-colorado-shooter-loses-challenge-to-insanity-law.html
James Holmes, charged with murdering
12 people in a shooting rampage at a Colorado movie theater in
July, lost a challenge to the state’s law governing insanity
pleas.  Judge William Sylvester of the Arapahoe County District
Court rejected a request by Holmes’s lawyers to rule that the
law is vague and unconstitutional, declining to go into
specifics. Any opinions on the state’s statutes at this time
would be “premature and advisory,” Sylvester said in a ruling
made public today.  “This court has not and will not address any questions
dependent on hypothetical facts and circumstances not before it
at this time,” Sylvester wrote. He said appellate courts have
upheld parts or versions of the statutes in dispute.  Holmes, a former student at the  University of Colorado  in
Denver, is scheduled to be arraigned March 12 on 166 counts,
including murder and attempted murder. His lawyers said in court
filings last week that he is considering pleading not guilty by
reason of insanity. Holmes may face the death penalty if
convicted of first-degree murder.  Under Colorado law, prosecutors may use statements or
evidence obtained from a court-ordered psychiatric evaluation of
a defendant who pleads insanity, Holmes’s attorneys have said.
The attorneys, with the state’s public defender’s office, argued
that the law is unconstitutionally vague and violates Holmes’s
right against self-incrimination.  Sylvester said he found that the statutes are not
unconstitutional. He wouldn’t go into further detail. He granted
the lawyers’ request for an explanation of the consequences of
entering an insanity plea.  Doug Wilson,  Colorado ’s state public defender, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  