-- Lagarde Says IMF ‘Open Minded’ on Irish Exit Bailout Concessions
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-03-08T11:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/lagarde-says-imf-open-minded-on-irish-exit-bailout-concessions.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director, Christine Lagarde said she has an “open mind” on how
Ireland can be best helped exit its bailout program, as European
Union leaders discuss extending its aid loans.  Lagarde said alternatives are available other than simply
extending loans, adding that the IMF remains “on call” for
Ireland as it leaves the program.  “It is not just about extension of maturity,” she told
reporters in Dublin today. “You can think of other devices
possibly but certainly it includes the extension. We will look
at it together with the other two partners in the troika.”  EU finance ministers are discussing a plan that would allow
Ireland to extend the maturities on some loans to ease repayment
costs and help the countries regain full market access. Ireland
is aiming to exit its bailout program, which it entered in 2010,
by the end of this year. The IMF provided 22.5 billion euros of
the country’s 67.5 billion euro-rescue.  “The IMF is a multilateral institution that has to operate
on a completely even-handed manner and very much on the basis of
the rule of law,” she said. “We don’t invent new terms and new
policies on an adhoc basis.”  Last year, Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan raised the
possibility of a precautionary credit line being provided to the
government as it makes a full return to international markets.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday the European plan
to consider extending maturities on some Irish bailout loans is
“very significant.” The EU may reschedule at least 10.5 billion
euros of Irish rescue loans due to mature in 2015 and 2016,
Dublin-based securities firm Davy said.  The yield on Ireland’s bonds maturing in October 2020 fell
4 basis points to 3.68 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  