-- AIG to Redeem $1.1 Billion of Debt in Path to Dividend
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-08T15:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/aig-to-redeem-1-1-billion-of-debt-in-path-to-dividend.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
said it will redeem $1.1 billion of debentures as the company
seeks to lower debt before reinstating a dividend.  The junior subordinated securities pay a 7.7 percent coupon
and are due in 2047, the New York-based firm said yesterday in a
statement.  “The redemption reduces expensive debt, improves our
interest coverage ratios, and puts us in a position to remain
opportunistic with respect to liability management going
forward,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, said in
the statement.  Benmosche, who repaid a U.S. bailout in December, has said
AIG may reinstate a dividend this year after suspending payments
in 2008. The insurer first needs to lower debt, said the CEO,
who began an offer Feb. 19 for as much as $1.25 billion of
securities with rates as high as 8.625 percent.  The insurer is working to improve its standing with credit
ratings firms and regulators after repaying the bailout in
December. A priority is to cut interest expenses relative to
 cash flow , Benmosche said in a Feb. 22 conference call.  “As the year progresses, we will then begin to look at
things like ‘Could we add a dividend to the stock and also could
we have some kind of modest stock buyback?’” he said on the
call. “But we’re going to wait until we’re very, very sure
we’re in great shape.”  Share Rally  AIG gained 1.1 percent to $39.43 at 9:44 a.m. in New York.
The company rallied 39 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with the 13 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The insurer was bailed out in 2008 after  credit downgrades 
increased liabilities on contracts backing investors against
losses on mortgage-related securities. The company, led by
Benmosche since 2009, has the eighth-highest of 10 investment-
grade bond ratings at Moody’s Investors Service.  “AIG is focused on reducing financial debt to satisfy the
 ratings agencies ,”  Jay Gelb , an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote
in a Feb. 22 research note.  Total debt outstanding was about $46.7 billion as of Dec.
31, according to an AIG regulatory filing. That figure excludes
more than $20 billion at the  plane-leasing unit  that Benmosche
agreed to sell to a Chinese investor group. Total debt was more
than $100 billion at the end of 2010.  The insurer struck deals to sell more than $70 billion in
assets as it worked to end the bailout and simplify the company.  AIG’s ability to pay a dividend may depend on a Federal
Reserve review of the insurer’s capital, Benmosche said in a
conference call on Nov. 2. The company in October was the first
non-bank to disclose it was under consideration to be labeled a
potential risk to the financial system, a designation that
carries additional Fed oversight.  “I would love to be able to put a dividend on the stock,”
Benmosche said Feb. 22. “It increases the number of potential
shareholders for this company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  