-- Malta’s May Elect Labour Party for First Time Since Euro Start
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a
-- 2013-03-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/malta-s-labour-poised-for-first-election-victory-of-the-euro-era.html
Malta’s  Labour Party  may win
national elections for the first time since the start of the
euro as voters reject the Nationalist Party that has dominated
politics and shielded the country from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Voting begins at 7 a.m. and ends at 10 p.m., with initial
projections due to be released tomorrow morning.  Labour, led by 39-year-old former journalist, Joseph Muscat, had a lead of more than 10 percentage points over the
Nationalists, who have governed for all but two of the past 25
years, according to final opinion polls. Muscat is benefiting
from public anger over rising power prices, an unpopular
overhaul of the public transport system and a corruption scandal
involving oil-procurement.  Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi’s Nationalist Party, which
steered the country into the European Union in 2004 and to euro
adoption in 2008, has helped protect the euro-area’s smallest
economy from the debt crisis that led Mediterranean neighbors
such as  Greece , Cyprus and  Spain  to seek bailouts.  Under Gonzi, economic growth has outpaced the euro-region
average and the  budget deficit  has fallen to within the EU’s
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product. The jobless rate
of 6.5 percent last year was the fifth-lowest of the 17
countries using the euro. Malta’s debt rose to 73 percent of GDP
last year, still that’s shy of the EU average of 93 percent.  Tax Cuts  Muscat’s Labour Party is calling for a “new beginning,”
promising to make the island nation the best in the EU,
according to his campaign platform. He says Labour is committed
to controlling  government spending  and will further reduce the
deficit. He has pledged to fight corruption, cut energy costs
and lower income tax rates if elected.  The Nationalists won the 2008 elections by just 1
percentage point, resulting in a parliamentary majority of a
single seat. Gonzi was forced to call tomorrow’s election after
one of his allies, Franco Debono, voted with the opposition in
December to reject the 2013 budget.  Standard & Poor’s  reacted on Jan. 16 to the budget impasse
by cutting Malta’s rating one level to BBB+. S&P said the delay
in approving the budget “raises questions about the
government’s ability to restore the fiscal flexibility it has
gradually lost, and resolving the recurrent budgetary risks
caused by loss-making state-owned enterprises.”  S&P maintained a stable outlook on Malta, citing the
country’s “relative resilience to the ongoing political,
financial, and monetary challenges in the euro zone.”  Malta tends to have the highest voter turnout in the
region, with more than 90 percent of eligible voters
participating in every general election since 1971. There are
more than 332,000 eligible voters out of a population of just
over 416,000, up from the 315,000 eligible voters in 2008. In
2008 voter turnout was more than 93 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Stagno Navarra at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  