-- Alzheimer’s Seen on Scans Decades Before Dementia, Study Shows
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/alzheimer-s-seen-on-scans-decades-before-dementia-study-shows.html
Abnormal deposits in the brain
thought to trigger Alzheimer’s disease can be detected decades
before the memory-robbing illness ensues, a finding that will
help guide future treatments, researchers in  Australia  said.  Doctors at Melbourne’s  Austin Hospital  followed 200
seniors, including people with Alzheimer’s disease and mild
cognitive impairment, for more than three years to chart any
decline in cognition and brain size against the deposition of
abnormal protein in their brains. They found it takes about 20
years for the deposits, known as amyloid beta, to lead to
dementia.  The findings, published today in the medical journal  the
Lancet Neurology , suggests doctors have a large window of
opportunity to potentially slow, or even reverse, the
accumulation of amyloid beta to stave off the onset of
Alzheimer’s. The disease is the main cause of dementia, which
afflicts 35.6 million people globally -- a number the  World
Health Organization  says will double by 2030 and triple by 2050.  “It’s now quite clear that it’s a very slow, gradual
process over a couple of decades,” said Christopher Rowe,
Austin Hospital’s director of nuclear medicine. For Alzheimer’s
to develop, the brain needs to accumulate large amounts of
amyloid “and you need it there for a long time,” Rowe, a study
co-author, said in a telephone interview from Florence,  Italy .  All Alzheimer’s disease patients have amyloid deposits in
the brain, though not all people with the deposits have the
disease, Rowe said.  Post-Mortem Studies  “We’ve known for a long time from post-mortem studies that
apparently normal people can have amyloid in their brain, and
it’s been hypothesized that this is representing a slow build up
towards Alzheimer’s disease and they just hadn’t developed the
 dementia  by the time that they died,” he said. “It’s very
likely that amyloid is the trigger, but the process of
Alzheimer’s disease does require other things that happen which
we don’t entirely understand.”  Participants underwent a neuropsychological examination,
and received magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, and positron
emission tomography, or  PET , scans of their heads every 18
months for at least three years. As Alzheimer’s disease
progresses, the pace of amyloid deposition slows, the
researchers found.  The data indicate that there is a prolonged period in which
amyloid beta is forming plaques in the brain without the
symptoms of  Alzheimer’s disease , the authors said. Even before
dementia sets in, shrinkage in the part of the brain linked to
memory and attention occurs about four years earlier, and memory
is impaired about three years prior.  Early Signs  “We compared when you can first see changes on an MRI scan
and on memory testing, and we can pick them up from about seven
years before dementia,” Rowe said.  Extrapolating the data suggests beta amyloid deposition can
lead to dementia in as few as 10 years, with an average of 19
years, he said. There is also a period in which the early stages
of amyloid deposits are occurring though not detectable.  “The entire process is now getting up toward more than 25
years,” Rowe said. “This is much longer than people
expected.”  Patients with tertiary education and those with bigger
brains prior to the formation of amyloid deposits can tolerate
higher levels of the errant protein, he said.  Rowe and colleagues are now studying potential therapies to
stymie amyloid plaques before they have had a chance to damage
and eventually kill brain cells. If successful, the use of PET
scans -- which cost $1,500 to $3,500 apiece -- “will explode,”
Rowe said.  ‘Great Hope’  “You have a much greater chance of stopping a disease than
trying to repair a brain that’s severely damaged,” he said.
“This is the great hope now.”  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , Elan Corp. and  Prana Biotechnology Ltd. (PBT)  are
among drugmakers racing to develop treatments for Alzheimer’s.
There have been 101 unsuccessful attempts since 1998, according
to the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
Current therapies provide some temporary symptomatic
improvement.  “The problem with Alzheimer’s disease is that you don’t
have an effective therapy, but we can certainly make a better
diagnosis with amyloid imaging -- be more precise about what’s
going on with the patient and what their prognosis is -- but we
can’t change the course of their disease,” Rowe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  