-- AMMB, K&N Kenanga Said to Submit Offers for Malaysia’s Hwang-DBS
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-03-11T00:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/ammb-k-n-kenanga-said-to-submit-offers-for-malaysia-s-hwang-dbs.html
AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM)  and K&N Kenanga
Holdings Bhd. are among first-round bidders for Hwang-DBS
(Malaysia) Bhd., the investment bank backed by Southeast Asia’s
largest lender, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  The company, which counts Singapore-based  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and Malaysia’s Hwang Enterprises Sdn. as its
largest shareholders, also drew offers from  Alliance Financial
Group Bhd. (AFG)  and  Affin Holdings Bhd. (AHB)  this week, three of the
people said, asking not to be identified as the process is
private. The bids valued Hwang-DBS at as much as 1.68 billion
ringgit ($541 million), one person said.  Malaysian banks and brokerages have resorted to mergers to
fend off increased competition from overseas firms. Last year,
 K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd. (KNK)  acquired the investment banking and
broking unit of ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. for 875 million
ringgit, while RHB Capital Bhd. bought OSK Holdings Bhd.’s
investment bank for 2 billion ringgit. Hwang-DBS, whose shares
have rallied 47 percent this year, has a market capitalization
of 988 million ringgit.  Representatives for Affin, K&N, Alliance and AMMB declined
to comment or weren’t immediately available.  Hwang-DBS asked Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help find
potential buyers after the death of its founder last year, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  The brokerage began operations in 1973 under the name
Southern Stock Brokers Sdn., and Hwang-DBS Investment Bank Bhd.
was created in December 1992, according to the company’s
 website . DBS Group, Southeast Asia’s largest lender, controls
about 28 percent of the company through its units, while Hwang
Enterprises owns 26.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  