-- Manchester City, Real, Barcelona Won’t Move for Rooney: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-08T06:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/manchester-city-real-barcelona-won-t-move-for-rooney-roundup.html
 The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Rooney Unwanted  Manchester City, Real Madrid and Barcelona aren’t
interested in signing  Wayne Rooney  after the striker’s future at
 Manchester United  was thrown into doubt following his Champions
League omission this week, the  Daily Mail reported .  With United said to be ready to consider offers of about 20
million pounds ($30 million) for Rooney, City is focused on
pursuing Napoli’s Edinson Cavani and Atletico Madrid’s Radamel Falcao, the Mail said, adding that Real and Barcelona are
concerned by reports of issues with Rooney’s fitness and
conditioning.  Chain Reaction  Rooney’s fate may depend on City’s Edin Dzeko moving to
 Borussia Dortmund , which would allow the German champion to sell
 Robert Lewandowski  to United for about 18 million pounds, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Lewandowski’s arrival at Old Trafford would then enable
United manager  Alex Ferguson  to jettison Rooney, with the club
likely to receive about 25 million pounds for the England
striker, the Mirror said.  Weekly Watch  Ajax playmaker Christian Eriksen is an offseason transfer
target for Tottenham and Liverpool, who have been scouting him
on an almost weekly basis, the  Independent reported .  The Danish midfielder has refused to sign a new contract
and wants to play in England, the newspaper added. Spurs
chairman  Daniel Levy  is said to be confident of driving down
Ajax’s asking price of 14 million pounds to about 8 million
pounds because Eriksen has one year left on his current
agreement, the Independent said.  Suarez’s Salary  Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  is said to have received a raise
lifting his wage to more than 100,000 pounds a week under the
terms of his incentive-based contract, the  Guardian reported .  The Uruguay striker, who’s scored 21 league goals this
season, is the first major beneficiary of a system introduced by
club owner Fenway Sports Group that rewards players for reaching
certain targets, the newspaper added.  Everton Target  Everton is planning an offseason move for Porto forward
Christian Atsu, who has a release clause of 8 million pounds in
his contract, the  Daily Express reported .  Atsu, who’s contracted with the Portuguese club until 2014,
was on Tottenham’s radar during the January transfer window, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  