-- Land Rovers and Airplanes Ready as Falklands Votes on U.K. Ties
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/land-rovers-and-airplanes-ready-as-falklands-votes-on-u-k-ties.html
Land Rovers and airplanes are being
readied to carry ballots from eight different islands as the
Falklands prepare to vote on their status as a self-governing
overseas territory of the U.K.  The islands’ government called a  referendum  for March 10
and 11 to reinforce its stance that the inhabitants want to stay
British in the face of increasing claims from Argentina, which
says the islands were wrongly taken from it in the 19th century
and whose forces were expelled from the archipelago after
invading in 1982.  “I hope the referendum sends a very clear message to the
world that the Falkland Islanders wish to remain as an overseas
territory of the U.K. with the right to determine their own
future,”  Roger Edwards , a member of the islands’ legislative
assembly, said in a telephone interview from the main
settlement, Stanley. “People are very hacked off with the
attitude of  Argentina , with their belligerence and economic
blockade of the islands.”  International observers will accompany five mobile polling
stations as they make between six and 11 stops to collect votes
from remote areas on the archipelago, nearly 8,000 miles (13,000
kilometers) from Britain, as the Falklands authorities seek to
avoid any accusation that the vote is not legitimate. The
Argentine government has dismissed the referendum as
“irrelevant” and rebuffed attempts by the islanders to start
negotiations.  ‘Observed Worldwide’  “We’re very conscious that we’re going to be observed
worldwide,” Beth Reid, the islands’ registrar general, who’s
responsible for the logistics of the voting, said in a telephone
interview. “We’d want it to work properly anyway, but we are
very aware of the interest.”  Two days have been allocated for voting to cover the
possibility that the weather grounds the planes carrying votes
to Stanley for the count on March 11. Flights were postponed
yesterday as a result of heavy fog and a repeat on Sunday and
Monday could lead to polling being continued for a third day.  The question on the ballot paper is: “Do you wish the
Falkland Islands to retain their current political status as an
Overseas Territory of the United Kingdom?” If the islanders
vote no in the referendum, there will be a consultation before a
further vote to decide on alternative arrangements.  The  dispute over the ownership of the islands  has lasted
since their settlement by the French in 1764 and the British in
1766. Spain forced the French colony off the archipelago to
establish its own garrison, and then in 1771, Spain ceded to
Britain the right to have a colony there, which it later
abandoned.  American Ships  Louis Vernet, a Frenchman who had become a citizen of
Argentina, established a new colony in the Falklands in 1826. He
sought approval from both Argentina and Britain to do so. Five
years after that, he provoked the first naval assault on the
islands, when he arrested three American ships for unauthorized
fishing. The USS Lexington and USS Warren raided the settlement
and carried the leaders off in chains as pirates.  In 1843, the Argentine leader, Juan Manuel de Rosas,
looking for a way to settle a 1 million-pound bond from 1824
that had been in default for 15 years, offered to drop claims to
sovereignty of the islands if the British government would take
over the debt. Britain refused, arguing that the islands were
already its own. In World War I, Britain had a coaling station
for its warships on the Falklands.  War Dead  Argentina, which calls the islands the Malvinas, invaded in
1982 and was forced out after a 74-day conflict in which 255
British and 649 Argentine military personnel died, along with
three islanders. The war helped bring down the Argentine
military leader, Leopoldo Galtieri, and bolstered the government
of Margaret Thatcher in Britain.  “We were settled here before Argentina was even a state,”
said Edwards, who fought in the 1982 war and is married to a
fourth-generation islander. “We don’t see this as an argument
between Argentina and the U.K.; the Falkland Islanders should be
listened to.”  Edwards said he expects a “vast majority” to vote in
favor of the status quo for the islands, which are home to 2,563
people from 60 different countries, according to the Falkland
Islands government website. There are 1,200 military personnel
in the  British Falklands garrison . The archipelago also has
700,000 sheep.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  made an oil discovery at its Sea
Lion prospect to the north of the islands in May 2010, which it
plans to develop with a $1 billion investment from Premier Oil
Plc. Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc says its find to the
southwest of the islands may also be commercial.  ‘Strong Defenses’  The U.K. is prepared to fight to keep the islands British
if they are invaded again, Prime Minister David Cameron said in
January in response to an open letter from Argentine President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner in which she accused Britain of
perpetuating colonialism.  “Of course we would, and we have strong defenses in place
on the Falkland Islands,” Cameron told BBC television when
asked if the U.K. was ready to fight. “I get regular reports on
this entire issue because I want to know that our defenses are
strong and our resolve is extremely strong.”  On the islands, the focus is on ensuring that everyone who
wants to vote gets the chance to do so.  Reid has divided the islands into sections and drawn up
detailed timed itineraries for her teams to get to the 282
voters who live outside Stanley as well as the 1,368 in the
capital.  “We’ve been working on it for a while, and every single
person has been allocated a time and place close to their home
to vote,” she said. “On Long Island, for example, it’s the
gate nearest to the settlement -- everyone knows everywhere and
everything here so they’ll be there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  