-- Hanergy Sees Thin-Film Solar Gaining Market Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-08T08:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/hanergy-sees-thin-film-solar-gaining-market-share.html
Hanergy Holding Group Ltd., a
Chinese thin-film solar panel maker, expects the technology it
has backed to take a greater share of the market that’s
dominated by silicon-based cells as the biggest manufacturers
stumble.  “A new age represented by thin-film technology will
come,” as silicon-based panel producers led by Suntech Power
Holdings Co. Ltd. and LDK Solar Co. Ltd. suffered losses,
Hanergy’s Chairman Li Hejun said in an interview. “The market
demands cheaper equipment that features flexibility and with
more applications.”  Hanergy acquired two overseas thin-film companies including
 California ’s MiaSole Inc. in the past year to advance its
technology and compete with  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker
of thin-film panels by shipments. Other rivals include  Japan ’s
Solar Frontier and  Sharp Corp. (6753)   The average silicon solar panel  price  has slumped 28
percent in the past year, while  that  of thin-film products were
down 19 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The thin-film equipment “may obtain a growing share in the
future photovoltaic market, if the production cost can be
reduced to below 60 cents a watt,” Wang Xiaoting, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Beijing, said by e-mail. “The
possibility does not imply a replacement of crystalline silicon
products.”  Silicon-based solar panels “have well proved long-term
operation reliability, and more importantly, there is still
great potential for efficiency improvement,” Wang said.  Hanergy plans to develop more than 2 gigawatts of solar
power plants worldwide this year with its own panels, Li said.
China will account for as much as 40 percent of its shipments in
2013, he said.  “Our costs are around 50 cents a watt, and we aim to cut
it by 10 percent this year,” Li said. “The international
market is very good for thin-film panels as they don’t face
anti-dumping and anti-subsidy probes in Europe and import duties
in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  