-- Anwar Predicts Minimum 10-Seat Majority in Malaysian Poll
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-03-08T08:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/anwar-predicts-minimum-10-seat-majority-in-malaysian-poll-1-.html
Malaysia’s opposition coalition will
win the country’s upcoming general election with a parliamentary
majority of more than 10 seats and control at least six of the
nation’s 13 states, leader  Anwar Ibrahim  said.  On day one of taking power, a People’s Alliance government
would liberalize newspaper licenses, Anwar said in an interview
in Kuala Lumpur today. Policy priorities within the first 100
days would include education, corruption and government
procurement. No retribution would be taken against past leaders,
including Mahathir Mohamad, who sacked him in 1998, he said.  “I don’t want to sound over confident, but I believe
looking into the trend now it will be a comfortable majority,”
the 65-year-old politician said. “Beyond 10 is comfortable.”  Prime Minister Najib Razak must dissolve parliament for
polls by April 28, after which an election must be held within
60 days. Anwar wants to oust a government he once served as
deputy prime minister and finance minister, and which has ruled
 Malaysia  for 55 years.  Mahathir, who served as prime minister for 22 years before
retiring in 2003, took on the role of finance minister himself
after firing Anwar during the Asian Financial Crisis. Subsequent
premiers Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and Najib also held the
portfolio. Anwar said he would give the job to someone else if
he becomes prime minister.  “Having experienced eight years as finance minister, I
know it’s very taxing,” said Anwar. “You cannot have a prime
minister as finance minister. You won’t have time when you have
forex problem, dealing with the Securities Commission.”  ‘Very Close’  The People’s Alliance, also known as Pakatan Rakyat, hasn’t
decided who would be finance minister nor other cabinet posts,
he said.  The contest will be “very close,”  Ibrahim Suffian , a
political analyst at the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research,
said by phone.  “This is the opposition’s strongest moment in
history.”  Anwar was jailed for corruption and sodomy after being
sacked by Mahathir. His conviction for sex with another man was
later overturned.  Since his release from prison in 2004, Anwar has taken
charge of an ideologically disparate and multi-ethnic
opposition. He has pledged to roll back racial preferences for
the ethnic Malay majority and trim the  budget deficit  if he wins
power.  The governing National Front coalition won the 2008
election by its narrowest margin, prompting Abdullah to take
responsibility by handing over the reins mid-term to Najib.  Sabah Incursion  The prime minister said in December his ruling alliance
wants to restore its two-thirds majority in the poll. His
approval rating fell to 61 percent in early February from 63
percent at end of December, the Merdeka Center said Feb. 26.  “For Najib, it’s very, very precarious because if he loses
he’d be out, and if he wins with a narrow margin they’d force
him out,” Anwar said. “He’d be removed either way.”  The  People’s Alliance  will probably retain Penang,
Selangor, Kelantan and Kedah states, Anwar said. It will also
regain Perak, win Negeri Sembilan for the first time and make
inroads in Johor, he said. The opposition leader was less
certain about prospects in Sabah in light of a recent
insurgency.  Najib yesterday declared parts of Sabah special security
zones. Police and military are fighting a Muslim clan that
invaded Malaysia’s eastern state last month from the  Philippines 
to assert its sovereignty claim. Voting could be delayed in
these areas, Bernama reported yesterday, citing Election
Commission Chairman Abdul Aziz Mohd Yusof.  Polling elsewhere isn’t likely to be postponed, Anwar said.
The opposition currently holds 75 of 222 parliamentary seats,
while the National Front, known as Barisan Nasional, have 137
seats, according to the Malaysian parliament website. Winning a
10-seat majority would give Anwar’s supporters 116 seats after
the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  