-- Mapletree REIT Is Prepared for Further Hong Kong Dollar Weakness
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-08T03:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/mapletree-reit-is-prepared-for-further-hong-kong-dollar-weakness.html
Mapletree Greater China Commercial
Trust, which debuted in  Asia ’s biggest share sale this year, is
ready for a further depreciation of the  Hong Kong  dollar against
the  Singapore  currency, Chief Executive Officer Cindy Chow said.  “We are prepared to hedge up to a 100 percent of the  Hong
Kong dollar  because we do see that the Hong Kong dollar might
depreciate against the  Singapore dollar ,” Chow said in an
interview in Singapore today. She didn’t elaborate on reasons
for further weakness in the currency.  The Hong Kong dollar, which is pegged to the  U.S. dollar ,
has declined about 4 percent against the Singapore currency from
a high in June, eroding profits for Singapore-based companies
with operations in the Chinese city. Mapletree Greater China
Commercial Trust’s portfolio includes assets such as the
Festival Walk shopping mall in Hong Kong.  Mapletree REIT, the fourth trust by Mapletree Investments
Pte, a property unit of Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-
owned  investment company , surged 11 percent yesterday on its
first day of trading. The REIT gained 1.5 percent to S$1.045 as
of 10:13 a.m. in Singapore today.  The Hong Kong currency rose 0.1 percent to HK$6.2251 per
Singaporean dollar. The Singapore currency, seen as a safe haven
by investors, has appreciated against a basket of major
currencies over the past three years, gaining about 12 percent
versus the U.S. dollar in the period.  REITs have dominated Singapore’s IPO market in recent years
as high-yielding assets gained popularity amid low  interest
rates . Singapore REITs have  outperformed  the city-state’s
Straits Times Index this year, returning 5.2 percent compared
with a 4 percent gain in the benchmark measure.  China Outlook  Mapletree Industrial Trust and Mapletree Commercial Trust
have advanced about 50 percent from their offer prices, while
Mapletree Logistics Trust is up more than 70 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, the share sale comes as China’s growth slows.
Expansion in industries including retailing, transportation and
banking was the slowest in five months in February, according to
an official survey of purchasing managers on March 3. Gauges
released March 1 pointed to manufacturing growth cooling.  “The REIT is a long-term yield product,” Chow said when
asked about China’s growth prospects. “We do expect the two
assets will continue to see stable growth.”  Mapletree  Greater China  includes the Gateway Plaza office
complex in Beijing, a sales document for the IPO showed.  The IPO was the biggest in Asia so far this year, followed
by Nippon Prologis REIT Inc., which debuted last month in Tokyo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is also the biggest
for a real estate investment trust in Singapore, surpassing the
previous offerings by Mapletree, the data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  