-- Apple, Samsung, Adidas, Dotcom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-08T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/apple-samsung-adidas-dotcom-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. asked a U.S. appeals
court to reinstate patent-infringement claims it filed against
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit over touch-screen
technology used in mobile phones.  “This is Apple’s first touch-screen patent,” Apple lawyer
Joshua Rosenkranz of San Francisco’s Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP told a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington yesterday. The
patent was for “a key invention and it drove the iPhone
phenomenon and later the iPad. It claims something that no one
had ever done.”  Apple is appealing a U.S. International Trade Commission
decision over transparent screens that can sense multiple
touches in different locations, enabling users to operate a
mobile phone by touching or swiping its screen. Motorola
Mobility persuaded the agency to rule that Apple’s patent
7,663,607 was invalid and its patent 7,812,828 wasn’t infringed.  Commission lawyer Megan Valentine defended the agency’s
decision, saying the Apple multitouch invention was very similar
to earlier technology, including patent 7,372,455 which was
issued to an Israeli company in 2008, and a Sony Corp. paper for
a product called  SmartSkin .  “The algorithms are nearly identical in the two patents,”
she told the panel. She also defended the commission’s finding
that the commercial success of the iPhone wasn’t proof of the
uniqueness of the patented invention.  Motorola Mobility lawyer  David Nelson  of Quinn Emanuel in
Chicago said the two patents “describe that same sensing
device.” He also urged the court to uphold the finding of non-
infringement, saying the judge’s interpretation of that patent
was correct.  In its filings with the court, Apple said figuring out how
a device with a transparent screen could accurately detect
multiple touches was a “head-scratcher.” Apple said Motorola
Mobility tried and failed to develop its own useful touchscreen.  “The moment Apple unveiled its invention, we all know what
happened,” Rosenkranz told the court. Cupertino, California-
based Apple has claimed other handset makers copied the iPhone
and has filed patent-infringement lawsuits around the world.  Motorola Mobility, in its filing, called Apple’s
description of its inventive process as “equal parts fiction,
hyperbole, and litigation-inspired hindsight.”  The ITC in Washington has the power to block imports of
products that violate U.S. patents. Since most smartphones are
made in Asia, the trade agency has become a central front as
handset manufacturers use patent litigation as part of an
overall effort to increase their own market share.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. ITC, 12-1338, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In
the Matter of Mobile Devices and Related Software, 337-750, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Apple Decision in Complaint by Samsung Delayed by Trade Agency  A final decision in Samsung Electronics Co.’s patent-
infringement case against Apple Inc. was delayed by the U.S.
International Trade Commission until next week.  The commission set a new target date of March 13 without
explaining the reason for the delay in a notice posted on its
website. The agency must decide whether Apple infringes four
Samsung patents and, if so, whether the appropriate remedy would
be to limit U.S. imports of the iPhone and iPad tablet computer.  Facebook’s Zuckerberg Seeks Patent on Paid Profile System  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s  Mark Zuckerberg  calls the technology
covered by a recently published patent application “Paid
Profile Personalization.” The Menlo Park, California-based
company’s chief executive officer is the lead named inventor on
patent application  20130030987 .  According to the application, the user of a social-media
network could pay to “select one or more social networking
objects” to replace advertisements. The user could be billed on
a recurring basis for this service.  Yesterday, Facebook announced a revamp of its News Feed
feature to include bigger photos, sorting by topics and a more
consistent design across devices as the world’s most popular
social network ramps up efforts to make money from content.  Slowing revenue growth and a slump in the stock after the
market debut have ratcheted up pressure on Facebook to find new
ways to generate sales.  Zuckerberg applied for the patent in July 2011, according
to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Adidas Wins South African Trademark Case Involving Shoe Stripes  Adidas AG (ADS) , the German maker of athletic shoes, persuaded an
appeals court in South Africa to order Castellina Investments
Ltd.’s Pepkor Group to stop selling shoes that infringe the
Adidas three-stripe trademark, South Africa’s Business Day
 reported .  The court also ordered Pepkor either to remove the stripes
from the shoes or to surrender them to Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based Adidas, according to Business Day.  The ruling overturned a lower court determination of non-
infringement, Business Day reported.  Pepkor, which operates  Pep Stores  and  Ackermans  in South
Africa, had argued that the patterns of four stripes on its
shoes were a mere embellishment, and that Adidas’s trademark
registration covered only a three-stripe pattern, according to
Business Day.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom’s Prosecutors Urged by Court to Cooperate in N.Z. Lawsuit  Kim Dotcom’s prosecutors in New Zealand must cooperate with
the indicted Internet entrepreneur’s lawyers to expedite his
lawsuit over illegal wiretaps and a police raid on his home, an
appeal court said.  A three-judge panel of the Court of Appeal of New Zealand
in Auckland yesterday affirmed a lower court decision that
Dotcom can sue the  Government Communications Security Bureau ,
New Zealand’s spy agency, for illegally intercepting his
communications before last year’s police raid on his mansion in
an Auckland suburb and the seizure of his equipment.  The judges said prosecutors ignored proper procedures in
filing the appeal before a decision was made on compensation,
referred to as a Baigent claim, according to yesterday’s ruling.
Dotcom was indicted in what was dubbed a “Mega Conspiracy” by
U.S. prosecutors, who accused his Megaupload.com website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files.  “We urge the parties to cooperate,” the judges wrote in
the ruling. Prosecutors “should have asked the chief judge to
determine the position in relation to the police Baigent claim
before this appeal,” they said.  Dotcom, 39, faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of
the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the indictment,
with the U.S. seeking his extradition for a trial in Virginia.
An extradition hearing in New Zealand is scheduled for August.  “We look forward to holding GCSB spy org accountable,”
Dotcom’s lawyer Ira Rothken said on Twitter. “Doing so will not
only protect @KimDotcom’s rights but the rights of all NZ
residents.”  The case is Between Kim Dotcom and Attorney General.
CIV2012-404-001928. High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  ASMP Weighs In on ‘Orphan Works,’ Endorses PLUS Registry System  The  American Society of Media Photographers , a
Philadelphia-based trade group of photojournalists and other
photographers, submitted comments to the U.S. Copyright Office
with respect to what are known as “orphan works.”  An “orphan work” is a work for which the owner of its
copyright can’t be located.  ASMP said in its  comments  that it joins with the National
Press Photographers Association in endorsing a licensing system
that uses standardized language and a machine-readable coding
architecture. The system, known as the  Picture Licensing
Universal System , has been endorsed by a wide range of image
creators and users.  Among the organizations that are members of the PLUS
 advisory council  are the Association of American Publishers, the
Japan Photographers Union, the Newspaper Association of America
and the White House News Photographers Association.  ASMP said in its submission to the Copyright Office that
two keys to minimizing or eliminating entirely the existence of
orphan works are “persistent attribution and registries.”  For the system to be of value in a digital environment, the
attribution must remain attached to the images as they make
their way “through the channels of usage and distribution,”
ASMP said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  USDA Seeks Comments on Sharing of Information on GM Organisms  The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant
Inspection Services is considering new regulations that would
make it easier to share information about genetically engineered
organisms with state and tribal authorities, even when it comes
under the heading of “confidential business information” or
trade secrets.  In a  notice  published in the Federal Register, the USDA
said that entities that are introducing genetically engineered
organisms have typically claimed a wide range of information be
designated as confidential.  These include the genes, the gene donor, production
details, the organism’s observable characteristics, the location
of the introduction of the organism, the purpose of the
environmental release, proposed procedures and confinement
methods, and mitigation measures to prevent dissemination.  State and tribal officials may need to know some of these
details to coordinate responses in the event of local
emergencies such as a hurricane or tornado, or accidental
release of the organism because of damage to the confinement
facility.  “In these events, state and tribal government officials in
proximity to the area of concern may be better prepared to
respond to this situation if they already have knowledge of the
regulated article, the location of the site, and the identities
of the personnel responsible for the site,” the USDA said.  Because such information is often designated a trade
secret, and the Animal and Plant Inspection Service is barred
from sharing it, “participation of the state or tribes may be
hampered,” according to the USDA notice.  As a method for safeguarding this information, the USDA
said that if it is to be retained by state and tribal
authorities, only paper copies would be authorized. The agency
said that although it’s looking at a variety of electronic
options, “providing a new and separate secure system was not
likely to be economically viable” for the inspection service.  The FDA is seeking comments on the proposed regulations
from all interested parties, including the public. They must be
received by April 29, according to the notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  