-- Apple Objects to Second Samsung Patent Lawsuit Delay
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/apple-objects-to-second-samsung-patent-lawsuit-being-paused-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  objected to the
possibility that proceedings in a patent lawsuit against  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  scheduled for trial in 2014 will be put on hold
while an appeals court reviews an August verdict in an earlier
case.  The objection, filed yesterday in federal court in  San
Jose ,  California , was in response to U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh’s inquiry at a hearing last month. The judge said she was
skeptical of the need for both cases to proceed, especially
while the first case is being appealed.  On March 1 Koh reduced a jury’s $1.05 billion damages award
to Apple in the first case by $450.5 million. The jury based its
award for 14 Samsung products on an incorrect legal theory, Koh
ruled. She said the companies should consider appealing her
decision before any damages trial begins.  “This case must proceed now, in order to stop the ongoing
sales -- and relentless launch -- of Samsung’s latest infringing
devices, which have caused, and every day continue to cause,
continuing harm to Apple,” the Cupertino, California-based
company said in the filing.  Samsung said in the same filing, a joint report filed with
Apple, that it agrees with the judge that the second case should
be put on hold to “promote judicial economy.” The lawsuit was
filed last year and covers technology in newer smartphones made
by both companies, including Samsung’s Galaxy S III and Apple’s
iPhone 5.  Apple Patents  Apple is challenging a decision by Koh that allows Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung to continue selling some products that
were found by the jury to infringe Apple patents.  In a Feb. 12 filing with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington , Apple said that Samsung has taken
market share based on its “deliberate copying of Apple’s
innovative iPhone and iPad products” and asked the court to
halt the  sales .  In yesterday’s filing, Samsung said staying the more recent
case will “allow the parties to attempt to reach a business
resolution of their disputes.”  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-01846, and the case scheduled for trial next year is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-cv-00630, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  