-- Apple Can’t Duck Giving Documents in Privacy Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/apple-can-t-duck-giving-documents-in-privacy-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  must show in detail how
it’s complying with court orders to turn over evidence in a
privacy lawsuit, a judge ruled, saying he can no longer rely on
what the company tells him in the case.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in  San Jose ,
 California , issued the order after the plaintiffs’ lawyers
claimed Apple withheld documents it had previously been ordered
to produce. Apple is accused in the lawsuit of collecting data
on the locations of customers through iPhones, even after the
device’s geo-location feature was turned off.  Grewal, saying he had already “refereed” the dispute,
said it was “unacceptable” that Apple waited more than three
months to verify whether it complied with his November order to
turn over documents.  “Luckily for the plaintiffs, Apple has provided more than
enough evidence itself to suggest to the court that it has not
fully complied with the court’s order,” Grewal wrote in the
March 6 order. “In light of Apple’s performance in this case,
the court cannot rely on its representations that this time it
really has or will produce all responsive documents.”  Apple’s resistance in the case is increasingly producing
orders from Grewal that are forcing it to reveal inner workings
that the company normally goes to great lengths to hide.  ‘Wrong Hands’  Apple is also accused in the lawsuit of failing to tell
customers that its iOS operating system allowed third parties to
collect and monitor personal information from iPhones and iPads
without their consent. Apple said in a court filing it has
closely guarded some documents in the case because it and
millions of its customers might be harmed if the information
were “inadvertently released to the public or fell into the
wrong hands.”  Separate from the document requests, plaintiffs are also
seeking class-action status from the court, which Apple argues
should be denied because they haven’t shown that any users had
personal information collected without their consent, and as a
result, can’t show they suffered any harm.  As an immediate remedy to the documents at issue, Grewal
ordered Apple to submit a detailed account by March 8 of how it
collects and evaluates the documents it’s required to give the
plaintiffs. The company must identify search terms it used, the
dates of searches, individuals subject to the searches, and how
many documents it turns up, he said.  Court Query  “The court wants to know how Apple limited its
production,” Grewal wrote. He said he will then review Apple’s
explanation and determine whether it has made a “good faith and
reasonable effort.”  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on the order. Two
company spokeswomen, Colleen Patterson and Lauren Vroom, also
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking
comment on it.  At a March 5 hearing before Grewal,  Ashlie Beringer , a
lawyer for Apple, said the company’s failure to produce e-mails
from  Steve Jobs  and other senior executives in violation of
Grewal’s November order was a “mistake.”  Beringer said she and her team of lawyers reviewed more
than 8,000 e-mails over the previous weekend and determined that
they should turn over messages involving Apple’s late co-founder
Jobs,  Phil Schiller , its marketing chief, and  Scott Forstall ,
the former head of mobile software, among others.  ‘Inadvertence’  Grewal’s order was triggered by that admission, along with
another by Lynn Miller, Apple’s senior litigation manager.
Miller said in a court filing that through “inadvertence” the
company had failed to produce six documents it was required to
give to plaintiffs. Those documents were included in a motion by
Apple to dismiss the case.  In Grewal’s order, plaintiffs lawyers also won the right to
see Apple documents concerning its process of reviewing
applications for its mobile devices. The company redacted the
information in part, it said, because the information is
“incredibly sensitive and valuable and is a closely guarded
trade secret,” according to a court filing.  Phillip Shoemaker, Apple’s Director of App Review,
submitted a filing in the case last month explaining how
disclosure of the review process would jeopardize Apple and
“create real risk” to millions of users of its products,
according to the filing.  Shoemaker cited an instance in which an application
developer learned the identity of an Apple app reviewer, and
that he was attending an overseas conference.  Death Threat  “The developer also signed up for the conference and
implied that he would kill the reviewer when they met,”
Shoemaker said in the filing.  Grewal in his order rejected such concerns, writing that
Apple admits that in the course of the litigation it has
revealed Shoemaker and two app reviewers and the company
“admits that none of the various harms it describes in its
papers have come to pass.”  Grewal ordered Apple to submit the app review process
documents unredacted under an “attorneys-eyes-only”
designation if it is warranted.  The case is In re Apple Inc. iPhone/iPad Application
Consumer Privacy Litigation, 11-md-02250, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  