-- Marcus Says Rand Beyond 9 Against Dollar Is Overdone
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M a n u s   C r a n n y
-- 2013-03-08T13:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/marcus-says-rand-below-9-against-dollar-is-overdone.html
South African  Reserve Bank  Governor
Gill Marcus said the rand may strengthen as its decline beyond 9
to the dollar is overdone.  “We had an appreciating currency, which was not very good
for our manufacturing and export market,” Marcus said in an
interview with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg TV’s On The Move show
from Cernobbio,  Italy  today. “Now it has moved over the 9 rand
and trading between 9 and 9.20 rand. In our view, that is
overdone. It will over a period of time retrace back to a more
reasonable level.”  The rand has slumped 7.1 percent against the dollar this
year, the third-worst performing currency of 16 major ones
tracked by Bloomberg after the Japanese yen and British pound,
falling to its lowest level in almost four years yesterday. A
weaker rand is adding to pressure on  inflation , which may
temporarily breach the Reserve Bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target this year, Marcus said.  The currency strengthened after Marcus’s comments, gaining
as much as 0.6 percent to 9.0879 against the dollar and was
trading at 9.0929 at 2:39 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Marcus said in a later speech in Cernobbio that policy
makers in  South Africa  have little room to follow central banks
in Hungary, Poland and  Turkey  that have cut  interest rates  this
year to bolster their economies. The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank
has kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5 percent
since lowering it by half a percentage point in July.  ‘Further Accommodation’  “The relatively subdued growth outlook and the negative
output gap have meant that we have been more tolerant of
inflation at the upper end of the target range,” Marcus said in
the speech. “However, our room for further accommodation is
constrained by the need to keep inflation within the target over
a reasonable time horizon.”  Risks to inflation are on the “upside” because of the
weaker rand and rising labor costs, she said.  Inflation slowed to 5.4 percent in January from 5.7 percent
in the previous month. A 1 percentage point decline in the
currency raises the inflation rate by as much as 0.2 points,
according to estimates from Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank (SBK) 
Group Ltd.  Trade Minister  Rob Davies  and Economic Development Minister
 Ebrahim Patel  said yesterday the rand’s weakness may benefit
manufacturers. The currency has become more competitive and is
unlikely to strengthen to 7 per dollar any time soon, Davies
said. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Feb. 27 that South
Africa can live with a weakened rand as long as the impact on
inflation is limited.  The currency plunged to 9.1884 per dollar yesterday, the
weakest level since April 2009, and remains the most volatile of
the 16 major ones tracked by Bloomberg.  “Part of the challenge is the volatility,” Marcus said.
“We will be watching it very closely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Manus Cranny in London at 
 mcranny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  