-- Armory Shows Attract Beyonce, Solange, Jay-Z, VIPS
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-08T17:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/armory-shows-attract-beyonce-solange-jay-z-vips-foie.html
As wet snow started falling around
11 p.m. yesterday, an art party was just ending at the Ace Hotel
in  Manhattan  with the help of a performer who calls himself
Jealous Orgasm.  Clad in leggings with suspenders over his naked torso, he
gyrated, twirled and hopped for the crowd.  The Armory Show always attracts its share of nutty
entertainers as it spreads out over two piers in the Hudson
River and an exhausting number of sites and galleries filled
with hundreds of dealers and customers.  It all stops late Sunday when the main players collapse.  “Let’s go to Norwood!” said the fair’s executive
director, Noah Horowitz, as Jealous Orgasm was winding down.  Off he went with writer Anthony Haden-Guest and Sebastian
Cwilich, president of Artsy, the fair’s online partner.  Access to Norwood, a private club on West 14th Street, is
one of the perks the Armory Show offers its VIP clients, along
with visits to collectors’ art-filled apartments, private museum
tours and a performance by Solange Knowles at the  Museum of
Modern Art .  “There have been a million parties,” said Alberto Mugrabi, whose family owns one of the largest private Andy
Warhol collections in the world. “It becomes too much.”  Exclusive Event  Monday evening brought “Chosen,” an exclusive event
organized by  Paul Morris , a private  art dealer  and the Armory
Show’s co-founder.  Open only to hand-picked collectors, curators and dealers,
it took place at a historic downtown mansion, which housed a $30
million Lucian Freud painting and offered sustenance by  Ferran
Adria ’s brother Albert.  On Tuesday night, Warhol’s $5 million “Mao” paintings and
Jean Arp’s totemic $1 million sculpture drew collectors to the
Park Avenue Armory during the opening of the  Art Show , an annual
fair organized by the Art Dealers Association of America.  The event, which raised about $1 million for the Henry
Street Settlement, attracted actress Leelee Sobieski, cosmetics
billionaire  Ronald Lauder , KKR & Co. co-chairman Henry Kravis,
RFR Holding president Aby Rosen, newsprint magnate  Peter Brant 
and  Jonathan Tisch , co-chairman of Loews Corp.  Guests gravitated to foie gras macaroons and piled gravlax
onto potato chips.  “Oh my god, who is this artist?” a man asked his
bejeweled female companion, walking by Pace gallery’s booth,
where Kiki Smith’s bronze sculptures of birds, stars and wolves
shimmered on pastel-blue walls (and were almost all sold at
prices ranging from $35,000 to $150,000). “She should be doing
‘Peter and the Wolf.’”  On Piers  By Wednesday, the proceedings moved to the VIP opening on
the piers which drew Tischman Speyer Properties LP Chairman
 Jerry Speyer , R.E.M.’s Michael Stipe and filmmaker John Waters.  Later, Richard Fitzburgh,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s senior
vice president of  wealth management , hosted a cocktail reception
for his clients underneath crystal chandeliers of the St. Regis
hotel’s Fontainebleau suite.  “This room is like Versailles,” said Sharon Phair
Fortenbaugh, a private dealer at  Chowaiki & Co  gallery, that
stood out among some 200 Armory Show exhibitors.  A block south, MoMA hosted the fair’s opening party in the
evening where Jessica Biel paused at Wolfgang Laib’s sprawling
confection of buttery yellow pollen sprinkled across the atrium
floor. Beyonce and Jay-Z arrived in a Maybach to see Knowles’s
steamy performance.  “It’s all about selling art,” said artist Deborah Kass,
who attended the Ace Hotel party yesterday. “Everything else
supports it.”  Private Viewing  Yesterday, collectors hopped from an opening of the
Independent fair in Chelsea to a private viewing of  David Zwirner ’s new, huge gallery to a dinner hosted by Mana
Contemporary, a giant art-storage facility in Jersey City, at
the Milk Studios penthouse.  After the main course of pan seared bass and leeks risotto,
the evening’s honoree, artist  Marina Abramovic , was interviewed
by  Charlie Rose  on a small stage. Another highlight was a live
dance performance by eight young members of Armitage Gone!
Dance, who twisted and leaped about in beige underwear.  “The best thing I’ve done was staying at home and watching
a Mets game,” said an exhausted Mugrabi.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .
 Amanda Gordon  in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 