-- Matolcsy Strips Hungary Bank Deputies of Powers, MTI Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-08T18:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/matolcsy-strips-hungary-bank-deputies-of-powers-mti-says.html
Gyorgy Matolcsy,  Hungary ’s new
central bank president, moved to solidify his authority by
stripping two vice presidents appointed by his predecessor of
their areas of responsibility. The forint dropped.  Matolcsy shifted responsibility for monetary strategy and
financial stability to Adam Balog, his new vice president,
according to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s new articles of
association published in the official gazette today. The areas
previously were assigned to Ferenc Karvalits and Julia Kiraly
respectively.  Matolcsy, the architect of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
self-styled unorthodox policies as economy minister, previously
urged the central bank to embrace unconventional monetary tools
to stimulate the economy after his budget policies helped push
the economy into recession last year. Matolcsy already barred
deputies from independently representing the MNB and gave
himself the right to decide all appointments, firings and
salaries, underscoring investor concern for the institution’s
independence.  “This is a terrible loss of talent and expertise all in
the name of politics,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an e-mail. “It will
however continue as a more wide ranging group of senior and
middle ranking staff are ’cleansed’ to remove any opposition to
unorthodox policy.”  Forint  The forint erased its gains today against the euro and
traded down 0.4 percent at 299.91 per euro by 6:12 p.m., the
fourth-worst performance in the world. The currency dropped 5.5
percent against the euro in the past three months, the most of
10 emerging-market currencies in  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa 
tracked by Bloomberg.  Orban and Matolcsy spearheaded the government’s criticism
of the central bank under former president  Andras Simor ,
drafting a central bank law that the  European Central Bank  said
undermined monetary-policy independence before the Cabinet
compromised to amend it.  Monetary policy makers delivered seven consecutive quarter-
point rate cuts, bringing the benchmark to 5.25 percent,
matching the lowest on record. Simor and his two deputies
opposed the easing, citing inflation faster than the central
bank’s 3 percent target and the limited impact on lending and
economic output.  The central bank, in cooperation with the government, can
expand sources of corporate lending, which is “key” to ending
recession, Matolcsy wrote in his weekly Heti Valasz column on
March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  