-- Austrian Banks Rated Negative by Moody’s on Bad-Debt Charges
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-03-08T00:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/austrian-banks-rated-negative-by-moody-s-on-bad-debt-charges.html
Austrian banks’ creditworthiness is
still deteriorating because the cost of rising bad debt in
eastern  Europe  is slowing their efforts to raise capital
buffers, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Moody’s kept its “negative” grade on the Austrian banking
system’s outlook for the next 12 to 18 months, it said in a
report released today. The nation’s three top banks --  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and UniCredit
Bank Austria AG -- face the biggest challenges because they are
most exposed to a renewed downturn in countries including
Hungary, Romania, Croatia and Slovenia, Moody’s said.  “Underpinning our negative outlook for the banking system
are the limited capital buffers to absorb potential losses in a
stressed economic environment,” Moody’s analysts Swen Metzler
and Carola Schuler wrote. “Our stress test shows that most
Austrian banks have limited resources to cope with substantial
potential losses on their high exposures to central and eastern
European regions as well as to domestic corporate borrowers.”  UniCredit (UCG) , Raiffeisen and Erste are the three biggest
Western-owned lenders in the former communist part of Europe,
where they invested to profit from increased usage of consumer
banking products such as current accounts, credit cards,
consumer lending and mortgages. The downturn in the region since
2009 has caused loan losses to jump in many of those countries,
eating up more of the profits.  Eastern Risk  While their eastern European risk is elevated, Austrian
banks’ capital ratios are below the European average, Moody’s
said, echoing comments made repeatedly by the central bank. The
average Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
of the 20 Austrian lenders rated by Moody’s stood at 9.6 percent
at the end of 2011, below that of banks in  Germany ,  France ,
 Italy  and Spain, Moody’s said.  That means banks would struggle to stay above regulatory
limits in a “highly adverse” stress test, Moody’s said. “Most
rated banks’ capital would be severely impaired by loan losses
under our highly adverse scenario and would only just meet the
minimum regulatory capital requirement,” it said.  Persistently high bad-debt charges are limiting the banks’
ability to raise those capital buffers through retained
earnings, Moody’s said. The company expects problem loans to
grow this year, especially driven by Austrian companies, and by
loans in Hungary, Romania and Slovenia.  The “negative” grade on the Austrian banking industry’s
outlook means that on average, negative rating actions on the 20
lenders rated by Moody’s are more likely than positive ones,
according to Moody’s definition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  