-- U.K. Public Officials Plead Guilty in News Corp. Bribe Case
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-08T16:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/law-enforcement-officers-plead-guilty-in-news-corp-bribe-case.html
Three former law enforcement
officers and a public official pleaded guilty to taking bribes
from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun tabloid, the first to confess to criminal
charges in a wide-ranging probe into wrongdoing at the company’s
U.K. newspapers.  Alan Tierney, 40, a former police officer in Surrey,
 England , pleaded guilty at a hearing in London today to selling
details about “high profile” people to Sun journalists. Prison
guard Richard Trunkfield, 31, pleaded guilty to accepting 3,350
pounds ($5,000) in 2010 for information about a prisoner.  A public official and a police officer, who the court said
news can’t be identified, also pleaded guilty to conspiring to
commit misconduct in public office.  Operation Elveden, the bribery probe that grew out of an
investigation into phone hacking at News Corp. newspapers, has
led to more than 60 arrests and 10 charges. The Sun is the main
target of the bribery cases, while News Corp.’s other U.K.
tabloid, the now-defunct News of the World, is at the center of
the phone-hacking scandal.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, and  Andy Coulson , who edited the News of the
World, also appeared at the hearing today.  John Kay, the Sun’s former chief reporter, pleaded not
guilty to conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office.  Sentencing Hearing  Tierney was released on bail and will be sentenced March
27, Judge Adrian Fulford said. Trunkfield, also released on
bail, will be sentenced at a later date.  April Casburn, a senior London police detective, was
sentenced on Feb. 1 to 15 months in prison for trying to sell
information about the phone-hacking probe to the News of the
World. She was the first person sentenced in the cases.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the
World in July 2011 after reports the tabloid intercepted the
voice-mail messages of a murdered schoolgirl while police were
investigating the crime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  