-- Bank of America Raises Forecast for Gain in Home Prices
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-03-08T18:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bank-of-america-raises-forecast-for-gain-in-home-prices.html
U.S. home prices probably will rise
8 percent this year, up from a previous estimate of a 4.7
percent increase, according to  Bank of America Corp.   Low interest rates, a tight inventory of properties for
sale and record  affordability  are fueling accelerated price
gains, Michelle Meyer, a Bank of America U.S. economist, and
Chris Flanagan and Justin Borst, mortgage-backed securities
strategists, said in a note to investors titled “Someone say
house party?”  “We believe a positive feedback loop has begun, where the
rise in home prices fuels expectations of further appreciation
and easing credit conditions, which in turn stimulates
homebuying,” they said in the report, dated yesterday. “It is
a powerful positive relationship especially in this environment
of historically low interest rates and a Federal Reserve
determined to keep policy accommodative.”  Home  prices  began rising last year after the worst housing
crash since the Great Depression as  unemployment  declined,
 mortgage rates  fell to record lows and a shrinking pool of
 listings  sparked competition among buyers. Prices last year
climbed 7.3 percent, according to the Bank of America report.  “Housing inventory has continued to decline, implying that
the supply of homes on the market for sale is undershooting
demand,” Flanagan, Meyer and Borst wrote. “This is back to the
pace during the housing bubble. Unlike the bubble, the reason
for the decline in inventory is not surging demand but rather
subpar supply.”  New Homes  Rising demand has sparked a revival of new-home sales,
which hit a 50-year low in 2011. New-home sales rose to an
annual pace of 437,000 in January, the highest rate since July
2008, according to the Commerce Department. Single-family starts
rose to 613,000 in January, the most in more than four years.
Starts will total about 650,000 this year, about half the long-
term “normal” pace of 1.3 million, according to the National
Association of Home Builders.  Home price gains will moderate to 6.5 percent in 2014 --
revised from a previous estimate of a 7.7 percent increase --
then 3.7 percent in 2015 and 1.7 percent in 2016, according to
the Bank of America report.  “Our forecast now assumes faster near-term appreciation,
but slower growth in the out years,” Flanagan, Meyer and Borst
wrote. “Our forecast for the cumulative appreciation over the
next 10 years is little changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  