-- Berlusconi Enters Hospital as Lawyers Seek Delay to Sex Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-08T14:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/berlusconi-enters-hospital-as-lawyers-seek-delay-to-sex-trial.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio
Berlusconi was admitted to a Milan hospital with an eye
inflammation and his lawyers used the ailment to seek to delay
the verdict in his sex-with-minor trial.  Berlusconi, 76, will probably stay overnight in Milan’s San
Raffaele Hospital, Alberto Zangrillo, his personal doctor, said
today in a briefing to journalists broadcast on SkyTG24.
Berlusconi made legal requests to be excused from court
appointments today and tomorrow, Piero Longo, an Italian senator
and one of the ex-premier’s lawyers, said by telephone.  Berlusconi was sentenced to a year in prison yesterday in a
wiretapping case and faces two more verdicts from criminal
courts as early as this month. Prosecutors were scheduled  to
deliver closing arguments today in the Milan trial that has
Berlusconi accused of abusing the power of his office and paying
for sex with a minor. Tomorrow, he faces closing arguments in
his appeal of a tax fraud conviction.  The defense was due to make closing arguments on March 11
in the prostitution trial, with judges expected to rule on March
18.  The court rescheduled the canceled hearing for March 11
because of Berlusconi’s illness, SkyTG24 reported today.
Berlusconi’s lawyer Niccolo Ghedini told news agency Radiocor
that the former premier may need more time before he can appear
in court. Doctors have ordered seven days of rest, Ghedini said.
 Berlusconi will have another possible conflict staring on March
15 when the new parliament convenes after inconclusive elections
last month.  Berlusconi has denied all the charges against him. He is
free pending appeal of the verdict yesterday, which stems from
the publication of transcripts of wiretapped phone calls
relating to the 2006 battle for control of Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro SpA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  