-- Bernanke Can Push QE by Saying Jobs Show Stimulus Gains
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bernanke-to-push-qe-while-citing-jobs-to-defend-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  can find two messages from a larger-than-forecast surge
in job growth: his unprecedented stimulus is working, and the
Fed should keep buying $85 billion in bonds each month.  Employment rose 236,000 in February for the third monthly
increase above 200,000 in four months, pushing down the jobless
rate to a four-year low of 7.7 percent, according to Labor
Department data released yesterday.  “This is what proponents for QE were almost hoping for,”
said  Joseph Gagnon , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington , referring to bond
buying known as quantitative easing. “This is very close to
what they were expecting and consistent with sticking with QE
for the whole year,” said Gagnon, a former associate director
at the Fed’s division of international finance.  The job market still has far to go before achieving the
substantial gains Bernanke has said will warrant halting
purchases that have pushed the Fed’s balance sheet to a record
$3.1 trillion, said Roberto Perli, a former economist at the
Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  Policy makers “will want to see confirmations of these
numbers in the months ahead,” said Perli, managing director in
charge of policy research at International Strategy & Investment
Group in Washington. “You don’t look at just one employment
report.”  Stocks and Treasury yields rose on signs the world’s
largest economy is strengthening in the face of  federal budget 
cuts and higher payroll taxes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.5 percent to 1,551.18, within 1 percent of its 2007
record. Treasuries declined, pushing up the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note by 0.04 percentage point to 2.04 percent.  Untested Tool  Central bankers  are debating how long to keep up the
monthly bond purchases, weighing the potential benefits to 12
million unemployed Americans against the risks the untested tool
may destabilize financial markets or eventually fuel inflation.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  has said it is waiting for the
labor market to “substantially” improve while not specifying a
numerical trigger for an end to the purchases.  Among central bank officials,  Chicago  Fed President  Charles Evans  on Feb. 28 offered the most explicit guidance on the job
gains needed before slowing and halting quantitative easing. He
said he favors monthly job growth of 200,000 over a period of
six months.  ‘Decline Gradually’  Bernanke said in April that the economy would need from
150,000 to 200,000 additional jobs per month for the
 unemployment rate  to “decline gradually” at the rate that
policy makers forecast at the time. Officials are looking for a
“sustained” decline in unemployment over time even if those
declines aren’t “rapid,” Bernanke said in September as he
announced the open-ended bond-purchase program.  The February jobs report showed that hiring in construction
jumped by the most in almost six years, while payrolls climbed
at retailers and professional and business services such as
temporary-help firms.  Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke said yesterday an improving
housing market shows the asset purchases have been effective in
bolstering the economy.  “ Monetary policy  has contributed significantly to the
recent improvement in the labor market and thereby begun to ease
one of the main sources of weak housing demand,” Duke said in a
speech in Avon, Colorado.  Some Fed officials have questioned the need to keep buying
at the current pace. Kansas City Fed President Esther George
dissented from policy in January out of concern the stimulus
would fuel the risk of financial instability, while Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  has repeated that monetary stimulus
won’t help businesses hire.  Press On  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said yesterday the
central bank probably will press on with asset purchases as
contained inflation expectations give it time to continue
quantitative easing.  “It’s going to be a while on the QE program,” Bullard, a
voting member of the policy making FOMC this year, said before
the release of the jobs report during a television interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee .
“We’ve got a lot of room to maneuver here.”  Bernanke last month defended the Fed’s expansion of its
balance sheet, noting the “meaningful, beneficial” impact from
accommodation. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  echoed the message in
a March 4 speech.  “We are getting some traction in housing” as well as in
autos, investment, and commercial real estate, Bernanke said in
Congressional testimony Feb. 27. “We do not see the potential
costs of the increased risk-taking in some financial markets as
outweighing the benefits of promoting a stronger economic
recovery.”  Job Recovery  Still, the share of working-age people in the  labor force 
highlights weakness in the job-market recovery, said  Diane Swonk , chief economist for Mesirow Financial Holdings Inc. in
Chicago. The labor participation rate dropped last month to 63.5
percent, matching the lowest since September 1981, from 63.6
percent.  “The nature of the improvement is that the unemployment
rate is not declining for the right reasons,” Swonk said. “The
devil is in the details, and the details are this isn’t enough
to remove accommodation or to stop expansion of the balance
sheet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  