-- BMW Regains Sales Lead From Audi as Mercedes Falls Behind
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-03-08T14:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bmw-regains-sales-lead-from-audi-as-mercedes-falls-behind.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  regained
the top spot in luxury auto sales from  Audi AG (NSU)  last month on
demand for the 3-Series and X1 SUV, while the  Mercedes-Benz
brand fell further behind its German rivals.  Deliveries at the BMW brand, the world’s biggest luxury
carmaker since 2005, rose 7 percent in February, beating the 3.2
percent gain posted by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi. BMW’s bigger
increase helped propel it back into the sales lead for the year,
with the Munich-based automaker delivering 407 more cars than
Audi in the first two months.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes slipped deeper into third place,
delivering 37,229 vehicles fewer than BMW through February,
after sales at the Stuttgart-based carmaker dropped 5.8 percent
last month. The automaker is bringing new models to market in
the coming months that it says will help boost deliveries.  BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said in
Geneva this week that the carmaker’s factories are running at
full capacity to keep up with customer demand. Sales of the X1
sport-utility vehicle through February gained 40 percent, while
the 3-Series climbed 26 percent. Audi’s gains were led by demand
for the A1 small car and Q3 compact SUV.  “In February the BMW Group achieved another healthy
increase in sales and we intend to continue the positive
development with exciting new models throughout the year,” Ian Robertson, BMW sales chief, said in a statement today.  BMW Gains  BMW  climbed  as much as 1.2 percent to 72.87 euros and was
trading up 0.9 percent as of 3 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has
lost 0.3 percent this year, valuing the company at 46.5 billion
euros. Daimler has gained 10 percent in 2013, valuing the
company, also the world’s biggest truckmaker, at 48.7 billion
euros. The stock fell as much as 1.3 percent today.  The German luxury carmakers, all of which are targeting
sales increases this year, have fared better than the region’s
volume automakers as rising demand in  China  and the U.S. offset
plunging industrywide deliveries in  Europe . The region is
wrestling with a sixth straight year of declines, with car sales
in January at the lowest for that month since records began in
1990.  “The luxury carmakers benefit from their presence in the
growth regions,” said Frank Biller, a Stuttgart-based analyst
with LBBW. “In the current market situation the success depends
on offering the right models.”  Mercedes Boost  Mercedes is looking for a sales boost this year once it
adds the CLA four-door coupe to its compact car line-up in April
and brings out a revamped version of its upscale E-Class at the
same time. A new generation of Mercedes’s flagship S-Class sedan
is scheduled to reach showrooms in the second half. The
automaker’s two-month deliveries rose 1.3 percent.  To meet rising demand of its A- and B-Class compact cars,
the manufacturer will increase production of the vehicles with
21 extra  shifts  at the plant in Rastatt,  Germany . The compact
car facility in Kecskemet,  Hungary , will add Saturday production
from April onwards and more SUVs will be built at the U.S. plant
in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama , Daimler has said.  Sales at the German luxury carmakers took a hit last month
because the Chinese New Year, which happened in January in 2012,
fell in February this year. Audi, which has the highest
deliveries in the country of the three, posted a 3.5 percent
contraction in China, while Mercedes dropped 47 percent. BMW,
which also owns the Mini and Rolls-Royce brands, increased sales
3.2 percent in the country.  Daimler aims to catch up with the competition in China by
folding its sales and marketing organizations for imported and
locally produced cars into one entity. The Stuttgart-based
company has also named Hubertus Troska, a former truck manager,
to the board to oversee the Chinese operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in  Frankfurt  at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  