-- BNP Paribas Sells Record Amount of Stock-Tied Uridashi Notes
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-08T06:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bnp-paribas-sells-record-amount-of-stock-tied-uridashi-notes.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest
bank, has issued more uridashi notes tied to stocks this year
than all of its previous sales, as it expands its equity
business in  Japan  to capitalize on recovering demand.  The lender has issued $63 million of reverse-convertible
uridashi notes tied to individual stocks this year as of March
7, more than double its combined volume through 2012, to become
the third-largest seller of the securities, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. For all of last year, it ranked ninth in
the market for the products denominated in currencies other than
the yen and sold to individual investors in Japan.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  erased losses from the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. after the yen slid to
a 3 1/2-year low against the dollar. It gained 2.6 percent to
close at 12,283.62 today in  Tokyo , the highest since before
Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus pledges have lured back
investors.  Paris-based BNP Paribas this month hired two stock-sales
staff in Japan, with plans to recruit more, as it embarks on a
three-year project to add more than 1,300 staff in Asia.  Issuance of structured products tied to Japanese stocks has
been rising since the fourth quarter, “driven by the general
rise in the equity market over the last months and renewed
confidence in the Japanese market in particular,” Majdi Jemel,
head of financial product development and sales for Japan at BNP
Paribas Securities (Japan) Ltd., wrote in an e-mail.  Sales of structured notes through private placements have
also increased, with demand extending to investments tied to
U.S. and European equities, according to Jemel. Uridashi
securities are issued based on requirements from local
brokerages that distribute them to individual investors.  Hitachi Notes  The largest uridashi reverse-convertible notes BNP Paribas
issued this year are the $18.5 million, six-month securities
tied to  shares  of  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , which gained 6.8 percent this
year through yesterday. In return for paying coupons, the
products convert into their underlying stocks at maturity if the
shares plummet, potentially eroding the buyers’ principal.  Apart from Kommunalbanken AS and Svensk Exportkredit,
government agencies that together account for 87 percent of
sales of the securities this year, Barclays Plc and Deutsche
Bank AG are the only other issuers of the notes in 2013. Nomura
Holdings Inc. and three other banks that had a combined 18
percent share last year haven’t sold any yet, according to
Bloomberg data.  Shares of  Canon Inc. (7751) , Nissan Motor Co. and Hitachi are the
most-used assets for the single-stock securities this year,
accounting for 23 percent of offerings, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  