-- BOE Awaiting Osborne Remit Ruling as QE Suspense Persists
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-08T11:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/boe-seen-awaiting-osborne-remit-ruling-as-qe-suspense-persists.html
Bank of England  policy makers who
voted to hold fire on stimulus yesterday will have more
legitimacy to act in a month if Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  changes their remit and clears the path for more
loosening.  Inflation that remains in breach of the BOE’s 2 percent
target may have stayed officials’ hand before the March 20
budget, when the chancellor traditionally reaffirms the mandate.
With  Mark Carney  having started a debate on new tools before he
replaces Governor  Mervyn King  on July 1, Osborne may give the
BOE license to act sooner by loosening its goal.  “Persistent above-target inflation could have been
preventing them from doing more QE,” said  Simon Hayes , an
economist at Barclays Plc in London and a former central bank
official. “If the government comes out and says you needn’t be
concerned about that, then come the April meeting you’re in a
different position. One of the constraints might be lifted.”  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held its target
for  bond purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($564 billion)
yesterday, as forecast by 29 of 39 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The remainder predicted an expansion after King and
two other MPC members were defeated in a push for more stimulus
last month.  The pound traded at $1.5040 as of 10:58 a.m. London time,
up 0.2 percent from yesterday. Sterling has dropped about 7.5
percent since the start of the year.  Inflation Forecasts  While inflation has been above target for more than three
years, the MPC had scope to expand bond purchases during that
time as its forecasts showed price gains would slow to the goal
within two years.  The BOE’s latest projections show inflation in breach of
the target until at least the end of 2015, beyond the normal
horizon, and that may have stayed the hand of the majority this
month, economists say. Minutes of the decision -- showing how
officials voted -- will be published March 20, three hours
before Osborne delivers his annual budget in Parliament.  While the chancellor by law has to state the remit at every
budget, the backdrop to this year’s statement has shifted.
Carney has said the current task of monetary policy is to ensure
that economies achieve “escape velocity,” while he’s also
promoted flexible inflation targeting and floated the idea of
targeting nominal gross domestic product.  First Foreigner  Osborne and officials at the Treasury are considering the
debate sparked by Carney, who will be the first foreigner to
lead the BOE in its 300-year history. The chancellor hasn’t yet
decided whether any changes will be presented at the budget, a
spokesman said yesterday.  The MPC “may be waiting to see what happens,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “Given
that Carney’s said there’s a need for a debate, it could be the
chancellor announces a consultation first. That means the remit
can be changed in time before Carney arrives.”  Dario Perkins, an economist at Lombard Street Research in
London, said any alteration to the mandate isn’t likely to
produce a radical change.  “I spent a significant chunk of my career at the Treasury
and I struggle with the concept of Treasury radicalism in this
area,” he wrote in a research note. “The most likely change
would be to alter the time horizon over which the inflation
target applies.”  Economic Stagnation  While the ongoing question of the mandate and policy tools
may have played a part in the MPC’s decision, the economic
backdrop will also have guided the thinking.  Markit Economics said its  services , manufacturing and
construction surveys indicate the economy will resume growth
this quarter after a 0.3 percent contraction at the end of 2012.
The British Chambers of Commerce said talk of a  triple-dip slump 
is “misguided” and the true picture is “one of stagnation and
not recession.”  And while a weaker pound benefits manufacturers by boosting
export competitiveness, it also fuels domestic inflation by
raising import costs. Sterling has dropped about 6 percent since
the start of the year on a trade-weighted basis.  “There was probably enough for the majority to refrain
from more easing,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN
Amro Holding NV in Amsterdam. “With inflation above target for
a third year, it’s wise to wait and see what happens.”  Fiscal Squeeze  Part of the restraint on the economy is coming from Osborne
himself as he presses on with a fiscal squeeze to reduce the
 budget deficit . Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday rejected
suggestions that cutting taxes or increasing government spending
would help the struggling economy, saying the risk of higher
 interest rates  is too great. He also called on the central bank
to aid growth.  “We are supporting these reforms with what I call monetary
activism,” he said. “The Bank of England must support the
recovery without putting financial stability at risk.”  Michael Saunders , chief western Europe economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, said the MPC’s reluctance to loosen
even with weak economic growth may “reinforce the likelihood
that the chancellor changes the remit to ensure a more flexible
approach.”  For Beaumont -- who doesn’t expect more QE -- just
maintaining the current loose policy settings already requires a
flexible interpretation of the mandate.  “They’ve already implemented the flexible targeting that
Carney likes, and that Osborne may announce in the budget,” he
said. “It now needs to be rubber-stamped by the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  