-- Boeing Nears 777 Upgrade Urged by Airlines as Chief Named
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-03-08T21:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/boeing-nears-777-upgrade-urged-by-airlines-as-chief-named.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s upgrade of its 777
wide-body jet, a model coveted by airlines, moved closer to
board approval with the appointment of an executive to lead
development of the plane.  Bob Feldmann will become vice president and general manager
of the so-called 777X project, Boeing Commercial Airplanes Chief
Executive Officer Ray Conner said today in an e-mail to
employees. He will report to Scott Fancher, the executive in
charge of airplane development, Conner wrote.  Naming a 777X chief adds to evidence that Boeing directors
are closer to giving the go-ahead for the jet, which is central
to Boeing’s strategy to keep its lead over Airbus SAS in twin-
aisle airliners. Emirates Airline CEO  Tim Clark , who runs the
biggest 777 operator, said this week that the board probably
will give a green light within weeks.  “We don’t know if we’ll see a launch this year, but
there’s clearly a signal here to potential customers that Boeing
is giving it higher priority,”  Richard Aboulafia , an analyst at
consultant Teal Group in Fairfax,  Virginia , said in an e-mail.
Feldmann’s appointment “certainly implies that 777X is being
moved to the front burner.”  Wings, Engines  The 777X will have new wings and engines as Boeing seeks to
improve performance. Feldmann, 58, had overseen the development
of the 737 Max, a new version of Chicago-based Boeing’s most
successful aircraft, since its 2011 inception.  Boeing rose 0.2 percent to $81.23 at the close in  New York .
The shares have  climbed  7.8 percent this year, compared with an
8.8 percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  The 777 is Boeing’s biggest twin-engine model, and has a
top list price of $315 million. Boeing usually first seeks the
board’s authority to offer a new model and then, once it has
customers lined up, commits to producing the plane.  Emirates and British Airways Plc are among carriers that
have been demanding a Boeing decision on the 777X so the new jet
can enter service by decade’s end. That would allow airlines to
move quickly to replace some of their older aircraft.  “Customers are happy with the airplane design and we are
pleased with where we are in the process,”  Marc Birtel , a
Boeing spokesman, said by e-mail. “While we haven’t set a firm
timeline or launched the program, we’ve consistently talked
about” a possible commercial debut around the end of the
decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  