-- Bond Defaulter Suzlon Hires Banks for Sale of Notes
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-03-08T10:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bond-defaulter-suzlon-hires-banks-for-650-million-sale-of-notes.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the Indian wind
turbine maker that failed to repay convertible debt last year,
plans to raise $650 million selling five-year bonds, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Suzlon, based in the western Indian city of Pune, hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and SBI Capital Markets Ltd. to manage the
sale, the person said, asking not to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. The planned bonds will be backed by standby
letters of credit from banks, the person said.  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on market rumor
or speculation,” a spokesman for Suzlon said in an e-mail
today.  India’s largest wind-turbine maker needs money to repay
foreign creditors and boost equity capital under its liability-
restructuring agreement with lenders. Suzlon’s founders sold
part of their holdings last month and the firm plans to sell
“non-critical” assets including China unit Suzlon Energy
(Tianjin) Ltd. to raise money after international bondholders
rejected a request for an extension on payments.  Suzlon’s shares fell 0.6 percent to 16.9 rupees in Mumbai,
the lowest since Feb. 28. The stock  has fallen  8.9 percent this
year versus a 1.3 percent rise in  India ’s benchmark stock index.  Suzlon’s 2016 notes tumbled to an all-time low of 35 cents
in October, when it failed to repay $209 million in India’s
biggest convertible-bond default. The company reported a loss of
11.56 billion rupees ($212 million) for the last quarter of 2012
as dwindling working capital reduced its ability to complete
orders.  Bank Yields  “If the bonds are backed by letters of credit, investors
are effectively taking a risk on Indian banks rather than
Suzlon,” Hemant Dharnidharka, the Bangalore-based head of
credit research at SJS Markets Ltd. said in a phone interview
today. “So the yields on the planned bonds will be somewhat
similar to the yields of these banks.”  Investor meetings for the planned bond sale will be held as
early as next week and the company may start marketing the debt
later this month, the person familiar with the matter said.
Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay earlier  U.S.
dollar-denominated loans , the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  