-- Borrowers Skirting Voters Face Bond-Sale Crackdown
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-08T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/borrowers-snubbing-voters-face-bond-sale-crackdown-muni-credit.html
Fort Worth,  Texas , avoided voters
when it sold $86 million of bonds last year to finance a police
and fire facility. An El Paso hospital system plans new clinics
using $162 million of debt taxpayers won’t have a say on.  Cities, counties and hospital districts in the second most-
populous state raised $1.3 billion last year, 10 percent of
their issuance, using securities called certificates of
obligation. These bonds, which are financed through
appropriations, don’t need to go before voters, unlike general-
obligation debt backed by a municipality’s full faith and
credit. The issuance faces tighter restrictions under bills in
Texas, North Carolina and  New York  that would make it tougher to
borrow without taxpayer approval.  Securities such as these make up more than 60 percent of
the $3.7 trillion municipal market, according to the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association. Limiting them might
shrink the supply of bonds and boost prices, said Matt Fabian at
research firm Municipal Market Advisors. Curbs could also delay
investment in infrastructure such as roads and bridges.  “Too often governments are using these to make an end-run
around taxpayers,” Texas Comptroller Susan Combs, a Republican,
said at a Feb. 7 press conference, referring to certificates.  Financing Shift  After the recession that ended in 2009, a move toward
fiscal austerity has contributed to a decline in new financings,
according to Citigroup Inc. Fresh issuance, as opposed to debt
for refunding, was below $150 billion the past two years, the
lowest in at least a decade, Citigroup data show. Potential
rejections by voters would slow sales further, said  George Friedlander , Citigroup’s managing director of muni research.  “You have a lot of states whose voters are moving fairly
hard to the right fiscally,” he said. “This is a direct
conflict with the need to deal with long-term issues like
infrastructure, maintenance, repair and rebuilding.”  Restrictions on issuance may “worsen the current imbalance
of supply and demand,” said Fabian, managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. “To the
extent this further reduces debt, it would be bullish” for
munis, he said.  DiNapoli Memo  Supporters of clamping down on issuance that doesn’t go
before voters range from New York Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a
Democrat, to a Texas Tea Party group that pressed a state
committee chairman to give voters more say.  Debt issued without elections accounts for 95 percent of
New York’s state-funded obligations, DiNapoli said in a memo
this month supporting a bill that would restrict such borrowing.  The state won’t change its practices, Robert Megna, budget
director for New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , said on a Feb. 13
conference call with reporters. Borrowing through authorities is
the way New York has issued debt the past 30 years, Megna said.  “A lot of people feel there isn’t enough oversight,” said
John Hallacy, head of muni research at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in New York. “But I don’t think officials are being
irresponsible and just issuing debt for the sake of issuing
debt.”  In Texas, Comptroller Combs favors a bill to prohibit using
certificates of obligation for projects that voters have
rejected, while requiring bond election ballots to include
specifics about use of proceeds and any tax impact.  Texas Borrowers  More than 600 Texas cities, counties and hospital districts
issued $14 billion of certificates since 2005, or 16 percent of
their total debt, according to the Texas Bond Review Board.  Fort Worth , a city of 760,000 about 35 miles (56
kilometers) west of  Dallas  sold tax-exempt certificates of
obligation in August for its public-safety headquarters to lock
in low interest rates, rather than wait for a planned bond vote
in 2014, said Mark Rauscher, a city program manager. Municipal
yields fell to the lowest in a generation last year.  The city had $202.9 million in certificates along with
$371.8 million in general obligations as of Sept. 30, 2011,
financial reports show.  “In many cities a police and fire station would be part of
a general-obligation package,” said Sheri Greenberg, director
of the Center for Politics and Governance at the  University of
Texas  at Austin. “I wouldn’t say you should never use them, but
the question arises when they involve something that would
traditionally go before voters.”  Voters’ Say  Fort Worth citizens deserved a say on the project, which
garnered little publicity, said John Tunmire, a real-estate
agent running for city council.  “Unless you watch the meeting recordings, it’s really hard
for the public to know what’s going on,” he said.  Selling certificates enabled Fort Worth to negotiate the
best  interest rates , said city Councilman Jungus Jordan, who is
president-elect of the Texas Municipal League, an Austin trade
association representing cities.  “We only use certificates of obligation for the best
projects that are high priority,” he said.  The city’s $86 million August sale included a 10-year
portion priced to yield about 2 percent. That was about 0.3
percentage point higher than benchmark munis,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. The bonds have an Aa1 rating from Moody’s
Investors Service, second highest.  North Carolina State Treasurer Janet Cowell, a Democrat,
has recommended using voter-approved debt as the state’s
“preferred” funding source, partly in the interest of
transparency, though there hasn’t been a statewide bond election
since 2000.  Carolina Bill  Two Republican representatives in  North Carolina  with Tea
Party backing filed a bill in January to repeal the state’s
ability to issue certificates of participation, except in
emergencies. These securities, which are subject to annual
appropriation, don’t require voter approval.  Since voters approved a $3 billion plan in 2000, the state
has spent an additional $3 billion on university buildings and
other projects through so-called special-indebtedness bonds,
which don’t require voter approval.  The El Paso County Hospital District in Texas plans to
issue $162 million of certificates of obligation to finance
three clinics, said Michael Nunez, chief financial officer. The
expansion will cost the owner of a $100,000 home in the district
about $20 per year, he said.  “I can see why there is some potential criticism,” Nunez
said. “But we want to plan these clinics in 2013, build them in
2014 and have them going by 2015.”  Party’s Complaint  Tea Party members complained to Texas state Senator Tommy Williams, Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee,
about the sale last year of about $30 million in certificates of
obligation by Montgomery County outside Houston. The offers came
less than a year after voters represented by Williams rejected a
$200 million bond for roads.  “When you see a political body abusing the situation,
which we thought Montgomery County was doing, we got a little
excited,” said Jon Bauman, vice president of Texas Patriots
PAC, a local Tea Party political action committee.  Williams last month sponsored the Texas bill targeting
certificates. Combs supports the measure. Both chambers of state
the legislature and all statewide offices are controlled by
Republicans.  “There’s no doubt requiring more elections could block
some projects,” said Alan Sadler, administrator of Montgomery
County. “But we don’t plan on doing any more road projects
without voter approval.  “Voters should be given an option on large, optional
projects,” he said. “And more than $10 million is extremely
large.”  In trading yesterday, tax-exempt benchmarks due in 10 years
yielded about 1.84 percent, close to the highest since August,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  