-- BP Sells North Sea Forties Crude; Troll Exports Said to Rise
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-03-08T17:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bp-sells-north-sea-forties-crude-troll-exports-said-to-rise.html
BP Plc (BP/)  sold a cargo of Forties crude
in the North Sea at a discount to May cargoes, dropping from a
premium last week.  Exports of North Sea Troll crude in April will rise to 13
cargoes, one more than this month, according to a person with
knowledge of the program who declined to be identified.  North Sea  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  bought the Forties cargo for loading
March 23 to March 25 at 55 cents a barrel less than the price of
Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk grades for delivery in May,
a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window showed. That compares with a trade at a 70-cent
premium to May BFOE on March 1.  Trafigura offered, without success, to sell the grade for
loading March 27 to March 29 at a discount of 10 cents a barrel
to Dated Brent. Statoil failed to sell a cargo for loading March
24 to March 26 at 25 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent. The
grade changed hands at a three-month low yesterday at a discount
of 35 cents.  Troll’s loading schedule was the latest to be released.
Daily exports of BFOE grades will increase by 8 percent in April
from this month, loading programs obtained by  Bloomberg News 
showed yesterday.  The  North Sea  Brent pipeline system is approaching its
targeted flow rate of 80,000 barrels a day, according to an
official at the system’s operator  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) ,
or Taqa, who declined to be identified, citing company policy.  Flows through the system started yesterday after a five-day
halt due to a leak at Taqa’s Cormorant Alpha platform. Brent
crude futures dropped to the lowest this year after the pipeline
started.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days dropped to a discount of 30 cents to Dated Brent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
discount of 20 cents yesterday and is the lowest since Nov. 29.  Brent for April settlement traded at $109.84 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $111.09 in the previous session. The May
contract was at $109.30, a discount of 54 cents to April.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals crude in
either northwest Europe or the Mediterranean, according to the
Platts survey.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
narrowed by 7 cents to $2.38 a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $2.77 a
barrel, compared with $2.81 yesterday.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend increased 7 cents to
$3.44 a barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  