-- BP, Transocean Officials Botched Tests, Witness Testifies
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-08T00:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bp-transocean-officials-botched-tests-witness-testifies.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  officials
on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig botched safety tests the
night it blew up and sent oil spilling into the  Gulf of Mexico ,
an oil-drilling expert said.  The rig’s crew misinterpreted results of negative pressure
tests done April 20, 2010, that showed the Macondo well was
unstable,  Richard Heenan , a Canadian engineer who has supervised
off-shore drilling projects, told a judge yesterday in a trial
over spill claims. The U.S. government contends the botched
tests led to the blast, which killed 11 workers and sent more
than 4 million barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf.  “I couldn’t believe, based on what I saw, that the people
on the rig came to the conclusion that this was a successful
test,” Heenan told a federal judge yesterday in New Orleans.
The handling of the check “was a gross and extreme departure”
from accepted oil-industry standards, he said.  After hearing evidence in the three-month trial, U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  will decide who is liable for
damages over the largest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  He will also rule on whether BP, Transocean or other
companies were grossly negligent in their handling of the rig
and well. His ruling in the nonjury trial will affect how much
each company may have to pay.  Robert Dudley , BP’s chief executive officer, said yesterday
at an oil conference in Houston that his company is “safer”
and “stronger” almost three years after the spill, and he
praised BP’s response to the disaster.  BP’s Actions  “We alone stepped up from the outset, acknowledging our
role, waiving the liability cap and committing ourselves to help
restore the environment and economy of the Gulf Coast region,”
Dudley said.  The spill from the Macondo well fouled the Gulf and
surrounding states’ shorelines. The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, which owned the rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which handled cement work on the well.  If BP is found grossly negligent, it may be liable to the
U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in Clean Water Act fines, as
well as unspecified punitive damages to claimants who weren’t
part of an $8.5 billion settlement of lawsuits. For Transocean
and Halliburton, a similar finding would mean they could face
punitive-damages awards.  Behind Schedule  The government and spill victims say BP was over budget and
behind schedule on the Macondo well, located off the  Louisiana 
coast, prompting the company to cut corners and ignore safety
tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to maintain the
installation properly and not adequately training its crew to
handle crisis situations.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and Halliburton
executives concealed flaws with the project’s cement work.
Transocean and Halliburton countersued, pointing fingers at BP
over the liability issues.  The U.S. and spill victims contend BP’s and Transocean’s
misinterpretation of one of the well-pressure tests was a key
cause of the explosion and spill. The tests check for increases
in pressure caused by the flow of oil or gas up the well, which
can lead to a so-called blowout.  ‘No Basis’  Heenan, a partner in Calgary-based  Canadian Petroleum
Engineering Inc.  called as an expert witness by government
lawyers, said results showing pressure in the well had climbed
to 1,400 pounds per square inch “was not a good thing” and
should have indicated the well was unstable.  The drilling expert also discounted explanations by BP and
Transocean officials that they believed the safety tests were
successful based on a so-called bladder effect. That condition
occurs when pressure on valves may produce false readings.  After reviewing the tests, Heenan testified there was “no
technical basis” for misinterpreting the checks because of
worries about the bladder effect.  Blowout Preventer  Barbier heard testimony today that the Deepwater Horizon’s
maintenance issues may have played a role in the fatal blast and
spill.  Rory Davis , an engineering expert who studied the failure
of the installation’s so-called “blowout preventer,” said the
safety system wasn’t properly maintained.  A study of the remains of the 400-ton system, recovered
from the Gulf’s seabed, found it suffered from a dead battery
and faulty wiring, Davis, called to testify by lawyers for the
government and spill victims, told the judge.  “If that 27-volt battery had been sufficiently charged, it
should have cut the pipe and sealed the well,” Davis said.  BP
has argued in court filings that Transocean was responsible for
the maintenance of the rig’s systems.  Officials of Houston-based  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) ,
which made the rig’s blowout preventer, recommended that the
battery only be used for one year, Davis said. “Transocean used
it for 2 1/2 years,” he said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 