-- Rousseff Eliminates Brazil Federal Food Taxes to Stem Inflation
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-03-09T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/brazil-s-rousseff-cuts-federal-food-taxes-to-stem-inflation.html
Brazil is cutting all federal taxes
on staple foods in a bid to tame inflation, after a report
showed yesterday consumer prices rose more than analysts
forecast for an eighth straight month.  A weaker currency, record low  borrowing  costs and $23
billion in tax cuts failed to kick-start the economy last year.
Instead, the measures helped fuel  inflation  that is running
faster than in Mexico, Colombia or Chile and approaching the 6.5
percent upper limit of the central bank’s target range.  Eliminating the 9.25 percent PIS/Cofins taxes on staple
foodstuffs will both rein in prices and stimulate the economy as
Brazilians improve their ability to save and consume, President
Dilma Rousseff said. The measure will reduce tax revenue by 7.3
billion reais annually.  “At no time has there been a lack of care for the control
of inflation, because economic stability is fundamental for
us,” Rousseff said in a televised address. “That’s also why we
don’t stop looking for new ways to lower the cost of living for
Brazilians.”  Consumer prices  rose  0.6 percent in February, above the
0.49 percent  forecast  from 44 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
the national statistics agency said in Rio de Janeiro yesterday.
Annual inflation quickened to 6.31 percent and has exceeded the
central bank’s 4.5 percent target for 30 months. Economists
forecast 2013 inflation at 5.7 percent, according to the median
estimate in the most recent central bank survey.  Multiple Benefits  Food and beverages accounted for more than half of February
inflation. Last year they were the second-largest source of
inflation after personal expenses, when their prices rose 9.9
percent. Food and drinks represented 23.9 percent of family
budget in 2012.  The elimination of federal food taxes will do little to
suppress inflation as consumers direct savings toward the
purchase of services and drive their prices higher, said Pedro Tuesta, chief economist at 4Cast Inc.  “This aims to reduce pressure on inflation, but it hasn’t
worked before and it won’t work again,” Tuesta said by
telephone from Washington. “As long as income continues to
grow, it will put pressure on prices. You can reduce the prices
of some things, but other things will rise.”  Brazil’s state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4)  this week raised diesel prices by 5 percent after an increase
earlier this year that pushed up transport costs. Inflation as
measured by the IGP-M  index  that is 60 percent weighted in
 wholesale  reached 8.3 percent in February, its highest level
since July 2011.  Additional Measures  “We hope this lowers the price of these products and
stimulates agriculture, industry, commerce and creates jobs,”
Rousseff said. “With this decision, and with the revenue we
have, this will increase the consumption of foods and cleaning
products and there will still be money left over to save or
increase the consumption of other goods.”  The central bank’s monetary policy committee unanimously
decided to hold the benchmark rate at its record low for the
third straight meeting on March 6. The committee’s statement
said it “will monitor the evolution of the macroeconomic
scenario until its next meeting, in order to define the next
steps in its monetary policy strategy.”  Rousseff announced her plans last month to scrap all
federal taxes on staple foodstuffs after last September vetoing
a bill approved by Congress that would have done the same. The
move would have cost the government 5.1 billion reais ($2.6
billion) per year, according to the Sao Paulo Industry
Federation.  Rousseff also announced the elimination of the IPI tax for
soap and sugar, and said March 15 the country will enact new
consumer defense measures to improve service and transparency of
both business and government. New legal instruments will
“reward” practices that are good and “punish” those that are
bad, she said.  “Brazil will supervise more rigorously, apply more fitting
fines, raise awareness of companies, consumers and all society
about the advantages of improved customer relations,” Rousseff
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  