-- Brazilian Coffee Producers Boost Sales as Prices Rally
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-08T10:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/brazilian-coffee-producers-boost-sales-as-prices-rally.html
Coffee growers in  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, increased sales of last year’s crop
over the past week as futures rallied in  New York , according to
brokers Flavour Coffee and Cazarini Trading Co.  Arabica coffee futures traded on the ICE Futures U.S.
exchange climbed to as high as $1.475 a pound on March 5, the
highest in a month. Farmers in Brazil have been holding back
their coffee, with almost a third of last year’s output still to
be sold, according to consulting firm Safras & Mercado.
Harvesting of this year’s crop will start in about April for the
robusta variety and about June for arabica beans.  “Producers took advantage of momentum and sold more stocks
when New York was trading near the $1.50 a pound area,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Cazarini Trading in Varginha, in the state
of  Minas Gerais , said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Cooperatives in the south of Minas Gerais, Brazil’s largest
arabica-producing state, were “active sellers,” while
exporters were also buying due to “favorable” costs, Rio de
Janeiro-based broker Flavour Coffee said in a separate report
also e-mailed yesterday. Growers have started to reduce
stockpiles before the start of the new crop, according to
Flavour Coffee.  Brazilian arabica coffee of good-cup quality was trading at
a discount of 20 cents a pound to the price on ICE, unchanged
from last week, Flavour Coffee data showed. Beans of fine-cup
quality were at a discount of 10 cents a pound, also unchanged
from a week earlier, according to the report.  Off-Year Record  Growers in Brazil will reap 47 million to 50.2 million bags
of coffee this year, the government estimates. That would be a
record for a year in which trees enter the lower-yielding half
of a two-year cycle. Last year, the crop was an all-time high of
50.8 million bags as trees were in the higher-yielding year of
the cycle.  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta coffee is known, were at a
premium of 1 cent a pound ($22 a metric ton) to the price on the
NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  for beans from the new crop,
Flavour Coffee data showed. That’s down from a premium of 5
cents a pound last week, according to the broker.  “Local roasters were less active buyers,” it said.  Robusta coffee for delivery in May was up 0.1 percent to
$2,156 a ton by 10:10 a.m. London time on NYSE Liffe. Arabica
coffee for May delivery was down 0.1 percent at $1.429 a pound
on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 