-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Inflation Accelerates; Real Advances
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-08T21:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/brazil-swap-rates-climb-as-inflation-accelerates-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed to a
six-month high as a report showed annual inflation accelerated
in February, fueling speculation the central bank will lift
borrowing costs this year.  The real rallied to its strongest level since May on
speculation the central bank will let the currency appreciate to
contain inflation. The government’s IPCA index of consumer
prices climbed 6.31 percent in February from a year earlier, the
highest annual rate in 14 months. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 6.20 percent pace.  “IPCA has been surprising the market, and it shows that
there’s a significant inflation risk,”  Roberto Padovani , the
chief economist at Votorantim CTVM in  Sao Paulo , said in an
telephone interview. “The increase may prompt the central bank
to raise rates in April.”  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 increased 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 7.96 percent at close
in Sao Paulo, the highest level since Aug. 24. They were up 34
basis points this week. The real rose 0.7 percent to 1.9442 per
dollar, the strongest since May 8. The currency extended its
gain since March 1 to 1.8 percent, the most in five weeks.  Policy makers dropped a pledge to keep borrowing costs
unchanged for a “prolonged period” from their statement
accompanying the decision this week to leave the target lending
 rate  at a record low 7.25 percent.  Currency Rally  The real has rallied 5.5 percent against the dollar this
year, the most among 25 emerging-market counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg. The real advanced to a level stronger than 2 per
dollar on Jan. 28 for the first time since July.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventive
excessive gains.  “The last central bank intervention happened around 1.95
per dollar, close to current levels, but rising inflation
concerns suggest it may not materialize at the same levels,”
 Eduardo Suarez , a  Latin America  currency strategist at Bank of
 Nova Scotia  in Toronto, said today in an e-mailed report.  Annual inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for more than two years.
Consumer prices will increase 5.70 percent in 2013, according to
the median forecast of about 100 economists in a central bank
survey published March 4.  Inflation Momentum  “There is no denying that inflation continues with
surprisingly strong momentum,”  Tony Volpon , the head of
research for the Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York ,
said in an e-mailed research report.  Policy makers said in their statement March 6 that they
have been assessing the outlook for inflation and “will monitor
the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario” until their next
meeting.  Deputy Finance Minister Nelson Barbosa told reporters in
Brasilia today that inflation is under control and headed for
the midpoint of target range “in an adequate period.” He said
inflation will slow gradually throughout the year as commodity
prices are passed on to the consumer.  Latin America’s biggest economy expanded 0.9 percent in
2012, its slowest pace in three years, the national statistics
agency reported March 1. The government predicts growth will
rebound to at least 3 percent this year as the stimulus measures
it took in 2011 and 2012 start to show effect, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  told reporters that day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  