-- Brazil Usurping U.S. as Largest Corn Exporter: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/brazil-usurping-u-s-as-largest-corn-exporter-chart-of-the-day.html
The multi-generation reign of U.S.
farmers as the world’s largest corn exporters is about to end,
after three straight years of slumping harvests ceded market
share to  Brazil , where production doubled since 2005.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Brazil will double shipments to
24.5 million metric tons in the year ending Sept. 30, while U.S.
exports tumble 38 percent to 24 million, the fewest since 1972,
according to a U.S. Department of Agriculture report on Feb. 8.
That would mark the first time the U.S. wasn’t No. 1 since at
least 1960, when the data begin.  “The sheer volume of the decline is significant and marks
a fundamental change in global trade,” said Philip Abbott, an
agricultural economist at  Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,
 Indiana . Since prices surged to a then-record $8 a bushel in
2008, Brazil,  Argentina , Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan have
boosted output and improved shipping infrastructure, he said.
“This is not a trend that will reverse quickly.”  While much of shift reflects the 13 percent harvest decline
in the U.S. last year, during the country’s worst drought since
the 1930s, Brazil has been expanding in agriculture for much of
the past decade. The South American country already is the
world’s largest grower of sugar, coffee and oranges, and the
USDA has been predicting for almost a year that Brazil would
displace the U.S. this year as the top exporter of soybeans.  U.S. share in the global corn market has been slipping even
as the country remained the largest grower, partly because of
expanded use of the grain to make ethanol. The U.S. will account
for 25 percent of exports this year, down from a peak of 84
percent in 1980, as output jumped in Argentina, Brazil and
Ukraine, and as China expanded enough to reduce the need for
imports, government data show. Before 2012, the last time U.S.
was below 50 percent was 1971.  ‘One-Off’  “The drop in U.S. corn exports probably will be a one-off
year” because the government is forecasting a 35 percent jump
in production to a record in 2013 and a drop in prices, said
 Michael Swanson , a senior agricultural economist at  Wells Fargo
& Co . in Minneapolis. “Ultimately, the U.S. is a better corn
producer than Brazil and will regain market share. Countries
with rising middle-class populations will want to rebuild
inventories, especially if corn is $4.25 or less in the Midwest
at harvest this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  