-- Brazil’s February Consumer Prices Rise Faster Than Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-03-08T22:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/brazil-s-february-consumer-prices-rise-faster-than-forecast-1-.html
Brazil’s  inflation  in February
accelerated faster than economists forecast for the eighth
straight month, prompting traders to boost bets the central bank
will raise the key lending rate in April.  Prices as measured by the IPCA price index rose 0.60
percent in February, the national statistics agency said in  Rio
de Janeiro . That was higher than the median  forecast  of 0.49
percent from 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, and down from
the 0.86 jump posted in January. Annual  inflation  accelerated
for the eighth straight month to 6.31 percent from 6.15 percent
the month before.  Inflation in the world’s second-largest emerging market has
been stoked by government measures intended to revive economic
activity. Moves included cuts in interest rates and reductions
in electricity tariffs. With inflation running faster than in
 Mexico ,  Colombia  or  Chile  and approaching the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the central bank’s target range, the monetary policy
committee unanimously decided to hold the benchmark rate at a
record low for the third straight meeting on March 6.  Dynamics ‘Bad’  “In the best of situations, taking into the account the
decline in electricity rates, we’re talking about inflation
running at around 5 percent,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist
at  Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA , said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “That shows the dynamics of inflation
are very, very bad.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 17 basis points to 7.96
percent. The real gained 0.7 percent to 1.9442 per dollar.  “Inflation in Brazil is under control and is on track to
the center of the target in an adequate period,” deputy Finance
Minister Nelson Barbosa told reporters in Brasilia.  Barbosa said inflation in February was “a little higher
than expected” and will fall gradually throughout the year as
commodity prices are passed through to consumer prices.  “We need to work toward re-anchoring inflation
expectations,” central bank President Alexandre Tombini said at
an event in  New York  on Feb. 25.  Increased Bets  The bank’s March 6 statement removed a plan to keep
interest rates stable “for a sufficiently prolonged period”
from its language, prompting traders to increase bets on a rate
increase in April. Instead, it said the committee “will monitor
the evolution of the macroeconomic scenario until its next
meeting, in order to define the next steps in its monetary
policy strategy.”  Food and beverage inflation slowed to 1.45 percent in
February from 1.99 percent in January, the agency said. Due to
lower electricity tariffs, housing prices declined 2.38 percent.
Education prices rose 5.4 percent because of tuition prices in
the new school year.  Inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
bank’s target range for 30 months, and  Brazil ’s economy grew 0.9
percent last year, its slowest pace since 2009. Economists
surveyed by the central bank forecast 5.7 percent inflation and
3.09 percent growth this year.  The central bank is “going to really observe the data and
if there’s any type of spike, especially in the services area,
they’ll be more apt to hike, and if there’s not then they
won’t,” Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank, said by telephone from New York. “They’re more
apt to be tolerant of a higher inflation rate than their peers
in Mexico, Colombia,  Peru  and Chile.”  More Measures  Rousseff last year attempted to boost economic activity
with a series of tax cuts for consumer and industrial goods, and
for payrolls of 40 industries. Her administration also leaned on
commercial banks to lower  interest rates  and cut the long-term
lending rate to a record low 5 percent.  This year is likely to bring more government measures to
control inflation and stimulate the economy even though they
weren’t successful last year, Kathryn Rooney Vera, a
macroeconomic strategist at Bulltick Capital Markets, said.  “The government model has been a failure,” Rooney Vera
said by telephone from Miami on March 5. “Brazil doesn’t have a
global competitive advantage in manufacturing yet that’s what
the government is targeting. They’re also targeting consumption
when domestic demand is good and the labor market is tight, so
of course inflation is going to go higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  