-- Bridge Surges as Asha Deal Boosts Sale Options: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-03-08T13:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bridge-surges-as-asha-deal-boosts-sale-options-oslo-mover.html
  Bridge Energy ASA (BRIDGE) , a Norwegian oil
explorer, rose the most in a month in Oslo trading as an
agreement to combine the development of one of its finds with a
larger discovery opens up for a possible sale of the stake.  Shares in the Nesbru, Norway-based company rose as much as
9.1 percent, the most since Feb. 6, and were up 1.8 percent at
11.2 kroner as of 2:18 p.m. in the Norwegian capital. More than
331,000 shares have traded so far today, more than triple the
three-month average daily volume.  “It’s clearly positive for Bridge,” Morten Lindbaek, an
analyst at Fondsfinans ASA, said by phone from Oslo. The deal
will allow Bridge to sell its stake in a more mature asset to
finance investments as an explorer, he said.  Bridge, which has assets in the U.K. and Norwegian areas of
the  North Sea , is seeking to boost production to fund a “high
impact” exploration portfolio as  oil prices  have almost tripled
since the end of 2008. The company’s estimate of contingent
resource more than doubled, rising by 37 million barrels of oil
equivalent to 66 million barrels of oil equivalent as of Dec.
31, it said Feb. 26.  The Asha find in the North Sea will be included in the
development of the nearby Ivar Aasen deposits, which is operated
by Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA, in a deal between the license
holders, Bridge Energy said in a statement today. Statoil ASA
owns 50 percent of Ivar Aasen.  Unlocks Value  The deal “accelerates and unlocks significant value’ in
the license, Chief Executive Officer Tom Reynolds said in the
statement.  “Further upside potential exists on this license
within the independent Aglaja and Amol prospective targets,”
Reynolds said.  “They will keep to the explorer strategy,” Lindbaek said.
“There are a lot of companies that would be interested in
having a stake in that license.”  Bridge holds a 20 percent stake in license 457. Wintershall
AG is operator with a 40 percent stake, while Verbundnetz Gas AG
holds 20 percent and EON AG 20 percent.  Bridge may be a takeover candidate due to the low price of
its shares compared with the value of its assets, Pareto
Securities ASA said in a note yesterday.  Shares in Bridge Energy have gained 17 percent so far this
year, giving the company a market value of 717 million kroner
($126 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  