-- Buffett Adds Eagle Capital’s Witmer to Board of Directors
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-08T21:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/buffett-adds-eagle-capital-s-witmer-to-board-of-directors.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said Meryl Witmer, a general partner at Eagle Capital, will be the first
new director since 2009, as the panel prepares for the eventual
departure of Chairman  Warren Buffett .  The appointment of Witmer expands the board to 13 and will
follow her election at the company’s May 4 annual meeting,
 Debbie Bosanek , an assistant to Buffett, wrote in an e-mail.
Billionaire Buffett, 82, is chief executive officer and chairman
of Berkshire, which is based in Omaha, Nebraska.  Witmer’s appointment is the first since Berkshire added
 Stephen Burke , then the chief operating officer of Comcast Corp.
to the board in 2009. The firm selected  Susan Decker , a former
Yahoo! Inc. executive, in 2007. Six of the longer-serving
directors are at least 80, including Thomas Murphy and Donald Keough.  “The primary job of our directors is to select my
successor, either upon my death or disability, or when I begin
to lose my marbles,” Buffett said in a shareholder letter
published in 2004.  In another  letter  three years later he said the board
“knows exactly who should take over if I should die tonight.”  Witmer will be the third woman on Berkshire’s board,
joining  Charlotte  Guyman and Decker. She graduated from the
University of Virginia’s McIntire School of Commerce in 1983
with a finance degree. Mutual fund Calvert Investments Inc.
criticized Berkshire yesterday for not considering diversity
when selecting board members. The Omaha World-Herald, which is
owned by Berkshire, reported Witmer’s appointment earlier today.  Advocating Women  Buffett has been outspoken in support of advancing women in
the workplace. At a 2011 conference, he said that for most of
its history the U.S. failed to make use of women’s abilities by
restricting career opportunities.  “It’s incredible what happened,” Buffett said Oct. 4,
2011, at Fortune’s Most Powerful Women Summit in Laguna Niguel,
California. “We wasted half our talent.”  Witmer spoke at the 2012 Sohn Investment Conference,
alongside investors including  Bill Ackman , Jeff Gundlach and
 David Einhorn . She’s the only woman listed among the presenters
on the website. Witmer didn’t return a message left at her
office.  “She has the intellectual and analytical framework that
Buffett has,” Jeff Matthews, a Berkshire investor and author of
books about Buffett, said by phone. “She looks at the world
bottom up.”  Berkshire gained 0.1 percent to $155,411 in New York, a
record high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 