-- Bumi Resources Directors Resign as Bakries Plan London Exit
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-03-08T16:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/bumi-resources-directors-resign-ahead-of-bakrie-bumi-plc-exit.html
PT Bumi Resources,  Indonesia ’s
biggest coal exporter, said 10 directors resigned as the
company’s largest shareholder works to disconnect itself from
the Bakrie Group and PT Bumi.  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  Chairman Samin Tan quit as president commissioner
of Jakarta-based Bumi Resources, according to a March 6
 statement . Alexander Ramlie, Scott Merrillees, Kenneth Allan and
Edison Mawikere were among other board members to resign, it
said.  Bumi Plc, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild  and the Bakrie
family, is pushing ahead with the separation plan after last
month defeating an attempt by Rothschild to take control of Bumi
Plc’s board. The Bakries have proposed exchanging their 23.8
percent of Bumi Plc for 29.2 percent of Bumi Resources in a cash
and share swap deal, leaving Bumi Plc in control of PT Berau
Coal Energy.  “It appears the separation of Bumi Resources/Bakrie from
Bumi Plc/Berau is progressing,” Riaz Hyder an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said by e-mail. That “should ultimately
be beneficial for both groups focusing on their respective coal
assets.”  The resignations are consistent with Bumi Plc’s goal of
separating from the Bakrie Group and Bumi Resources, for which
it’s seeking shareholder approval “as soon as possible,” it
said today in a statement.  Corporate Governance  Veronica Tampubolon, Eva Tarigan, Nenie Afwani, John Slack
and Stefan White also quit, Bumi Resources said in the
statement.  Former Bumi Plc director Rosan Roeslani resigned as
president director of PT Berau Coal Energy, which is 85 percent
controlled by Bumi Plc, the company said today. He will be
replaced in the role by Eko Santoso Budianto, it said.  The change is “an important step in Bumi Plc’s strategy of
further strengthening internal financial controls and  corporate
governance  standards throughout the Group’s Indonesian
operations,” Bumi Plc said  The company is aiming to make progress on the Bakrie
separation in a few weeks, Chief Executive Officer Nick Von Schirnding said in Jakarta yesterday. The company and the
Bakries are starting a sales and purchase agreement, he said.  “Restructuring of the board is on the way,” Von
Schirnding told reporters. “We have commissioned an independent
search firm to find a new independent chairman.”  The company
has received a $50 million deposit from the Bakrie Group as part
of the deal.  Rothschild Criticizes Move  Rothschild today criticized the appointments at PT Berau.  “It is absolutely extraordinary that Nick Von Schirnding,
who is supposed to be an operating CEO, has chosen not to join
the board of commissioners or directors of Berau,” he said in
e-mailed comments.  Tan also resigned from PT Berau, Indonesia’s fifth-largest
coal miner. Kenneth Allan and Eva Tarigan, who both resigned
from PT Bumi, were appointed as commissioners at Berau Coal.
They are also both directors at PT Borneo Lumbung Energi and
Metal which last year bought a 23.8 percent stake in Bumi Plc
from the Bakries for $1 billion.  That deal was the forerunner to Samin Tan joining the board
of the London-listed company as chairman. He was President
Director of Borneo at the time of the transaction.  He also resigned this week as president director of  PT Bumi
Resources (BUMI)  Minerals. Kenneth Allan also quit as director of Bumi
Minerals, the unit said in a statement yesterday.  The London-listed company advanced 7.1 percent to close at
347 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Singapore at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  