-- HTC Wins Dismissal of First Two German Nokia Patent Suits
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-03-08T16:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/htc-wins-dismissal-of-first-two-german-nokia-patent-suits.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  won dismissal of two  Nokia
Oyj (NOK)  patent-infringement lawsuits in Germany, the first rulings
from that country in the global intellectual-property dispute
between the companies.  The judges didn’t find that HTC violated Nokia’s patents,
Joachim Bock, spokesman for the Mannheim Regional Court, which
heard the cases, said in an interview today. In one of the
actions, Nokia argued HTC illicitly used its technology to run
the  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Play store on its smartphones.  Nokia last year sued HTC, BlackBerry and ViewSonic Corp. in
the U.S., U.K. and and Germany over a total of 45 patents. The
Finnish mobile-phone maker, struggling to reverse a sales slide,
settled with BlackBerry in December. A month earlier, HTC
reached a global settlement with Apple Inc. of their patent
disputes. Nokia can appeal today’s ruling.  “Nokia respectfully disagrees with the court’s decision
and we are considering our options,” Mark Durrant, spokesman
for the Espoo, Finland-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement. Nokia asserted violation of more than 30 further
patents against HTC in  Germany , the U.S. and the U.K. and
expects to prevail regarding those, he said.  “Nokia has exaggerated the scope of its patent in order to
extract unwarranted licensing royalties from Android handset
manufacturers,” HTC said in an e-mailed statement referring to
Google’s mobile software. “The Android platform is now safe
from oppressive enforcement of this patent.”  Google supported HTC as a party in the case over the Play
store, which allows Android device users to download
applications and media.  The Mannheim court is scheduled to rule March 19 on whether
HTC infringed a Nokia patent for technology used to regulate a
device’s battery power use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 