-- California Considering 25 Projects for Carbon Offset Credits
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-08T23:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/california-considering-25-projects-for-carbon-offset-credits.html
California, the second-largest
carbon-polluting state in the U.S. behind  Texas , will decide
whether to award its first carbon offset credits for 25 projects
designed to cut greenhouse-gas emissions.  The candidates for offset credits include a project to
improve forest management practices to avoid emissions related
to timber harvesting and several to destroy biogas at farms,
according to a list posted on the state Air Resources Board’s
website. All of the projects must be reviewed by a certified
“offset verifier” and then by the air board itself before
being deemed eligible.  Should all of the projects be approved, they’ll generate as
many as 3 million offset credits to be used under California’s
carbon cap-and-trade program, the only system of its kind in the
U.S. and the second-largest in the world, behind the European
Union’s program. The state defeated a lawsuit in January that
claimed the offsets, which companies can use to cover as much as
8 percent of their emissions, aren’t new efforts to cut carbon
and would occur without investments.  The projects listed by the air board today will be held to
“rigorous verification standards,” Mary D. Nichols, the
agency’s chairman, said in a statement posted on its website.
“We have determined that every single  California  offset credit
allowed into the program represents a real ton of greenhouse gas
reductions.”  Contracts Rising  Contracts based on California offset credits, each allowing
the release of one metric ton of carbon, have risen 25 cents, or
2.1 percent, in the past month, according to data compiled by
environmental broker Evolution Markets based in  White Plains ,
 New York . “Golden” offsets, which come with a seller guarantee
to replace any invalidated credits, were unchanged at $12 a ton
today, according to Evolution.  The projects would be awarded “early action” credits,
which the state agreed to consider to generate an initial supply
of offsets for the market. To be eligible, they must cut
emissions in the U.S. between 2005 and 2014 and be listed in a
preexisting registry designed to meet the state’s early action
criteria, among other things.  Emissions-reduction projects that begin in 2015 and beyond
must meet a different set of state standards.  Carbon Allowances  Under the cap-and-trade program, California established a
pool of carbon allowances, each permitting the release of one
metric ton of carbon. That pool is designed to shrink through
2020 to cut statewide emissions by roughly 15 percent. Companies
over their emissions limits can buy allowances from those below
the cap, as well as a limited number of offset credits, to meet
their compliance obligations.  Futures based on 2013 California carbon allowances, which
also allow for the release of one metric ton of carbon each,
climbed 5 cents to settle at $14.55 a ton today, according to
Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   California’s cap-and-trade system will eventually regulate
85 percent of greenhouse-gas emissions released in the state and
cover all industries, including power generation, oil refining
and transportation. A similar program in the U.S. Northeast,
known as the  Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative , regulates
emissions from  power plants  only.  Europe Glut  In  Europe , an oversupply of offset credits has added to
pressure on European Union carbon futures, already trading 49
percent below a year ago because of a glut of allowances due to
the recession.  Kathrin Goretzki, an analyst at Unicredit Bank AG in
Munich, estimated Jan. 29 that the EU market may have been
oversupplied by much as 1.6 billion metric tons of permits by
the end of 2012.  The  United Nations Clean Development Mechanism  has approved
6,619 offset projects in  developing countries , more than half of
which are in  China , according to the UN’s website. More than
2,000 of these projects have supplied 1.26 billion tons of
“Certified Emission Reduction” offsets for emissions-trading
systems participating in the  Kyoto Protocol , UN data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  California’s air resources board may take “several weeks”
to issue its first offset credits, according to the agency’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  