-- Canadian Employment Rises More-Than-Expected 50,700
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-08T21:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/canada-employment-rises-more-than-expected-50-700-in-february.html
Canada ’s economy showed signs of
strength today with gains in  employment  and housing, ending a
week where the central bank delayed a plan to raise  interest
rates  and the finance minister said slower growth is sapping
revenue needed to curb deficits.  Employment rose by 50,700 last month,  Statistics Canada 
reported today, more than double the highest prediction in a
Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists. Canada and the U.S. both
reported unemployment rates at four-year lows, suggesting demand
from the country that buys three-quarters of Canada’s exports
may be on the rise.  “We are seeing a slow but steady improvement in the
jobless rate even amid relatively modest growth in this
country,” said  Doug Porter , Bank of  Montreal ’s chief economist.
“Maybe even better news is the much better job numbers we have
seen out of the U.S. today.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today Canada can expect
“modest” growth after reviewing forecasts from Porter and
other economists, as he prepares a budget he will probably
deliver in the next few weeks. Canada’s dollar rose for a second
day after both job reports, strengthening as much as 0.6 percent
to C$1.0235 per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto before paring gains.
Government bond yields rose, with  five-year debt  seeing the
biggest jump since Oct. 17, to as high as 1.40 percent from 1.34
percent.  Those gains were supported by Canada Mortgage & Housing
Corp.’s report today that the  pace  of work on new homes rose 14
percent in February to an annual pace of 180,719 units, the
first increase in six months.  Good News  The Canadian data was “good economic news,” Flaherty told
reporters. “The U.S. job numbers this morning are also good.”  U.S. employment rose 236,000 last month, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected an
advance of 165,000.  The job market remains one of the stronger parts of
Canada’s recovery as retailers including  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  tap into
 consumer spending  and resource companies expand production.  “The hiring boom seems to have resumed,” said  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist in Toronto at Royal Bank of
Canada. “It’s a solid report providing encouragement the weak
growth numbers we were looking at in the second half of last
year will be reversed.”  Employment in services rose by 59,300 in February while
jobs related to goods production fell by 8,600, Statistics
Canada said today.  Professional, scientific and technical service jobs rose by
26,200 last month. Retail and wholesale employment increased by
13,200 and food service and accommodation by 21,100.  Retail Hiring  Lowe’s said last month it will hire about 1,000 workers in
the next few months at its Canadian home improvement stores.  “The Canadian job market struck back with a vengeance,”
said  Jimmy Jean , a strategist in the fixed-income group at
Desjardins Capital Markets in Montreal. Statistics Canada said
yesterday the country had the smallest merchandise trade  deficit 
in almost a year in January on higher exports of crude oil and
bitumen.  Full-time employment rose by 33,600, while part-time work
grew by 17,200, Statistics Canada said today. Private companies
hired 29,200 workers in February, exceeding the 9,400 increase
in public sector jobs.  The positive reports came at the end of a week where Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said his policy rate will
probably be unchanged “for a period of time” after  inflation 
slowed more than he forecast. As well, Statistics Canada
reported last week that growth in the world’s 11th largest
economy slowed to a 0.6 percent annualized pace in the fourth
quarter, making the second half of 2012 the weakest since Canada
emerged from recession in 2009.  Improvement Unsustainable  Canada won’t sustain the improvement in the job market,
economists predict. The unemployment rate will remain above 7
percent this year according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The measure averaged 6.2 percent in the three years before
Canada’s last recession began around the end of 2008, according
to Bloomberg calculations.  Much of Canada’s expansion this year rests on a shift from
consumer spending that’s led growth for years, said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in Toronto.  “The real challenge will be for Canada if the global
recovery doesn’t pick up by 2014,” Shenfeld said. “We do need
to get a handoff from sectors like housing and consumer spending
to exports and business investment spending, and we are going to
depend on the kindness of strangers to do that.”  ‘Significant’ Impact  In the near term, Canada is facing weaker-than-expected
growth in nominal output, Flaherty said, which will have a
“significant” impact on government revenue. Canada will manage
the shortfall in the fiscal plan through spending restraint and
closing of tax loopholes and remains “on track” to balance its
budget in 2015, he said.  Peggy Nash, finance spokeswoman for the main opposition  New
Democratic Party , said “the news from Canada’s private sector
economists is worrying and in stark contrast to what Minister
Flaherty has been telling Canadians.”  In an e-mailed statement, Nash said Canada needs “a real
plan to spur investments and create jobs, not more reckless
cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  