-- Canada Heavy Oil Jumps Most Since September as Output Slumps
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-03-08T20:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/canada-heavy-oil-jumps-most-since-september-as-output-slumps.html
Canadian heavy oil strengthened the
most in almost six months on the  spot market  as weaker-than-
expected output eased concern that lower refinery demand in the
spring will keep the grade under pressure.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  reported fourth-quarter
production yesterday of 592,080 barrels-of-oil equivalent, 12
percent below the average estimate of seven analyst polled by
Bloomberg. Other oil sands projects including Syncrude also
reported lower-than-expected production this month. The company
said it accounted for 53 percent of the Western Canadian Select
blend in 2012.  “The new information that the market is reacting to is
that producers are indicating that their production is a little
bit more subdued than expected,” said Judith Dwarkin, chief
energy economist at ITG Investment Research Inc. “What the
price is telling you is that the market balance is a lot tighter
than what a lot of people were positioning for.”  WCS, a heavy blend of diluted oil-sands bitumen,
strengthened $3.75 a barrel to $20 a barrel below U.S. benchmark
West Texas Intermediate crude at 1:57 p.m.  New York  time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the strongest
one-day move since Sept. 18, and the smallest discount for the
grade since Oct. 22.  Rising production and limited pipeline space has put
pressure on the price of Canadian heavy oil over the last
several months, with Western  Canada  Select reaching a record
discount of $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14.  Constraints Eased  Less output from projects this winter has eased the
pipeline constraints.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  export pipelines to the
Midwest from Canada were not apportioned in March, the company
said in a Feb. 21 e-mail. Export lines 4 and 67 carrying a
combined 1.25 million barrels a day were apportioned for five
months through February, meaning there wasn’t enough space to
meet all requests to transport oil.  Midwest refinery maintenance this spring was also expected
to reduce the demand for heavy crude. Plants that process heavy
crude imports from Canada were said to have scheduled
maintenance for April and May, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
238,000-barrel-a-day Joliet,  Illinois , units and  Calumet
Specialty Products Partners (CLMT) ’ 45,000-barrel-a-day refinery in
Superior, Wisconsin.  Exxon’s Joliet refinery will shut down for five weeks of
maintenance starting in mid-April, a person familiar with the
matter said. Calumet said it will close its Superior refinery
late in the first quarter for about three weeks of work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  