-- Canada Fourth Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-08T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/canada-fourth-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s business sector labor productivity report for
the fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Labour productivity of Canadian businesses edged up 0.1% in
the fourth quarter, after declining the previous two quarters.  Business output and hours worked to produce that output
remained at almost the same levels as in the previous quarter.  Real gross domestic product (GDP) of businesses was
unchanged in the fourth quarter, after rising 0.1% the previous
quarter. The output of goods-producing businesses grew 0.1% in
the fourth quarter, while that of service-producing businesses
was unchanged.  Hours worked in the business sector, which increased in the
first three quarters of 2012, showed little change in the fourth
quarter (-0.1%). Hours worked in the service sector declined
0.1%, while hours worked in the goods-producing sector were
unchanged.  Overall, there was little change in the productivity of
both goods-producing businesses and service-producing businesses
in the fourth quarter.  Productivity in goods-producing businesses edged up 0.1%
for a second consecutive quarter. Productivity gains in
agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting (+2.7%), utilities
(+2.3%) and mining and oil and gas extraction (+1.6%) were
partly offset by losses in manufacturing (-1.8%).  In service-producing businesses, productivity also edged up
0.1%, led by gains in retail trade and the finance, insurance
and holding company sector. These increases were partly offset
by declines in transportation and warehousing as well as in arts,
entertainment and recreation.  Labour costs per unit of output in the business sector rose
0.6% in the fourth quarter, a slower pace than in the three
previous quarters.  The increase in unit labour costs reflected mainly the
growth in the average compensation per hour worked (+0.7%),
which was the same pace as in the previous quarter.  Unit labour costs of Canadian businesses in American
dollars grew 1.0% in the fourth quarter, after increasing 2.7%
in the third quarter. The average value of the Canadian dollar
relative to the American dollar rose 0.4% during the fourth
quarter, compared with a 1.5% gain the previous quarter.  By comparison, the unit labour costs of American businesses
increased 1.1% in the fourth quarter, following two quarterly
declines.  Annual 2012  Labour productivity of Canadian businesses edged up 0.1% in
2012, following annual increases of 1.1% in 2011 and 1.6% in
2010. The real GDP of the business sector (+1.9%) and hours
worked (+1.8%) both grew at a similar pace in 2012.  Productivity of the goods-producing industries rose 1.1% in
2012, mostly because of advances in manufacturing (+1.9%) and
construction (+1.9%). These gains were partly offset by lower
productivity in the  service industries  (-0.5%). With the
exception of retail trade (+0.7%), wholesale trade (+0.3%) and
professional services (+1.7%), productivity fell in all other
service-producing industries in 2012.  By comparison, the annual growth of productivity of
American businesses was 0.9% for 2012, up from 0.4% in 2011.  The difference in productivity between Canada and the
 United States  in 2012 was mostly the result of a difference in
the growth of real GDP of businesses, since the two countries
had similar increases in hours worked. This was the first time
since 2009 that real GDP growth was lower in the Canadian
business sector (+1.9%) than in the American business sector
(+2.8%).  Note to readers  Revisions  Revised quarterly data on labour productivity by industry
in the business sector covering the first quarter of 2007 to the
third quarter of 2012 period are released today. These industry
level data are consistent with the historically revised monthly
data on gross domestic product (GDP) by industry, released on
January 31, 2013. Aggregate level business sector productivity
and related variable data were revised back to the first quarter
of 2008 in order to bring these data into line with the revised
data by industry.  While revisions to the aggregate business sector estimates
were minimal, revisions to the industry detail were more
substantial in nature.  The historical revision of the Canadian System of National
Accounts incorporated the new international 2008 System of
National Accounts accounting standard, methodological
improvements and statistical revisions as well as a new industry
classification, which provides more detail for the service
sector.  Revisions to the first quarter of 1997 to the fourth
quarter 2006 are planned for release in December 2013.  Productivity measure  The term ‘productivity’ in this release refers to labour
productivity. For the purposes of this analysis, labour
productivity and related variables cover the business sector
only. Labour productivity is a measure of real GDP per hour
worked. Unit labour cost is defined as the cost of workers’
wages and benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are rounded
to one decimal place. They are calculated with index numbers
rounded to three decimal places, which are now available on
CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  