-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Major Peers on Employment Increases
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-08T22:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/canadian-dollar-gains-as-employment-increases-more-than-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar rose versus the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers after employment gains in
 Canada  and the U.S. exceeded forecasts, boosting investor risk
appetite.  The Canadian currency gained against its U.S. counterpart
for a second day as both countries reported unemployment rates
at four-year lows. The so-called loonie fell earlier this week
after the Bank of Canada softened language about tighter
monetary policy and said it won’t raise interest rates anytime
soon with inflation slowing more than projected.  “Great numbers for Canada, great numbers for the U.S.,
which is a plus-plus for the Canadian dollar,” John Curran,
senior vice president at Canadianforex Ltd., an online foreign-
exchange dealer, said by phone in Toronto.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.1 percent to
C$1.0287 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after gaining as
much as 0.6 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 97.21 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond fell for a fifth
day, with yields rising five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 1.93 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in
June 2022 declined 44 cents to C$106.88 after falling to
C$106.62, the lowest since Feb.25.  Loonie Bulls  Options traders have become more bullish on the Canadian
dollar during the past week. The three-month 25-delta risk
reversal rate, which measures the premium charged for the right
to buy the U.S. dollar against the loonie versus contracts to
sell, traded at 1.3 today, down 8.2 percent this week. It hit
1.5 on Feb. 26, the highest since Sept. 7.  “Bearish sentiment about the Canadian dollar has been
building over the last month or so, and these numbers absolutely
stopped it in its tracks,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at
Forexlive.com in  Montreal , said by phone. “One data point isn’t
going to change the Bank of Canada outlook, but the BOC will be
glad that they left a slight hawkish bias.”  Canadian employment rose by 50,700 last month, more than
double the highest prediction in a Bloomberg News survey with 22
responses and a median estimate of 8,000. The jobless rate
remained at 7 percent, the lowest since December 2008, while
economists predicted it would rise to 7.1 percent.  Housing Starts  A separate report showed Canadian  housing starts  were
180,719 at a seasonally adjusted annual pace in February,
Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp. said on its website
today. Economists forecast a reading of 175,000 according to the
median of 20 responses to a Bloomberg News survey.  Employment in the U.S. increased 236,000 last month after a
revised 119,000 gain in January that was smaller than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The
median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
an advance of 165,000. The jobless rate dropped to 7.7 percent
from 7.9 percent.  “Job numbers look good in North America, and that could
lead the way to encourage the market to add risk to their
portfolios,”  Dean Popplewell , a currency analyst at Oanda Corp,
said by phone from Toronto. “Momentum should favor growth
currencies in Canada and  Mexico .”  Mexico’s peso gained 1 percent to 12.6267 to the dollar,
the biggest gain among major currencies. The U.S. is the largest
trading partner of both Canada and Mexico.  Carney’s View  The loonie declined 0.5 percent on March 6 after Bank of
Canada Governor Mark Carney softened language about tighter
policy for the second meeting in a row, saying inflation will
“remain low in the near term” in an economy with “material
excess capacity.” Carney retained the warning rates will rise
over time amid speculation it would be dropped entirely. The
central bank kept its  benchmark rate  at 1 percent.  “With the direction the Bank of Canada is implying to the
market, we are looking for the Canadian dollar to weaken off in
the coming months,” Canadianforex’s Curran said. The employment
gains are “going to be a short-term plus for the Canadian
dollar,” he said.  The loonie has fallen 3.1 percent during the past six
months among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has
gained 2.4 percent and the euro has surged 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  