-- CapitaLand Drops on Housing Curbs Speculation: Singapore Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-08T10:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/capitaland-drops-on-housing-curbs-speculation-singapore-mover.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  fell to the lowest
in three months, leading declines among the city’s property
stocks, on speculation the government will introduce additional
measures to cool the housing market.  Southeast Asia’s biggest developer sank as much as 3.5
percent to S$3.60 and closed at S$3.62 in  Singapore , the lowest
finish since Dec. 6.  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , the city’s second-
largest developer, fell 1.8 percent to S$11.20. Wing Tai
Holdings Ltd. dropped 2.3 percent to S$1.90. The benchmark
Straits Times Index slipped 0.3 percent.  Singapore,  Hong Kong  and  China  have been grappling with a
surge in housing prices fueled by low  interest rates  and capital
inflows that drive up demand and make housing unaffordable.
CapitaLand gets 35 percent of sales from Singapore and 18
percent from China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is concern about further residential measures in
Singapore,” said Tim Gibson, Head of Asian property equities at
Henderson Global Investors Ltd., which manages about $98 billion
globally. “CapitaLand also has some exposure to China where we
have seen policy measures to curb the property market.”  Singapore Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said on
Feb. 25 the government plans to raise taxes for luxury home
owners and investment properties, widening a four-year campaign
to curb speculation. Hong Kong last month doubled the  sales tax 
on property costing more than HK$2 million ($258,000) and
targeted commercial real estate for the first time.  Record Prices  China on March 1 imposed its toughest curbs in a year,
ordering the central bank to raise down-payment requirements and
interest rates for second mortgages in cities with excessive
price gains, enforcing a property sales tax and telling local
governments with the biggest price pressures to tighten home-
purchase limits.  Singapore home sales rose 43 percent in January from the
previous month as buyers rushed to purchase homes right after
the government announced cooling measures to ease residential
prices. Prices in the island state reached a record high in the
fourth quarter amid low interest rates, raising concerns of a
housing bubble and prompting the government to introduce its
seventh round of cooling measures on Jan. 11.  The government has been attempting to rein in prices since
2009, when it barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  PropertyGuru, a Singapore-based real estate website, said
on March 6 the government may tighten rules for mortgage
repayments, citing a person who wasn’t identified.  “Whatever the governments do, doesn’t seem to cool the
 property market ,” said Jason Hughes, head of premium client
management at IG Markets in Singapore. “Tightening measures are
on the cards as housing prices stay at elevated levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  