-- China, Singapore Double Currency Swap Agreement to $48 Billion
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-03-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/china-singapore-double-currency-swap-agreement-to-48-billion.html
China and Singapore doubled a
 currency swap  agreement to 300 billion yuan ($48.3 billion)
after the city-state became the third offshore center for the
Chinese currency last month.  Under the  new arrangement , the funds will be available to
eligible financial institutions in Singapore and those operating
in China for a period of three years, the central banks said in
a statement yesterday. China was the republic’s third-largest
trading partner after Malaysia and Europe in 2012.  The People’s Bank of China gave  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. the right to clear yuan transactions in
Singapore last month, joining  Hong Kong  and Taiwan. London is
also in the process of arranging a currency swap with China as
it seeks to become an offshore  yuan  center in Europe.  “The new bilateral currency swap arrangement reinforces
the co-operation between PBC and MAS to strengthen economic ties
and foster financial stability,” the banks said yesterday. The
agreement will “enable both central banks to provide foreign
currency liquidity to stabilize financial markets,” it said.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao pledged this past week to expand
cross-border use of the yuan and encourage foreign investment,
as the government plans to allow the  budget deficit  to widen by
50 percent in 2013 to spur economic growth. The new agreement
was signed on March 7 and will replace the previous arrangement
dated July 23, 2010, the central banks said in the statement.  Counterparty Rankings  “We expect the swap line to help boost the offshore
 renminbi  market and advance the proceeds of renminbi
internationalization,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.
“We expect further swap lines and offshore markets to be
established in coming years.  The increased swap makes the Southeast Asian nation the
third-largest counterparty after Hong Kong’s 400 billion yuan
and South Korea’s 350 billion yuan out of the 18 countries with
which China has such lines, Kowalczyk wrote.  Singapore is the largest currency trading center in Asia
after Tokyo, according to the most recent triennial survey by
the  Bank for International Settlements  issued in September 2010.
Its average daily foreign-exchange turnover is $300 billion,
according to a July 30 report from the Singapore Foreign
Exchange Market Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  