-- China May Increase Subsidies for Hybrid Vehicles, Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/china-may-increase-subsidies-for-hybrid-vehicles-minister-says.html
China , failing to convince motorists
to buy electric cars, is considering widening state subsidies
for gasoline-electric automobiles and other fuel-efficient
vehicles, according to the industry minister.  It is more “realistic and practical” for the government
to promote hybrids and other fuel-efficient vehicles than just
electric vehicles, Miao Wei, minister for industry and
information technology, told reporters at the National People’s
Congress in Beijing yesterday. The government will seek to
introduce the amended policy in the first half, though the plan
needs to be coordinated with the  finance ministry  and other
government branches, he said.  “New-energy vehicles are the future,” said Miao. “Fuel-
efficient cars are now.”  Government backing for more types of energy-efficient
vehicles may turn into a victory for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , whose
Prius is the world’s best-selling hybrid. Miao’s comments add to
signs that China, which has forecast cumulative electric-car
sales to reach 500,000 by 2015, is recognizing the need to
review its policies after deliveries were fewer than 13,000 last
year.  “It’s been well accepted that under the current policy,
the targets, although modes, will not be met,” said  Ashvin Chotai , managing director of Intelligence Automotive Asia in
 London . “The question is whether they’ll reduce the target or
extend the benefit to regular hybrids. I expect they’ll include
hybrids and there may be new initiatives that are announced.”  A three-year trial program that ended last year provided
subsidies of as much as 60,000  yuan  ($9,650) for pure electric
vehicles and 50,000 yuan for plug-in hybrids. Regular hybrids
only got 3,000 yuan.  While the central government is targeting cumulative sales
to reach 5 million by 2020, automakers sold a combined 12,791
such vehicles in 2012, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  