-- Coffee Capped on Low Roaster Inventory as Brazil Delivery Starts
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-08T12:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/coffee-capped-on-low-roaster-inventory-as-brazil-delivery-starts.html
Coffee prices are set to stay low as
roasters are buying less than usual, rules allowing Brazilian
coffee to be delivered in New York come into force and a record
global crop compensates for leaf rust losses in Central America.  While countries in Central America and  Mexico  may lose 4
million to 5 million bags to leaf rust next season, coffee will
trade between $1.40 a pound and $1.60 a pound for the next 12
months, said Ricardo Villanueva, president of the private sector
committee at the  International Coffee Organization . He correctly
forecast in September that futures would drop to $1.40 a pound
by February and March this year. Arabica for May delivery was
little changed at $1.43 a pound in New York.  Coffee roasters hold stockpiles to meet their needs for two
to three months, said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank
International in London. Their holdings are usually higher than
that in years when trees in leading grower  Brazil  enter the
lower-yielding half of its cycle, he said. Global coffee output
will climb to a record 144.4 million bags in the season started
Oct. 1 in most countries, the London-based ICO estimates.  ICE
Futures U.S.  started accepting Brazilian beans this month.  “It’s a buying strategy. People are buying less to keep
prices low. They are buying to roast in a month,” Villanueva
said in an interview at the ICO’s offices in  London  on March 5.
“As Brazil will start to deliver to the exchange in March 2013,
this could keep prices at a low level.”  Arabica coffee futures have dropped 0.6 percent this year
after falling 37 percent in 2012, the most in more than a
decade. The beans favoured by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  were the worst
performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 commodities
last year as stockpiles climbed to the highest since 2010.  ICE Delivery  At the moment, it’s not advantageous for producers in
Brazil to deliver to ICE as they are getting better prices in
the physical market, said Flavio Ribeiro, a broker at Flavour
Coffee in Rio de Janeiro. There have been no Brazilian beans
sent for grading yet,  Claire Miller , a London-based spokeswoman
for the exchange, said by phone from London yesterday. That may
change when beans from this year’s crop start entering the
market, Ribeiro said. Brazil’s arabica harvest starts in June.  Growers in Brazil will reap 47 million to 50.2 million bags
of coffee this year, a record for a year in which trees enter
the lower yielding half of the two-year cycle, the government’s
crop forecasting agency Conab estimates. That follows a record
50.8 million bags during the on-year half of the cycle in 2012.
Stockpiles in  Latin America ’s biggest economy were 28.4 million
bags as of Jan. 1, 20 percent higher than a year earlier,
according to exporter Terra Forte Exportacao e Importacao de
Cafe Ltda.  Colombia Crop  Bigger crops in Brazil and  Colombia , the second-biggest
arabica producer, will help compensate for losses in Central
America and Mexico for now, Mauricio Galindo, head of operations
at the ICO said in an interview at the organization’s offices on
March 5. Colombian coffee production will gain 30 percent to 10
million bags this year, Luis Genaro Munoz, the head of the
National Federation of Coffee Growers, said last month.  “The supply and demand is in balance,” Rodolfo Trampe,
executive coordinator of Mexico’s coffee association, Amecafe,
said in an interview in London yesterday. “You have probably 48
million to 50 million bags in Brazil, you have good output in
 Vietnam , Colombia is slowly recovering.”  Countries in Central America and Mexico may need 10 years
to recover from leaf rust, ICO’s Galindo said. The fungus, which
attacks foliage, is damaging crops that are at higher-than-
normal altitudes and is more resistant than in previous cases,
Villanueva said.  Coffee Substitution  Losses in Central America and Mexico will probably not
cause arabica coffee futures in  New York  to rally as roasters
replace these beans with supplies from Brazil, Colombia and some
African nations, Amecafe’s Trampe said. Roasters are adapting to
the new supply and demand environment, he said.  “This phenomenon of leaf rust is generating producers’
expectations of a significant reaction in prices,” Trampe said.
“I’m not in favor of saying that all production will be lost
and that prices will be $3.00 a pound. It’s not going to
happen.”  Futures may start rising in a year as supplies from Brazil
will not be enough to make up for leaf rust losses, according to
Villanueva. Prices will rise to an average $1.70 a pound by the
third quarter, Rabobank International estimated yesterday.  “By December or January the availability of Central
American coffee will start to drop sharply,” Villanueva said.
“There will be 5 million bags less in a year and it’s not
possible that there won’t be a reaction.”  A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 