-- Colombia Cites Low Inflation Risk And Coal Paralysis in Rate Cut
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-03-08T19:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/colombia-cites-low-inflation-risk-and-coal-paralysis-in-rate-cut.html
Colombia ’s economy has no
inflationary pressure in the near future, as excess capacity
helps keeps prices down, the central bank said today in the
minutes to its February policy meeting.  Banco de la Republica also cited “paralysis” in the
country’s coal industry, and the risk of weaker demand from
 Venezuela , in its unanimous decision to cut it policy rate a
quarter point to 3.75 percent last month.  “The deceleration in inflation, which was greater than
expected, takes place in a context of an output gap, which could
keep inflation expectations low for a longer period of time,”
policy makers said in the  minutes . “It also reduces the
probability that unexpected increases, generated by supply
shocks, put the achievement of the inflation target at risk.”  Colombia has cut  interest rates  six times since June to the
lowest among major Latin American economies, citing below-
potential growth, slowing inflation and a weak global economy.
Consumer prices rose 1.83 percent in February from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since 1955, as food, clothing and
entertainment costs fell.  Colombia has entered a “sustainable low inflation phase,”
which means policy makers can concentrate their efforts on
getting growth to accelerate to its potential rate of 4.8
percent per year, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a
March 5 interview. The central bank targets inflation of 3
percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  The economy expanded 2.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in the Andean region. Gross
domestic product will increase 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent in
2013, according to the central bank’s forecast.  Workers at Cerrejon, joint-owned by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  went on strike Feb. 7 in a
dispute over pay and benefits, halting work at Colombia’s
largest coal mine. The workers will lift the strike tonight, the
union said today.  Exports from Colombia’s second-biggest coal producer,
Drummond Co., were also interrupted last month, after its
loading license was suspended after a sinking barge dumped coal
into the sea. The ban was lifted March 1.  Coal is Colombia’s biggest export after oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  