-- China’s Chen Warns on Currency Risk as Yen Slumps to ’09 Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-08T07:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/commerce-minister-chen-adds-voice-to-china-concerns-on-yen-1-.html
China ’s Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said he’s concerned at the risk of competitive
devaluations as the yen slumped to the lowest level against the
dollar in more than three years.  Large depreciations of major currencies “will have a big
impact on China and other emerging nations,” Chen said today at
a briefing in Beijing. He urged sticking to a Group of 20 pledge
to avoid competitive devaluations and expressed concern at
spillovers of money into emerging economies.  In Tokyo,  Japan ’s top currency official, Takehiko Nakao,
said in an interview today that inflows of capital from
advanced-nation easing can aid developing economies.   The yen has weakened about 14 percent against the dollar in
the past three months in anticipation of greater stimulus under
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to revive Japanese growth.
In Moscow last month, Japanese officials told finance chiefs
from G-20 nations that weakness in the currency was a byproduct
of efforts to counter deflation and spur growth.  Koichi Hamada, an economic adviser to Abe, echoed that
stance today in a speech in  Tokyo , saying that a currency war
will be avoided so long as Japan refrains from targeting a
specific level for the yen.  The yen slid 0.6 percent to 95.36 per dollar as of 4:39
p.m. in Tokyo, the weakest since August 2009.  NPC Briefing  Chen, who spoke during the annual meeting of the National
People’s Congress, was responding to a question about the impact
a weakening yen would have on China’s foreign trade.  “I’m worried about inflation for the year and I worry that
competitive devaluations will lead to an oversupply of money and
it will have a negative spillover on economic growth globally,”
Chen said.  In a March 5 report to legislators, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
monetary-policy easing by “major developed countries” was
contributing to inflationary pressure in China.  Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China,
reiterated this month that China is “fully prepared” for a
currency war, although he said this could be avoided if policy
makers observe the G-20 consensus.  Li Yining, a senior government adviser who wrote a book
with  Li Keqiang , the country’s incoming premier, said yesterday
that China doesn’t approve of excessively loose monetary
policies by other nations.  China’s foreign-exchange regulator, which is headed by Yi,
warned in a report on Feb. 28 that quantitative easing will lead
to capital inflows into  emerging markets .  China has built up the world’s largest  foreign-exchange
reserves  over the past decade as it controlled the value of its
own currency, the  yuan , to prevent gains and help exporters. The
holdings were $3.3 trillion at the end of December.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  