-- Congo’s Katanga Province in ‘Humanitarian Crisis,’ UN Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-03-08T15:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/congo-s-katanga-province-in-humanitarian-crisis-un-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
copper-rich Katanga province is in an “acute humanitarian
crisis” amid resurgent fighting between local militias and the
army, the United Nations humanitarian agency said.  Civilians have been subject to “deliberate attacks,
assassinations, burning of villages, child recruitment, rapes,
and illegal taxation,” the UN Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs said in an e-mailed report today. The
number of displaced people in the southeastern province has
increased sixfold since January 2012 to 316,000, it said.  “Katanga is turning into a province that requires the same
amount of attention as the Kivus,” two provinces where nearly
1.8 million people have been displaced amid attacks by armed
groups, the report said. “The weak presence of Congolese police
and UN peacekeepers does not bode well for a rapid improvement
in terms of protection.”  The insecurity is most extreme between the towns of Manono,
Pweto and Mitwaba in central Katanga, where two groups, known as
Mai Mai Gedeon and Kata Katanga, prey on the population and
battle the army, OCHA said. The humanitarian effects of the
fighting have spread to half the province’s 22 territories, it
said.  The area around the towns is rich in tin ore and coltan, an
ore used in electronics, and has become increasingly unstable
since September 2011, when Gedeon Kyungu Mutanga, the leader of
the Mai Mai Gedeon group, escaped from prison. Kyungu was
sentenced to death in 2009 for crimes committed as the head of a
militia in the same region between 2003 and 2006, according to a
2010 UN report documenting human rights violations during
Congo’s wars, which officially ended in 2003.  Congo produces about 3 percent of the world’s copper and
nearly half its cobalt, most of which comes from Katanga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 