-- Copper Traders Diverge From Hedge Funds on Recovery: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-08T17:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/copper-traders-diverge-from-hedge-funds-on-recovery-commodities.html
Copper analysts are the most bullish
in five weeks because of mounting optimism the global economy is
strengthening, diverging from  hedge funds  holding their biggest
wager on a retreat since August.  Thirteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week. Four forecast declines and three were neutral,
for the highest proportion of bulls since Feb. 1. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. recommended March 1 buying the metal for a 16 percent
gain in six months. Speculators are betting on a drop for the
first time since November after inventories monitored by the
 London  Metal Exchange advanced to a more-than two-year high.  Global equities rose to the highest since 2008 today on
speculation central banks will continue stimulus to aid
economies.  China ’s growth accelerated for the first time in two
years in the fourth quarter and the  Federal Reserve  said March 6
the U.S. is expanding. While LME copper stockpiles doubled since
September as supply outpaced demand, Barclays Plc forecasts a
return to shortages in the next six months.  “With the U.S. improving and China coming out of its
doldrums, we think copper is well supported,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP, a broker
and adviser in London. “Copper has been volatile because the
stockpiles have been high. Outside the U.S. there’s still not
great visibility.  Europe  is probably going to take a while to
turn around.”  Copper Price  Copper fell 2.4 percent to $7,740 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange this year, rebounding from a three-month
low of $7,652 March 1. It’s still the second-best performer of
the six main metals on the LME. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge
of 24 commodities lost 0.3 percent this year and the MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 5.8 percent. Treasuries
declined 0.9 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a modest to moderate pace across
most of the country, the Fed said in its Beige Book business
survey. Expansion will accelerate every quarter to 2.8 percent
at the beginning of next year, while China’s growth will rise to
8.3 percent in the second and third quarters, from 7.9 percent
at the end of 2012, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict.
China accounts for 42 percent of all copper usage and  North
America  11 percent, according to Barclays.  Central banks have pledged more action to spur growth as
commodities rose about 2 percent since the end of 2010, compared
with an 81 percent surge over the previous two years. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended $85 billion in monthly
purchases last week and the European Central Bank yesterday left
 interest rates  at a record low. The  International Monetary Fund 
predicts world economic growth will climb to 3.5 percent this
year from 3.2 percent in 2012.  Shortage Returning  Copper demand will outpace supply by 288,000 tons in the
two quarters through September, reducing this year’s surplus to
56,000 tons, according to Barclays. The drop since mid-February
presents a buying opportunity and prices will reach $9,000 in
six months as China imports more metal, Goldman said in a March
1 report. Chinese refined copper imports in January were up 5.4
percent from October’s 15-month low, customs data show.  Goldman’s bullish outlook contrasts with hedge funds’
expectations for further declines. Speculators held a net-short
position of 7,172 futures and options as of Feb. 26, the most
since Aug. 14, compared with a net-long position of 11,413
contracts the week before, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  data  show.  LME Stockpiles  There are signs that demand may be slowing. Inventories in
warehouses tracked by the LME, the largest metals bourse, are
509,425 tons, the most since April 2010, exchange data published
today show. Orders to withdraw copper slumped 67 percent since
Jan. 4 and reached an almost nine-month low on March 6.  This year’s oversupply may increase if the debt crisis
worsens in Europe, a region that accounts for 17 percent of
copper demand. The IMF expects a second year of contraction
there. Budget cuts and economic reforms were rejected by more
than half of voters in an Italian election last month,
undermining optimism that Europe will come out of its recession.  Prices will come under pressure this year as demand slows
and supply starts to increase, Steven Lewis, a senior copper
analyst at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said March 7 at a conference in
 Madrid . China called for higher down payments for second-home
mortgages in some cities on March 1 in an attempt to cool the
 property market . Construction accounts for about 40 percent of
usage, the Copper Development Association estimates.  China’s Demand  China will still need 450,000 tons of new copper this year,
Javier Targhetta, senior vice president of marketing and sales
at  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , said in Madrid two days
ago. The nation’s copper usage will climb as much as 5 percent
in the next five years, Rodrigo Toro, corporate sales vice
president at Codelco, the biggest producer, said the same day.  In other commodities, eight of 15 people surveyed expect
raw sugar to rise next week and four predicted a drop. The
commodity slid 3.2 percent to 18.88 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York  this year.  Ten of 25 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and nine said the grain will drop, while 14 of 26 said
soybeans will climb and 10 expect lower prices. Eleven of 23
traders predicted gains in wheat and nine were bearish. Corn
fell 0.7 percent to $6.935 a bushel in  Chicago  this year as
soybeans rose 4.7 percent to $14.7575 a bushel. Wheat slipped 11
percent to $6.935 a bushel.  Gold Survey  Twenty-three of 32 traders and analysts surveyed said gold
would advance next week, five were bearish and four predicted
little change. Bullion fell 6.5 percent to $1,567.15 an ounce in
London this year after advancing the previous 12 years, the
longest run of gains in at least nine decades. It slumped the
past five months in the worst losing streak since 1997.  The S&P gauge of raw materials dropped 5.3 percent from a
four-month high on Feb. 13, reaching a 10-week low March 4. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  ordered the start of $85 billion in
spending cuts on March 1, beginning a potentially decade-long
wave of belt-tightening. Combined with tax increases enacted
earlier this year, that will depress U.S. economic growth by
about half in 2013, according to government projections.  “For many developed markets you’ve got a situation where
they’re going down the route of fiscal austerity and there are
significant drawbacks to that,” said Ross Strachan, a
commodities economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London “The
U.S. is a little bit stronger at the moment, so they may be able
to offset some of that negative effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  