-- Corning Pays $5.65 Million to Settle Whistle-Blower Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-08T22:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/corning-pays-5-65-million-to-settle-whistle-blower-case.html
Corning Inc. (GLW)  agreed to pay $5.65
million to settle allegations that it overbilled the U.S.
government for lab research products sold to federal agencies.  The  Justice Department , in an e-mailed statement today,
said Corning’s life sciences division knowingly made false
statements to the  General Services Administration  about its
sales practices and discounts offered to other customers.  The whistle-blower case, filed in federal court in
 Washington  in October 2010 by a former Corning account manager,
was unsealed yesterday after the government told a judge it had
reached a resolution with the company.  “At a time when our political leaders are making tough
choices about how to rein in federal spending, government
contractors need to understand that they will not get away with
overbilling the taxpayer,” Ronald Machen, the U.S. attorney for
Washington, said in an e-mailed statement. The government
intervened in only part of the lawsuit by Jones, according to to
court records.  Kevin Jones, an account manager for Corning from 2001 to
December 2009, alleged in his complaint that the company relied
on discount and pricing schemes to charge the government more
than large-volume private customers.  Since 2005, the company, the world’s  largest maker  of glass
for flat-panel televisions, had a federal supply service
contract with the GSA that involved the  National Institutes of
Health ,  National Cancer Institute  and the  Food and Drug
Administration .  Gift Cards, Corningware  Jones also alleged Corning engaged in an illegal kickback
scheme in which company sales staff provided federal employees
with gift cards from American Express, Apple iTunes and other
retailers in exchange for large Corning orders, according to the
complaint.  The value of the gift cards ranged from $25 to $100. Some
laboratory employees received Corningware dishes and other
kitchen items, which they selected from an online catalog, for
placing large orders of equipment.  Jones will receive $904,000 from the settlement, according
to the Justice Department.  Daniel Collins, a spokesman for the Corning, New York-based
 company , said it disagrees with the government’s interpretation
of the contract terms. Still, the company determined it would be
best to settle and move on, he said in an e-mail.  “This is a result of the government in our opinion,
reinterpreting the requirements of a contract late into the life
of the contract,” Collins said. “We had been operating under a
different interpretation.”  The case is U.S., ex rel. Kevin Jones  v. Corning Inc., 10-
cv-01692, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 