-- Cyprus Said to Face 100% Debt-to-GDP Target by 2020 for Bailout
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-03-08T15:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/cyprus-said-to-face-100-debt-to-gdp-target-by-2020-for-bailout.html
A planned bailout for Cyprus, the
fifth euro-area country to seek external aid, may contain a debt
target of about 100 percent of gross domestic target in 2020,
three European Union officials said on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  In a replay of last year’s standoff over  Greece , the
 International Monetary Fund  is insisting that European loans for
Cyprus come with steps to reduce the country’s debt burden. IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last month that the
plan for the country should address debt sustainability as well
as a return to markets and economic growth.  The target now on the table shows how far Cypriot, IMF and
euro-area officials have to go if they’re to conclude a rescue
deal by their end-March deadline. The Cypriot Finance Ministry
said Jan. 10 that bailing out the country may push debt to a
peak equal to less than 140 percent of gross domestic product in
2014. The EU estimates Cypriot debt at 93.1 percent of GDP this
year, without accounting for any potential aid.  The bailout may equal the size of 18 billion-euro ($23.4
billion) Cypriot economy. The government sought assistance after
its banks suffered losses of 4.5 billion euros in Greece’s
sovereign debt restructuring. Nicos Anastasiades, who took over
as Cypriot president late last month, will ask Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras for some of the Cypriot banking
system’s recapitalization to be covered by funds earmarked for
Greek banks, ANA reported.  Anastasiades, who took over as Cypriot president late last
month, attends his first EU summit next week as bailout talks
continue with the IMF, European Commission and  European Central
Bank . He’ll speak with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  by phone
tomorrow, Greek state-run Athens News Agency reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  