-- Credit Risk Falls to 20-Month Low in Europe on U.S. Jobs Report
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-03-08T13:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/debt-risk-falls-to-20-month-low-in-europe-before-u-s-jobs-data.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European junk-rated debt dropped to the lowest since July
2011 after a report showed the U.S. jobless rate fell to a five-
year low.  The  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings dropped
for a fifth day, declining 10 basis points to 405 at 1:40 p.m.
in  London . The benchmark is 47.5 basis points lower this week,
heading for the biggest weekly fall since Jan. 4.  Automakers and builders are among U.S. companies planning
to boost hiring, which will lead to gains in incomes that may
help the nation’s economy weather federal cutbacks and higher
taxes. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday the region is seeing “the beginning of gradual
recovery” and  Italy ’s deadlocked government will not affect
efforts to repair the country’s finances.  “There’s the perception that the potential catalysts for a
selloff have largely been well-flagged and are mostly under
control for now,” said Joseph Faith, a credit strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London.  Employment rose 236,000 in the U.S. last month after a
revised 119,000 gain in January that was smaller than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected an advance of 165,000. The jobless rate dropped from
7.9 percent. Hiring in construction jumped by the most in almost
six years.  The premium investors demand to hold European high-yield
corporate bonds rather than government notes has fallen to 462
basis points from 478 basis points on Feb. 26, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial High Yield
Constrained Index.  Contagion ‘Muted’  The markets “have now reverted back more or less to what
they were” before the Italian elections, Draghi said yesterday.
“Contagion to other countries has been muted this time,
contrary to what might have happened about a year and a half
ago, and this is another positive sign.”  Telecommunications firms led European bond sales this week
with non-financial companies including  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
and Telstra Corp. raising a total 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion)
of debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s down from 7.6
billion euros last week, which was the busiest since Jan. 21,
the data show.  In the credit derivatives market, the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of swaps on investment-grade companies fell two basis
point to 105 today, while the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
credit-default swaps on 25 banks and insurers dropped 3.5 basis
points to 119, the lowest since Jan. 28. A fall signals
improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  