-- Dollar Hits 2009 High Versus Yen as U.S. Jobs Gain Tops Forecast
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-08T22:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/dollar-extends-gain-versus-yen-as-u-s-jobs-growth-tops-forecast.html
The dollar gained versus the yen to
the highest level since 2009 as U.S. employers added more jobs
than forecast last month, boosting optimism the economy is
withstanding higher taxes and lower government spending.  The U.S. currency rallied against most of its major peers
after the Labor Department reported the nation’s jobless rate
unexpectedly fell to a four-year low of 7.7 percent. The
greenback rose against its European counterpart as the improving
employment data contrasts with the euro-area’s record 11.9
percent unemployment rate in January. The yen dropped against
all its 16 major counterparts as a government report showed
 Japan ’s current-account deficit widened in January.  “We’re starting to see a growing list of economic
indicators suggesting that there’s a broad-based recovery taking
place,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at the
currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “The market is now focusing on the notion
that the U.S. recovery is gaining steam, while other major
economies remain in a state of economic stagnation and
contraction in many cases.”  The dollar rose 1.2 percent to 96 per yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, reaching the highest level since Aug. 12, 2009. It gained
0.8 percent to $1.3005 per euro. The 17-nation currency added
0.5 percent to 124.86 per yen.  Peso, Krona  Mexico ’s peso rose versus most of its major peers after the
country’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest
rate yesterday for the first time since 2009 as inflation
remains within the target range and growth slows. The currency
gained 1 percent to 12.6279 per dollar after earlier adding as
much as 1.1 percent, its biggest increase since Jan. 2.  Sweden’s krona fell the most in two weeks against the euro
after Finance Minister Anders Borg said he’s unsure if the
krona’s strength will last and that there may be “exaggerated
confidence” in the currency. It weakened as much as 0.5 percent
against the shared currency to 8.3353, the steepest retreat
since Feb. 21, before trading at 8.3279.  The krona has gained 5.1 percent in this year, making it
the best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar increased 3.3
percent, the euro climbed 1.6 percent and the yen depreciated
7.7 percent.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, reached its highest level since Aug. 3 as
employment rose 236,000 last month after a revised 119,000 gain
in January that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington.  The dollar is “holding its own at a time when equities are
doing quite well and risk appetite is firming,”  Richard Franulovich , senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
in New York, said in telephone interview. “It’s a potentially
momentous correlation shift, whereby the dollar is now a growth
currency.”  The median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected an advance of 165,000. The jobless rate dropped from
7.9 percent. The Dollar Index  increased  0.8 percent to 82.712.  Federal Reserve policy makers at their last meeting debated
curtailing bond-buying that is seen as debasing the dollar, a
move Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has opposed as he seeks to drive
down  unemployment  to 6.5 percent.  Jobs Data  The larger-than-forecast increase in U.S. employment last
month won’t prompt the Fed to alter the central bank’s stimulus
measures,  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Mike McKee.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Gross said the U.S.
economy may expand 3 percent this year, an increase from his
firm’s most recent growth estimate of less than 2 percent.  The yen extended a second weekly loss against the dollar as
the Ministry of Finance said the deficit in the current account,
the widest measure of trade, increased to 364.8 billion yen
($3.8 billion) in January, up from 264.1 billion yen a month
ago.  Japan’s currency has slumped 9.6 percent versus the dollar
this year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushed the central bank
to add to stimulus to beat deflation. Haruhiko Kuroda, Abe’s
pick to become the next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor, told lawmakers
this week the scale of the BOJ’s asset purchases was
insufficient to achieve its target of 2 percent inflation.  Yen Direction  The yen may be due to reverse course, according to a
technical indicator. The currency’s 14-day relative strength
index versus the dollar fell below 30 today, a level that may
signal an asset has fallen too far, too quickly.  “Most of the Japanese weakness is behind us,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Scarlet Fu. “The next thing to see is whether the
BOJ can actually deliver higher inflation down the road. We
think that might be a little difficult.”  The euro is estimated to trade at $1.30 at the end of the
year, while the yen is forecast to be about 96 per dollar,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  