-- Draghi With Bernanke Vision Would Ease More: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-03-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/draghi-with-bernanke-vision-would-ease-more-cutting-research.html
The  European Central Bank  would do
“a lot, lot more” in terms of easing monetary policy if it
mimicked the aggressiveness of foreign counterparts, says David Mackie, chief European economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Looking beyond the euro area to divine how easy monetary
policy is elsewhere, Mackie used the Taylor Rule, an economic
model that determines an optimal interest rate based on
inflation and output. That  suggests  the appropriate rate for the
U.S. is now zero -- about where the current benchmark is.  When the easing effect of the Fed’s bond-buying programs is
included, he says, the policy rate is actually about minus 2.4
percent. Given Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s commitment not to
change rates until inflation and employment goals are reached,
the rate on the same basis could be minus 3 percent by late 2015
even if the more conventional Taylor Rule suggests plus 3.25
percent would be appropriate.  “There is thus a huge gap between what a standard Taylor
Rule would suggest the appropriate policy rate should be in late
2015 and where the policy rate will be,” said Mackie, a former
 Bank of England  economist.  Turning to the U.K. central bank, Mackie found the Taylor
Rule suggests the appropriate benchmark rate is 1 percent,
higher than the Bank of  England ’s current key rate of 0.5
percent. Meanwhile, the rate when asset purchases are accounted
for is minus 3.75 percent.  By contrast, Mackie concludes that ECB President  Mario Draghi  and colleagues are far less aggressive than their
colleagues in the U.S. and U.K. For the euro area, he estimates
that allowing for the benchmark of 0.75 percent and the smaller-
scale bond buying the ECB has undertaken, the effective policy
rate is just minus 0.35 percent.  Both the ECB and the BOE kept their benchmark rates stable
yesterday as the ECB predicted a deeper contraction this year
and the BOE maintained its bond-purchase program.  If the ECB were to match the Bank of England’s analysis of
economic threats, the appropriate policy rate for the euro area
would be minus 3.8 percent. The ECB could achieve that by
cutting its  refinancing rate  to 0.25 percent and buying another
1.9 trillion euros of assets, Mackie said.  “This analysis shows that the ECB could do a lot, lot more
either in the present or in terms of commitments about the
future and still remain broadly in line with what is going on
elsewhere,” he wrote.  * * *  China ’s anti-corruption drive could be enough to cut 1
percentage point off consumer inflation, according to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The crackdown by incoming President Xi Jinping on lavish
entertainment of officials has led many expensive restaurants to
cut prices and cancel the fees they charge for rooms, while
lower-end restaurants are trying to take advantage of such
business, said Goldman economist  Yu Song  and intern Maggie Wei
in a March 6 report.  Over-ordering is also common at Chinese banquets and so
less wasted food may also ease  inflation , they said.  “Past crackdowns were typically short-lived,” the Goldman
report said. “The current round may prove more sustainable, in
particular because public attention on the issue is high and the
increasing use of Internet provides more checks and balances
than before.”  * * *  Policy makers seeking to gauge the potential of their
economies should account for the financial cycle, says a study
published by the  Bank for International Settlements .  Doing so would have left them better placed to spot the
recent global crisis by highlighting the economic risk of
financial excess. Detecting an economy’s trend growth rate is
key for central banks and governments, as they can learn at
which point inflation will begin to pick up.  The recent credit crisis is a reminder that an economy can
be growing on an unsustainable path when financial imbalances
are building up, yet inflation remains low, said the Feb. 26
 study . It was written by economists including Claudio Borio,
deputy head of the monetary and economic department at the BIS
in Basel, Switzerland.  The study found financial-cycle developments explain a
“substantial portion” of movements in output, and so can help
identify when economies are out of kilter. Accounting for
financial developments and economic activity helps show when
output is exceeding potential during asset booms regardless of
the inflation environment.  For example, Borio and co-writers Piti Disyatat of the Bank
of Thailand and the BIS’s Mikael Juselius showed that before the
financial crisis, U.S. output was widely believed to be below or
close to the perceived potential. Only after the turmoil was it
recognized it had been above a sustainable level. Allowing for
financial factors such as values of bonds and equities would
have spotted that, said the study.  “Had policy makers relied on this information ahead of the
crisis, they surely would have been in a better position to
assess potential vulnerabilities as they built up,” the authors
wrote. Ignoring the state of finance “is bound to provide less
accurate estimates of potential output.”  * * *  The  U.S. economy  is not on the verge of a long-term
demographic-driven stagnation because concerns of an aging
population are “overblown,” said  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  economists.  Rebutting suggestions from economists including  Robert Gordon  of  Northwestern University , the Deutsche economists led
by  Peter Hooper  said in a March 5 report that aging will deduct
an average of just 0.2 percentage points from annual economic
growth through 2030, and maybe less given likely tax and
entitlement policy changes.  The demographic shock is set to be more negative in Europe,
China and Japan, they said.  The report also questions Gordon’s view that productivity
gains from technology are expiring. The Deutsche economists said
that although productivity has dropped since 2004, such measures
are volatile. They noted a similar slowdown occurred around 1980
-- on the eve of a two-decade productivity boom.  “The conclusion for investors is that the U.S. remains
very attractive on both an absolute and relative basis,”
Hooper’s team said. “In other words,  interest rates  will not
stay at record low levels for decades and investors should not
stay away from U.S. equities or credit.”  * * *  The worst international recession since World War II has
slowed the push of globalization.  An  index  produced by the KOF Swiss Economic Institute in
Zurich published March 1 found globalization stagnated for a
second year in 2010, the most recent year for which data are
available.  The KOF index has tracked 187 countries since 1970 and is
based on inputs such as trade and investment, the freedom of
capital, the extent of political cooperation between countries
and dissemination of information.  The standstill is visible worldwide. The index for the 34th-
ranked U.S., for example, held at 74.76 for a second year in
2010 after peaking at 77.49 in 2007.  Belgium is the most globalized country in the world,
followed by Ireland, the Netherlands, Austria and Singapore, the
institute said. Lesotho and the Dominican Republic made the
biggest steps up, jumping 22 places, while Samoa fell the most
in a tumble of 32 positions.  * * *  Central banks could increase the returns on their foreign
exchange reserves if they diversified them away from the bonds
of major developed-market economies.  That’s according to the view of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s asset management
research arm, which calculates that reserves with bonds of one
to three year duration currently have a yield of 0.20 percent,
well below inflation in most economies.  While portfolios should be invested in liquid, low-risk
 government bonds  and an amount kept back for monetary management
purposes, reserves over a certain threshold should be used to
secure extra returns and better manage risk, said UBS’s
Massimiliano Castelli and Michele Gambera.  Economies with reserves between 10 percent and 30 percent
of gross domestic product, such as Mexico or India, should limit
diversification to fixed income assets including emerging market
debt, they wrote. Those with higher stockpiles, such as China at
45 percent or Switzerland at 50 percent, should consider
equities, they said.  * * *  The American Dream may be getting harder to live, according
to the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco .  A  study  published in its March 4 Economic Letter suggested
U.S. workers may not be as socially mobile as generally thought.  While American children readily become richer than their
parents, they lack “relative mobility” -- the ability to
change ranking in the  income  distribution compared with older
generations.  For those born in the top or bottom fifths of incomes,
“mobility is much more constricted, suggesting that birth
circumstances play more of a role in lifetime outcomes,” said
economists Leila Bengali and Mary Daly in the report.  “If the American Dream means rising in rank in the  income
distribution  then the findings are not so encouraging,” they
said. “In this case, an individual’s ability to reach the
highest economic ranks of society seems at least partially
determined by the income rank into which they were born.”  * * *  The news may be getting better for Europe’s crisis-stricken
economies.  Societe Generale SA’s “newsflow” indicators count and
analyze the number of newspaper articles related to economic
strength. It has provided a guide to financial market movements
and often leads trends by a few months, the French bank’s global
asset allocation team said in a March 6 report.  The latest indexes suggested the economic news is improving
in the euro-region peripheral economies. Spain’s reading is
approaching 50, the level that indicates expansion because it
signifies more positive news stories than negative.  Japan’s indicator is also now back above 50 following the
December election of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, while the U.S.’s
is back below it at about 48. The global reading is about 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  