-- ECB Rate Cut Favored by More Than One Person, Kaasik Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-03-08T13:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/ecb-rate-cut-favored-by-more-than-one-person-kaasik-says.html
More than one European Central Bank
policy maker was in favor of cutting  interest rates  yesterday,
said Ulo Kaasik, Deputy Governor of the Estonian central bank.  When ECB President  Mario Draghi  said there was a
“prevailing consensus” for keeping borrowing costs on hold,
that “means that there was more than one person favoring a rate
cut,” Kaasik said in an interview in Tallinn today.  The ECB left its  benchmark interest rate  at 0.75 percent,
already a record low. While policy makers lowered their economic
forecasts, they maintained an outlook for a gradual recovery
later this year, and Draghi signaled that  Europe ’s economy will
have to get worse before he’ll consider more stimulus.  “Risks to  price stability  have significantly declined,
inflationary expectations are well anchored,” Kaasik said. “At
the same time we feel that on the real economy, the risks are
clearly on the downside. We think growth will resume at the end
of the year, but it won’t be easy.”  The ECB’s pledge last year to buy bonds of distressed
nations that sign up to reforms has restored calm in financial
markets and reduced borrowing costs for countries such as Spain
and  Italy . At the same time, lending conditions for businesses
haven’t improved in all parts of the region, and small and
medium-sized companies, the backbone of most European economies,
are still struggling to obtain funding.  Credit Flow  “There is a worry now that even as the situation in the
peripheral countries is improving with regards to governments
and banks, it has not led to loan conditions improving
everywhere,” Kaasik said. “Indeed the central bank has a lot
of tools to react but the question is whether it is a matter for
the central bank to solve problems stemming from banking-sector
peculiarities, its past problems, which isn’t within the mandate
of the central bank.”  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said yesterday
that it’s not the ECB’s role to provide additional liquidity for
small and medium-sized firms in need of funding. The ECB doesn’t
have the mandate or the instruments for that, he said.  The ECB yesterday predicted the 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.5 percent this year, more than the 0.3 percent
contraction forecast three months ago. The estimate for 2014
growth was reduced to 1 percent from 1.2 percent. The central
bank also cut its 2014 inflation projection to 1.3 percent from
1.4 percent. It aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  The ECB omitted from its policy statement last month’s
comment that the euro’s appreciation posed a downside inflation
risk, after the single currency retreated.  “The euro  exchange rate  certainly has a certain impact on
economic indicators, like growth and inflation, but it shouldn’t
be overestimated,” Kaasik said. “If the fluctuations are very
big over a short time, it will raise concerns.”  The exchange rate “is now at the historic average,” he
said. “It is difficult to see why we should pay too much
attention to this. It matters if it starts affecting our
activity in fulfilling our mandate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  