-- Egypt Court Ruling May Spark Violence, U.S. Embassy Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-08T12:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/egypt-court-ruling-may-spark-violence-u-s-embassy-says.html
Protests expected to follow an
Egyptian court ruling scheduled for tomorrow on a fatal soccer
riot may spark “significant violence,” the U.S. embassy said.  The decision could cause disorder “through the weekend in
both Cairo and Port Said,” the embassy said on its  website .
Americans should “carefully weigh all movements beyond
residences and immediate neighborhoods, particularly avoiding
the downtown area of Cairo.” British citizens were also told in
a  website  posting by their embassy to “avoid all demonstrations
and large gatherings” after tomorrow’s verdict.  The court is due to rule on 52 defendants, including police
officers, on charges relating to a riot after a game in Port
Said in February 2012. It’s the second ruling in the case after
a January verdict when 21 people were sentenced to death.  The case has become a focal point for anger against the
Islamist-led government, which is accused by opponents of
failing to reform the security services and judiciary, key
demands of the 2011 revolution that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Unrest
linked to the rulings has been fueling political and economic
instability in Port Said, near the  Sinai Peninsula , and other
cities.  The court cases stem from the deaths of at least 74 people
in 2012 when fans of Port Said’s Al Masry team surged onto the
pitch after defeating the Cairo-based Al Ahly team, whose
supporters tried to flee only to find the gates bolted.  An anti-government protester was killed and 54 injured late
yesterday in Port Said, state-run Ahram Gate reported. Clashes
have been continuing over the last week, leaving a total of at
least six dead and hundreds injured in the Suez Canal city and
neighboring provinces.  Defendants may appeal, and Grand Mufti Shawki Ibrahim
Abdel-Karim, head of the country’s top religious institution,
must accept or reject the rulings.  The office of the mufti said he needed more time to review
more than 1,000 pages of related documentation, according to
Ahram Gate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  