-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Two Months on Global Outlook
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-08T22:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/emerging-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-increase-in-two-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to cap
biggest weekly jump in more than two months, as data from  China 
to  Japan  and the U.S. bolstered the global economic outlook.
Mexican peso bonds climbed after an unexpected rate cut.  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN)  jumped to a record in
Johannesburg after first-half earnings rose 13 percent, while
Dogus Otomotiv Servis ve Ticaret AS reached an all-time high in
Istanbul after profit exceeded analyst estimates. South Korean
bonds and the won fell as  North Korea  threatened a preemptive
nuclear strike against the U.S. and other “aggressors.”
Retailer B2W Companhia Global do Varejo jumped in  Sao Paulo 
after it reported better-than-projected fourth-quarter sales.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.8 percent to
1,065.94 in  New York , the highest close since Feb. 20. The gauge
rose 1.2 percent this week, the steepest weekly gain since
January. China’s exports grew more than forecast in February,
data showed, while Japan’s economy exited a recession and the
U.S. jobless rate fell to a four-year low.  “The Chinese and U.S. figures are positive for global
economic growth,”  Peter Jankovskis , the chief investment
officer at Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments LLC, said
in by phone. His firm oversees $3.3 billion. “That certainly
should be helpful for emerging markets as they are largely
exporters and would benefit from that.”  Emerging stocks joined a global rally as data showed
employment in the U.S. rose 236,000 last month, above the median
economist forecast. The jobless rate dropped to 7.7 percent.
Chinese exports rose 21.8 percent in February from a year
earlier. The 21 countries in the developing-nations gauge send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S., data compiled by
the World Trade Organization show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund  gained  0.9 percent to $44.13, extending its jump in the
week to 1.9 percent, also the most since the start of January.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index, a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 7.6 percent to 15.26, the
biggest drop in a month.  Of the  10 groups  in the emerging markets measure, nine
rose, with healthcare and financial companies posting the
biggest gains. The broader gauge has added 1 percent this year,
trailing a 6.7 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at
10.9 times 12-month projected profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 14.1 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico ’s IPC Index rose 0.8 percent as the central bank cut
key rates to a record-low 4 percent. The peso strengthened 1
percent versus the dollar, the steepest gain among 25 emerging
markets currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on peso-denominated debt due in 2013 fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.1 percent.  Real Rally  Brazil ’s Bovespa index fell 0.7 percent, as Multiplus SA,
the frequent-flier unit of Latam Airlines Group SA’s Brazil
subsidiary, slumped 7.8 percent after filing to sell new shares.
B2W rose 5.1 percent, the most since Jan. 17.  The real strengthened 1.8 percent versus the dollar this
week, the best performer among emerging-market currencies.
Annual inflation accelerated in February more than economists
forecast, fueling speculation policy makers will raise key
 interest rates  this year.  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMGC) , an oil and gas producer, dropped 5.7
percent in Bogota, adding to a 25 percent decline this week, the
most on record. Five of 11 analysts who had buy ratings on the
stock changed their recommendations after the company’s
production plunged.  Dollar Debt  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut emerging-market government dollar-denominated bonds to neutral from overweight, citing concerns
about market liquidity, according to an e-mailed report. The
bank sees no impact of the so-called currency war on emerging
currencies, according to the report, and recommended investors
retain bets on gains in emerging-market local-currency debt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging debt over
U.S. Treasuries slipped four basis points to 278 basis points,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  South Africa ’s rand strengthened 0.6 percent against the
dollar after central bank Governor Gill Marcus said in a
Bloomberg Television interview that the currency’s recent
declines were “overdone.”  Aspen Pharmacare, a Gallo Manor-based pharmaceutical
supplier, rose 3.5 percent to the highest level since Bloomberg
began compiling data on the stock in December 1990. Net income
advanced to 1.7 billion rand ($184 million) in the six months
through December, compared with 1.5 billion rand a year earlier,
the Durban, South Africa-based company said in a statement
yesterday.  Sensex Jumps  Poland’s WIG 20 Index and the Czech Republic’s PX Index
both added at least 0.7 percent. Russian markets were closed for
a holiday.  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , a Russian retailer, rose 2.6 percent in
 London . The company reported 2012 sales of $15.8 billion and a
full-year loss of $126.5 million, according to a statement
yesterday.  Turkey’s benchmark  stock  index climbed 2.1 percent. Dogus,
a Turkish importer and distributor for Volkswagen AG, rose 4.9
percent, climbing for a ninth day. The Istanbul-based company
reported net income of 255.9 million liras ($142 million) for
2012, up 81 percent from the previous year.  India ’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index rallied 1.4 percent.  Jindal
Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , an Indian steelmaker, jumped 5.7 percent in
Mumbai, the biggest one-day advance since Nov. 30. The stock
slumped 17 percent last month.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  surged
1.5 percent. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rallied 1.6
percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  added 0.1 percent. The won
weakened 0.5 percent against the dollar. The UN Security Council
voted unanimously to impose tougher sanctions on North Korea
over a forbidden nuclear test, hours after the totalitarian
state warned yesterday it would act to defend its “supreme
interests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  