-- Emperia Jumps as Zachodni Sparks Talk of Stokrotka Sale
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-03-08T17:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/emperia-jumps-as-zachodni-sparks-talk-of-stokrotka-sale.html
Emperia Holding SA (EMP) , a Polish
consumer-goods distributor, jumped to a nine-month high after
Bank Zachodni WBK SA recommended buying its shares on
speculation the company will sell its grocery chain Stokrotka.  The  shares  surged as much as 8.3 percent and closed 8.1
percent higher to 60.9 zloty in Warsaw, climbing to the highest
level since May 25 and valuing the Lublin, Poland-based company
at 921 million zloty ($289 million). Zachodni raised its
recommendation to buy from hold with a share-price estimate of
79 zloty.  Emperia “is not interested in selling Stokrotka” as it
“has decided on its long-term development,” Artur Kawa, chief
executive officer of Emperia, said in an e-mailed response to
questions sent by  Bloomberg News  today. Emperia last year
rejected all bids for Stokrotka when it tried to sell the chain
operating 201 outlets in  Poland , it said in a statement July 9.  “Many major, international players are investing huge
amounts just to secure the highest possible market share in this
still attractive and developing market,” Tomasz Sokolowski, an
analyst at Zachodni in Warsaw, said in a note today. “We regard
Stokrotka - Emperia’s core retail asset - as an ideal takeover
target.”  The takeover of grocery chain  Eko Holding SA (EKO)  by Advent
International Corp. last year may be an “ideal benchmark” for
a sale of Stokrotka, Sokolowski said. Advent paid 3.9 times Eko
monthly sales while “the market is currently valuing Stokrotka
at around 1.9 times,” according to Zachodni estimates.  In December 2011, Emperia sold part of its distribution
assets to domestic competitor  Eurocash SA (EUR)  for 1.1 billion zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  