-- Henderson, Centurion Form $373 Million Fund to Buy Warehouses
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-03-08T15:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/henderson-centurion-form-373-million-fund-to-buy-warehouses.html
Henderson Global  Investors Ltd. and
Centurion Properties Ltd. set up a fund to invest 250 million
pounds ($373 million) in U.K. warehouses.  The venture between the unit of Henderson Group Plc and
Centurion plans to buy groups of industrial buildings outside
London with more than one tenant, Henderson Global property
director Cameron Fraser said today in an interview. Prices have
fallen because some buyers have struggled to raise money for
acquisitions, he said.  Henderson and Centurion are targeting an internal rate of
return, a measure of profitability, of 8.5 percent during the
Industrial Income Fund’s five-year life, the London-based
companies said in a statement today. The gap between returns
from warehouse properties outside London and real estate in the
U.K. capital is the highest ever, Andy Schofield, Henderson
Global’s director of research, said in the statement.  The diversity of tenants for warehouses “is likely to make
industrials the most attractive U.K. property sector over the
next seven years,” he said.  Yields for the best-located U.K. warehouses ranged from
6.25 percent to 8.25 percent in 2012, compared with 12.25
percent for poorer quality industrial properties, according to
data compiled by  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  Yields are the annual rent
expressed as a percentage of the purchase price.  Henderson, which manages 12.5 billion pounds of real
estate, and Centurion plan to raise 100 million pounds from
institutional investors and wealthy individuals by September,
according to the statement. They will then try to raise another
90 million pounds, Fraser said. The fund will add debt to give
it a value of 250 million pounds, he said.  Total returns from income-producing U.K. warehouses were
about 3 percent last year, compared with about 4.7 percent for
offices and 2.4 percent for retail properties, according to data
compiled by Investment Property Databank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in  London  at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  