-- Eni Won’t Spin Off Saipem Regardless of Knight Vinke Request
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-03-08T15:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/eni-won-t-spin-off-saipem-regardless-of-knight-vinke-request-1-.html
Eni Spa (ENI)  has no plans to spin off oil
services company  Saipem SpA (SPM)  regardless of pressure from
shareholder Eric Knight, Eni Chairman Giuseppe Recchi said.  Correspondence between Knight and Eni on the issue was part
of normal relations with shareholders, Recchi told reporters at
a conference today in Cernobbio,  Italy . “We pay attention to
what our shareholders say,” he said.  Knight, founder of the Knight Vinke fund, which owns less
than 1 percent of Italy’s biggest oil company, wrote a letter to
Eni Chief Executive Officer Paolo Scaroni last week saying a
spinoff of Saipem would be beneficial. The contents of the
letter were reported by Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore.  Knight argued that Eni should free itself from Saipem,
whose shares have fallen more than 30 percent since the end of
January when reports emerged that the company may be the subject
of an enquiry. Scaroni and several managers were put under
investigation Feb. 7 as part of a probe into the award of oil-
services contracts to Saipem in  Algeria . The company has denied
any wrongdoing.  Saipem also lost market value after saying on Jan. 30 that
2013 earnings before interest and tax would be less than half
the amount expected due to delays in contract awards and
contracts entered into at lower margins.  Shares recovered today, gaining as much as 3.2 percent to
21.6 euros, the highest price since Feb. 7. That boosted
Saipem’s market value to 9.5 billion euros. Analysts at Goldman
Sachs raised the shares to “conviction list buy” from
“neutral” on March 5, citing likely margin recovery beyond
2013 and overly conservative management guidance.  Separately, Recchi declined to comment on whether the
company was in talks with China National Petroleum Corp. for a
stake in a gas project in  Mozambique .  -- Editors: Alex Devine, Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  