-- Merkel Presses German Companies to Promote Women to Board Seats
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-03-08T13:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/merkel-presses-german-companies-to-promote-women-to-board-seats.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged
German companies to promote more women to corporate boards,
saying pressure to legislate quotas will grow if change doesn’t
happen voluntarily.  “The Federal Republic of Germany is quite old -- over 60 -
- so it’s about time to get more women onto supervisory
boards,” Merkel said after meeting the leaders of German
industry associations in Munich today. “I do see positive
developments among companies, but things can be sped up.”  While German industry’s pledge to have as many as 40
percent female supervisory board members by the end of the
decade is “the right project,” failure to make progress would
mean “the threat that we will have to legislate grows,” said
Merkel,  Germany ’s first female chancellor and the world’s most
powerful woman in Forbes magazine’s ranking last August.  Germany lags its European peers in female representation on
corporate boards. Women make up 7.2 percent of German executive
board members and 13.8 percent of supervisory board members,
according to an October study by the European Commission. That
compares with an EU-wide average of 15.8 percent and 16.8
percent, respectively.  The European Commission adopted a draft proposal by EU
Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding in November aimed at
requiring supervisory boards to be at least 40 percent female by
2020. Companies may face sanctions if they fail to favor women
over equally qualified men.  German Opposition  Germany is against the Reding plan and wants to block it,
the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported March 6. Foreign Minister
 Guido Westerwelle  said the same day that it was “not the job of
Brussels” to tell member states how private companies should
staff their boards,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  reported.  German industry groups representing thousands of companies
and small businesses voiced opposition last month to the Reding
plan, saying it would impinge on shareholder rights and be
illegal.  Merkel commented at a joint news conference with the heads
of the three groups opposing the EU proposal -- Dieter Hundt of
the BDA employers group, Ulrich Grillo of the BDI industry
association and Hans Heinrich Driftmann of the DIHK national
chamber of commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  