-- Ethanol Mandate Seen Causing Fuel Disruption
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-08T17:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/ethanol-mandate-seen-causing-fuel-disruption.html
Government-mandated ethanol
production could cause “significant fuel-supply disruption”
this year as gasoline demand has lagged behind forecasts,
according to the  American Petroleum Institute .  Increasing requirements for refiners to use ethanol or
other biofuels, paired with lower consumer demand, means that
ethanol is on track to exceed 10 percent in transportation fuels
this year, according to Kyle Isakower, the trade group’s vice
president. Refiners are unwilling or unable to sell higher-
volume ethanol blends because it can damage some vehicles and
consumers reject it, he said.  “This is just the tip of the iceberg,” he said in
testimony delivered today at an Environmental Protection Agency
hearing in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . “The negative economic
consequences are bound to get worse unless EPA acts.”  The Washington-based institute, which represents oil
producers and refiners, argues that the biofuels mandate is
“unworkable,” and it’s pushing Congress to repeal the 2007
Renewable Fuel Standard.  Under 2007 legislation, refiners are required to use a
certain amount of biofuels each year, or buy credits in the
marketplace. The price of those ethanol credits jumped to 75
cents each from an average of about 2 cents or 3 cents in 2012,
reflecting the fact that ethanol requirements are going to be
harder to meet this year, Isakower said.  Annual Minimum  The use of renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and
cellulosic biofuels must rise to 16.55 billion gallons this
year, the EPA said Jan. 31 in issuing its annual minimum
requirement for refiners.  The EPA and renewable-fuel producers say the mandate spurs
production of domestic fuels and cuts greenhouse-gas emissions
by reducing use of gasoline or diesel.  Ethanol production dropped 16 percent to 805,000 barrels a
day in the week ended March 1 from a record 963,000 barrels in
December 2011, data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration show. That’s 12.3 billion gallons on an
annualized basis and short of the 13.8 billion gallons refiners
are required to use this year.  At the same time, overall demand for gasoline and diesel
hasn’t grown as much as forecast in 2007, and is now expected to
fall over the next 12 years, meaning that mandated ethanol is
taking up a greater share of fuels. At the same time, government
regulators haven’t cleared gasoline containing more than 10
percent ethanol for use in all automobiles. Refiners call that
the “blendwall.”  “The increasing price of renewable fuel credits is a clear
indication that refiners have breached the E10 blendwall this
year,” Isakower said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  