-- MetLife Leads Insurer Rally as Rates Climb on Jobs Report
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-03-08T21:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/metlife-leads-insurer-rally-as-rates-climb-on-jobs-report.html
MetLife Inc. (MET)  led a rally among U.S.
life insurers as bond yields jumped after  unemployment  hit a
four-year low.  MetLife advanced 4.9 percent to $39.03 at 4 p.m. in New
York, the highest close in almost a year. Lincoln National Corp.
added 4.3 percent and Prudential Financial Inc. rose 2.4
percent.  Interest rates near record lows have pressured income at
life insurers, which invest funds from policyholders in bonds
and other assets to back future payouts. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries reached an 11-month high today, after the jobless
rate dropped to 7.7 percent in February from 7.9 percent a month
earlier, boosting confidence that the U.S. economy is gaining
strength.  “The degree to which the jobs number came in was higher
than any expectations and that has smacked the rates market
pretty hard, sending rates sharply higher,” said Adrian Miller,
director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New
York. “Rising yields are very attractive to insurance
companies, pension funds and those needing duration.”  MetLife is the largest U.S. life insurer. The New York-
based company has a  $517 billion portfolio  that includes more
than $370 billion of bonds.  Ten-year Treasury note yields added six basis points to
2.05 percent at 4 p.m. and rose as high as 2.08 percent.  Yields fell below 1.4 percent last year and averaged about
2.9 percent over the past five years. Federal Reserve stimulus
measures have kept yields on bonds near record lows as policy
makers work to revive the U.S. economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  