-- EU Libor Cases May Take Longer Than in U.S., Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-08T12:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/eu-libor-cases-may-take-longer-than-in-u-s-almunia-says.html
European Union antitrust probes into
whether banks and brokers manipulated benchmark lending rates
such as Libor “may last longer” than those in the U.S., EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  While U.S. authorities can strike plea bargains with
individual companies, the EU must deal with all companies at
once, he said in a speech in Brussels today.  “U.S., British and Swiss authorities have already closed
their cases with three large European banks in the so-called
Libor scandal,” Almunia said. The results of EU probes into a
suspected cartel involving a large number of banks and brokers
“will be announced in due time,” he said.  Settlement cases take an average of three years after a
company first reports a cartel to regulators, Almunia said,
while standard cartel cases take around five years.  Financial regulators in the U.K. and the U.S. have already
imposed more than $2.5 billion in fines on  Barclays (BARC)  Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and are investigating
other companies over the manipulation of the London Interbank
Offered Rate.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Barclays,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and RBS have all said they were asked about
benchmark interest rates by the EU. Regulators in the bloc are
investigating possible rigging of Libor, as well as related
rates such as Euribor and Tibor.  The EU can levy fines of as much of 10 percent of a
company’s yearly global revenue for each cartel in which they
participate. The markets for interest-rate derivatives were
worth $20 trillion in 2011, Almunia said in a speech last year.
He said last week that companies involved in cartel probes such
as Libor can request a settlement which would allow them to
reduce a fine by as much as 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 