-- Europe-to-Asia Box Rates to Defy Global Decline in 2013: Freight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/europe-to-asia-box-rates-to-defy-global-decline-in-2013-freight.html
Europe-to-Asia freight rates will
defy a decline in the other direction this year as exports
heading east grow faster than imports, helping to fill a glut of
empty boxes.  The number of containers moved to Asia will rise as much as
5 percent in 2013, while volumes to  Europe  will expand just 1
percent, according to Macquarie Capital (Europe) Ltd. That will
help A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s shipping line, the world’s
largest, raise its eastbound fee on the route by 27 percent,
Macquarie said.  Lopsided demand between the two regions means carriers have
had to charge less to move boxes eastward as they attempt to
fill empties and cover fuel costs. That gap may narrow as
European demand is curtailed by recession and Asia consumes more
higher-value goods, such as car parts and scientific tools.
Cargo heading that direction may become more profitable at a
time when the industry is struggling to deal with overcapacity.  “Carriers would like to reduce that imbalance as much as
they can,” said Robin Byde, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald
Europe in London with a buy rating on Maersk’s  shares. (MAERSKB)  “All
freight businesses are about utilization and filling the back
leg, which in this case is Europe to  China . Higher exports would
equal more loaded boxes, which equal higher rates.”  Overall European exports will increase 9.3 percent to the
equivalent of 18.7 million 20-foot equivalent units, or TEUs,
this year, compared with a decline of 3.2 percent to 20.2
million for imports, according to a Feb. 24 forecast from
maritime research group Hackett Associates LLC.  Empty Boxes  That may help reduce surplus capacity on the Europe-to-Asia
route. About three-quarters of the 493,092 containers shipped to
mainland China from major U.K. ports in 2011 were empty,
according to data from Britain’s Department for Transport. The
figure for the  Port of Rotterdam  in 2010 was about 40 percent,
the most recent year for which it has calculations.  “You have a lot of empty boxes and so shipping lines are
trying to fill them with whatever they can, so there’s a natural
lower price for shipping out,” said Neil Davidson, a port
adviser at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in  London . “Any
increase in export cargo would certainly help the shipping lines
to try and address the freight rates on that leg.”  Maersk’s average rate per TEU shipped from Europe to Asia
will rise to $495 this year from $389 in 2012, according to
London-based Macquarie analyst Rob Joynson. In comparison, the
Copenhagen-based company’s charge in the opposite direction will
drop 15 percent to $1,121 from $1,313, Joynson said. The
company’s global average will fall 5.1 percent to $829.  Traffic Growth  While Asia-to-Europe container volumes may grow or shrink by
as much as 2 percent this year, Maersk estimates traffic growth
in the other direction of as much as 5 percent, Lars Mikael Jensen, head of Maersk Line’s Asia/Europe network, said in an
interview.  For every two boxes of goods that go from Asia to Europe,
only one comes back, Jensen said by telephone. As exports from
Europe to Asia continue to grow at a faster pace, that imbalance
will shrink, he said. Ships heading to Asia from Europe are only
two-thirds full by volume on average, Jensen said.  Jensen said Maersk intends to increase rates in both
directions between Asia and Europe this year.  “If we can have in relative terms fewer empty containers
that we need to get back to Asia because we can fill cargo in
them that gives us freight revenue, then that is obviously
reducing costs for us and ultimately for customers,” he said.  Higher Earnings  Maersk said on Feb. 22 that its container unit returned to
profit in the fourth quarter as freight rates rose. It forecast
higher earnings this year after reducing its fleet and slowing
vessels to curb overcapacity. Maersk Line’s net income totaled
$335 million in the last three months of 2012, compared with a
loss of $593 million a year earlier.  Shares in the Danish company, which also comprises oil and
retail units, have gained about 5.6 percent in the past 12
months. That compares with an 11 percent increase in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Global stock markets have gained this year, sending the Dow
Jones Industrial Average to a record this week, after the world
economy showed signs of strengthening. That followed a pledge by
the European Central Bank to preserve the euro and a deal in the
U.S. to avoid the fiscal cliff.  China is targeting more consumer-driven growth. The Asian
nation’s gross domestic product increased at the slowest pace
since 1999 last year, while the euro area was mired in a
 recession  that the ECB predicts will continue in 2013.  “We’ve heard on the Europe-Asian route that there has been
a somewhat better balance,” Jacob Pedersen, an analyst at
Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa,  Denmark , said in an interview.
“Freight rates might have decreased a lot going into Europe,
but in some respects they have been able to improve rates going
out of Europe.”  Still, the shift in export and import flows is likely to be
long-term; Joynson said they may not balance until 2032.  “The shipping lines won’t get pricing power on that
backhaul trade lane for many years to come,” he said. “We’re
not talking five years. Probably 15 years or more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  