-- Europe’s Food-Label Protections Don’t Pass the Smell Test
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-08T00:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/europe-s-food-label-protections-don-t-pass-the-smell-test.html
As the U.S. and the European Union
begin hammering out a free-trade pact, there are good reasons to
expect they will fulfill a promise to finish the job by the end
of 2014. Both sides seem prepared to make concessions over
longstanding disputes, including the EU ban on genetically
modified food or U.S. restrictions on foreign shippers.  It would be a shame if all that goodwill were squandered in
a quasi-metaphysical debate over cheese.  At issue is Europe’s insistence that the U.S. recognize
“geographical indications,” the trademark-like protections that
are granted to foods and beverages according to their region of
origin, distinct method of production and provenance of
ingredients.  Parmesan cheese is a good example.  Parmigiano-Reggiano 
refers to a unique item produced with specific ingredients only
in a particular region of northern  Italy  -- and that name is
protected. The EU also prohibits the sale within its member
states of cheeses that “evoke” Parmigiano-Reggiano and are
labeled, for example, parmesan. The ban even extends to products
described as parmesan-like or parmesan-style.  Parmesan Ban  To U.S. cheese makers such as  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) , as
well as smaller artisanal producers of parmesan, this amounts to
a de facto ban on their products in the EU. In Europe, Kraft is
only allowed to sell its parmesan brands, which it began
producing in 1945, under the nonsensical name of “Pamesello
Italiano.” The U.S. reasonably argues that some names -- cheddar
or mortadella bologna -- entered common usage long ago and are
generic references to a product made universally.  We agree. Kraft’s grated parmesan should be allowed to
compete with Parmigiano-Reggiano on store shelves in the U.S.
and  Europe , so long as both are clearly labeled and consumers
aren’t misled. The EU’s attempt to claw back words and names
from the global vocabulary amounts to little more than
protectionism.  Consumers everywhere are able to distinguish between
Parmigiano-Reggiano and its “-style” or “-like” imitators when
the products are clearly labeled, as  U.S. trademark law  demands.
If the producers of the original think they are losing market
share to a lesser version, it’s up to them to convince the
public of the value of the genuine article through promotion and
advertising, not by inhibiting competition.  Feta cheese is a good example of the EU’s overreach. Greece
and the EU have long argued that the name  Feta  should only be
applied to the cheese that is made in  Greece , even though feta
cheese isn’t specific to one particular Greek region and is made
throughout the country with varying qualities.  The EU’s lexicological power grab could potentially apply
to any food or beverage that was once identified with a place
(think hamburger or frankfurter). U.S. trade officials say that
acceding to the EU’s demand could force the removal and
relabeling of a large number of products in U.S. stores at huge
expense. Left unchecked, the EU’s push could also come to cover
an almost infinite array of manufactured goods, such as Capri
pants, Bermuda shorts, cuckoo clocks or Panama hats.  Until now, the U.S. and the EU have agreed to disagree on
mutual recognition of geographical indications and have
negotiated on a product-by-product basis. (The U.S. said yes to
Roquefort and  Champagne , no to fontina and mozzarella.) Now the
EU is trying to impose its view of geographical indications in
bilateral trade agreements, which could exclude U.S. products
from markets where they have long been available. For example,
the EU’s recent accord with  South Korea  contains a list of
products, including asiago, gorgonzola and feta cheeses, which
are mutually protected. The EU is also discussing a deal with
 Canada  that could result in bans against 100 U.S.-made items.  Champagne Exception  Europe’s desire to protect valuable artisanship and
regional traditions is understandable. The U.S. has agreed to
numerous geographic indicators for  wines and spirits , including
Burgundy, Champagne, Chianti and Port. The EU protects Napa
Valley wines, Washington State apples, Florida orange juice and
Vidalia onions. Those specific agreements shouldn’t mean me-too
producers can’t offer their wares, as long as they are clearly
labeled.  The EU may have little to gain from its protectionist
demands, anyway. Geographically marked products, it turns out,
are selling well against generic competitors. The European
Commission reported this week that worldwide sales of more than
4,000 products with geographic indicators totaled 54.3 billion
euros ($83 billion) in 2010. They accounted for 15 percent of
all EU food and drink exports. The U.S. is the biggest non-EU
market, with 20 percent of geographically indicated exports. The
report also found that the goods, on average, fetched more than
twice the price of nondesignated products.  Clearly, Parmigiano-Reggiano and Roquefort can hold their
own against foreign imitations.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 