-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Rally in Two Months
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-rally-in-two-months.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly advance in two months as employers in the U.S. increased
their payrolls more than forecast and optimism mounted that
central banks will continue to stimulate their economies.  Vodafone Group Plc posted its largest weekly gain since
November 2008 after Verizon Communications Inc. was said to seek
a resolution of their relationship. Fugro NV jumped after
reporting earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. PSA Peugeot
Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, rallied.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 2.3 percent to 295.55
this past week, closing at the highest level since June 2008.
The equity benchmark has  surged 5.7 percent  so far this year
as U.S. politicians agreed on a compromise budget and the 
 Federal Reserve  continued its bond-buying program.  “U.S. and European monetary policy has helped stocks,”
said Jerome Forneris, a  fund manager  at Banque Martin Maurel in
Marseille, which oversees $8.5 billion. “And jobs data in the
U.S. was good. The market is being lifted by the economies in
the U.S. and  Japan  and global growth.”  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that the
economy added workers at a faster pace in February and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to a four-year low of 7.7
percent. Employment rose 236,000 last month after a revised
119,000 gain in January that was smaller than initially
estimated, the release showed on March 8.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said on March 4 that the
central bank should continue with its $85 billion in monthly
bond buying. Yellen, who is second to Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
said that the benefits of historically low  interest rates  and
the near-record $3.09 trillion balance sheet outweigh any risk
of financial instability.  Japanese Recovery  In Japan, gross domestic product rose an annualized 0.2
percent in the three months through December, the Cabinet Office
said on March 8. The  world’s third-largest economy  contracted
3.7 percent in the previous quarter.  In  China , exports increased 21.8 percent in February from a
year earlier, the country’s customs administration said on March
8. That beat the 8.1 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. February had four fewer working days than in 2012.  The  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent this week. The  Bank of
England  also left its key rate unchanged, along with its four-
year-old bond-purchase program.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every western-
European market except  Greece . France’s CAC 40 Index jumped 3.8
percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 1.6 percent.
 Germany ’s DAX Index rallied 3.6 percent.  Vodafone Gains  Vodafone, the world’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
surged 9.5 percent. Verizon Communications is working to resolve
its relationship with Vodafone this year, having weighed options
that range from ending its wireless venture with its European
ally to a full merger of the two phone companies, people
familiar with the situation said on March 5.  Fugro (FUR)  soared 19 percent. The biggest deepwater-oilfield
surveyor reported full-year net income of 292 million euros
($379 million), exceeding the average analyst estimate of 282
million euros.  John Wood Group Plc jumped 14 percent. The U.K. oil-
services provider active in  Africa  and the  Middle East  said on
March 5 that profit climbed 43 percent last year as demand rose.  Of the 513 Stoxx 600 companies that have reported annual
results this season, 59 percent have beaten analysts’  earnings
estimates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve had good earnings reports and that has helped the
market to hold up,” said Amandine Gerard, who oversees $196
million as president of Financiere de L’Arc in Aix-en-Provence.  Peugeot, Debenhams  Peugeot surged 19 percent, for the biggest gain in a gauge
of European carmakers. Some 14 percent of the shares are out on
loan, according to data compiled by Markit. The stock declined
for the previous two weeks.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  sank 11 percent. The U.K.’s second-biggest
department-store operator said on March 4 that fiscal first-half
profit would fall short of analysts’ estimates because it snowed
in January, forcing the retailer to offer deeper discounts to
sell inventory. The half covered the 26 weeks through March 2.  Ophir Energy Plc jumped 12 percent. The U.K. oil and gas
explorer active in East and West Africa announced plans on March
4 to raise about $833 million in a share sale, easing concern
that it will run out of funds.  Delhaize Group SA, a Belgian food retailer, climbed 13
percent this week after saying on March 7 that net debt
declined.  Continental AG,  Europe ’s second-largest maker of auto
parts, advanced 9.1 percent. The company on March 7 reiterated
targets to increase sales this year 5 percent and post adjusted
earnings before interest and taxes above 10 percent of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 