-- Ex-BOE Deputy Governor Gieve Expects Changes to Inflation Remit
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2013-03-08T15:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/ex-boe-deputy-governor-gieve-expects-changes-to-inflation-remit.html
Former Bank of England Deputy
Governor  John Gieve  said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may alter the central bank’s remit in the budget this
month, giving policy makers more room to provide stimulus.  “I think we will get the development of flexible inflation
targeting,” Gieve said at a conference held by the National
Association of Pension Funds in Edinburgh today. “He will allow
inflation to move away from target for some time while growth
comes back. I expect the chancellor to write a letter to the
governor setting out how far the bank can go outside target.”  Incoming BOE Governor  Mark Carney  has sparked a debate
about the mandate by signaling support for allowing the central
bank more flexibility in meeting its 2 percent  inflation goal .
While Osborne is required by law to state the remit at every
budget, Carney’s comments, as well as responses from  Bank of
England  policy makers, have changed the backdrop this year.
Osborne will deliver the budget in Parliament on March 20.  The Monetary Policy Committee kept its target for
 quantitative easing  at 375 billion pounds ($561 billion)
yesterday and its key  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.
The BOE’s latest projections show inflation in breach of its 2
percent target for at least another two years.  Gieve said Carney’s arrival on July 1 may herald a more
aggressive policy, including a reduction in  interest rates .  “We will see some change and probably when Carney arrives
we might see interest rates come down from half a percent to
zero,” Gieve said. “We will see a different tone, one that is
full of hope. He will say that we aren’t maxed out and we can do
different things. In terms of QE, perhaps we will see buying of
mortgages as well.”  MPC members have said the current U.K. framework is already
flexible and allows the BOE to look through temporary inflation
surges. Gieve said he would favor a change to a “dual remit”
that includes sustained economic growth as well as flexible
inflation targeting.  “They may say we will continue to have an expansionary
policy until either we get GDP growth up to 2 percent or wage
growth beginning to go above 3 or 3.5 percent,” said Gieve in
an interview outside the conference hall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh  at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  