-- Mexico Unexpectedly Cuts Key Rate for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-03-08T18:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/mexico-central-bank-cuts-key-rate-for-first-time-since-2009.html
Mexico ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its  benchmark interest rate  for the first time since 2009 as
inflation remains within the target range and growth slows. The
peso strengthened.  Banco de Mexico  reduced the overnight lending rate by 50
basis points to a record-low 4 percent, a move forecast by seven
of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The rest predicted the
rate would stay on hold.  Latin America ’s second-largest economy
was the only nation in the Group of 20 to leave borrowing costs
unchanged and refrain from buying bonds to ease monetary
conditions since July 2009.  Today’s reduction isn’t the start of a longer easing cycle,
the central bank, known as Banxico, said in a statement
accompanying today’s decision. Several indicators have shown
signs of the economy slowing and inflation should ease to about
the target level of 3 percent in the second half of the year,
after peaking at almost 4 percent in coming months, the bank
forecast.  “This environment of stable inflation and lower economic
growth that they expect in the coming quarters permits the
authorities to fix the rate at a lower level,”  Rafael Camarena ,
an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB who
predicted today’s move, said in a telephone interview after the
decision.  Policy Success  The  inflation rate  fell within the 2 percent to 4 percent
target range for the first time in six months in December. While
price-growth accelerated to 3.55 percent in February from a 15-
month low of 3.25 percent in January,  core inflation , which
excludes more volatile items, has been within the bank’s range
since April 2010.  Central bank board member Manuel Sanchez said in a Feb. 27
interview that he didn’t see a case for a rate cut “at this
moment” as inflation remains above the 3 percent target.
 Monetary policy  should “remain vigilant” to risks including
food-price increases and financial weakness abroad that could
crimp investment in Mexican assets and hurt the peso, he said.  Today’s statement didn’t say if policy makers were
unanimous or split over the rate decision.  The rate cut is recognition of “the mid-term achievements
in combating inflation and helps the economy adjust to a
scenario of less economic growth and inflation,” the central
bank said in statement.  Losing Credibility  Yields on fixed-rate  government bonds  due in 2013 fell 5
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.11 percent at 12:16
p.m. in Mexico City. The peso strengthened 0.7 percent to
12.6718 per  U.S. dollar  today, stretching its gain this year to
1.5 percent after an 8.4 percent rally against the dollar last
year that was the best performance among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Banxico said that cutting the  interest rate  will also help
the country handle capital inflows as investors in countries
with lower rates seek higher yields in Mexico. Rates are near
zero in the U.S. and  Japan  and 0.75 percent in the euro area.  The central bank may have lost credibility with today’s
reduction, said  Benito Berber , a Latin America strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  “The kitchen-sink approach to try justifying the cut
reveals to us that the case behind the move was not strong,”
Berber wrote in an e-mailed research note.  Slowing Down  Mexican industrial production and retail sales fell in
December, the first decline in both indicators since Mexico
emerged from the 2009 recession. Growth, which exceeded  Brazil ’s
in the past two years, will slow to 3.5 percent this year, the
least since 2009, from 3.9 percent in 2012, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The economy in the U.S., the buyer of 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, stalled in the fourth quarter, growing 0.1
percent, on the biggest plunge in  defense spending  since the
Vietnam War era. Automatic spending cuts that began March 1,
combined with tax increases enacted earlier this year, will
depress U.S. growth by about half in 2013, according to
government projections.  Banxico said today it anticipates short-term risks to the
Mexican economy from the U.S. fiscal consolidation and that the
world economy has continued showing signs of weakness.  As risks to economic growth continue, inflation remains
under control. The  core inflation  rate has spent the past three
months below the 3 percent target and was 2.96 percent in
February.  Total inflation rate has fallen from a 30-month high of
4.77 percent in September as egg prices dropped and an increase
in chicken prices eased following the end to a bird flu
epidemic. Mobile telephone service costs have also fallen 17
percent from a year ago after America Movil SAB, the wireless
provider controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , cut fees it
charged to connect competitors to its network.  Banxico’s decision to cut rates today is “fully compatible
with lower inflation ahead,” and helps to prevent abrupt
changes in capital flows that affect the peso, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said
in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 