-- Mexico Short-Term Bonds Rally on Interest-Rate Cut; Peso Gains
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-09T00:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/mexico-bonds-slump-after-central-bank-rate-cut-peso-strengthens.html
Mexico ’s short-term bonds rallied
after policy makers surprised analysts by cutting  interest rates 
for the first time in three years while signaling no further
reductions are on the horizon.  Yields on bonds due in December fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 4.11 percent, at 4 p.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso
strengthened 1 percent to 12.6279 per dollar, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies, fueling the biggest weekly increase
since January.  Banco de Mexico  reduced the overnight lending rate by a
half-percentage point to a record low 4 percent, a move forecast
by seven of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The reduction
“doesn’t represent the start of a cycle” and shouldn’t prevent
inflation from slowing to policy makers’ target of 3 percent,
the central bank said in a statement accompanying its decision.  “There’s an adjustment to 4 percent,”  Pedro Tuesta , the
chief economist at 4Cast Inc., said in a telephone interview
from  Washington . “Banxico is telling the market, ‘I’m not going
to change for a relatively long time.’”  The currency rallied on speculation the interest-rate cut
will support growth in Latin America’s largest economy after
 Brazil , according to Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  “It is a one-off rate cut which is intended to boost
economic growth as inflation recently receded,” Berg said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Mexico’s peso is strengthening
because the rate cut that will boost Mexican growth further.”  Inflation Report  The national statistics agency reported yesterday that
consumer prices rose 3.55 percent in February from a year
earlier, less than the 3.60 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation was 3.25
percent in January.  The currency was supported as a U.S. report showed the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest
level since December 2008. Mexico sends about 80 percent of its
exports to its northern neighbor.  Longer-term Mexican bonds fell as some investors who were
expecting a larger interest-rate cut or more reductions in the
near future sold the debt, Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee
$800 million in emerging-market assets at Silva Capital
Management, said in a phone interview from  Chicago . Yields on
peso-denominated debt due in December 2024 rose five basis
points to 5.01 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  