-- Mexico Pensions May Need Higher Caps to Invest Abroad: Regulator
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-08T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/mexico-pensions-may-need-higher-caps-to-invest-abroad-regulator.html
Mexico  should consider lifting caps
on how much pensions can invest abroad as the funds’ resources
may double in the next six years, outpacing the growth of the
local financial market, according to the industry’s regulator.  Mexico pensions, known as Afores, are currently allowed to
invest only 20 percent of their resources under management in
non-Mexican securities,  Carlos Ramirez , head of the agency known
as Consar, said in an interview yesterday. The industry
currently has $154 billion in assets, Consar data show.  “We have to consider that we need to diversify the
resources,” Ramirez said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico
City office. “Not only in the type of instruments, but also in
terms of the country.”  Regulators have been pushing the funds, which have
historically invested primarily in Mexican  government bonds , to
diversify holdings. Ramirez, who was appointed to head Consar in
January, said lawmakers are unlikely to make changes that would
lift caps in the near-term.  The system’s growth makes the current limits appear
insufficient and requires greater efforts to ensure that pension
fund asset managers are qualified, he said.  “One of the first things we are going to do is focus on
that -- how professional are the asset managers managing this
money,” he said.  Ramirez said the low percentage of workers’ salaries that
are deposited in their pensions represent “significant
structural problem of the system.”  It’s “probable” Mexico will see more mergers in the
industry, he said.  In November, Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and Mexico’s
Social Security Institute, known as IMSS, announced they had
agreed to buy  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s Afore
Bancomer unit for $1.6 billion to create the nation’s largest
pension fund. Consar said in a statement yesterday that merger
will go into effect on March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  