-- Exxon at Least 25 Years Away From Making Fuel From Algae
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-03-08T21:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/exxon-at-least-25-years-away-from-making-fuel-from-algae.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s $600 million
foray into creating motor fuels from algae may not succeed for
at least another 25 years because of technical hurdles, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said.  So far, scientists haven’t been able to develop a strain of
algae that reproduces quickly enough and behaves in a manner
that would produce enough raw material to supply a refinery,
Tillerson said in an interview that aired yesterday on PBS
television’s “Charlie Rose” show.  “We’ve come to understand some limits of that technology,
or limits as we understand it today, which doesn’t mean it’s
limited forever,” Tillerson said. The venture is “probably
further” than 25 years away from successfully developing fuels.  Exxon, the world’s biggest maker of gasoline and diesel,
has been studying the potential for algae-based fuels for 3 1/2
years in a joint venture with J. Craig Venter’s Synthetic
Genomics Inc. When the project was announced in July 2009, Exxon
predicted it could produce fuels in five to 10 years.  Exxon gained 0.3 percent to $88.97 at the close in  New
York . The shares have increased 2.8 percent this year.  Exxon and Synthetic Genomics announced plans in 2009 to
build a greenhouse near  San Diego  to test various algae strains.
The goal was “to produce a new source of oil,” Emil Jacobs,
Exxon’s vice president of research, said during a July 14, 2009,
conference call.  Basic Science  Venter, best known for his role in the sequencing of the
human genome in the 1990s and early 2000s, said during the same
call that algae ponds would produce 10 times as much fuel as the
ethanol fed by corn fields covering the same amount of space.  “What we’ve come to understand is the hurdle is pretty
high and the hurdle seems to exist at the basic science level,
which means it’s even more difficult to solve,” Tillerson said
yesterday. “These are very challenging problems.”  The scientific barriers to cultivating the sort of “super
algae” Exxon sought have induced the industry to focus on
“robust, cheap local strains of algae that aren’t exotic,”
said Riggs Eckelberry, chairman and CEO of  OriginOil Inc. (OOIL) , a Los
Angeles-based algae-extraction company.  Algae may turn out to be better suited to use as a polymer
precursor and a blending agent that will boost the energy
content of fuels made from waste products such as sawdust,
rather than as a replacement for crude, Eckelberry said in a
telephone interview today.  OriginOil rose 4.5 percent to 55 cents. The stock lost 69
percent of its value in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  