-- Bullard Sees Fed Continuing Bond Buying as Inflation Stable
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-03-08T14:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/fed-s-bullard-says-u-s-jobless-claims-decline-is-encouraging-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank probably will
press on with its asset purchases as contained inflation
expectations give it time to continue the quantitative easing.  “I think it’s going to be a while on the QE program,”
Bullard, a voting member of the policy-making Federal Open
Market Committee this year, said in a television interview today
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee .
“We’ve got a lot of room to maneuver here.”  Opponents of the unprecedented asset purchase program that
aims to boost growth and hiring have said it could spur
inflation. Bullard said that a greater concern now, with price
increases below the Fed’s target, is that “we need to defend
our inflation target from the low side.”  The Fed said last month that inflation has been “somewhat
below” its long-run target of 2 percent. An index of inflation
tied to spending patterns rose 1.2 percent in the 12 months
through January.  Stocks rose after the Labor Department reported payrolls
increased by a greater-than-forecast 236,000 in February and the
 unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to a five-year low of 7.7
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,550.51 at 9:31 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries declined, pushing
up the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.06 percent from
2 percent late yesterday.  Good Number  Bullard, who was interviewed before the jobs report, said
monthly payroll growth of around 200,000 is “a good number for
the  U.S. economy .” He projected on Feb. 21 that unemployment
may drop to 6.5 percent by the middle of next year.  The FOMC is debating how long to continue $85 billion in
monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds. The
committee, which meets March 19-20 in Washington, has said it
will keep the main  interest rate  near zero as long as the
jobless rate remains above 6.5 percent and inflation isn’t
projected to exceed 2.5 percent.  Policy makers haven’t set a definitive end date for the
buying, saying that it will continue until the labor market
improves “substantially.”  Bullard also said today that the most recent drop in new
claims for  unemployment benefits  is an “encouraging” sign for
the economic recovery. Initial  jobless claims  fell 7,000 to
340,000 in the week ended March 2, pushing the monthly average
to a five-year low, Labor Department data show.  “Claims doesn’t get much lower than this, even in real
good times,” Bullard said.  Exit Strategy  Bullard said the committee started talking about its exit
strategy from monetary easing in 2011 and could return to those
discussions.  “This is a big balance sheet and it could be hard to
unwind,” Bullard said. “Long ago in the spring of 2011 the
committee actually talked about and sort of outlined an exit
strategy. The chairman has said recently that maybe we’ll have
to revisit that because the balance sheet is bigger now.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in
speeches this month affirmed a commitment to record stimulus
that has pushed the central bank’s balance sheet beyond $3
trillion.  The committee in the minutes of its Jan. 29-30 meeting
indicated that it may consider slowing asset purchases, as
officials debate whether the monetary easing risks unleashing
inflation or fueling asset-price bubbles.  Adjusting Purchases  Bullard has been an advocate of adjusting asset purchases
based on changes in the economic outlook.  February’s payroll growth beat the 165,000 median estimate
of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy added
119,000 workers in January, revised down from 157,000, the Labor
Department data showed.  Gross domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, up from a previously estimated 0.1 percent
drop, revised Commerce Department figures showed Feb. 28.
Federal military outlays declined at a 22 percent annual pace,
the largest drop since 1972.  The Fed said March 6 in its Beige Book business survey,
based on reports from the 12 regional Fed banks, that the
economy grew at a modest to moderate pace across most of the
country amid rising demand for homes and autos.  Bullard, 52, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,  Indiana ,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  