-- Fitch Raises Thailand Credit Rating on Resilient Economic Growth
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-03-08T12:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/fitch-raises-thailand-credit-rating-on-resilient-economic-growth.html
Fitch Ratings  raised its credit
rating on  Thailand , citing a resilient economy and a more stable
political environment.  The nation’s long-term foreign currency-denominated debt
was raised one level to BBB+ from BBB, Fitch said in a statement
today. That’s three levels above junk and brings it in line with
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service ranking of the
nation. The outlook on the rating is stable.  “Fitch has revised its assessment of the risks to policy
predictability and the investment environment from political and
social tensions,” it said. “The investment rate has
accelerated in recent years. The government led by Yingluck
Shinawatra has consolidated its position and has faced no
serious extra-legal challenges since its election in July
2011.”  Prime Minister Yingluck last year raised minimum wages and
unveiled incentives for car buyers and rice farmers to boost
domestic demand and counter falling exports. Economic growth
surged last quarter after a slump in the corresponding period in
2011 when the worst floods in almost 70 years disrupted output
by manufacturers from Western Digital Corp. to Honda Motor Co.  The upgrade will benefit the country and allow it to borrow
at cheaper rates, the prime minister told reporters today.  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy has been
“resilient to repeated shocks” including the flooding crisis
in late 2011, supported by flexible monetary and exchange rate
polices, Fitch said.  Fitch restored its credit rating on Thailand after a 2009
downgrade following street protests. The ratings company also
cited the nation’s strong external position and low government
debts. Fitch expected the public debt to remain below 50 percent
of gross domestic product even after a planned infrastructure
spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  