-- Florida Orange-Crop Estimate Cut 1.4% as Disease Damage Worsens
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 2013-03-08T17:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/florida-orange-crop-estimate-cut-1-4-as-disease-damage-worsens.html
Florida ’s  orange  crop, the
world’s second biggest, will be 1.4 percent smaller than
forecast in February, the government said, on signs of
worsening damage from citrus greening, a plant disease.  The state will produce 139 million boxes of the fruit
in the harvest that runs from October through June, down
from 141 million forecast a month ago, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said today in a report. The average estimate
of seven analysts and traders in a Bloomberg News survey
was 139.6 million boxes. Florida produced 146.6 million
boxes in the previous season.  “Citrus greening has become more of a problem than
anyone imagined,”  Shawn Hackett , the president of Boynton
Beach, Florida-based Hackett Financial Advisors Inc., said
in a telephone interview before the report. “Something’s
happening here that’s unexplainable by weather. It’s been a
pretty normal winter, but the crop’s falling apart.”  Citrus greening, a bacterial disease first found in
the state in 2005, starves a tree of nutrients, causing the
fruit to drop prematurely. Oranges are often smaller,
especially in younger trees.  The rate of fruit spoiling in the Valencia variety,
which is forecast to account for 52 percent of the Florida
crop, “has increased sharply in the past two months,” the
USDA said.  According to a study by economists at the University
of Florida in Gainesville, greening has reached 32 citrus-
growing counties in the state, causing $4.5 billion in
economic damage.  Temperatures were normal to 3 degrees Fahrenheit above
average across the state’s citrus belt in February,
according to MDA Information Systems Inc. in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . Precipitation fell to 28 percent of the February
average in some areas, while staying close to normal in
others, Donald Keeney, a senior meteorologist at MDA, said
in an e-mail.  “Rainfall was sparse, worsening the drought
conditions in nearly all of the citrus-producing regions,”
the USDA said in the report.  Orange juice for May delivery rose 6.4 percent to
$1.3255 a pound at 10:29 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. A close at that level would leave the commodity up 13
percent this year on the smaller Florida crop amid signs of
rebounding U.S. demand for the beverage.  Yields in Florida will average 1.61 gallons per box,
down from 1.63 gallons a year earlier, the USDA said.  A box weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Brazil  is the
biggest orange producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  