-- Former Olympian De Varona Spearheading Women’s Network
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-08T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/former-olympian-de-varona-spearheading-women-s-network.html
Donna de Varona was a double Olympic
swimming champion at 17, and retired soon after because of a
lack of professional or college options. Almost 50 years later,
she’s working to ensure women don’t face the same hurdles.  The American, who made the Olympic team at 13 and retired
after the 1964  Tokyo  Games, is leading a program sponsored by
accounting firm Ernst & Young to help elite women athletes find
careers after retirement from competitive sport. About 4,800
female athletes took part in the London Olympics. More than 70
percent of competitors typically don’t return at the next
edition, according to the  International Olympic Committee .  Making the transition from being an athlete to a career can
be tough, De Varona said in an interview this week. De Varona
competed at a time when Olympic athletes weren’t paid, and
colleges didn’t have to offer the same level of sports for both
sexes. It meant options could be limited, she said.  “I was one of the 1960s generation, I retired from my
sport at the age of 17 because there were no opportunities,”
the 65-year-old said in a telephone interview.  After Tokyo, De Varona signed a contract with U.S.
broadcaster ABC and became one of the country’s first female
sportscasters in 1965. She has been a trailblazer ever since,
helping set up the  Women’s Sports Foundation  with tennis
champion Billie  Jean King  in 1974. Da Varona served as its first
president from 1976 to 1984.  Winning Respect  “Because I had visibility, the one thing it gave me was
the opportunity to gain entry to basically the male-dominated
world of sports and politics,” De Varona said. “Because I was
a winner, I understood that winning brings respect and that even
in the most conservative circles, you are respected.”  De Varona used her fame to campaign for Title IX
legislation, which banned gender discrimination at schools
receiving federal funds and opened the door for women’s
scholarships in college and sports.  “For years, I’ve been working on this idea that if you
network and convene, you can make a huge difference,” said De
Varona, who is also a member of the  International Olympic
Committee  Women and Sports Commission. “I was able to do that,
but I’ve never ever been able to make a sustainable transition
in this world for women in sport to a successful career back in
the sporting world or into the world of entrepreneurship.”  Ernst & Young, a sponsor of the 2016 Rio Olympics, is
introducing a first-of-its-kind women athlete global leadership
network to coincide with today’s International Women’s Day.  It will give participants access to former competitors such
as De Varona, IOC member and former U.S. rower Anita DeFrantz
and Nawal El Moutawakel, an IOC member who at the 1984 Olympics
became the first Moroccan, African and Muslim woman to win a
gold medal.  Business Value  “With their inherent confidence, high standards,
discipline and experience in working as a team, female athletes
have tremendous value for businesses like ours, governments, and
non-governmental organizations around the world,” said Beth
Brooke, global vice chair, public policy at Ernst & Young and a
Title IX scholarship recipient.  Ernst & Young said it wanted to start the network after the
London Games, where 44 percent of the competitors were women,
who, for the first time, competed in all sports on the Olympic
program because  Saudi Arabia , Brunei and Qatar sent female
athletes.  “We’re going to tell stories of inspiration, all day you
see stories of inspiration in men’s sports, but women’s sports
gets very little coverage,” De Varona said. “And we’re going
to commission more research on the impact of women’s advancement
in sport and in society. Sport helps women transition into
higher education and better jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  