-- French Factory Sentiment Rises for Third Month on Global Demand
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-08T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/french-factory-sentiment-rises-for-third-month-on-global-demand.html
French industrial confidence rose
for a third month in February, suggesting demand from abroad is
supporting Europe’s second-largest economy.  Sentiment among manufacturing executives climbed to 96 from
95 the previous month, the Bank of France said today in an e-
mailed statement from Paris. The reading indicates gross
domestic product will rise 0.1 percent in the first quarter, the
central bank said.  Manufacturers are benefiting from a recovering world
economy as domestic demand flags in the face of President
 Francois Hollande ’s efforts to reduce the budget deficit. The
Bank of France’s services index, which is more closely
correlated to domestic demand, fell to 88 from 90.  “Improving global conditions should be increasingly
reflected in the business confidence surveys,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “The French
economy should be on the verge of bottoming out, though that
doesn’t mean things will improve quickly.”  Hollande has raised taxes by about 27 billion euros ($35
billion) since coming to office last May and is now looking for
ways to reduce  government spending  after the European Commission
said France is on track to miss its target of reducing the
 budget deficit  to 3 percent of  gross domestic product  this year.
France’s unemployment at a 13-year high is reducing both
consumer spending and investment.  Fiscal Policy  The service-industry slowdown is in contrast with  Germany ,
Belgium and Austria, where  deficit reduction  is more advanced
and now easing or stopping, according to David Mackie, a JP
Morgan economist.  “Given the common dynamic within the manufacturing sector,
it is hard to blame competitiveness for the growing
divergence,” Mackie wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “The
most obvious explanation is fiscal policy. There is no fiscal
tightening this year in Germany and only a modest amount in
Belgium and Austria. In contrast, there is significant amount of
fiscal tightening in both  France  and the Netherlands.”  The commission said Feb. 22 that France’s deficit will be
3.7 percent of GDP this year. Hollande’s government is looking
for ways to reduce it further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  