-- Gardner Denver to Sell Itself to KKR for $3.7 Billion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-03-08T23:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/gardner-denver-to-sell-itself-to-kkr-for-3-7-billion.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , agreed to buy industrial
equipment maker  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  for about $3.7 billion after
raising its offer.  KKR will pay $76 a share for Wayne, Pennsylvania-based
Gardner Denver, the companies said today in a statement. That’s
a 39 percent premium to the price on Oct. 24, the day before the
company announced it was exploring a sale. KKR last month
offered $75 a share,  Bloomberg News  reported Feb. 21.  “The long-term future of Gardner Denver is bright,” Pete Stavros, head of KKR’s industrials team, said in the statement.
The deal, expected to close in the third quarter, is valued at
$3.9 billion including the assumption of Gardner Denver’s debt.  Gardner Denver said in October it was reviewing options
including a sale after ValueAct Holdings LP, which disclosed in
July that it had become the third-largest investor, pressed for
a deal as “the most effective way to deliver maximum value to
shareholders.” The sale to KKR comes after rival  SPX Corp. (SPW)  and
private-equity firms Advent International Corp. and the team of
 Onex Corp. (OCX)  and TPG Capital walked away from takeover
discussions, people familiar with the matter have said.  Gardner Denver  rose  1.2 percent to $74.74 at the close of
trading in  New York . The company makes compressors, pumps and
other products for industries including manufacturing and energy
exploration. Other suitors for the company included private-
equity firms CCMP Capital Advisors LLC, Bain Capital LLC and
 Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   KKR’s Shares  KKR climbed 1.2 percent to $19.03. The stock has gained 25
percent this year, outpacing the 8.8 percent increase in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of large U.S. companies.  The deal is subject to several provisions, including
approval by  China ’s commerce ministry,  South Africa ’s
competition commission and U.S. and European antitrust
regulators, according to a Gardner Denver  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission today. The company would be
required to pay KKR a fee of $103.4 million if it terminates the
agreement, and KKR would have to pay Gardner Denver $263.1
million if the private-equity firm fails to complete the deal,
according to the filing.  The pump maker’s market has faced an influx of competitors
amid a historic boom in natural gas production, and Gardner
Denver has since focused on boosting margins through measures
such as restructuring its European operations. The manufacturer
estimated the cost cuts will result in annualized pretax savings
of $35 million to $40 million by 2016.  Industrial Deals  “Industrial markets are awash with cash, putting private-
equity firms and activist investors in a strong position,”
 Julian Mitchell , a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG, said today in a note to clients.  Shares of Gardner Denver peaked at $91.50 on July 22, 2011.
ValueAct held a 5.1 percent  stake  in the company as of Feb. 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s deal brings the value of private-equity investments
in industrial companies to $9.2 billion so far this year, more
than double the $4.1 billion of such transactions in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KKR, founded in 1976, oversaw $75.5 billion of assets as of
Dec. 31. The firm’s industrials team last year closed a $1.1
billion deal for Capital Safety Ltd., the maker of harnesses and
lanyards that protect workers from falls.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  acted as a financial adviser to
Gardner Denver, with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom providing
legal counsel. UBS AG and Simmons & Co. International gave
financial advice to KKR, and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
provided legal guidance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  