-- Geo, Urbi Lead Mexico Builder Slump on Loan Plan Skepticism
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-08T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/geo-urbi-lead-mexico-builder-slump-on-loan-guarantee-skepticism.html
Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB)  and  Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  led a plunge in Mexican homebuilders on speculation
government loan guarantees won’t be enough to buttress the
industry from a slump in  cash flow .  Corp. Geo tumbled 7.7 percent, the most in two week, to
10.13 pesos at the close of Mexico City trading while Urbi
declined 7.6 percent to 4.04 pesos.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) 
fell 5.4 percent to 26.88 pesos. The Habita  index  of
homebuilders dropped 5.4 percent.  Mexico’s government announced a program this week to cover
as much as 30 percent of banks’ losses on loans made to the
nation’s homebuilders. The companies’ securities have plunged
this year amid disappointing earnings and credit rating
reductions as balance sheets show a hemorrhaging of cash.  “It’s not clear that the guarantee program is going to be
sufficient to really be the fix for the entire industry,”
Robert L. Rauch, who helps oversee $3.3 billion as a partner and
money manager at Gramercy Funds Management, said in a telephone
interview.  Urbi’s $500 million of bonds due in 2022 tumbled 6.9 cents
to 75.14 cents on the dollar at 4:58 p.m. in  New York , the
lowest price since the securities were issued in January 2012.
The yield rose 1.65 percentage point to 14.87 percent.  Alberto Aguilar, a columnist with the Mexico City daily El
Universal, reported that Urbi may have missed a $60 million
payment on a loan from Prudential Financial Inc. Aguilar didn’t
say how he obtained the information.  Alma Beltran, a press official at Urbi, said executives
weren’t immediately available to comment because they were
attending an industry event in New York. John Chartier, a
spokesman at Prudential, declined to comment.  Analysts, traders and investors are meeting with government
officials and companies today for the second day of a Mexican
homebuilder event in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  