-- German Industrial Production Unexpectedly Stagnates
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-03-08T11:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/german-industrial-production-unexpectedly-stagnated-in-january.html
German industrial production
unexpectedly stagnated in January as  Europe ’s debt crisis
weighed on company spending and investment.  Production was unchanged from December, when it rose 0.6
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a 0.4 percent gain for January, according to the median
of 42 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . December output was
revised up from an initially reported 0.3 percent increase. From
a year earlier, production fell 1.3 percent when adjusted for
working days.  While confidence among German entrepreneurs and investors
jumped in February, factory orders unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent
in the first month of the year as the recession in the euro
area, Germany’s largest export market, damped demand. The
 European Central Bank  revised down its forecasts yesterday to
predict the 17-nation economy will shrink 0.5 percent in 2013.  “The improvement in confidence indicators should have
actually begun to be reflected in a positive production trend,”
said Thilo Heidrich, an economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in
Bonn. “It’s difficult to assess the state of the economy at the
start of the year but in general, we stick to our expectation
that the German economy will grow in the first quarter.”  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.3119 at 12:41 p.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.1 percent today. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent to 294.73.  Manufacturing Output  Manufacturing output fell 0.2 percent in January, with
production of investment goods dropping 1.5 percent, today’s
report showed. Energy production fell 2.3 percent while
construction activity rose 3 percent.  The Bundesbank predicts the German economy, Europe’s
largest, will return to growth in the current quarter after it
contracted 0.6 percent in the final quarter of 2012.  Germany’s chemical industry was “surprisingly strong” in
January and February as industrial customers started restocking
inventories, Utz Tillmann, head of the VCI German chemical
association, said yesterday.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest
chemical maker, said last month it expects earnings and sales to
rise this year.  At the same time, recent economic data in the euro area
have been “disappointing” and policy makers discussed cutting
 interest rates  yesterday, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said. They
elected to keep the  benchmark rate  at 0.75 percent, already a
record low, and maintained a forecast for a gradual economic
recovery in the second half of the year.  France, Spain  French industrial confidence rose for a third month in
February, suggesting demand from abroad is supporting Europe’s
second-largest economy, a report showed today. Still, Spanish
industrial output shrank 5 percent in January from a year
earlier. In  Finland , production slumped 3.6 percent in January
from December, while in Turkey output rose 2.3 percent.  To offset weakness in Europe, some German companies are
tapping faster growing regions. Carmakers are shrugging off the
European auto-market decline as sales growth in  China  and the
U.S. prompts them to increase luxury-car production.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, targeting a third consecutive
year of record sales, delivered more than 250,000 vehicles in
the first two months of 2013, a jump of about 6 percent, and
“our factories are running at full capacity,” Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said on March 5. Daimler’s Mercedes-
Benz unit is adding shifts to meet demand for compact cars, CEO
 Dieter Zetsche  said the same day.  Chinese Exports  China’s exports exceeded forecasts in February, an
indication that improving global demand may help to sustain the
rebound in the world’s second-biggest economy. Commerce Minister
 Chen Deming  said in Beijing today that he’s “cautiously
optimistic” on foreign trade this year.  Elsewhere in  Asia , revised figures showed that Japan
returned to growth in the fourth quarter, bolstering Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to end 15 years of deflation and
revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  In the U.S., payrolls probably grew in February, suggesting
that employers were undaunted by the budget impasse in
 Washington .  “Exports to countries outside Europe play a central role
in Germany’s recovery,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at
Dekabank in Frankfurt. “We can’t expect anything amazing, but
with business confidence improving things will turn for the
better. Much will be decided in the first quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  