-- Getting Filthy Rich Can’t Guarantee Love in Wry Novel
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-03-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/getting-filthy-rich-can-t-guarantee-love-in-wry-novel-review.html
Dance with debt. Befriend a
bureaucrat. Be prepared to use violence.  These are some of the tips  Mohsin Hamid  offers in “ How to
Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia ,” a novel that starts out
parodying business self-help books and evolves into a powerful
reverie on life in a time of soul-shaking change.  Told in the second person, its dictums are addressed to a
nameless protagonist who is born into disease-ridden rural
squalor in what seems to be Hamid’s own homeland,  Pakistan .  Our hero takes his first step on the road to success when
his father starts earning enough as a cook in the big city to
move the family there. Though not a long journey, those “few
hours on a bus from rural remoteness to urban centrality appear
to span millennia.” Mud huts give way to concrete structures
that grow story by story as streetlights appear and giant
billboards twinkle.  The youngest of three, our hero is given a shot at the
education -- step two -- his siblings missed out on. In college,
however, his humble roots hold him back. After briefly falling
in with a group of bearded blowhards, he drops out.  His real lessons are learned at work, delivering pirated
DVDs and later peddling canned goods whose expiration dates have
been altered. When he strikes out on his own it’s to manufacture
bottled water that is not, initially, as pure as its label
claims.  Rise, Fall  Quick-witted and just the right side of villainous, he’s a
tenacious everyman who remains engaging throughout his rags-to-
riches rise. It doesn’t end there for him, either: Having made
his fortune he goes on to lose it, finding something more
precious instead.  Hamid, who is the author of two previous novels including
“ The Reluctant Fundamentalist ,” a Man Booker Prize finalist,
lets the surreal chaos that trails rapid modernization speak for
itself. In a single neighborhood in this vast metropolis, for
instance, “animals are slaughtered, pastries baked, high-
fidelity speaker crossovers tweaked, fake imported cigarettes
distributed, and blast-resistant window film retailed.”  His prose is pared down and precise, though every now and
then he’ll flourish a particularly vivid metaphor. When a heart
attack leaves the hero shaken by an awareness of his own
mortality, he is experiencing “the shock of an unseen network
suddenly made physical, as a fly experiences a cobweb.”  Wealth, Love  The novel is every bit as wry as its title promises, too.
Here’s Hamid on the difference between wealth and love: “Both
have the potential to inspire, motivate, uplift, and kill. But
whereas achieving a massive bank balance demonstrably attracts
fine physical specimens desperate to give their love in
exchange, achieving love tends to do the opposite.”  In this respect, our hero is heedless. A teenage crush
referred to only as “the pretty girl” exerts a hold over him
throughout his adult life.  Luckily for his bank balance, the pretty girl is also
ambitious, remaining just out of reach as she becomes a model,
hosts a TV cooking show, opens a home furnishings boutique.
Nevertheless, their lives intersect every few years as decades
pass, lending the narrative an unsentimental, lingeringly
romantic charge.  All books are in a way self-help books, Hamid muses. Why
persevere with “that much-praised, painstakingly boring foreign
novel” if not to deepen your understanding of our globalized
world?  While no one would claim this particular novel is boring,
it does nimbly delineate a region’s religious and political
tensions, its gender and class inequalities, giving a deeply
human face to Asia’s rise.  “How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia” is published by
Riverhead in the U.S. and Hamish Hamilton in the U.K. (228
pages, $26.95, 14.99 pounds). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans and Craig Seligman  on
movies and  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 