-- Google Said to Cut Another 1,200 Jobs at Motorola Mobility Unit
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-08T07:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/google-said-to-cut-another-1-200-jobs-at-motorola-mobility-unit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is cutting about 1,200
jobs at its Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. unit, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The reduction comes seven months after Google said it was
eliminating 4,000 jobs, or about 20 percent of the staff, at the
company it bought last year for about $12.4 billion. The
majority of the latest round of layoffs will occur outside the
U.S., the person said, declining to be identified because the
details haven’t been released.  “These cuts are a continuation of the reductions we
announced last summer,” said Gabe Madway, a spokesman for
Motorola Mobility. “It’s obviously very hard for the employees
concerned, and we are committed to helping them through this
difficult transition.”  Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  is streamlining
the  company  as it pushes into the hardware market. The company,
owner of the world’s most-popular search engine, purchased 
Motorola Mobility in its biggest takeover, boosting its patent
portfolio and stepping up competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The  Mountain View , California-based company agreed in
December to sell the Motorola Home business to Arris Group Inc.
for $2.35 billion, finding a buyer for a division that sells TV
set-top boxes while it focuses on expanding in smartphones.
Google’s Android operating system is used in the majority of
smartphones sold worldwide, including those by Galaxy maker
Samsung Electronics Co.  Google shares have  climbed  18 percent this year after
rising 9.5 percent in 2012.  The job cuts were reported earlier today by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  