-- Gross Says Fed Won’t Alter Stimulus After Job Gains: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-08T16:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/gross-says-fed-won-t-alter-stimulus-after-job-gains-tom-keene.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said the larger-than-forecast increase in
U.S. employment last month won’t prompt the  Federal Reserve  to
alter the central bank’s stimulus measures.  “Bernanke and Yellen, and Dudley -- the three musketeers -
- have made it obvious that even if  unemployment  gets to 6.5
percent, they are going to look around,” Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s founder Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Mike McKee . “They
are going to look at the participation rate, they are going to
look at work rate, they are going to look at productivity --
those things in combination. And if they give themselves an out,
if, and here’s the critical point, if inflation is still well
contained.”  Payrolls increased more than forecast in February and the
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a more than four-year low of
7.7 percent. Fed officials have said they will keep their
benchmark  lending rate  near zero as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. They also said during a January meeting they would
keep buying $40 billion per month in mortgage bonds and $45
billion in Treasuries.  “Ultimately, wages are the key to sustainable and higher
inflation,’ Gross said. “And the Fed knows that as well. It’s
certainly true that wages, which are well contained at 1.5 to 2
percent, are the key to the Fed. And if they for some reason,
which I am hard pressed to see the reason, should move up to 2.5
to 3 percent and threaten that threshold, that’s when the Fed
becomes concerned.”  Fed Portfolio  Employment rose 236,000 last month after a revised 119,000
gain in January that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today. The median forecast of 90
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected an advance of
165,000. The jobless rate dropped from 7.9 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last month that
it would take a “substantial improvement” in employment to end
the buying. It’s the central bank third program of so-called
quantitative easing, or bond buying aimed at keeping long-term
rates low to stimulate the housing sector and the economy
overall.  Bernanke told Congressional leaders in Washington that the
central bank was maintaining its guidance that rates are likely
to remain at record lows and that there was no evidence that the
Fed’s unprecedented asset purchases risked sparking inflation or
creating price bubbles. The Fed has kept its benchmark rate for
overnight loans in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Price Irrationality  Gross, who serves as co-chief investment officer of  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, wrote last week in his monthly
investment outlook that asset-price irrationality is rising
after years of record low benchmark interest rates by the Fed.  Gross reduced his holdings of investment-grade credit
securities in his flagship $286 billion Total Return Fund to 9
percent in January, from 10 percent in December, according to
the latest available data on Pimco’s website. Treasuries are his
largest holdings at 30 percent.  Bernanke also said during in  Washington  that the central
bank may decide to hold bonds on its over $3 trillion  balance
sheet  to maturity and refrain from selling if that is necessary
to prevent disruptions in financial markets.  “The Fed will never, will never, sell their portfolio,”
said Gross, who reiterated that Pimco is buying Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, as a way to hedge
against the risk that the Fed’s unprecedented monetary stimulus
will eventually spark inflation. “The Fed will never sell any
bonds.”  Inflation Hedge  Gross has said rising central-bank tolerance of inflation
means investors should hedge higher prices by buying TIPS.  A measure of inflation expectations followed by the Fed
known as the five-year, five-year forward break-even rate is at
2.8 percent, up from a low over the last year of 2.37 percent
reached a year ago. The gauge, which uses both inflation
protected and nominal Treasuries, projects the expected pace of
consumer price increases over a five year period beginning five
years from now.  “We simply see, and I think other investors see, central
banks on the move -- to call it a race to the bottom -- the same
as printing checks -- doing it at a trillion a year,” said
Gross, referring to quantitative easing by the Fed,  Bank of
Japan  and the  Bank of England .  ECB Speculation  “Central banks are trying to reflate and that means higher
inflation,” Gross said. “It appears all central banks are well
content with inflation moving up from 1.5 to 2 percent to
perhaps 2.5 to 3 percent. A forward looking investor has to play
it that way.”  The  European Central Bank  left its  benchmark interest rate 
at 0.75 percent, already a record low, at its policy meeting
yesterday. While policy makers lowered their economic forecasts,
they maintained an outlook for a gradual recovery later this
year, and ECB president  Mario Draghi  signaled that  Europe ’s
economy will have to get worse before he’ll consider more
stimulus.  Even with the forecast, Gross said the ECB may take
additional action to bolster the economy within two weeks, which
is likely to be focused on weakening the value of the euro
relative to the  U.S. dollar  and other currencies.  The ECB has “got potential to do a QE themselves, although
that’s far down the line,” Gross said. “But ultimately what
they want to do is weaken their currency relative to the dollar
and other currencies, so that they can become more
competitive.”  The $288 billion Total Return Fund gained 7.2 percent over
the past year, beating 92 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $2 trillion in  assets  as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  