-- Gross Whipsawed as Colombia Giveth and Taketh Away: Andes Credit
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-03-08T15:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/gross-whipsawed-as-colombia-giveth-and-taketh-away-andes-credit.html
Lured to Colombia with the promise
of peso-juiced bond returns, some of the world’s biggest debt
investors are now facing losses as the government moves to
weaken its currency.  While yields on Colombia’s $9.3 billion in peso bonds due
2024 have dropped 0.79 percentage point since the government cut
taxes on foreigners’ bond profits by half at the start of the
year, the country’s local debt has left investors who didn’t
hedge against currency declines with a 1.2 percent loss in
dollars. That’s the biggest drop in  emerging markets  after
Poland and Peru and compares with an average 0.4 percent return
for local-currency debt in developing nations, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso has fallen 2 percent this year as Colombia bought
dollars and cut overseas debt sales after the biggest emerging-
market currency gain since 2009 made coffee, flower and banana
exports less competitive and lifted the jobless rate to 13.1
percent, the highest in Latin America. The peso touched a 17-
month high on Jan. 2 after Colombia cut the tax to push down
yields.  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co. and State
Street are the biggest foreign holders of 2024 peso debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Punishing Them’  “You are encouraging investors to come in on the one hand
and on the other hand you are punishing them with the
depreciation of the exchange rate,” Bret Rosen, a Latin America
strategist at Standard Chartered Bank, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “Colombia has had a battle with the
strong currency for a while and so there is always the risk of a
forced depreciation of the peso as the one we’re seeing.”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, didn’t reply to phone and e-mailed
messages seeking comment. The world’s biggest bond fund manager
held $11.2 million of the notes due 2024 as of Dec. 31.
Elizabeth Bartlett, a press official at State Street declined to
comment. The Finance Ministry didn’t respond to telephone and e-
mail messages seeking comment.  Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said Feb. 13 the nation
will reduce international debt offerings by 38 percent to $1.6
billion this year and asked state-oil company  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  to
raise 80 percent of its financing locally, the latest steps to
stem a flood of dollars into the Andean country.  Dollar Buying  The central bank said Jan. 28 it will buy at least $30
million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange market
to $3 billion between February and May.  Cardenas has also said that Colombia will buy $1 billion of
U.S. currency to pay for interest and principal on foreign bonds
coming due this year, in addition to the $1 billion it will
purchase for its oil-stability fund.  Starting this year, Colombia lowered the tax on foreign
investors’ bond profits to 14 percent from 33 percent in 2012.
Foreigners held 3.8 percent of government peso notes as of
January.  The peso has surged 13.5 percent since the end of 2009, the
best performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Last year’s 9.7 percent gain was the biggest among 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg apart from the Polish zloty and
Hungarian forint as the country received a record $16.7 billion
in foreign direct investment. The currency rally helped boost
returns on the local bonds to 22 percent in dollar terms,
compared with an average advance of 17 percent for developing-
nation debt, according to JPMorgan.  ‘More Vocal’  Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee $800 million in
emerging-market assets at Silva Capital Management, said his
fund sold its Colombian peso-linked bonds in mid-2012 because of
the government’s intervention in the currency market.  “That’s exactly the reason why we aren’t in Colombia at
the moment,” Urbina said in a telephone interview from  Chicago .
“Colombia has been one of the countries where the central bank
has been more vocal about fighting appreciation and therefore to
us it gives us the sense of too much risk existing in the local
investment.”  Investors can still profit from Colombian bonds by hedging
against currency losses, according to Jaime Valdivia, the head
of global emerging-market research at Bluecrest Capital
Management, which holds $1.4 billion of emerging-market assets.  It costs investors about 3.4 percent a year to eliminate
their currency risk by selling the peso in three-month non-
deliverable forwards, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
On a hedged basis, Colombia’s peso bonds have returned an
average 0.3 percent so far this year.  ‘Very Well’  “If you give some credence to the Minister, you have to
take your precautions and hedge against currency risk,”
Valdivia said in a telephone interview from New York. “Because
we’ve done that, we’ve done very well.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 122 basis points at 10:33
a.m. in New York. Yields on Colombia’s dollar bonds due in July
2021 rose three basis points to 2.75 percent.  The cost to protect Colombian debt against non-payment for
five years fell four basis point to 91 basis points, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt
agreements.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 1,801.29 per dollar.  Blocked Roads  Growing pressure on the government to curb gains in the
peso may prompt other investors to cut holdings of Colombia’s
local-currency bonds, according to Silva Capital’s Urbina.  Coffee growers staged protests and blocked roads in the
past two weeks, demanding greater government subsidies to
compensate for losses from the stronger currency. Agriculture
Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo asked yesterday that the central
bank do more to ease the peso’s appreciation.  “We’ve liked the idea of Colombia from a macro
perspective,” Urbina said. ‘We just don’t like this position
the government has taken in terms of the peso. It’s hard to
judge because understandably other countries in the region do
the same but for us it stopped making sense given this
limitation of gains from a currency perspective.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  