-- IBM CEO Says ‘Big Data’ Is Company’s Top Priority This Year
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-03-08T21:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/ibm-ceo-says-big-data-will-be-company-s-top-priority-this-year.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty sees “big data”
services, which let customers mine vast troves of information to
make better decisions, as the company’s biggest focus this year.  “It’s certainly everything around big data and
analytics,” Rometty said in a brief interview last night when
asked about IBM’s priority in 2013. She had just given a  speech 
in front of the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York, where
she emphasized that data will give companies and governments a
competitive advantage.  “I want you to think about data as the next natural
resource,” she told the audience of business and political
leaders. Data-based insight helped reduce crime by 30 percent in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , and correctly predicted the outcome of swing
states for President  Barack Obama ’s campaign, she said.  For IBM, the capabilities are helping it break into new
overseas markets and sell services covering a wider range of
tasks -- from traffic management to weather monitoring to
payroll. About 80 percent of growth is coming from outside the
U.S., she said.  IBM increased its 2015 sales forecast for data analytics to
$20 billion last week, from an earlier goal of $16 billion.
Revenue from the category in 2010, when IBM first set he goal,
was about $10 billion. Since 2005, IBM has spent more than $16
billion on 35 acquisitions to boost its analytics capabilities.  Shares of the Armonk, New York-based company climbed 0.5
percent to $210.38 at the close in  New York . The stock has risen
9.8 percent this year.  Monitoring Workers  Businesses are using analytics to track individual employee
performance and treat customers based on personal preference,
she said. That means they don’t have to make as many blanket
assumptions.  “You will see the death of the average,” Rometty said.  Analytics also will help companies fight the mounting
threat of cybercrime by predicting where the next attack might
happen, Rometty said. She called on countries to work together
on a data-based strategy, instead of individual legal
approaches.  “If every country tries to regulate this themselves, you
will have a standstill and a great vulnerability,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  