-- India’s Nifty Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses on U.S. Data
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-03-08T02:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/india-s-nifty-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-on-u-s-data.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures swung
between gains and losses amid data that signaled the global
economy may be strengthening.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery fell less
than 0.1 percent to 5,904 at 10:19 a.m. in  Singapore  after
gaining 0.1 percent. The underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index jumped 0.8
percent to 5,863.30 yesterday, its highest close since Feb. 20.
The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 0.8 percent to 19,413.54. The Bank
of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares climbed
1.4 percent to the highest level since Feb. 1.  Indian stocks advanced the most in  Asia  yesterday on
speculation central banks from the U.S. to Europe, the nation’s
biggest markets, will continue stimulus measures to support
growth. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed today after data
showed yesterday that jobless claims in the U.S. dropped and the
Japanese economy exited a recession.  “Positive U.S. data and the  Federal Reserve ’s recent
assurance over monetary policy have led to an increase in
investors’ risk appetite,” Nidhi Sarswat, a senior research
analyst at Bonanza Portfolio Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note
yesterday. “Some minor consolidation may be seen as investors
may book profits in rallies.”  The European Union accounted for 17.2 percent of India’s
exports in the six months ended September 2011, according to the
commerce ministry, making it India’s largest trading partner,
while 11 percent of Indian shipment went to the U.S. in the six
months ended September 2011.  Technology Exporters  “A recovery in the Western world certainly augurs well for
technology exporters,” Aneesh Srivastava, who oversees $531
million as chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co. in Mumbai, said yesterday.  Shares of  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s biggest maker
of sport-utility vehicles, may be active after workers called
off a strike at the company’s Nashik plant.  Overseas funds bought a net $119 million of Indian stocks
on March 6 as money returned to local shares after the biggest
net sale in about a year on Feb. 28, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Foreigners have bought a net $8.6 billion worth of shares
this year, a record for the period, the data show. They
purchased a net $24.5 billion worth of shares last year, the
most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The Sensex trades at 13.7 times  projected 12-month profits ,
compared with 14.3 times on Jan. 25, when the gauge climbed to a
two-year high, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.4 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  