-- India May Halt Iran Oil Imports on Refinery Insurance
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-03-08T13:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/india-may-halt-iran-oil-imports-on-refinery-insurance.html
Indian refiners including  Mangalore
Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  may be forced to halt purchases
of Iranian crude as local insurers refuse to cover the risks for
any refinery using that oil, a company executive said.  “There’s a problem with getting insurance for refineries
processing Iranian oil,” Mangalore Refinery Managing Director
P.P. Upadhya said by phone from his office in the southern city
of Mangalore. “If there’s no clarity very soon, we all have to
stop buying from Iran or risk operating the refineries without
insurance.”  Mangalore Refinery has sought direction from  India ’s oil
ministry on future purchases of Iranian crude, Upadhya said. The
company, India’s biggest buyer of Iranian crude, will purchase
76 percent of the contracted 5 million metric tons a year of
crude from  Iran  in the year ending March 31 and next year’s
imports will depend on securing insurance, he said.  India has struggled to get tankers and insurance for
transporting supplies from the Persian Gulf state after the U.S.
and the European Union imposed sanctions on Iran to curb its
nuclear program, which they say is designed to develop an atomic
weapon. The U.S. in December renewed a waiver for India and
eight other nations from a law that cuts institutions off from
its banking system if they process payments for Iranian oil.  India will reduce Iranian crude purchases to about 15
million tons, or about 300,000 barrels a day, in the current
financial year, then Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said in Dubai
on Oct. 22. Purchases in the nine months to Dec. 31 totaled 9.69
million tons, P. Lakshmi, a junior oil minister, said in a
written reply to questions in lower house of Parliament Feb. 22.  International Sanctions  The country bought 17.5 million tons in the prior 12
months, about 10 percent of its needs, according to data from
the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India.  Another set of U.S. sanctions that started Feb. 6 requires
buyers of Iranian oil to pay in local currency to escrow
accounts and will bar Iran from repatriating the funds. Indian
government officials have previously said the country isn’t
bound by U.S. and EU measures and will only adhere to sanctions
imposed by the  United Nations .  Reuters reported similar comments from the Mangalore
Refinery executive earlier today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  