-- India’s Rupee Has Best Week in Two Months on Inflow Optimism
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-08T11:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/india-s-rupee-has-best-week-in-two-months-on-inflow-optimism.html
India ’s rupee completed its biggest
weekly gain since January on speculation foreign investors will
boost purchases of the nation’s assets to benefit from
relatively stronger growth and returns.  The European Central Bank kept its benchmark rate at a
record low yesterday and Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet
Yellen said March 4 the U.S. central bank should press on with
$85 billion of monthly debt purchases that depress yields.
Morgan Stanley is bullish on the rupee and predicts India’s
economy will expand 6.3 percent in the year through March 2014,
following estimated growth of around 5 percent in the current
period, as the government looks to attract foreign investment
and improve public finances.  “Ongoing efforts at structural reform are a medium-term
supportive factor, as is the high carry,” Kritika Kashyap, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report
received today, referring to the practice of borrowing in a low-
yield currency to invest in one with a higher interest rate.
“Prospective monetary policy easing over the first quarter is
likely to be positive for growth expectations and support the
currency.”  The rupee advanced 1.1 percent this week to 54.2925 per
dollar in Mumbai, the biggest gain since the five days through
Jan. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, dropped 54 basis points, or 0.54
percentage point, this week to 9.22 percent. The rate fell five
basis points today.  Current Account  The currency may weaken to 55.5 in the “next few months”
due to uncertainties over U.S. spending cuts and  Europe ’s debt
crisis, according to Morgan Stanley, which predicts subsequent
gains.  The shortfall in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, is a “greater worry” than the nation’s
fiscal deficit, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in
his Feb. 28 budget speech. The gap, a record 4.2 percent of
gross domestic product in the 12 months through March 2012, is
expected to be “significantly higher” this year, central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Feb. 11. Morgan Stanley predicts
the shortfall will narrow to 3.9 percent of GDP in the coming
fiscal year.  Rate Cut  The monetary authority lowered its benchmark repurchase
rate by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent on Jan. 29, and said
slowing inflation gives some room for more easing. A further
reduction in borrowing costs will encourage foreign direct
investment and purchases of Indian stocks, strengthening the
rupee even as the currency loses some of its yield support,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Euro-based investors will earn 12.1 percent including
interest, the most in Asia, by holding rupees until the end of
this year, based on currency forecasts and deposit rates
compiled by Bloomberg. Dollars will earn 10.2 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.34 per
dollar, compared with 55.66 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.37 versus 55.48. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  