-- Iron Man Parks Acura for Audi as Carmakers Divvy Up Marvel Deals
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/iron-man-parks-acura-for-audi-as-carmakers-divvy-up-marvel-deals.html
Tony Stark, the fictional superhero
in  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Iron Man” films, will park the Acura
supercar he drove last year in favor of a battery-powered  Audi (NSU) 
when his latest motion picture opens May 3.  A  trailer  for “Iron Man 3” features the Audi R8 e-tron
sports car, not the Acura NSX prototype that the Marvel Comics
character, played by Robert Downey Jr., drove in the 2012 hit
film “The Avengers.”  With separate deals for Disney’s Marvel films, the
carmakers are jockeying to promote their most souped-up models
to young film fans.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi dominates the “Iron
Man” films.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura provided the hot cars in
“Captain America,” “Thor” and “ The Avengers ,” which became
the No. 3 top-grossing film worldwide of all time.  “Tony Stark first drove the R8 in the original ‘Iron Man,’
and it remains his vehicle of choice,” said Andrew Lipman, a
spokesman for Audi, who declined to say how much the company is
spending on its tie-in.  The popularity of Marvel Entertainment’s superhero films
makes them an appealing vehicle for carmakers looking to show
off their models. Worldwide box-office revenue for “The
Avengers” and first two “Iron Man” films exceeded $2.7
billion, according to Box Office Mojo, an industry researcher.  Automakers and dealers spent $3.82 billion on U.S.
advertising in the third quarter, according to a December report
from Kantar Media. Their outlays rose 21 percent from a year
earlier, the company said.  Melissa Zukerman, a spokeswoman for Marvel, declined to
provide details of the promotional arrangements. Disney, based
in  Burbank ,  California , bought Marvel in 2009 for $4.2 billion.
The company agreed in October to acquire “Star Wars” creator
George Lucas’s Lucasfilm Ltd. for $4.05 billion.  Agency Car  Audi, the German luxury line, will be featured throughout
“Iron Man 3,” with models including the S7 sport-back sedan,
according to Lipman.  Acura, meanwhile, remains the official vehicle of
S.H.I.E.L.D., the fictional espionage and law-enforcement agency
of the Marvel world, and one of its cars snuck in a brief
appearance during the credits of “Iron Man 2,” according to
Chuck Schifsky, a spokesman for the luxury brand. He also
declined to say how much Tokyo-based Honda has spent to promote
Acura models in the films.  “Acura will not be used in ‘Iron Man 3,’ but that should
in no way be a reflection of our relationship with Marvel,”
said Schifsky. “Our relationship with Marvel at this point is
unchanged.”  Electric R8  Acura is based in Torrance, California, the headquarters of
Honda’s U.S. sales division. Audi, based in Ingolstadt,  Germany ,
has said it’s preparing to sell the electric R8 that’s powered
by a 53 kWh lithium-ion battery pack.  “Audi’s a global brand that’s not reluctant to see
benefits beyond U.S. borders of getting its products into these
movies,” said Jim Sanfilippo, an independent automotive
marketing consultant who has worked with  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,
Hyundai Motor Co. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  “This is a smart,
opportunistic move for Audi.”  The base model of the R8  sports car  costs $114,200,
according to Audi’s website. The company hasn’t said how much it
will charge for the battery-powered R8 e-tron.  The Acura NSX featured in “The Avengers” goes on sale in
2015. Honda officials have said only that it will cost more than
$100,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  