-- Italy’s Rating Cut by Fitch as Vote Result May Deepen Slump
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-08T17:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/italy-s-rating-cut-by-fitch-as-election-result-may-deepen-slump.html
Italy ’s credit rating was cut one
level by Fitch Ratings as an inconclusive election in February
produced political paralysis that threatens the country’s
ability to respond to a recession and the European debt crisis.  The rating company lowered Italy’s government bond rating
to BBB+ from A- with a negative outlook, according to a
statement released today. That’s three levels above junk and one
higher than Spain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The increased political uncertainty and non-conducive
backdrop for further structural reform measures constitute a
further adverse shock to the real economy amidst the deep
recession.,” Fitch said. “The ongoing recession in Italy is
one of the deepest in  Europe .”  Outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti helped calm the
 European debt crisis  by taming Italy’s budget deficit and
implementing reforms aimed at shoring up the country’s finances.
Under Monti and prior to the election, Italy’s 10-year bond
yield had fallen by almost half from a euro-era record 7.5
percent in November 2011. Monti’s departure coupled with the
divided parliament produced by last month’s vote fueled concern
Italy may reignite the region’s debt crisis.  Italian government bond futures fell after the Fitch cut.
The contract maturing in June fell 0.3 percent to 108.84 at 5:15
p.m. London time. Italian 10-year bonds were little changed
today at 4.6 percent.  Dwindling Impact  Investors are paying less attention to the views of ratings
companies and relying more on their own analysis. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg published in December.  Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard & Poor’s. That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  Fitch also cited risks of “sustained deterioration in
fiscal funding conditions with adverse implications for
financial conditions for the private sector and public debt
dynamics.”  Italy’s long-term debt is rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors
and BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg  Bond Gains  Italian government bonds returned 20 percent last year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. That’s almost four
times the 5.9 percent return on Spanish debt and dwarfs the 4.5
percent return on German bunds, the indexes show.  Italy, bearer of the euro’s second-biggest debt relative to
gross domestic product, needs to sell more than 30 billion euros
of bonds and bills a month.  The Feb. 24-25 vote produced a split parliament, and sent
the country’s 10-year bond yield up 41 basis points the day
after the election, the biggest increase in 14 months.
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani and his allies failed
to win a majority in the Senate, leaving former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi and comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo with
blocking minorities.  Political Impasse  The political deadlock rattled markets as investors were
betting on a government strong enough to tackle the country’s
fourth recession since 2001, while maintaining fiscal rigor.  ECB President Mario Draghi said this week that the effect
of Italy’s vote on financial markets was limited as Monti’s
economic reforms will survive the political impasse. “After
some excitement after the elections, markets have now reverted
back more or less to where they were before,” Draghi told
reporters in  Frankfurt  yesterday. “Much of the fiscal
adjustment Italy went through will continue going on automatic
pilot.”  The euro region’s third-biggest economy shrank 2.4 percent
last year as the country’s budget deficit narrowed to match the
European Union limit of 3 percent.  Italy will probably contract again this year and
unemployment will continue rising to reach 12 percent next year,
European Commission forecasts released on Feb. 2 showed.  Fitch said today it expects Italy’s GDP to fall 1.8 percent
this year as public debt peaks at almost 130 percent, up from
127 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  