-- Italian Vote Is Wake-Up Call on Austerity, O’Neill, Roubini Say
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-08T11:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/italian-vote-is-wake-up-call-on-austerity-o-neill-roubini-say.html
The Italian election, in which anti-
austerity parties won more than half the vote, should convince
European authorities to reassess the restrictive economic
policies that could threaten the future of the euro, said
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said.  Italians are saying, “We’ve had enough of just pursing
austerity; we want reform of the political system and something
to give us some growth,” O’Neill said in an interview today
from Cernobbio, Italy. “For the third-largest economy in the
euro zone and one of the core, principal European countries to
say something like that, I think it’s an important thing.”  The popular backlash against austerity that is also
sweeping Greece,  Portugal  and  Spain  is threatening to upend the
political system in Italy after the Five-Star Movement of
comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo won a quarter of the
vote and a blocking minority in parliament. Grillo, who may play
a role in forming the next government, has called for a
referendum on Italy’s euro membership and debt repayment.  Speaking in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Mark
Barton , O’Neill said European policy makers need to acknowledge
the shift in sentiment and that the austerity policies may not
be the only model.  “What Europe needs is a whole different approach and
stronger leadership and bolder thinking on how to evolve,” he
said. “Otherwise Europe is going to have persistent problems
and become less and less important and the whole rationale for
the euro will cease to exist if they carry on like this for
another decade.”  Also speaking on Bloomberg Television,  Nouriel Roubini  said
the election results threaten to reignite the region’s debt
crisis and could undermine the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to
backstop the bonds of countries sticking to budget rigor.  “The Italian elections are a game changer because until
now the bargain was Italy and the periphery do austerity and
reforms and then the ECB and Germans are going to be patient and
provide liquidity,” Roubini said. “That political bargain is
now unraveling so I see stormy weather ahead in the euro zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  