-- Italy Spared Post-Vote Penalty by Hunger for Yield, Cannata Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-03-08T13:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/italy-spared-post-vote-penalty-by-hunger-for-yield-cannata-says.html
Italy  was spared a surge in
borrowing costs after inconclusive general elections last month
because money managers can’t afford to maintain the caution of
the last two years, Italian debt agency head Maria Cannata said.  “The market has not over shot or over reacted to, for
example, the uncertain political outcome of the Italian
election,” Cannata said in a panel discussion on sovereign debt
today in Vienna. “Now, after two years of investing massively
in a very low yield, this cannot continue for a long time
because there is no way with this investment policy to satisfy
the customer.”  Italian 10-year bond yields are approaching the biggest
decline since September even as the path to forming a government
remains unclear. Borrowing costs in Spain and  Portugal  have also
declined as yields in  Germany  rose. Cannata said obligations to
pensioners and insurance customers are pushing money managers to
seek greater returns.  Yields on Italy’s 10-year bonds fell 5 basis points to 4.54
percent at 2:25 p.m. in Rome, bringing the decline since March 1
to 25 basis points. That would be the biggest one-week slide
since the first week of September, when yields plunged 79 basis
points as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi announced
his plan for a sovereign-bond backstop program.  Italy is in political limbo as none of the candidates in
the four-way election Feb. 24-25 secured a parliamentary
majority, and negotiations for a post-vote coalition government
have so far been fruitless.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  