-- J&J Must Pay $8.3 Million Over Defective Hip, Jury Says
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-08T19:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/j-j-must-pay-8-3-million-in-suit-over-defective-hip-jury-says.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy unit
defectively designed a metal-on-metal hip implant and was
negligent, a California jury decided in the first of 10,750
lawsuits over the device to go to trial.  The Los Angeles jury awarded $8.3 million in compensatory
damages to Loren “Bill” Kransky, a retired prison guard from
 Montana , after finding that the design of the ASR XL hip caused
his injuries. Jurors also found DePuy properly warned of the
risks and didn’t owe punitive damages to punish the company.  J&J, the world’s  largest  seller of health-care products,
recalled 93,000 of the implants in August 2010, when it said 12
percent failed within five years. Last year, 44 percent failed
in  Australia  within seven years. Analysts say the lawsuits could
cost J&J billions of dollars to resolve.  “This is not an imperfect hip, this is a public health
disaster,” Kransky’s attorney Michael Kelly said in closing
arguments on Feb. 28 after a five-week trial. “Somebody needs
to tell them, ‘Don’t make Bill Kransky come to court. Build
these things right. Don’t let this happen again.’”  Patients such as Kransky, 65, complain in lawsuits of
dislocations, pain and follow-up surgeries known as revisions.
Kransky’s lawyers argued that DePuy failed to test the device
adequately before selling it in the U.S. in 2005, buried surgeon
complaints of mounting failures, and studied a redesign of the
ASR before scrapping that effort in 2008.  Punitive Damages  “I wanted punitive damages,” juror David Vega said after
the verdict. He cited evidence that DePuy took too long to
correct problems found with the device.  DePuy, a unit of New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J,
intends to appeal the jury’s decision on design defect, said
spokeswoman  Lorie Gawreluk .  “We believe ASR XL was properly designed, and that DePuy’s
actions concerning the product were appropriate and
responsible,” Gawreluk said in a statement. One reason for
appeal, she said, is jurors weren’t allowed to hear of the Food
and Drug Administration’s review and clearance of the device.  Kransky’s lawyer Brian Panish had asked for compensatory
damages of $5.3 million and punitive damages, indicating “fraud
or malice,” of as much as $179 million.  The verdict, which came on the sixth day of deliberations,
included $338,136 for Kransky’s medical expenses and $8 million
for his physical pain and emotional suffering.  The panel awarded no damages for negligence, saying it
didn’t cause injury to Kransky.  “This is the first day of reckoning for DePuy,” Panish
said after the verdict. “We’ve learned a lot from this trial.
We’ll get punitive damages in the next trial.”  ‘Starting Price’  The verdict will set a “starting price” for other
plaintiffs in settlement discussions, said  Erik Gordon , a
University of Michigan business professor.  “Most plaintiffs will get more sympathy from jurors than
Mr. Kransky elicited,” Gordon said in an e-mail. “A jury
somewhere is going to hit the company with huge punitive
damages to send a message that J&J refuses to hear.”  At trial, J&J’s attorneys emphasized the health problems of
Kransky, who had his ASR implanted in December 2007 and removed
in February 2012.  Kransky’s “diabetes, cancer, kidney disease, heart
disease, vascular disease and his many other health problems are
unrelated” to his hip, J&J’s attorney Michael Zellers said in
his summation. J&J lawyers said he was a vasculopath, which
means he has diseased blood vessels throughout his body.  Constant Pain  “The evidence is clear that Mr. Kransky’s injuries were
not caused by a defect in the ASR XL hip or by any conduct of
DePuy,” Zellers said. “This case is just about Mr. Kransky and
what caused his ASR XL to be replaced. It’s not a case about a
recall. It’s not about revision rates.”  Kransky testified that he dreaded the revision surgery he
had to remove his hip. Kransky said he was in constant pain,
couldn’t walk and believed debris from the chromium and cobalt
device was poisoning him.  “I didn’t want to have the hip done because I had 25
surgical procedures done prior to that,” Kransky told jurors.
“I thought that surgery was going to kill me. I thought I was
going to die.”  Kransky said he had no choice but to get the revision.  “I came to believe that I was going to have to do it
because I was told that something in my body was poisoning me,”
Kransky said. “I was told it could be the hip. I thought, ‘I’m
going to die either way.’ One way would be slow and one would be
fast. I took the lesser of two evils.”  Wheelchair ‘Humiliating’  Before then, he said, he experienced “a kind of stabbing
type of pain. It was debilitating. I couldn’t do anything,
couldn’t walk long distances.”  Kransky said he couldn’t rehabilitate properly after a
stroke, couldn’t use the bathroom freely, and couldn’t sleep at
night. He temporarily needed a wheelchair, which was
“humiliating.”  J&J faces its second trial over the ASR on March 11 in
state court in  Chicago . Carol Strum, a nurse from  Illinois , had
an ASR implanted on Jan. 29, 2008, and removed on Jan. 6, 2011.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  