-- Japan Returned to Growth in Fourth Quarter in Boost for Abe
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-03-08T02:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/japan-returned-to-growth-in-fourth-quarter-with-0-2-expansion.html
Japan  returned to growth in the
fourth quarter, bolstering Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
campaign to end 15 years of deflation and revive the world’s
third-biggest economy.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 0.2 percent in
the three months through December, the Cabinet Office said in
 Tokyo  today, compared with a preliminary calculation of a 0.4
percent contraction. The  current account deficit  in January was
364.8 billion yen ($3.8 billion), the  finance ministry  said in a
separate release.  Private consumption and public investment fueled the
nation’s growth, while a less-than-initially estimated fall in
capital spending suggests that a weakening yen may be easing
corporate pessimism. Exporters from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to
 Nintendo Co. (7974)  raised their profit forecasts as a yen that’s
slumped nearly 16 percent against the dollar since mid-November
boosts the value of overseas sales.  “Japan’s recession is over and the economy is heading to a
recovery,” said Koya Miyamae, an economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo who accurately predicted today’s GDP
result. “I expect the pace of growth to pick up in coming
quarters backed by  government spending , improving corporate
profits and the global recovery.”  The yen fell to a near 3 1/2-year low against the dollar,
as investors expect an improving labor market in the U.S. will
compel the  Federal Reserve  to slow stimulus even as Japan
pledges to extend easing policies. The currency was 0.4 percent
weaker at 95.23 per dollar at 11:34 a.m. in Tokyo.  Aggressive Easing  The 0.2 percent growth matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists. The better performance
may give a tailwind to  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor nominee Haruhiko Kuroda as he pledges more aggressive easing to revive growth.  “It’s a good time to be BOJ governor because Kuroda can
say Japan is making progress toward ending deflation when he
adds more stimulus,” said Miyamae of SMBC.  Capital spending  fell 1.5 percent on quarter, from a
preliminary estimate for a 2.6 percent decline, today’s data
showed. Private consumption rose 0.5 percent, from an initial
reading of a 0.4 percent increase. Public investment was revised
up to a 1.8 percent gain, from an initial 1.5 percent rise.  The economy will grow an annualized 2 percent this quarter,
according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Japan’s parliament last month passed a 13.1 trillion
yen supplementary budget to stimulate growth.  Trade Deficit  Net exports subtracted 0.2 percentage point from GDP
growth, unchanged from the initial estimate. Japan recorded a
 record trade deficit  in 2012 as exports fell and energy imports
costs remained high with almost all nuclear reactors closed
after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami disaster.  The current account  recorded  a third monthly deficit in
January after a 4.7 trillion yen surplus last year, the smallest
in comparable data that goes back to 1985.  “We expect the current account to continue deteriorating
as rapid population aging reduces saving rates and prompts the
country to draw down on its net foreign assets, Izumi Devalier,
a Japan economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong , said in a
research report this week. This ‘‘will have
significant ramifications for Japan’s ability to continue
funding its ballooning deficits domestically.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  