-- Japan to Retain Strong-Yen Loan Facility Even as Currency Slides
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-08T05:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/japan-to-retain-strong-yen-loan-facility-even-as-currency-slides.html
The Japanese government will make
permanent a dollar-loan program set up in 2011 to help companies
take advantage of a strong yen, as it aims to maintain a record
wave of overseas mergers and acquisitions.  The  Finance Ministry  will abolish the facility’s 10
trillion yen ($105 billion) limit on lending, it said in a
statement today. The program was established by the ministry in
August 2011 for one year and extended last year,  “The foreign exchange situation has drastically changed,
but assisting Japanese firms’ overseas business development is a
key pillar” of the government’s growth strategy,  Finance
Minister Taro Aso told reporters today.  After hitting a record high in October 2011, the yen has
weakened more than 16 percent against the dollar since mid-
November as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushes for aggressive
monetary policies to end deflation. Companies from Softbank
Corp. to advertising agency Dentsu Inc. stand to reap higher
earnings from abroad after taking part in the nation’s record
$113 billion of overseas acquisitions last year.  The currency was 0.6 percent weaker at 95.43 as of 2:15
p.m. in  Tokyo  after reaching 95.45, the lowest since 2009.  The program will be renamed ‘The Lending Facility to
Support Overseas Development’ from April 1, the ministry said.
Loans can finance the building of factories overseas, as well as
infrastructure projects, securing natural resource rights and
other uses, the ministry said.  Managed by the state-run  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , the program uses dollars from the country’s
foreign-exchange reserves as well as JBIC’s own funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  