-- Treasury Yields Jump With Dollar on Jobs as Stocks Gain
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   S a r a h   P r i n g l e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-08T22:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/japan-stocks-advance-on-gdp-report-as-platinum-rises-won-falls.html
Treasury yields jumped to 11-month
highs and the dollar strengthened as faster-than-forecast growth
in American jobs bolstered optimism in the world’s largest
economy. U.S.  stocks  gained, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to within 1 percent of its 2007 record.  Ten-year note yields added five basis points to 2.05
percent and touched 2.08 percent, the most since April. The
 Dollar Index  climbed to the strongest level since August as the
yen dropped to its weakest since 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,551.18. Cocoa, gasoline, corn and
natural gas jumped more than 1 percent to lead commodity gains.
Orange juice surged the most in 14 months on supply concerns.  Treasury yields and the dollar extended gains as government
data showed the  U.S. economy  created 236,000 jobs in February,
while the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly slipped to to a four-
year low of 7.7 percent. Federal Reserve policy makers at their
last meeting debated curtailing bond-buying that is seen as
debasing the dollar, a move Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has opposed
as he seeks to drive down unemployment at 6.5 percent.  “A lot of folks in the market are talking about how long
the Fed will continue to keep the incredibly accommodative
stance of monetary policy,” Hayley R. Boesky, vice chairman of
global markets at Bank of America Corp., said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program with  Erik
Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhl. “While this number will be
encouraging for the Fed, it’s not enough to change anything. We
need to see several more months of data like this and also have
an outlook that would see substantial improvement.”  Yields Increase  Thirty-year bond rates added four basis points to 3.25
percent, climbing for a fifth day and reaching an 11-month high.
The gap between yields on two- and 10-year notes widened to as
much as 1.82 percentage points, the most since April 2012.  The dollar strengthened against 12 of 16 major peers,
surging 1.3 percent to 96.04 yen and adding 0.8 percent to
$1.3002 per euro, near its strongest level of the year.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, said gross domestic product in
the U.S. may expand 3 percent this year, an increase from his
firm’s most recent growth estimate of less than 2 percent.  The U.S. is “moving towards a 3 percent real GDP growth
rate” this year, and a nominal growth rate of 5 percent, Gross
said today in an interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance”. Pimco said in December that the U.S. would grow
between 1.25 percent and 1.75 percent in 2013.  Market Movers  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  reached a record for a
fourth consecutive day, climbing 0.5 percent to 14,397.07.
McDonald’s Corp., Walt Disney Co. and Home Depot Inc. climbed
more than 1.5 percent to lead the 30-stock gauge’s advance
today. Pandora Media Inc. surged 18 percent today after the
Internet radio service posted a fourth-quarter loss that was
smaller than analysts forecast and said  Joe Kennedy  has resigned
as chairman and chief executive officer after nine years at the
helm.  Citigroup Inc. added 3.7 percent as it sought permission to
buy back shares. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lost 2.3 percent for
the second-biggest drop in the  S&P 500  after lagging behind
peers in a measure of capital strength used by regulators.  The S&P 500 may climb to 1,600 this year as more stocks
participate in the market rally, Bank of America Corp.’s Mary
Ann Bartels said. That would represent a 3.1 percent gain from
today’s closing level and surpass its record of 1,565.15 reached
in October 2007. The index may drop as much as 10 to 15 percent
after it rallied this year without a retreat of more than 3
percent, and investors should take advantage of any pullback to
buy equities, Bartels said in a Bloomberg Radio interview with
 Carol Massar .  ‘Core Assets’  Investors should favor U.S. equities over European or
emerging-market shares, according to Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani,
chief investment officer for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private
wealth-management unit. She said she’s bullish on  bank shares 
because they are cheap even after rallying this year. The  S&P
500 Banks Index (S5BANKX)  trades for about 11 times reported earnings,
compared with 15.3 for the U.S. equity benchmark, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “U.S. equities, in the long-run, are the place where
clients should have their core assets, relative to Europe or
 emerging markets ,” Mossavar-Rahmani said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index extended its five-day rally to
2.3 percent, its biggest weekly advance in two months. A gauge
of lenders contributed the most to the  equity benchmark ’s
advance today as DNB ASA, Norway’s largest bank, jumped 4.5
percent after increasing its lending rates. The Norwegian
government has proposed stricter rules for lenders to cool down
the housing market.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  added 3.9 percent
after UBS AG recommended buying the shares.  European Movers  Lagardere SCA rallied 4.8 percent after the publisher of
Paris Match magazine returned to profit in 2012. Fugro NV surged
14 percent, the biggest advance in the Stoxx Europe 600, after
the oilfield surveyor announced net income for 2012 that
exceeded analysts’ estimates and a bigger dividend than
expected.  Spanish 10-year yields dropped 13 basis points to 4.76
percent, falling for an eight straight day and reaching the
lowest level since November 2010, as a report showed industrial
production shrank less than economists forecast and added to
signs Europe’s economy is stabilizing.  Italian 10-year rates erased earlier declines to trade
little changed at 4.6 percent. After European markets closed,
 Fitch Ratings  downgraded Italy by one level to BBB+ with a
negative outlook, citing inconclusive election results.  Yen Weakens  The yen weakened against 15 of its 16 major peers after
Japan’s Ministry of Finance said the deficit in the current
account, the widest measure of trade, increased to 364.8 billion
yen ($3.8 billion) in January, from 264.1 billion yen in
December.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rallied 2.6 percent, closing
above the level before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in 2008. Another report showed Japan’s economy grew
at an annual rate of 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, compared
with a preliminary calculation of a 0.4 percent contraction.
China’s exports in February beat economists’ estimates, while
imports plunged.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.8 percent as
benchmark gauges in India, the  Czech Republic  and Turkey jumped
more than 1 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa slipped 0.7 percent after
jumping 5.2 percent in the previous two sessions, the biggest
rally since July.  The S&P GSCI index added 0.3 percent as 13 of 24
commodities advanced.  Orange-juice  futures jumped the most in 14
months after the U.S. government cut its forecast of the crop in
Florida, the world’s second-largest citrus grower. Juice for May
delivery rose 6.9 percent to settle at $1.3315 a pound in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  