-- Japan’s Nakao Defends Easing as China’s Chen Expresses Concern
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-08T09:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/japan-s-nakao-defends-easing-as-china-s-chen-expresses-concern.html
Japan’s top currency official
Takehiko Nakao played down the negative effects of developed
economies’ monetary easing on emerging nations, as Chinese
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  expressed concern.  “Even if there is some inflow of money because of monetary
expansion,  developing countries  and emerging economies had been
suffering from deleveraging by banks,” Nakao, 57, said in an
interview in  Tokyo  today. “So it’s good if there is some new
flow to developing countries.”  Speaking in Beijing, Chen said quantitative easing by
Japan, the U.S. and Europe “shouldn’t spill over and affect
other nations,” adding to expressions of concerns from emerging
nations facing capital inflows and inflation and asset-bubble
risks. He said he was worried about inflation and an
“oversupply of money.”  Japanese officials are defending currency declines and
monetary easing as part of the cost of reviving the nation’s
economy, saying that benefits will ultimately flow to the rest
of the world. The yen fell to a more than 3 1/2-year low today
against the dollar, as investors expect an improving labor
market in the U.S. to compel the  Federal Reserve  to slow
stimulus even as Japan eases.  “The inflow of capital to emerging economies and
developing countries due to expansion monetary policies in
advanced economies is not as much as people say,” saidNakao,
Japan’s vice finance minister for international affairs and the
nation’s nominee to head the  Asian Development Bank . He was
echoing the International Monetary Fund’s view.  Asian Supporters  The  Philippines  supports Japan’s nomination of Nakao for
the ADB presidency, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said today
in a statement. India also plans to support Japan’s nomination,
according to an Indian government official with direct knowledge
of the country’s position who asked not to be named per ministry
policy.  Treasury Department spokeswoman Holly Shulman declined to
comment on the U.S. position on Japan’s nomination.  While the yen’s slide of about 16 percent since mid-
November has spurred some criticism, Nakao defended  Bank of
Japan (8301)  easing, saying it isn’t aimed at weakening the currency.  “Japanese policies are oriented toward the domestic market
with the objective of getting out of deflation and strengthening
growth,” he said.  The currency was 0.8 percent weaker at 95.57 per dollar as
of 6:21 p.m. in Tokyo after touching 95.61, the lowest since
August 2009.  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
this week said Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had
“politicized” the Bank of Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  