-- JPMorgan Downgrades Emerging Dollar Debt as Yields Fall
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-03-08T17:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/jpmorgan-downgrades-emerging-dollar-debt-as-yields-fall.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  cut its
recommendation on emerging market dollar-denominated  government
bonds  to neutral, as investors withdraw funds and falling yields
limit returns.  JPMorgan downgraded the debt from overweight, analysts led
by Joyce Chang wrote in a report dated yesterday. The New York-
based bank kept a buy recommendation on local-currency bonds in
developing nations and advised clients to maintain bets on gains
in emerging-market currencies, including the South Korean won,
the  Indian rupee  and South African rand.  Funds focused on emerging-market dollar debt experienced
outflows in three of the past five weeks, a scenario last seen
in May, according to the JPMorgan report. The bank’s EMBI Global
Index of developing-country dollar notes has dropped 1.7 percent
this year, as yields fell to a record-low 4.4 percent in
January, cutting their advantage over  U.S. Treasuries .  “We believe the market may be due for some consolidation,
with the most crowded positions appearing more vulnerable,” the
analysts wrote. “Return opportunities for investment-grade
emerging-market sovereign debt are more limited.”  Investors in  emerging markets  will continue to shift funds
out of sovereign dollar debt and into local-currency and
corporate bonds because of the higher returns, the analysts
said. Emerging dollar debt  yielded  4.84 percent yesterday,
compared with 5.51 percent on  local-currency notes  and the 4.58
percent  yield  for corporate bonds, according to JPMorgan’s
indexes.  A JPMorgan survey last month showed investors reduced
holdings of emerging-market government debt to the lowest level
since October 2008 as rising U.S. Treasury yields eroded the
allure of the assets.  Venezuelan Debt  Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries touched 2.08 percent
today, the highest level since April 2012 based on closing
prices, after a government report showed U.S. employers added
more jobs than forecast and the  unemployment rate  in the world’s
largest economy unexpectedly fell to four-year low.  JPMorgan recommends investors retain an overweight position
in  Venezuelan bonds , as the yields, currently at 9.67 percent,
are high enough to compensate investors amid uncertainty over
the political climate following President  Hugo Chavez ’s death
this week.  Investors should be underweight Argentinean debt, JPMorgan
says, citing legal risks as the government fights a group of
bondholders demanding payments on securities related to the
nation’s 2001 default in a U.S. court. High-yielding corporate
bonds from companies including Petroleos de Venezuela SA and
 Mexico ’s  Cemex SAB de CV (CEMEXCPO) , as well as Russian financial companies
will probably gain, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  