-- Kenyan Shilling, Stocks Gain as Presidential Vote Result Nears
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-03-08T08:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/kenyan-shilling-stocks-gain-as-presidential-vote-result-nears.html
Kenyan shares surged to a record and
the shilling gained against the dollar for a second day as
investors bet the outcome of a March 4 presidential election
will be peaceful.  The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s  All Share Index (NSEASI)  advanced
for an eighth day after gaining 5.1 percent since Feb. 26 to
110.30 at yesterday’s close, the highest level since at least
June 2009. The shilling climbed 0.3 percent to trade at 85.98
per dollar by 10:34 a.m. in the capital, Nairobi.  “It is looking peaceful and the market is hoping that in
case anyone has an issue they will take it to court and not to
the streets.” Julius Kiriinya, a trader at Nairobi-based
African Banking Corp., said by phone. “On that basis the
shillings should strengthen.”  Results from the presidential vote, the first since a
disputed election five years ago triggered violence that killed
more than 1,100 people, may be announced today, according to the
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Deputy Prime
Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, facing charges of crimes against
humanity at the  International Criminal Court , is leading with
49.6 percent of total ballots counted in 213 out of 290
constituencies. His opponent, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , has
43.3 percent. To win, they need more than 50 percent.  The Nairobi bourse’s All Share index is sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s second-best performer this year, after Ghana.  “The stock market is looking through the near-term
political noise and is taking comfort from the large voter
turnout we saw and the fact that the events that happened in
2007-08 are not repeatable,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , chief executive
officer of Nairobi-based investment company Rich Management
Ltd., said by phone. “The stock market will prefer a clear
winner in the first round and I think the ICC issue is
overblown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 