-- Kenya’s Kenyatta Leads Election, Hovers Near Runoff Cutoff
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-03-08T15:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/kenya-s-kenyatta-holds-lead-in-elections-as-final-result-nears.html
Uhuru Kenyatta, who is facing
charges of crimes against humanity, kept a lead in  Kenya ’s
presidential election that may not be enough to avoid a runoff
against Prime Minister  Raila Odinga .  Kenyatta has 50 percent of the total votes cast, while
Odinga has 43.8 percent with more than three-quarters of the
ballots counted, according to the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission. The candidates need more than 50 percent
of the total to avoid a runoff. Final results may be announced
today, according to the commission.  The shilling gained for a second day, advancing less than
0.1 percent to 86.20 per dollar. The election is the first since
a disputed presidential ballot in 2007 triggered violence that
killed more than 1,100 people and forced 350,000 more to flee
their homes. The country is a regional hub for companies
including Google Inc.,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , and  Visa Inc. (V)   “It is looking peaceful and the market is hoping that in
case anyone has an issue they will take it to court and not to
the streets,” Julius Kiriinya, a trader at Nairobi-based
African Banking Corp., said by phone. “On that basis the
shilling should strengthen.”  The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s  All Share Index (NSEASI)  advanced
for an eighth day, extending the All Share Index’s advance to 7
percent over that period and to 18 percent so far this year, the
second-best performance in sub-Saharan  Africa , after Ghana.  Technical Glitches  A series of technical faults led to delays in the counting
in an election the  African Union  said was credible and
transparent in spite of the hitches. Machines used to identify
voters by fingerprint failed in many polling stations on
election day, forcing authorities to use paper voting registers.  A new electronic transmission system to relay provisional
results from polling stations to the national tally center also
broke down. The commission then opted to manually count hand-
delivered ballots from the constituencies, which is required by
law for the final results.  If no presidential candidate secures the required majority
and more than 25 percent of ballots cast in 24 of 47 counties, a
runoff must be held within 30 days of the first round.  The Kenyan High Court today dismissed a suit by The  African
Centre for Open Governance  seeking an order halting the vote
count. The  Supreme Court  has exclusive jurisdiction to rule on
matters involving a presidential election, Judge David Majanja
said while delivering the ruling of a three-judge panel.  Case Dismissed  The group filed its case after saying it found the number
of votes in 11 constituencies exceeded the total registered
voters, Haron Ndubi, a lawyer for the Nairobi-based group, told
reporters today.  Kenyatta is accused by the  International Criminal Court  of
crimes against humanity for his role in organizing clashes after
the 2007 election, a charge he denies. The Hague-based court
yesterday postponed the starting date of his trial by three
months to July 9, and today delayed the trial of his running
mate  William Ruto ’s case until May 28.  Kenyatta and Odinga have similar plans for the $34 billion
economy. They both promise to boost investment in expanding
infrastructure and bolstering agricultural output to help grow
the economy and create a million new jobs annually.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  