-- Kerry Briefed on U.S. Researcher’s Singapore Death, Family Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-03-08T06:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/kerry-briefed-on-u-s-researcher-s-singapore-death-family-says.html
A probe into the death of an
American research engineer in Singapore was discussed at a
meeting between U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Democrat
Senator  Max Baucus  of  Montana , the family of the deceased said.  Rick Todd said the family disputed the Singapore police’s
conclusion that his son, Shane Todd, had committed suicide and
they were seeking further investigation into his death. They
raised the issue to Baucus, who this week also met with the
Singapore ambassador to the U.S.  Kerry “has been fully briefed on what’s going on” in the
meeting with Baucus, Todd said in a phone interview from
Montana. Eric Watnik, a U.S. embassy spokesman in Singapore,
said today that a meeting between Kerry and Baucus was scheduled
yesterday, without elaborating.  Todd’s son had worked at the Institute of Microelectronics
in Singapore, a unit of Singapore’s state-run Agency for
Science, Technology and Research. His death may be tied to one
of the company’s projects, Todd said. The institute said this
week it has cooperated fully with the police.  The Singapore police sought assistance from the U.S.
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation in a probe into the death,
asking the family to share any related evidence in their
possession with the FBI if they are not comfortable with
Singapore investigators, it said March 4.  Todd said the  police  have requested an external hard drive
they took from his son’s apartment and a 2002 psychological
report done in college, when he was “burning the candle at both
ends.” The family have been in contact with the FBI and won’t
hand over the two items until the U.S. investigators are allowed
to join the probe in Singapore.  Limited Probe  “We’re not willing to participate in it because the
Singapore police have limited the scope of their
investigation,” Todd said. “We’re more than willing to hand
anything over to the FBI if they request but it has to be with
the full involvement of the FBI.”  Mary Todd, Rick Todd’s wife, said in an e-mail late
yesterday that the hard drive was initially sent to the U.S.
embassy. The family encouraged the embassy to share it with the
police, with the condition that the FBI is invited to fully join
the probe, she said, before taking back the drive.  Baucus said March 6 he is “nowhere close” to resolving
his questions about the death of Todd’s son in  Singapore .  The Singapore police declined further comment today beyond
its March 4 statement. The U.S. embassy also said this week that
the FBI will comply with the police’s request for its help in
the U.S.  Todd’s son, who was 31 when he died, was last seen on the
evening of June 22 and was found hanging in his apartment two
days later, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  