-- Korean-American Bank Hanmi’s Talks With Rivals Said to Stall
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/korean-american-bank-hanmi-s-talks-with-rivals-said-to-stall-1-.html
Hanmi Financial Corp. (HAFC) ’s talks with
rivals about a possible sale have stalled because of
disagreements over price and management, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Hanmi, the second-largest  U.S. bank  that caters to Korean-
Americans, had attracted interest from  Wilshire Bancorp Inc. (WIBC)  and
 BBCN Bancorp Inc. (BBCN) , said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. Wilshire and BBCN are both based
in Los Angeles, as is Hanmi, and target Korean-American
customers.  Discussions between Hanmi and both banks broke down because
they couldn’t agree on how much Hanmi is worth and who would run
the bank, said one of the people. In addition, some Hanmi board
members are reluctant to sell, the person said.  Hanmi’s shares have risen more than 9 percent since Jan. 9,
when  Bloomberg News  reported that the bank had hired DelMorgan &
Co. to advise on a possible sale. The stock increased less than
1 percent yesterday to $16.69 at the close in New York, for a
market value of about $526 million.  Jason Booth , a spokesman for Hanmi at Sitrick and Co., and
Angie Yang, a spokeswoman for BBCN, declined to comment. Rob
Delgado, co-founder and chairman of DelMorgan, and Alex Ko,
Wilshire’s chief financial officer, didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment.  Hanmi is still working with DelMorgan to explore options,
such as buying other banks, remaining independent or considering
offers from other suitors, including revised offers from
Wilshire or BBCN, one person said.  Hanmi had about $2.9 billion in assets and 27 branches at
the end of last year. BBCN, with $5.8 billion in assets, is the
largest Korean-American-focused bank, according to SNL
Financial, a bank-research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Wilshire is the third-largest with assets of $2.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  