-- Krueger Says Jobs Growth Tempered by Automatic Budget Cuts
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-08T15:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/krueger-says-u-s-jobs-growth-tempered-by-automatic-budget-cuts.html
Alan Krueger, chairman of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers, said U.S. employment is
improving though gains may be limited by budget cuts.  “Today’s numbers show that the recovery is gaining
traction,” Krueger said today on Bloomberg Television. “What
we should do is do everything we can to continue the recovery.”  Payrolls rose 236,000 in February, more than expected, the
Labor Department reported today in Washington. The  unemployment
rate  unexpectedly fell to a four-year low of 7.7 percent,
suggesting that U.S. employers were undaunted by the budget
impasse between Congress and the White House.  The Obama administration’s chief economist said he was
concerned about $85 billion in budget cuts, known as
sequestration, which took effect March 1, and the $1.2 trillion
more in cuts over the next nine years.  “The sequestration’s going to make some important cuts,
which are going to hurt people, it’s going to hurt investment,
and it’s going to slow economic growth and  job creation ,”
Krueger said.  Leaving the cuts in place would shave U.S. economic growth
and cost 750,000 jobs by the fourth quarter, the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office  has said.  “That seems to me to be quite a reasonable estimate,”
Krueger said in the interview.  Obama’s View  President  Barack Obama  says he wants to replace the budget
cuts with a longer-term fiscal program of revenue increases and
more targeted spending cuts. He has begun talking with some
Republican senators.  Obama has planned a series of appearances on  Capitol Hill 
next week with lawmakers in both parties to forge an agreement.  The sequester is “bad policy; it is indiscriminate cuts”
that don’t “address our long-term deficit problems, and it’s
going to hurt the economy over the coming months,” Krueger
said.  U.S. stocks pared early gains that sent the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to within 1 percent of its record as faster-
than-forecast growth in payrolls jobs speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will curtail its stimulus efforts.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.1 percent at
1,545.41 at 10:06 a.m. in  New York  after rising as much as 0.5
percent to 1,551.65 earlier.  Construction Jobs  Hiring in construction jumped by the most in almost six
years. Payrolls also climbed at retailers, and professional and
business services such as temporary help firms.  The Labor Department report showed that jobs in
professional and business services rose 73,000, construction
jobs climbed by 48,000, health care jobs gained 32,000, leisure
and hospitality employment rose by 24,000, and retail trade jobs
increased by 23,700.  Manufacturing jobs rose by 14,000. The sector has added
more than 500,000 jobs over the last 37 months, the most for any
period since 1986, Krueger said in a statement issued by the
White House.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said “any job creation is
positive news,” yet unemployment is “still way above levels”
that White House projected when the $831 billion stimulus
program was enacted.  Boehner said  House Republicans  next week will consider a
budget resolution that has a goal of balancing the budget in a
decade and “one focused more on economic growth and more
jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  