-- Nationstar Ordered to Stop Auctioning Some Loans
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-08T21:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/nationstar-ordered-to-stop-auctioning-some-loans.html
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) ,
the mortgage servicer that collects payments on more than
$300 billion of debt, was ordered to stop auctioning some home
loans backing mortgage securities after an investor sued.  KIRP LLC sued Lewisville, Texas-based Nationstar in New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  yesterday, accusing the
company of harming investors by auctioning the loans and
abdicating its responsibilities as servicer. KIRP, based in New
York, described itself as a “significant” investor in six
residential mortgage-backed security trusts sponsored by
Residential Accredit Loans Inc.  Justice Eileen Bransten yesterday granted KIRP’s request
for a temporary restraining order blocking Nationstar from
selling through auction.com or similar websites “non-performing
mortgage notes” that collateralize certificates issued by the
six trusts. The judge scheduled an April 9 hearing on KIRP’s
request for a preliminary injunction.  John Sullivan , a spokesman for Nationstar at RLM Finsbury,
didn’t immediately return a telephone message today seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  Nationstar, which is majority-owned by Fortress Investment
Group LLC, increased its servicing portfolio by 94 percent last
year to $198 billion through a series of asset purchases from
sellers including a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Nationstar’s portfolio rose to more than $300 billion last
month after it completed part of a deal for $215 billion of
contracts from Bank of America Corp., according to a statement
yesterday reporting earnings.  The case is KIRP LLC v. Nationstar Mortgage LLC, 650794-
2013, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  