-- Natural Gas May Drop as Milder Weather Reduces Heating Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-03-08T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/natural-gas-may-drop-as-milder-weather-reduces-heating-demand.html
Natural gas futures may drop next
week as a U.S. cold snap gives way to milder weather and higher
prices make it a less attractive fuel for some electricity
generators, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Eight of 14 analysts, or 57 percent, forecast that gas
futures will decline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
March 15. Four, or 29 percent, said futures will rise and two
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 55 percent
of participants said  gas prices  would advance this week.  Temperatures will be above normal across the West next week
and seasonal in most of the central states, though the East may
see unusually cold weather, according to MDA Weather Services.
Gas futures rose to $3.603 per million British thermal units
during trading yesterday, a price high enough to prompt some
power producers to burn coal instead, said Aaron Calder, senior
market analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston.  “The forecasts have tempered a little bit,” Calder said.
“Fuel switching is the main driver in this market. We saw some
pretty strong resistance at $3.60.”  Natural gas futures so far this week have climbed 12.6
cents, or 3.6 percent, settling at $3.582 per million Btu
yesterday in New York, headed for a third consecutive weekly
gain. Prices are up 6.9 percent this year.  Chicago Weather  The low temperature in  Chicago  on March 14 will be 34
degrees Fahrenheit (1 Celsius) and  Dallas  may be 52 degrees, 4
above normal for both cities, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania .  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to data from the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical division.  Gas stockpiles  fell by 146 billion cubic feet to 2.083
trillion in the week ended March 1, above the five-year average
drop of 107 billion for the period, an EIA report yesterday
showed.  Analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg showed a decline
of 132 billion.  A  supply surplus  to the five-year average narrowed to 14.8
percent from 16 percent the previous week.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      8      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  