-- New York to Vote Against Re-Election of Two HP Directors
-- B y   R e e d   S t e v e n s o n
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/new-york-to-vote-against-re-election-of-two-hp-directors.html
New York City Pension Funds added
pressure on  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to replace some directors,
saying it will vote against the reappointment of John Hammergren
and G. Kennedy Thompson for “failing to protect investors from
costly, misguided acquisitions.”  As members of the board’s finance and investment committee,
the two directors are responsible for “oversight failures,”
which contributed to an $8.8 billion writedown in November
related to the personal-computer maker’s purchase of Autonomy
Corp. due to accounting improprieties,  John Liu , New York City
Comptroller, said in a statement yesterday.  Meg Whitman , Hewlett-Packard’s fourth chief executive
officer in three years, is attempting to revive growth and win
back investor confidence after six quarters of  declining  sales
and profit and management missteps. The Autonomy writedown
followed an announcement in August of a $9.2 billion charge,
largely tied to its purchase of Electronic Data Systems Corp.  “The Autonomy debacle is the latest and most expensive in
a series of ill-advised acquisitions and boardroom fiascos that
have destroyed tens of billions of dollars in shareowner
value,” Liu said in the statement. “While the board now
appears to be taking steps to improve oversight, it will be
unable to restore investor confidence without swiftly replacing
these two directors.”  Board Scrutiny  This week, proxy advisers Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. and Glass Lewis & Co. also urged investors to
block Hammergren and Thompson’s re-election at Hewlett-Packard’s
annual meeting, set for March 20.  Hammergren, chairman of the board’s finance committee, has
been a director since 2005 and is also CEO at  McKesson Corp. (MCK) 
Thompson, a director since 2006, heads the  audit committee .  “The board fully supports the election of each of the
director nominees named in the proxy statement,” said Howard Clabo, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-
Packard.  Hewlett-Packard  shares  have declined 14 percent in the past
year, compared with a 15 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The stock rose less than 1 percent to $21 in New York
yesterday.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reed Stevenson in  San Francisco  at 
 rstevenson15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  