-- New World Development Plans Listing of Hospitality Assets
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-03-08T05:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/new-world-development-plans-listing-of-hospitality-assets-1-.html
New World Development Co. (17) , the Hong
Kong builder controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , said it’s
considering listing some of its hospitality assets.  The company, with stakes in 16 hotels in Hong Kong,  China ,
and  Southeast Asia , hasn’t decided on the timing and assets to
be spun off, New World said today in a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange.  Rising income and the expanding middle class in China are
fueling a tourism boom within the region, benefiting hotel
operators including  Mandarin Oriental International Ltd. (MAND)  Hong
Kong, where New World owns hotels including the Grand Hyatt and
Hyatt Regency, is a favorite destination for Chinese tourists
shopping for luxury handbags and jewelery.  “Hotels are getting good valuation because of the booming
tourism,” said Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Citic
Securities Co. “There’re still a lot of details we need to know
about this deal, such as which assets would be spun off, and
whether they’ll be listed as a company” or a real estate
investment trust, he said.  Hotels and restaurants brought in revenue of about HK$3.6
billion ($465 million) in the six months ended Dec. 31,
accounting for 11 percent of New World’s sales, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  New World was the best performer in the nine-member Hang
Seng Property Index last year after its share price almost
doubled. The stock fell 0.4 percent to HK$14.10 as of 1:14 p.m.  Cheng, 87, last year stepped down as the company’s chairman
and was replaced by son Henry Cheng. He’s ranked 36 in the
Bloomberg Billionaire Index with an estimated net worth of $19.8
billion  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  