-- News Corp. Spinoff Starts With $2.6 Billion in Cash
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-03-08T21:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/news-corp-publishing-starts-with-2-6-billion-cash.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s publishing spinoff will
be armed with $2.6 billion in cash and no debt, demonstrating
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s passion for print even as the new
company confronts an industry in decline.  The cash pile could come in handy for acquisitions or just
to shore up the publishing business, which includes the Wall
Street Journal in the U.S. and the Sun newspaper in the U.K. The
unit, which will become a separate publicly held business in
June, will also have access to a revolving  credit line , New
York-based News Corp. said today in a filing.  Rupert Murdoch, News Corp.’s founder and chief executive
officer, is breaking off the division from the company’s
entertainment operations, which will be called Fox Group Inc.
News Corp. agreed to the spinoff last year, bowing to pressure
from shareholders who wanted the company to focus on its more
valuable television and film businesses.  News Corp. rose 2.1 percent to $30.57 at the close in  New
York . The stock has increased 20 percent this year, compared
with an 8.8 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The publishing spinoff will have $18.6 billion in total
assets. Its debt-free balance sheet puts it far ahead of
publishers such as  New York Times Co. (NYT) , with $163 million in net
debt; Gannett Co., with $1.26 billion; and McClatchy Co., with
$1.78 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parent’s Cash  The parent company will give $1.82 billion in cash to the
new publishing business, pushing its total to $2.6 billion,
according to today’s filing.  Murdoch also continues to bet on growth in the television
business. News Corp. this year raised its stake in pay-TV
provider  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  to 54.5 percent from 49.9 percent.
Today, the German company proposed naming  James Murdoch  -- News
Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer and Rupert’s son -- to
its supervisory board during its April 18 annual shareholder
meeting.  The new publishing company reported a pro forma net loss of
$1.89 billion in the fiscal year that ended on June 30, with
sales of $9.14 billion. The loss included $2.6 billion in
writedowns, mostly reductions in the value of newspapers,
highlighting the challenges facing Robert Thomson, who will
become chief executive officer of the new company after serving
as managing editor of the Wall Street Journal.  More Acquisitions?  Still, Murdoch’s fondness for newspapers has him
considering more acquisitions, including the Los Angeles Times,
according to two people familiar with the company’s plans.
Tribune Co., which owns the Times as well as seven other
dailies, would prefer selling its newspaper group in a single
transaction, these people said in March.  In addition to his newspapers, Murdoch’s new publishing
company will also include book publisher HarperCollins;
education business Amplify, led by former New York City Schools
Chancellor  Joel Klein ; and the Australian television assets.  Assuming the New York-based company doesn’t face
significant further costs from a U.K. hacking scandal, the
publishing spinoff could maintain little-changed to slightly
rising earnings in the coming year, leaving out interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, said Brett Harriss, a media
analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  “They’ll still be cash-flow positive,” Harriss said in a
December interview. “And it’s not a surprise how much they lost
from hacking.”  The company closed its News of the World newspaper in July
2011 in response to public anger over revelations that
journalists accessed messages on the mobile phone of murdered
schoolgirl  Milly Dowler .  The company has so far spent more than $347 million in
legal fees and restructuring, mostly stemming from the closing
of News of the World.  Thomson, 51, began working as CEO in January, and stands to
make as much as $4 million in the new job, with $2 million in
salary and the remainder coming from incentives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  