-- Nigerian Lawmakers Reveal Regional Divide in Oil-Bill Debate
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-03-08T12:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/nigerian-lawmakers-reveal-regional-divide-in-oil-bill-debate.html
Nigerian lawmakers split along
regional lines as they began debating a proposed law to reform
regulation and funding of  Africa ’s biggest oil industry.  A plan in the bill to set aside 10 percent of profits from
 oil companies ’ operations in Nigeria for communities in the
southern Niger River delta, home to the country’s oil industry,
was opposed by senators from the north, who argued that oil-rich
states were already getting too much federal revenue. Southern
senators backed the plan.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, relies on oil for 80 percent of government
revenue and 95 percent of foreign income. The West African
country is almost evenly split between a largely Muslim north
and a predominantly Christian south.  “If you take Bayelsa state, its oil revenue is equivalent
to the whole of the northeast and you’re now asking for an
additional 10 percent,” Kabiru Gaya, a senator of the ruling
People’s  Democratic Party  from northern Kano state said during
the debate yesterday. “That is too much.” Bayelsa is one of
nine states in the oil-rich delta. Gaya was supported by 10
other lawmakers from the north.  Senator Ita Enang, representing the PDP from southeastern
Akwa Ibom state, countered that 83 percent of oil licenses in
the country are held by northerners, saying that one licensee
from the northeast is richer than the entire region.  “The holders of these oil blocks have become so rich and
the whole country is poorer for it. We should revoke them and
reallocate them because it’s the wealth of the nation,” Enang
said to cheers from southern lawmakers. Nine other senators from
the south spoke in his support.  The Petroleum Industry Bill, first sent to the National
Assembly in 2008, didn’t become law during the tenure of a
previous legislature and was reintroduced by President Goodluck Jonathan in July. Fiscal provisions in the bill seek to raise
Nigeria’s share of revenue to 73 percent from 61 percent,
Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said on Sept. 28.  The debate is being “politicized” while the “economics
are subtly being overlooked,” Dolapo Oni, a Lagos-based oil and
gas analyst at Ecobank Research, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. Lawmakers should focus more attention on
the concerns expressed by oil companies about taxes and the
profitability of investments in Nigeria, he said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent
of the country’s oil.  Companies including Shell and Exxon Mobil have criticized
the fiscal terms, including tax and royalties, as likely to make
investment in offshore  oil fields  unprofitable. Most have held
back on funding more exploration, while Shell and  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
have sold some of their onshore assets to Nigerian companies.  At the end of three days of debate yesterday, the lawmakers
referred the bill to five committees including those for oil,
gas, judiciary and petroleum upstream and downstream for their
input. After that a public hearing is to follow.  Under the 1999 constitution that ended more than 15 years
of military rule, oil states receive 13 percent of revenue from
crude exports before the remainder is shared among  Nigeria ’s 36
states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  