-- No Glass Ceiling for U.K. Women Politicians, Research Finds
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-08T13:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/no-glass-ceiling-for-u-k-s-women-politicians-research-finds.html
There is no evidence of a “glass
ceiling” for women in British politics once they get into
Parliament, a study of lawmakers has found.  The research  by  Peter Allen , a doctoral student at London
University’s Birkbeck College, looked at the careers of 178
Labour Party lawmakers who entered Parliament as part of Prime
Minister  Tony Blair ’s first general-election win in 1997. The
group included 64 women, the largest such group ever elected at
the same time. The U.K. press labeled them “Blair’s Babes.”  Out of the 178 men and women, 10 made it to the highest
ministerial level, the Cabinet, before Labour lost power in
2010: five men and five women. That represented 8 percent of the
female cohort and 4 percent of the men. The next rung down the
ladder, minister of state, was reached by 17 percent of men and
20 percent of women. At each level, Allen found no statistically
significant difference.  “The issue for women in British politics is getting into
Parliament, not getting on in Parliament,” Allen said in a
telephone interview today, International Women’s Day. “Once
they’re there, they do as well as men.”  Before the 1997 election, Labour tried to improve women’s
chances of getting elected by introducing all-female candidate
shortlists for target electoral districts. The  Conservative
Party  and the Liberal Democrats, the two parties that now form
the coalition government, have so far resisted similar moves.
The U.K. has had one female prime minister,  Margaret Thatcher ,
who headed a Tory government from 1979 to 1990.  International Women's Day  Blair’s successor,  Gordon Brown , who was prime minister for
Labour’s last three years in power, spoke at an event in London
today to mark International Women’s Day, alongside the father of
Malala Yousafzai, the 15-year-old Pakistani school student shot
by the Taliban last year for speaking out for girls’ right to
education and who was treated for her head wounds in a British
hospital.  “Men must change,” Brown told his audience. “Male
attitudes are a big issue. If you’re going to see big change,
we’re going to have to do it together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  