-- No Garlands for Disney ‘Oz’; Mob Story; Hirihito: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/no-garlands-for-disney-oz-mob-story-hirihito-movies.html
Disney’s extravagantly flashy “ Oz
the Great and Powerful ” all but snuffs out the horsefeather
magic and carnival heart that provides what little enchantment
the film conjures.  Courage it’s got in spades. In borrowing both too many
details and not enough feeling from “The Wizard of Oz,”
director Sam Raimi and screenwriters Mitchell Kapner and David Lindsay-Abaire pick a fight they simply can’t win.  This origin tale of how the man behind the curtain got
there is as overblown in design as it is wan in emotion. There
are moments -- come and gone swiftly as a twister --that suggest
a dizzying affection for the 1939 MGM classic that inspired this
overlong winkfest.  Yet those references (carefully vetted, reportedly, to
avoid lawsuits) backfire as often as they transport.  The familiar architecture is here: a black and white
prologue establishing “real” world counterparts to the
fantastical, full-color creatures we’ll meet later; a gorgeously
spooky storm kicking up the  Kansas  dust; a tornado that delivers
the hero somewhere over a multicolored heavenly arc that, one
assumes, lawyers prevented the great and powerful Disney from
mentioning.  Danny Elfman  That hero, played with a fully post-modern grin by  James Franco , is Oscar (nickname “Oz”) Diggs, a love ’em and leave
’em carnival huckster.  In 1905 Kansas, Oscar hops a hot-air balloon to escape the
wrath of a cuckolded strongman. (With Danny Elfman’s score, the
rickety, surreal carnival scenes could pass for a Tim Burton
dreamscape, and promise a moody allure the rest of the film
fails to deliver).  The tornado drops him in a Day-Glo landscape of gem-colored
flowers, psychedelic butterflies and fearsome, winged digitized
baboons that test this film’s suitability for youngest
moviegoers.  Instead of a Scarecrow, Tin Man and Cowardly Lion, “Oz”
delivers two cloying substitutes: a saucer-eyed flying monkey
(voiced by Zach Braff) and China Girl (Joey King), a porcelain
doll less fragile than she appears.  But an “Oz” is only as good as its witches -- and here’s
where we see the limitations of this film’s elaborate digital
puffery.  The three beautiful witches -- one good, one bad, one on
the fence -- are lushly costumed in color-coded outfits and
capable of more FX sorcery than Margaret Hamilton ever could
have imagined.  Yet all the photogenic efforts of  Michelle Williams ,  Rachel Weisz  and  Mila Kunis  won’t displace that green crone in anyone’s
nightmares.  As for Franco, his hip, air-quote approach is well-suited
to the role. After all, he’s portraying one of the all-time
great flim-flam artists.  “Oz the Great and Powerful,” from  Walt Disney Studios , is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Mob Thriller  Revenge never felt less sweet.  “ Dead Man Down ,” Danish director Niels Arden Oplev’s
somber  New York  mob thriller, stars  Colin Farrell  as Victor, a
low-level thug plotting elaborate revenge on the drug-dealing
kingpin who destroyed his life.  Caught up in the violent scheme is his once-beautiful
neighbor Beatrice (Noomi Rapace), determined to seek a little
retribution of her own against the drunk driver who left her
face scarred.  The co-plots twist, turn and intertwine, leaving
coincidences, loose threads and automatic gunfire in the wake.  Until the convolutions get the better of him, Oplev (who
directed Rapace in the original “ The Girl With the Dragon
Tattoo ”) brings a steady hand to the tale’s seductive gloom.
All the more disappointing, then, when things go all “Django”
in a shoot-em-up finale.  “Dead Man Down,” from FilmDistrict, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  War Crimes  In 1945, American officials had to decide whether to
prosecute Emperor Hirohito of  Japan  for  war crimes . “ Emperor ”
is about the hasty investigation that preceded their decision.  Matthew Fox plays Gen. Bonner Fellers, the officer whom
Gen. Douglas MacArthur put in charge. As the movie depicts him,
he doesn’t meet the standards of discretion that such a
sensitive task requires.  He peeks through a door like a nosy maid as MacArthur
conducts a sensitive one-on-one meeting. He burns up hours
looking for a long-lost Japanese girlfriend (Eriko Hatsune) even
though he has just days to get the facts.  One drunken evening he picks a fight in a noodle bar and
stumbles home bleeding.  Though Stuart Dryburgh’s camera work has a pleasing
darkness -- the postwar Japan he shows us is mostly smoking
rubble -- the director, Peter Webber, inches things along at
Xanax speed, alternating between piety toward Japanese tradition
(so noble!) and brainlessness about human behavior.  Fox gets most of the screen time but has the misfortune to
be acting opposite Tommy Lee Jones as the preening and crafty
MacArthur. Jones’s line readings are like Sinatra’s phrasing:
always surprising yet always apt.  Were he in every scene, this might have been a better
movie.  “Emperor,” from Roadside Attractions, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 