-- Nortel U.K. Retirees Lose Bid for Arbitration
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-08T20:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/nortel-u-k-retirees-lose-bid-for-arbitration.html
Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  retirees in
the U.K. lost a bid to force the defunct telecommunications
company into private arbitration over how to split $7 billion.  Today’s ruling means retirees and creditors of Nortel’s
European units must fight for a bigger chunk of the cash in U.S.
and Canadian courts, where Nortel’s main units have been in
bankruptcy since 2009.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
and Ontario Superior Court Justice Geoffrey Morawetz in Toronto
issued the ruling during a telephone conference. The judges, who
have joint control over the liquidation of Nortel’s most
valuable assets, should be able to decide how best to split up
the $7 billion raised by those sales, Gross said.  “We will develop a practical solution,” Gross said. “We
will plan for trial in the fall.”  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in  Canada , the U.S., the U.K. and  France , with various units
under the control of separate teams of lawyers and under the
jurisdiction of different courts.  U.K. bankruptcy officials claim Nortel’s U.S. and Canadian
units siphoned money from the European units for years, leaving
them unable to pay pensioners and other creditors. The U.K.
administrators are demanding $2.67 billion from Nortel’s main
U.S. unit to pay retirees, according to court papers.  Canadian Claims  The groups have been fighting over a shrinking pile of cash
that won’t cover all of the debts owed by Nortel and its units.
Creditors have presented more than $36 billion in claims in
Canada, according to a status report filed in October.  Nortel’s U.S. and Canadian units have $9 billion in cash to
distribute to creditors, with about $7 billion held in escrow
accounts until courts decide how it should be divided, James L. Bromley, the lead attorney for Nortel’s U.S. bankruptcy, said in
court yesterday.  Bankruptcy administrators for Nortel’s European units had
asked Gross and Morawetz to require the money to be divided in a
private, binding arbitration process.  Nortel bonds that matured in 2011 jumped about 1 percent to
106 cents on the dollar after today’s ruling, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  