-- O’Farrell Won’t Let Crown Casino Open in Sydney Before 2019
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-08T06:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/o-farrell-won-t-let-crown-casino-operate-in-sydney-before-2019.html
Crown Ltd. (CWN) ’s planned casino in
Sydney targeting high-rolling Asian gamblers won’t open until
exclusivity rights held by  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  expire
in 2019, according to New South Wales Premier Barry O’Farrell.  The casino and hotel at the Barangaroo development site,
west of Sydney’s central business district, would be run under
the same probity and regulatory arrangements as Echo’s Star
complex, O’Farrell’s spokesman Cameron Hamilton said in an e-
mailed statement today. The rival complexes would face each
other across a stretch of Sydney Harbour.  “Any new VIP-only facility will not be operational before
the existing exclusivity agreement expires on 14 November
2019,” according to the statement, made in response to queries
after the Australian Financial Review newspaper reported Crown’s
complex won’t require a casino license.  So-called VIP gamblers are given perks such as free
accommodation and travel in return for gambling large sums.
Echo’s former owner,  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) , paid A$100 million
($102 million) to the New South Wales government in 2007 in
return for a 12-year license to operate Sydney’s only casino.  Echo dropped 1.1 percent to close at A$3.62 in Sydney
trading, after earlier falling as much as 4.4 percent.  Crown subsidiary Pennwin Pty  owns  10 percent of Echo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of Melbourne-
based Crown gained 1.2 percent to A$12.45.  Martin Debelle, an external spokesman for Echo at Citadel
Communications in Sydney, said he had no immediate comment. Karl
Bitar, a Crown spokesman, didn’t immediately return a mobile-
phone message and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  