-- White House Taking No Actions Yet to Cut Back Its Budget
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-03-08T15:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/obama-s-tour-shutdown-lone-example-of-cuts-in-white-house-budget.html
While President  Barack Obama  has
spent weeks warning of the dark consequences of across-the-board
budget cuts, there’s one area of government where his staff has
failed to calculate their impact: the White House itself.  Obama administration spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters
Thursday that “detailed decisions” have yet to be made about
how the administration would meet a projected $24 million
reduction to the executive office budget, which may include
furloughs of presidential aides and other employees.  “I’m not going say that this person is going have to be
furloughed today, if that hasn’t happened yet and we don’t know
when that will happen specifically,” he said.  Under a law passed in 2011, $85 billion in automatic
spending cuts, known as sequestration, began on March 1 for the
remainder of this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  The law requires the executive office of the president,
which has about 2,000 employees, to cut approximately $24
million out of its $711 million fiscal year 2013 budget request,
according to a report by the White House Office of Management
and Budget released the day the reductions came into effect.  That amount pales in comparison to cuts mandated from other
departments: Customs and  Border Protection , for example, must
trim $512 million and the  National Institutes of Health  stand to
lose nearly $1.6 billion in funding by the end of the fiscal
year.  Actions Pending  The White House intends to cut back on purchases of
supplies and equipment, delaying staff hiring, and potentially
furlough employees to comply with the law, an aide to the
president, who asked for anonymity because decisions haven’t
been made, said today. The cuts could slow routine functions
such as correspondence and have an impact on support for
services such as the White House tours, he said.  Former Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told lawmakers as far
back as last July that automatic budget reductions would be a
“disaster.” The Pentagon must come up with $46 billion in cuts
in the seven months remaining in this fiscal year.  The Defense Department has said as many as 750,000 civilian
employees may be subject to furloughs averaging one day a week,
or 20 percent of their pay. The unpaid leave wouldn’t begin
until April 25, according to Pentagon officials.  Pressuring Republicans  In the weeks leading up to the sequestration deadline, the
White House tried to pressure Republican lawmakers to reach a
deal by highlighting the economic pain that would come from
trimming federal services.  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta, for example, warned of
furloughs in a letter to agency employees on Feb. 11. Those
cuts, agency officials told reporters, would lead to longer
security lines at airports across the country. The  Department of
Justice  sent preliminary furlough notices to 115,000 employees
last month, Carney told reporters on March 4.  Earlier this week, the White House announced plans to
cancel tours of the executive mansion starting March 9, citing
“staffing reductions resulting from sequestration.”  The Secret Service calculates that canceling the tours will
cut about $2 million in overtime pay this fiscal year, said
spokesman Ed Donovan. The savings, he said, will help the agency
avoid having to furlough employees. The Secret Service falls
under the Department of Homeland Security budget.  Congressional Criticism  Republicans called the decision a political stunt designed
to turn up the pressure on the congressional offices that
distribute tickets as favors to their constituents.  South Dakota Senator  John Thune , chairman of the Senate
Republican Conference, chided Obama for not looking to “cut his
own wasteful golf outings and frivolous spending.” Along with
13 other Republicans, he sent a letter to the White House March
7 seeking information about the cost savings from the
cancellations.  “The President is trying to make it tough on members of
Congress,” said House Speaker  John Boehner  said in a March 6
interview on CNBC. “I want to know who is being laid off at the
White House.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  