-- Holland Taylor’s ‘Ann’ Blathers; Dreamy ‘Folly’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/holland-taylor-s-ann-blathers-dreamy-folly-review.html
Ann Richards had a mouth on her, as
they say.  Dazzling the Democrats at their 1988 national convention,
she earned a place in zinger history when she opined that George Herbert Walker Bush should be pitied because “He was born with
a silver foot in his mouth.”  Incredibly, that line is missing from “Ann,” Holland Taylor’s solo ode to the late Texas governor. So is the late
Texas governor.  This sleep-inducing show raises several questions:  Who among more than 20 (20!) producers thought the right
place for “Ann” would be the challenging barn-ness of Lincoln
Center’s Vivian Beaumont Theatre?  Who thought two hours (with intermission) of reminiscence,
in which bickering over a travel expense is given as much weight
as talking to Bill Clinton, is worth any sentient human’s time?  And how was it possible to so totally suck the life out of
one of the richest characters in Texas politics?  Taylor is a wonderful actress (TV’s “Two-and-a-Half Men”)
whose devotion to her subject is not in question. In teased-out
wig and Chanel-style suit, she’s a near perfect ringer for
Richards, and she has the twang down without overdoing it.  Bathroom Break  But Taylor’s script, drawn from Richards’s writings and
interviews, is a mountain of wheat and chaff, coal and diamonds,
whatever metaphor you want.  I had to wonder what director Benjamin Endsley Klein did to
sharpen the script. Anything? The show trundles from one cliche
to the next: “Ann” opens with Richards addressing an
unidentified graduating class. A silly demand for a bathroom
break precedes intermission.  “Ann” does honor Richards’s achievements as governor and,
later, as advocate of liberal causes. The warm sparring with
Clinton and especially their shared reverence for Congresswoman
Barbara Jordan is moving. But this meandering hagiography
unbecomes the swaggering doyenne who, for a time, outgunned the
sharpshooters around her.  Through June 9 at the Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln
Center. Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.lct.org .
Rating: *1/2  ‘Talley’s Folly’  Only a stone heart could resist the charms of Matt
Friedman’s opening monologue in “ Talley’s Folley ,” in an
enchanting revival from the  Roundabout Theatre Company .  Matt is determined to win the hand of Sally Talley in
Lanford Wilson’s lyrical 1980 Pulitzer Prize-winning play. To
help, he has a soft summer evening, a romantically decrepit
Victorian boathouse and, across the Missouri River, the lilting
sounds of Independence Day festivities.  “They tell me we have 97 minutes here tonight without
intermission,” Matt says. “And since I’m not the romantic
type, I’m going to need the whole shmeer here to help me.”  Matt, played with honeyed sincerity by Danny Burstein, is a
Jewish immigrant accountant from St. Louis who fell in love with
the extremely not-Jewish Sally the summer before and has
returned to close the deal.  Sarah Paulson’s strong-willed Sally insists such deal-
closing will not happen. But Matt gets a different message:  “You can chase me away or you can put on a pretty dress,”
he tells her, “but you can’t put on a pretty dress to come down
here and chase me away.” Check and mate.  Missouri Man  Lanford Wilson knew  Missouri  as intimately as he knew the
fictional Talleys, for whom he wrote three plays (the best known
was “The Fifth of July”).  Director Michael Wilson and his two-member cast burrow deep
inside these appealingly frightened characters and, especially,
into the poetry of their stories as the night drifts along and
the revelations, like stars, come out.  Rather than divide them, those secrets, so reticently
exposed, will create the charming waltz Matt promises. Jeff
Cowie’s slightly too-whimsical set, Rui Rita’s moody lighting
and Mark Bennett’s barely-audible soundscape all help conjure
the ideal setting.  Burstein has become an anchor of New York theater, from his
Luther Billis in “South Pacific” to, most recently, the fight
trainer Tokio in “Golden Boy.” Matt is his most heartfelt
performance yet, in a role originated by Judd Hirsch.  Bad Wig  Paulson, too, is wonderful (despite an awful wig) as the
nurse’s aide with a not-so-scandalous past.  They have all done beautifully by a playwright who left
some of the tenderest writing this side of Tennessee Williams
before dying just two years ago.  Through May 5 at the Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St.
Information: +1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org 
Rating: ****1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Greg Evans and Craig Seligman on
 movies  and New York  weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 