-- Mortgage-Bond Yields That Guide Loan Rates Rise to 10-Month High
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-08T22:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/mortgage-bond-yields-that-guide-loan-rates-rise-to-9-month-high.html
Yields on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates climbed to the
highest in 10 months after a report showing U.S. employers added
more jobs than forecast.  Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year securities climbed 0.06
percentage point to 2.74 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, the
highest level since May 11, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The yields have risen from a record-low 1.68 percent
reached Sept. 26, after the Federal Reserve announced it would
start  buying  $40 billion of home-loan debt a month to begin its
third round of bond purchases known as quantitative easing.  U.S. employment rose 236,000 last month, Labor Department
figures showed today, exceeding a median forecast of 165,000
from economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The increase signaled the
world’s largest economy is gaining strength, adding to
speculation that bond yields are too low and the U.S. central
bank may end its debt purchases as soon as this year.  “We cannot see QE even continuing to midyear,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York, said today in an e-mail. “There are
probably going to be some interesting discussions around the
table” when the Fed’s policy-setting panel meets this month.  A measure of spreads on the Fannie Mae current coupon debt,
or bonds trading closest to face value, increased today to the
widest since Aug. 17, signaling the debt continues to suffer
more than Treasuries as the economy shows signs of improvement.  Paring Holdings  A  Bloomberg index  of yields on the mortgage bonds widened
about 0.02 percentage point to 1.28 percentage point higher than
an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates. The gap reached
an all-time low of 0.55 percentage point on Sept. 25.  Mortgage securities typically underperform Treasuries as
bond yields rise because of concern their forecasted lives will
extend as higher borrowing costs reduce homeowner refinancing.
Spreads have also climbed as investors pare holdings of the
notes built up ahead of the Fed’s purchases, which left mutual
funds with about $215 billion more of the debt in late February
than they would have had by matching the composition of
benchmark bond indexes, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We expect it will take months before money managers are
back to a neutral allocation of MBS, based on the rate at which
their selling has occurred recently,” the JPMorgan analysts led
by Matt Jozoff wrote in a March 1 report.  While the U.S. unemployment rate dropped to 7.7 percent,
the lowest since December 2008, the central bank is probably in
no rush to test the economy’s strength by paring its stimulus,
said William O’Donnell, head U.S. government-bond strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  “The market will ultimately conclude that rather than
signaling an earlier-than-expected exit, the Fed may be cheered
by what they see here and keep on keeping on to try and keep
these trends alive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  