-- Osborne Budget Cuts Attacked by U.K. Commons Spending Watchdog
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/osborne-budget-cuts-attacked-by-u-k-commons-spending-watchdog.html
U.K. government spending cuts have
focused excessively on easy-to-achieve savings without giving
enough consideration to their economic impact, Parliament’s
budget watchdog said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s Treasury drove
through cuts without having enough information on their effect,
leaving departments to focus on protecting their own budgets,
the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons said in a
report published in  London  today.  “The government does not fully understand the impact of
the spending cuts it is making,” opposition  Labour Party 
lawmaker  Margaret Hodge , who heads the panel, said in an e-
mailed statement. “It is focusing on short-term priorities
rather than the longer-term view.”  Osborne is facing pressure to ease the pace of his fiscal-
consolidation plans in his March 20 annual budget as the economy
enters its third straight year of stagnation. The report, signed
off by members of Osborne’s Conservative Party including Stewart Jackson, who has openly questioned the government’s competence,
was dismissed by the Treasury.  The committee is choosing headlines over facts, said an
official at the Treasury who declined to be named in line with
government practice. Spending plans have followed the path set
out in 2010 when the cuts were first announced, the official
said.  Osborne’s plans concentrated “on what could be cut
quickly,” reducing the  capital budget  by almost half over five
years and “undermining the government’s objectives of securing
jobs and economic growth,” the watchdog said. It said officials
should do more to inform ministers about the impact of cuts and
provide them with alternatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  