-- Hot New York Bistro Becomes London’s Buzziest Brasserie
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/hot-new-york-bistro-becomes-london-s-buzziest-brasserie.html
“How was the restaurant?” the  taxi
driver  asked after we pulled away from Balthazar, the large and
buzzy celebrity brasserie that has just opened in London.  I explained that it was the new outpost of Keith McNally,
the restaurateur whose  New York  establishments include Pravda,
Pastis, Schiller’s, Morandi, Minetta Tavern and Pulino’s.  Born to a working-class family in London’s  Bethnal Green ,
McNally, 61, went on to become an actor. He appeared with John Gielgud in  Alan Bennett ’s “ 40 Years On ” at the Apollo Theatre
and was a film maker before he moved into restaurants.  “I know,” the driver said. “He’s my brother.”  Peter McNally is a fine cabbie. He took the most direct
route, driving firmly without aggression, quickly without
excessive speed. He posed for a picture after our ride.  Oh, and what did I tell him about Balthazar?  If you are in any doubt about the importance of this
brasserie, it’s worth noting that visitors in the first week
included several restaurateurs and chefs, including Jason Atherton and  Alain Ducasse , who describes McNally as a genius.  The room is among the most beautiful in London. It’s a
recreation of the New York mothership, which in turn pays homage
to the grand brasseries of Paris. It’s dominated by large,
distressed mirrors. The lighting is just right. No detail is too
small for McNally, who will obsess over everything from the
beautiful tiled floor to the faux-nicotine stained ceiling.  Cocktail Choice  There’s a huge bar where Brian Silva -- the Bostonian who
previously presided upstairs at Rules -- will discuss your
cocktail requirements and then exceed them.  You will probably be greeted by Byron Lang, former maitre
d’ at the Ivy, the Wolseley, St. Alban and Savoy Grill. He
became group front of house manager for all Gordon Ramsay’s
 London restaurants .  There’s a great atmosphere in the place, with seats 175 and
is a similar size to the Wolseley. The menu is traditional
French brasserie with a few modern additions. The wine list is
all French. Most starters are priced below 10 pounds ($15) and
mains at less than 20 pounds.  (McNally’s business partner in London is Richard Caring,
who owns Caprice Holdings Ltd.)  It’s great fun dining at Balthazar and I recommend it, with
one proviso: The food was uneven in the opening days. There’s
good reason to believe this is just a teething problem. The chef
is Robert Reid, an industry veteran who worked for  Joel Robuchon 
and other Michelin-starred chefs in  France  before heading the
kitchen at the Oak Room in London, under Marco Pierre White.  Lobster Risotto  Some of the dishes are excellent. There’s a reasonably
priced starter of lobster and black truffle risotto, with
cauliflower cream and black-truffle butter at 10.50 pounds, or
14.75 pounds as a main. OK, you are not picking out great lumps
of lobster at this price but it is fine.  The unusual prawn cocktail is enticing: Plump prawns come
unadorned on a bed of ice: you mix in Marie Rose and tomato
sauce yourself. The onion soup is a meal in itself, so thick
with bread it’s like a big, wet sloppy sandwich.  My own favorite dish is the duck shepherd’s pie (17.50
pounds), which is packed with flavor. The steaks are not bad.
Order steak au poivre or Balthazar bar steak and you should be
happy enough once you have slathered on the appropriate sauce.
Both come with huge portions of well-cooked fries.  Burger Fix  Wander off piste, to the ceviche for example, and you may
wonder why you bothered. The biggest disappointment is the
hamburger. It’s got some nice color but not much flavor. There
are now such fabulous burgers in  London , Balthazar has to get
this right. As things are, I’d rather eat a horse.  The desserts (all at 7 pounds) are strong. They should be,
because the head pastry chef is Regis Beauregard, who previously
held that job at the Ritz. Balthazar makes all the breads and
cakes in its own bakery and the boulangerie next door to the
restaurant is well worth a visit.  While Balthazar is going to get better in coming months, I
wouldn’t hold off trying to make a booking. It’s been a while
since any London restaurant opened with such buzz and now is the
best time to catch it.  Rating: ***.  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most starters cost less than 10 pounds and few mains
are more than 20 pounds, yet the place is so jolly it is very
easy to reach 100 pounds a head after aperitifs and wine.  Sound level: Somewhere between buzzy and noisy -- 75 to 80
decibels. It’s the sound of people having a good time.  Date place: Yes.  Special feature: The 26-foot pewter bar.  Inside tip: The VIP tables are the banquettes below the
large mirrors to the left and ahead as you enter. (The tables to
the left are 60-62.) These are also the tables for celebrity-
spotting. The bar tables are Siberia.  Will I go back? Repeatedly.  Balthazar, 4-6 Russell Street,  Covent Garden , London, WC2B
5HZ. Information:  http://www.balthazarlondon.com/  or +44-20-
3301-1155.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  weekend
guides  for London and New York.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  