-- OTP Sees ‘Moderate’ Credit Expansion, May Pay Higher Dividend
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-08T11:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/otp-sees-moderate-credit-expansion-may-pay-higher-dividend.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, expects to expand credit and see risk costs decline as
bad loan formation slows, Chief Financial Officer Laszlo Bencsik
said.  OTP may see a “moderate” increase in foreign currency-
adjusted loans and operations in Hungary may improve, Bencsik
said at a press conference in Budapest today. The bank may
propose a dividend of 120 forint to 121 forint per share after
the 2012 business year, Bencsik said, according to state news
service MTI. That compares with a previous 101.7 forint per
share payout.  OTP posted net  income  of 26.1 billion forint ($115 million)
in the fourth quarter after a loss of 25.8 billion forint a year
earlier, OTP said today. Analysts expected a profit of 30.4
billion forint in the last quarter, according to a Bloomberg
poll of nine analysts.  “We expect a moderate improvement in company operations as
we hope that the trend of declining loan volumes will turn
around this year after a 2 percent fall in 2012,” Bencsik said.
Economic strains will probably ease in a number of countries
where OTP operates, including  Hungary , yielding a “more
positive picture” for the year, he said.  OTP  shares  rose as much as 2.1 percent today and traded 1
percent higher at 4,882 forint at 11:40 a.m. in Budapest,
advancing for a fourth day. The benchmark BUX  index  advanced
0.13 percent in a fourth day of gains.  Foreign Units  OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in central
and eastern  Europe , is increasingly relying on its foreign
subsidiaries for profit generation as Europe’s highest bank levy
and Hungary’s economic slump take a toll on domestic operations
and boost bad loans. The ratio of non-performing credits rose
0.1 percentage point, the slowest pace since 2008, to 19.1
percent on group level in the last quarter of 2012.  Hungary, OTP’s largest market, is battling its second
 recession  in four years as household consumption declined,
investments dropped and the euro-area crisis drained demand for
exports. Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who in 2010 levied special
taxes on several industries including banks, backtracked on an
earlier promise to cut the bank levy in half in 2013 and imposed
a financial transaction tax of 0.2 percent as he seeks to shore
up the budget.  OTP sees “double-digit” consumption loan growth in
 Russia , Ukraine,  Romania ,  Serbia , Slovakia and in Hungarian
corporate loans, especially in the agricultural sector, the bank
said in a presentation today. Adjusted revenue margins will be
stable while nominal operational costs may grow 5 percent,
according to the presentation.  Portfolio Quality  OTP’s results look better on a second glance as the loan
portfolio quality is improving and bad loan coverage is at
record levels, analysts at Budapest-based brokerage Equilor Zrt.
said in an e-mail today. “Once the management sees a
sustainable drop in risks, provisioning may drop significantly,
leading to a surge in profit and a revving up of dividend
payments,” according to the e-mail.  Net interest income fell 2 percent in the last three months
of 2012 from a year earlier to 166 billion forint, while
provisions rose 4 percent to 70.3 billion forint. The bank had a
bad loan provision coverage of 80 percent at the end of 2012.  OTP would be open to government measures aimed at helping
foreign-currency mortgage holders who are more than 90 days
overdue with their payments, Bencsik said. OTP’s Swiss franc-
denominated loans total 600 billion forint, of which 30 percent
are non-performing, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  