-- Pakistan Premier to Visit India After Border Clashes Soured Ties
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-08T04:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/pakistan-premier-to-visit-india-after-border-clashes-soured-ties.html
Pakistan ’s Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf will visit  India  tomorrow on a private trip days
before leaving office and as recent military clashes between the
neighbors overshadowed improving economic ties.  Ashraf will be on a daylong visit to a Sufi Muslim shrine
in Rajasthan, the first to India by a Pakistani leader in almost
a year. While there will be no official talks, he’ll have lunch
with India’s Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid.  “No purpose is going to be served having a long discussion
as Ashraf won’t be in office after a week and is unlikely to
come to power again,” said Sushant Sareen, an analyst at the
New Delhi-based  Vivekananda International Foundation , a regional
research group headed by retired Indian government and military
officials. Pakistan will appoint a caretaker government this
month ahead of May elections.  Ashraf’s visit comes after India and Pakistan in January
and February engaged in some of their most serious cross-border
skirmishes in almost a decade in the disputed Himalayan region
of Kashmir. Troops from both armies died and envoys were
summoned in each country’s capital.  Khurshid in January warned there could be no return “to
business as usual” after what he said was Pakistan’s failure to
fully investigate the incidents. Pakistan denied its troops
crossed the de facto frontier and accused  New Delhi  of engaging
in propaganda.  Zardari Trailing  The two countries, each of which have nuclear arsenals,
resumed peace talks in 2011 more than two years after they were
broken off following the attack by Pakistani militants on Mumbai
that killed 166 people. India says the strike was carried out by
the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerrilla group with the support of some
members of Pakistan’s security establishment.  While Pakistan denies the charge of state involvement, it
has begun a closed trial of some Lashkar members. India says
it’s not doing enough.  The two countries have eased visa restrictions and taken
steps to raise cross-border commerce. Sporting ties have also
resumed, with Pakistan’s cricket team touring India in December
and January.  Indian Ministry of External Affairs spokesman Syed Akbaruddin said Ashraf will be accompanied by his family and no
“substantive discussions” are scheduled for his meeting with
Khurshid in Jaipur.  Ashraf, who took over as prime minister when his
predecessor was found in contempt of the  Supreme Court  and
ousted, heads a government led by the  Pakistan Peoples Party  of
President Asif Ali Zardari. Public confidence in Zardari’s
administration stood at 23 percent in October last year,
according to pollster Gallup. The  survey  had a margin of error
of around 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  