-- Payrolls Probably Rose as U.S. Employers Looked Past Budget Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/payrolls-probably-rose-as-u-s-employers-looked-past-budget-cuts.html
Payrolls probably grew in February,
a sign U.S. employers were undaunted by the budget impasse in
 Washington  as sales rose, economists said before a report today.  An additional 165,000 workers were hired last month after a
157,000 increase in January, according to the median forecast of
90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  jobless rate  held at
7.9 percent, the survey showed.  Automakers and construction companies are among those
announcing plans to take on more staff, which will lead to gains
in incomes that may help the world’s biggest economy weather
federal cutbacks and higher taxes. Federal Reserve policy makers
remain unsatisfied with the pace at which  out-of-work  Americans,
now at 12.3 million, are finding employment, indicating they’ll
keep adding stimulus to spur growth.  “The labor market is steady as she goes,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
 New York . “Job growth is enough to keep the consumer moving
ahead. These are modest gains, unsatisfying in terms of how much
we need to claw back from the enormous hit we took during the
recession, but they’re at least still in the right direction.”  Payroll estimates ranged from gains of 121,000 to 260,000
in the Bloomberg survey. The Labor Department will release the
employment figures at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies from
the count, rose by 173,000 in February after a 166,000 gain the
prior month, the survey showed.  Forecasts for the  unemployment rate  ranged from 7.7 percent
to 7.9 percent. Joblessness has been 7.8 percent or 7.9 percent
since September.  ‘Improving Gradually’  “Consistent with the moderate pace of economic growth,
conditions in the labor market have been improving gradually,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers last week during his
semiannual testimony on monetary policy. Central bank officials
still want to see “substantial improvement in the outlook for
the labor” and will thus continue to buy securities and keep
 interest rates  low to stimulate the economy, he said.  The economy is creating jobs this year even with the fiscal
constraints that started in January. Congress let the  payroll
tax  funding  Social Security  revert to 6.2 percent from 4.2
percent, and boosted taxes on top income earners. The  U.S.
economy  will also be tested by $85 billion in across-the-board
budget cuts, known as sequestration, that began March 1 because
lawmakers couldn’t agree on  deficit reduction .  Shares Gains  Markets have also taken the effects of fiscal tightening in
stride. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 6.5 percent
this year through last week, more than the MSCI  All Country (MXWD) 
World Index’s 4.1 percent gain. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
closed at a record-high on March 5, regaining losses resulting
from the recession. It has continued climbing, closing at a new
high of 14,329.49 yesterday.  A private report earlier this week showed businesses took
on more workers than projected in February. Headcounts grew by
198,000 last month after a more-than-first estimated 215,000
addition in January, according to March 6 figures from the ADP
Research Institute.  A recovery in  house prices  and a need to enlarge the supply
of homes for sale has stirred construction activity.  Home Depot
Inc. (HD)  said last month it plans to add more than 80,000 temporary
employees ahead of its busiest season, about 14 percent more
than a year ago, as the rebound spurs spending on remodeling and
landscaping. Lowe’s Cos. said in January it would take on 45,000
seasonal workers, 13 percent more than a year earlier, and add
9,000 permanent employees.  Boosting Production  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker majority owned by  Fiat
SpA (F) , will invest about $374 million and add 1,250 positions at
Indiana factories to boost output of eight- and nine-speed
transmissions. Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne 
disclosed the investment in February.  Deloitte LLP plans to boost its staff by 18,000 this year,
Chief Executive Officer Joe Echevarria said during a Feb. 27
interview on “ Bloomberg Surveillance .” The accounting firm is
hiring to support long-term growth even with the political
uncertainty from Washington, he said.  As federal government spending declines, “the private
sector can more than step in if they’re incented to hire and
grow,” he said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  