-- Perdaman Can’t Sue ICICI Bank Over Australian Plant
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-08T02:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/perdaman-can-t-sue-icici-bank-over-australian-plant.html
(Corrects location of ICICI Bank in third paragraph.)  ICICI Bank Ltd. can’t be sued in
 Australia  over its role in a A$5.8 billion ($6 billion) dispute
regarding the termination of a coal-supply agreement and the
scuttling of a proposed urea plant, a judge ruled.  Perdaman Chemicals & Fertilisers Pty sued the bank,
accusing it of illegally interfering with a coal-supply
agreement that the fertilizer maker had with Griffin Coal
Mining, to allow for the miner’s acquisition by  Lanco Infratech
Ltd. (LANCI) , an Indian power producer.  Federal Court Justice Neil McKerracher on March 6 refused
Perdaman’s request to formally serve the bank with the lawsuit
in  Singapore , where the Mumbai-based bank’s branch issued a loan
to Lanco. Perdaman had to show that there was enough evidence
that the bank broke the law and required the judge’s permission
because ICICI Bank has no business presence in Australia. The
fertilizer maker failed to make its case, the judge said.  “At worst, the bank drove a hard bargain as it was
entitled to do,” McKerracher wrote in his ruling,  issued  in
Perth.  Lanco bought Griffin Coal, which had filed for bankruptcy,
in February 2011, using an A$800 million loan from ICICI Bank to
partly finance the acquisition, according to court papers. Lanco
decided it would be to its advantage to cancel Griffin’s coal-
supply agreement with Perdaman, citing that it failed to meet
all the conditions of the deal, and sell the reserves for a
better price, Perdaman argued.  The bank, as part of the financing, obtained security over
Griffin Coal and those obligations deprived the mining company
of the ability to execute the coal-supply agreement without the
bank’s consent, Perdaman said.  The bank “was entitled to protect its own interests and to
impose and to adhere to whatever security requirements it could
achieve,” McKerracher wrote. “The bank had no obligation to
Perdaman.”  Perdaman has sued Lanco and Griffin, claiming the
termination of the coal supply prevented it from getting
financing to begin construction on the urea plant. That trial is
likely to start later this year, the judge said.  The case is Perdaman Chemicals & Fertilisers Pty v  ICICI
Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  WAD1/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  