-- TPG Courts Investors as Real Estate Bets Top $2 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-03-08T19:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/tpg-courts-investors-as-real-estate-bets-top-2-billion.html
About two years after TPG Capital
expanded into real estate, the firm started by David Bonderman
and James Coulter has invested more than $2 billion of equity in
properties including California malls, a homebuilder, Florida
apartments and office buildings in the U.S. and London.  Instead of raising a dedicated real estate fund like many
of its big private-equity rivals, TPG has been investing in
property with money from its global buyout fund and striking
alliances with pensions and real estate operating companies,
including a $350 million pledge from New Jersey’s state pension
fund in October. TPG is playing catch-up to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
the largest private-equity investor in real estate, with about
$57 billion of equity under management.  “They’re looking at the real estate world differently than
just buying a building, fixing it up and selling it,” said
Timothy Walsh, director of New Jersey’s Division of Investment.
“That really appealed to us.”  TPG has been finding investments in distress, both in the
housing market and in commercial property, while exploiting the
global appetite for the investment yields real estate can offer
with interest rates near record lows. Last week, TPG agreed to
acquire Assisted Living Concepts Inc., which operates a chain of
residences for seniors. In December, TPG teamed with DivcoWest,
a closely held real estate investor based in San Francisco, to
buy assets from Mission West Properties Inc., an owner of
Silicon Valley real estate that’s liquidating.  Parkway Stake  Other recent deals include the $200 million purchase in
June of a 43 percent interest in office real estate investment
trust  Parkway Properties Inc. (PKY)  and the 265 million-pound ($398
million) acquisition last month of  London ’s Woolgate Exchange
office building with Ivanhoe Cambridge, the real estate arm of
 Canada ’s largest pension fund, Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec . TPG and its partner acquired the property in London’s
financial district by restructuring a loan held by Irish Banking
Resolution Corp.  “Our investment results with TPG have been terrific,”
Bill Tresham, president of global investments at Ivanhoe
Cambridge, said in an e-mail. “We always found that their
underwriting was exceptional. They are a solid team of highly
skilled professionals.”  Ivanhoe Cambridge invested alongside DivcoWest and TPG in
the acquisition of 73 office buildings from Mission West in
December, said Sebastien Theberge, an Ivanhoe Cambridge
spokesman. The firm has invested “well over” $500 million in
U.S. and European real estate in partnership with TPG, he said.  Patron Partnership  Last August, TPG and Patron Capital Ltd. took over more
than 200 offices and industrial properties owned by Uni-Invest
Holding NV after a 600 million-euro default.  In 2011, TPG teamed with Oaktree Capital Management LLC and
JH Investments Inc. to buy  Taylor Morrison (TMHC)  Home Corp., a
Scottsdale, Arizona-based homebuilder that operates as Taylor
Morrison in the U.S. and Monarch in Canada. Taylor Morrison is
planning to go public, and last month doubled the size of its
proposed initial share sale as homebuilding rebounds.  TPG -- which, unlike competitors Blackstone, KKR & Co. and
Carlyle Group LP, hasn’t gone public -- doesn’t list real estate
as a separate investment target on its website, nor is TPG’s
name found on the website of subsidiary Catellus, a development
company it bought in 2011 from Prologis Inc., along with
shopping centers, office buildings and land in the San Francisco
area.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG with Blicksilver
Public Relations Inc., said TPG executives declined to comment
on their real estate investments.  ‘Very Active’  “What they’re likely doing is building their track record
until they’re ready to raise a fund,” said Stephen Coyle, chief
investment officer of Cohen & Steers Global Realty Partners, the
private-equity fund unit of New York-based  Cohen & Steers Inc. (CNS) 
“They’ve been very active in the investment market. They’ve
been focused on distressed investments, whether through debt or
underperforming assets.”  TPG, started in 1992 as  Texas  Pacific Group, has done more
than 10 real estate deals since the beginning of 2011. That
year, TPG paid $505 million for a portfolio of non-industrial
properties that Prologis had acquired as part of its 2005
purchase of Catellus Development Corp. TPG also gained rights to
the Catellus name.  Kelvin Davis, a senior TPG partner who supervises North
American buyouts, has been overseeing TPG’s real estate
investments. Davis has a background in property, having worked
for Tom Barrack’s Colony Capital LLC, an investment firm that
owns real estate, before joining TPG. In January 2011, TPG hired
Avi Banyasz from Westbrook Partners and has brought in Adam Metz, former chief executive officer of General Growth
Properties Inc., the second-largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, as
a senior adviser.  Weaver Hiring  Some investors viewed the hiring of Robert Weaver in
October 2011 as a sign TPG would start a real estate fund.
Weaver, a senior executive at TPG, was previously at Morgan
Stanley, where his specialty was raising money from investors.
Morgan Stanley’s property-funds unit was the biggest real estate
investor among Wall Street firms until the credit crisis.  “I would expect them to raise a commingled fund in the
next year or two,” said New Jersey’s Walsh.  Last June, TPG invested $200 million for a 43 percent stake
in Parkway Properties at $11.25 a share, according to the REIT.
In December, TPG invested an additional $75.7 million at $13 a
share to maintain its stake when Parkway sold shares in a public
offering. The TPG investment helped fund Parkway’s $250 million
purchase of Hearst Tower, a trophy office building in downtown
 Charlotte , North Carolina.  Flagler Deal  Parkway, an Orlando, Florida-based REIT, owns office
buildings in the Southeast and Texas. Its stock closed at $17.65
yesterday.  In January, Parkway agreed to buy eight office buildings in
Jacksonville, Florida, for $130 million from Flagler, the Coral
Gables, Florida-based developer that  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG)  acquired in its 2007 purchase of Florida East Coast
Industries Inc.  TPG has the right to appoint four of Parkway’s nine board
members. In October, the company named C. William Hosler to its
board. Hosler is chief financial officer of Catellus and
previously served as CFO of Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funds.  “You have a small REIT that wasn’t well followed by the
Street and wasn’t big enough to attract the long-only index
funds,” Walsh said of the Parkway investment.  Residential Sale  TPG may be close to realizing some proceeds from another
real estate deal -- apartments it acquired in 2009 as part of an
investment in bankrupt lender Corus Bankshares Inc. through a
partnership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Starwood Capital Group LLC. ST Residential, which manages
properties on behalf of the partnership, said in January that
it’s selling 13 residential properties in eight states valued at
almost $1 billion after redesigning units and boosting occupancy
to 98 percent.  “We are excited to take this unique portfolio of high-
quality multifamily properties to market at a time when there is
very strong demand,” Davis, who represents TPG on ST
Residential’s board, said in a Jan. 18 statement.  “The Corus Bank transaction has performed extremely well
for the FDIC and our private investor group,” Barry Sternlicht,
Starwood’s chairman and CEO, said in the statement. The
partnership repaid $1.3 billion of FDIC notes and had more than
$1 billion of cash in hand, he said.  Deal Input  New Jersey’s investment division signed with TPG partly
because it got a break on fees and a say in potential deals,
said Walsh, the division director.  “They involve us in their investment process,” he said.
“You can just see by the performance of a lot of real estate
funds, you give them money and they buy at the wrong time. It’s
easy to get in, but tough to get out.”  The separate account also gives New Jersey the potential to
profit from real estate investments in  Europe .  “We don’t have much exposure overseas,” Walsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  