-- Pound Slides to Lowest Since 2010 Versus Dollar on U.S. Payrolls
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-08T16:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/pound-strengthens-against-euro-climbing-from-near-16-month-low.html
The pound dropped to the lowest
level since July 2010 against the dollar after a U.S. report
showed payrolls increased more than economists forecast,
underpinning demand for the greenback.  Sterling posted its fourth weekly slide against the dollar
as the data added to speculation the Federal Reserve is moving
closer to ending a program of asset-purchases designed to
kickstart the economy, while U.K. policy makers contemplate
additional stimulus measures. Gilts declined as demand for safer
assets waned.  “People are looking to buy the dollar against the most
vulnerable currencies, which happen to be the pound and the yen
at the moment,” said Neil Jones, head of European hedge fund
sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “While U.S. jobs
data came in stronger than expected, there’s lot of uncertainty
about the U.K. economic outlook.”  The pound fell 0.6 percent to $1.4928 at 4:45 p.m. London
time after sliding to $1.4885, the weakest level since July 1,
2010. Sterling strengthened 0.3 percent to 87.04 pence per euro.  The U.K. currency has dropped 6 percent this year, the
second-worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro rose 1.6 percent and the dollar gained 3.4 percent.  Employment in the U.S. rose by 236,000 last month after a
revised 119,000 gain in January, the Labor Department said in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast an
increase of 165,000.  Asset Purchases  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  said it sold the U.K. currency after the
Bank of England left its asset-purchase program unchanged
yesterday, citing concern Britain’s leaders will struggle to
stimulate growth.  “We sold sterling to express our view, given our already
underweight position in gilts,” Scott Thiel, the head of global
fundamental fixed income at BlackRock, the world’s biggest money
manager, said in e-mailed comments. BlackRock is cautious on the
U.K. because of “consistently above-target inflation, the
coalition government struggling to maintain a cohesive message”
and London’s waning dominance as an international business
center, he said.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s commitment to cutting
Britain’s debt isn’t working and is leaving the country in a
similar position to the “weaker” euro-area nations, Goldman
Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Mark Barton in Cernobbio, Italy.  It is unclear what further asset-buying stimulus by the
Bank of England would do to improve the U.K. economy as the
weakness of the pound is increasing import costs and
“cramping” consumers, O’Neill said.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  gilt  climbed five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.06 percent. The 1.75
percent bond due in September 2022 declined 0.43, or 4.30 pounds
per 1,000-pound face amount, to 97.32.  U.K. government bonds lost 1.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds and Treasuries both dropped 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 