-- PSG’s $164 Million in Miscellaneous Income Dwarfs Soccer Revenue
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-08T13:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/psg-s-164-million-in-miscellaneous-income-dwarfs-soccer-revenue.html
Paris Saint-Germain, the Qatari-
backed French team that recently signed  David Beckham , made more
money from miscellaneous sales than from its soccer income.  PSG has spent more money on players than any other team
since being acquired by the Qatar Investment Authority in 2011
and will have to meet new financial control regulations set by
European soccer’s governing body,  UEFA .  The club’s net loss during the 2011-12 season was kept down
to 5.5 million euros ($7.2 million) because of 125.4 million of
income from “other products,” according to  figures released  by
French soccer’s licensing authority, the DNCG. That income is
more than the team made from ticket sales, television rights and
sponsorships put together. They accounted for just 97 million
euros.  PSG, which is chasing its first French championship since
1994, qualified for the quarterfinals of the  Champions League 
this week. Clubs that fail to meet  UEFA’s  financial rules face
being banned from that competition from 2014, though lesser
sanctions are also possible. Team spokesman Yann Guerin didn’t
reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Le Parisian newspaper in December reported that the team
has an agreement worth between 150 million and 200 million euros
per season with the  Qatar Tourism Authority , and that it could
be back dated to when the new owners took control.  A group led by a former Belgian prime minister has been
charged with analyzing the accounts of teams wanting to play in
UEFA’s Champions League and Europa League competitions. Clubs
will have to prove agreements from related parties, like PSG’s
agreement with Qatar Tourism, mirror their true market value.  Showing Value  “Paris would have to show quite a lot of evidence what
value sponsors get from such a massive investment,” Daniel
Geey, a lawyer at London-based Field Fisher Waterhouse who
specializes in sport, said in an interview. “It will have to be
assessed to see if it’s fair value. That becomes tricky if there
aren’t any comparable.”  UEFA’s rules  allow teams to have a maximum loss of 5
million euros, or as much as 45 million euros as long as the
deficit is covered by an equity contribution, over two years
through 2013. The assessment period will be increased to three
years for future seasons.  The governing body, calculating from fiscal results from
2009, 2010 and 2011, found that 14 teams playing in European
club competitions this season had losses over the 45 million-
euro limit and another 32 clubs reported cumulative losses of
between 5 million euros and 45 million euros.  Under the Qataris, PSG has spent more than $350 million in
the transfer market buying players including Swedish striker
Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Argentines Javier Pastore and Ezequiel
Lavezzi and intends to continue spending.  “It’s necessary to become one of the great European
clubs,” PSG President Nasser Al-Khelaifi told  France ’s L’Equipe
newspaper in January. “Other clubs have invested for 20 years.
We have been there for a year and a half and now we must stop
pouring money? It would be unfair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  