-- Treasury Yields Rise to 11-Month High as Job Gains Top Forecasts
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-08T22:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/treasuries-drop-as-payrolls-increase-unemployment-rate-falls.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
note yields to an 11-month high, after U.S. employers added more
jobs than forecast and the unemployment rate fell, indicating
the Federal Reserve’s stimulus efforts are paying off.  Yields on 10-year notes had the biggest weekly increase in
almost a year as gauges of company hiring and U.S. services
industries rose more than forecast. The jobless  rate 
unexpectedly dropped to 7.7 percent last month, a four-year low.
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke reiterated last week the central
bank will keep buying bonds until there’s “substantial
improvement” in the labor market.  “I don’t know if we’re getting the bang for the buck in
terms of economic improvement, but clearly we’ve seen an
improvement,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New
York of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co.
“There’s nothing we’ve seen this week that makes me think the
Fed will pull its foot off the pedal yet.”  Ten-year note  yields  climbed five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.04 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. They touched 2.08
percent, the highest since April 5, 2012. Today was the fifth
straight day they increased, the longest stretch since August.
The price of the 2 percent security due in February 2023
decreased 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 20/32.  The benchmark yields advanced 20 basis points this  week ,
the most since the five days ended March 16, 2012. The gap
between yields on two- and 10-year notes reached 1.82 percentage
points, the most since April 6, 2012.  Thirty-year bond  yields rose four basis points to 3.24
percent and touched 3.28 percent, the highest since April 2012.  Wagers Decreased  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  decreased 
their net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending March 5, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 76,818 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-long positions  fell  by 39,090 contracts, the
most since Dec. 21, from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Treasury yields trimmed increases after reaching their
highs of the day.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  The rise in yields “has presented a decent buying
opportunity,” said Michael Pond, head of global inflation-
linked research at Barclays Plc, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “There are signs of improvement for sure,
but we think consumer spending will weigh on the economy and
that the back-up in rates is a bit overdone for now.”  Employment rose by 236,000 jobs last month after a revised
119,000 gain in January that was smaller than first estimated,
Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected an
advance of 165,000. Economists had forecast the unemployment
rate would hold steady at 7.9 percent.  “The bond market has been stubbornly below 2 percent,”
said William Larkin, a fixed-income money manager who helps
oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc. in Salem,
 Massachusetts . “With this number, people will question the
validity of being in the ultra-safe trade.”  The U.S. central bank has been acquiring $85 billion of
bonds each month under the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy
since the start of the year, $45 billion in Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage debt. The effort is designed to try to hold
down borrowing costs and encourage economic growth.  ‘Big Buyer’  “The Fed may start to come out of the equation as the big
buyer,” said Michael Franzese, senior vice president of fixed-
income trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in New York. “The
$85 billion may not last until January 2014.”  The central bank has also kept its benchmark  interest-rate 
target for overnight lending between banks in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy.  Policy makers reiterated after their January meeting the
rate will stay low as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent
and inflation is projected at no more than 2.5 percent.  Bernanke, in congressional testimony last week, defended
the Fed’s bond buying, saying the benefits of reducing borrowing
costs and fueling growth outweigh any potential drawbacks.  The economy added an average of 178,000 people a month to
nonfarm payrolls in 2011 and 2012, Labor Department data show.
The  jobless rate  had stayed above 8 percent since February 2009
until it broke the trend in September.  Gross’s Comments  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
today’s employment data won’t prompt the Fed to alter its
stimulus measures.  Bernanke, Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and New York Fed
Bank President William Dudley “have made it obvious that even
if unemployment gets to 6.5 percent, they are going to look
around,” Pacific Investment Management Co. founder Gross said
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “They are going to look at the participation rate, they
are going to look at the work rate, they are going to look at
productivity.”  The participation rate, which shows the share of working-
age people in the labor force, fell to 63.5 percent last month,
matching the lowest since September 1981, from 63.6 percent.  U.S. government securities fell this week and stocks rose,
with the Dow Jones  Industrial Average (INDU)  reaching a record, as the
Institute for Supply Management said U.S. services industries
unexpectedly expanded to a reading of 56 in February, the
highest in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  