-- Republican Outrage at USDA E-Mail Shows Mistrust of Cuts
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/republican-outrage-at-usda-e-mail-shows-mistrust-of-cuts.html
When an e-mail surfaced this week
that seemed to indicate spending reductions for U.S.
agricultural inspections were guided by public relations,
Republicans pounced. They said it proved their suspicions that
the administration is manipulating cuts for political gain.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture responded quickly with
more e-mails that it said showed the author was actually
agreeing with a proposal to ease the burden of the reductions.  The episode illustrates the fierce debate about how much
leeway U.S. agencies have in carrying out the $85 billion in
mandatory, across-the-board spending cuts known as
sequestration.  “For Republicans who don’t want to be blamed for
sequestration, it’s important to say there’s more flexibility
than you think there is. Don’t blame us,” said Gordon Adams, a
U.S. foreign policy professor at American University in
 Washington  who managed the national security budget at the White
House Office of Management and Budget during the Clinton
administration. “We’re at the finger-pointing time.”  The USDA e-mail came from a staffer at the agency’s Animal
and Plant Health Inspection Service in Raleigh, North Carolina.
After asking for latitude on cutting aid to farmers in 24 states
in managing wildlife damage to fish farming, he said he was told
that however reductions would be managed, “you need to make
sure that you are not contradicting what we said the impact
would be.”  Minimize Damage  The implication, said Republican Representative Kristi Noem
of South Dakota at a hearing of the House Agriculture Committee
this week, is that the department may not be using all of the
flexibility available to it under sequestration to 
damage.  The e-mail portrays a USDA that gives higher priority to
“staying consistent with the administration on what they
previously said than what they may decide to do to protect
producers,” Noem told Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack at the
hearing.  The e-mails were trumpeted on the websites of Republican
members of the House Agriculture Committee and news outlets such
as  Newsmax  and The Washington Times, which favor conservative
viewpoints.  USDA Reaction  The USDA employee’s suggested approach to cuts had already
been communicated to Congress as part of a previous budget
proposal and would be incorporated into sequestration as a way
to avoid furloughs of employees, spokeswoman Courtney Rowe said
in an e-mail yesterday.  The statement that employees shouldn’t contradict what the
department had told Congress wasn’t referring to sequestration,
Rowe said. It was referring to the 2013 budget proposal the
agency has submitted to Congress, she said.  “USDA is committed to doing all we can to minimize the
impact of sequester,” Rowe said.  A week into sequestration, it’s not clear which side is
winning the public relations battle, as the parties head into
negotiations to avoid a March 27 deadline when the government
loses the authority to spend money.  Obama hosted a March 6 dinner with Republican senators in
hopes of breaking an impasse on the budget, a rare step for a
president who has been accused of failing to lavish personal
attention on lawmakers.  The president’s change in tone is necessary because he’s
overplayed his hand on sequestration, said Republican
Representative Frank Lucas of  Oklahoma , the chairman of the
House Agriculture Committee.  ‘Cry Wolf’  “If you cry wolf loud enough, the sequestration goes on
for days and weeks and months and nobody notices, then you
really can save $85 billion out of $3.4 trillion and the world
won’t come to an end,” Lucas said yesterday at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast in Washington.  Adams at American University said it’s hard to declare a
winner in the budget battle so far in part because the pain of
the sequestration hasn’t really hit. It may never for most
Americans, he said.  “While this is a real management challenge, we’re seeing a
lot of overstatement,” he said in an interview. The Defense
Department has broad discretion to move money around in its
operations and maintenance account, for example, Adams said.  The law’s intent was that every program in the  federal
budget  would face the same cuts, said William Hoagland, senior
vice president at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington-
based group that promotes legislative compromise.  Political Problem  “If it turns out they’re not doing this across the board
cut, then it becomes a political problem,” because lawmakers
where the reductions hit will react angrily, Hoagland, who as a
Senate Republican budget staff aide helped negotiate the Gramm-
Rudman deficit reduction law that the sequestration is based
upon, said in an interview.  According to the law, cuts must come equally from projects,
programs and activities, Hoagland said. Even so, some agencies
have more discretion to spread the pain out over broader budget
accounts than others, he said.  “It’s very messy at the agency level in terms of impact,”
he said.  So far, some of the worst-case sequestration scenarios
haven’t panned out, and budget experts predict the pain will
come slowly as more workers are furloughed and agency services
are curtailed.  Vacation Destinations  Administration officials say threats of big cuts to popular
National Park Service destinations, or to airport services that
will delay travelers, aren’t scare tactics as Republicans have
alleged. Rather, they are real-world effects of trimming
$85 billion over the remaining months of the fiscal year, which
ends Sept. 30.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said the cuts would
lead to flight delays of 90 minutes at peak times at airports
such as those in New York and  Chicago . The Federal Aviation
Administration will begin furloughing staff on April 1, and more
than 230 control towers at smaller and mid-size airports may be
closed.  “Sequester doesn’t allow for moving money around,” LaHood
said in a briefing for reporters last month. “It just does
not.”  Republicans said the administration’s examples aren’t
chosen by accident.  “This is a political town, the legislative process is a
political process,” Lucas said. “It’s almost beyond
imagination” to think that White House decisions on managing
the sequester aren’t politically motivated, he said.  Hoagland said in the end both sides may be proved right:
Even if the administration has some flexibility to manage the
cuts, the reductions will hurt anyway.  “The administration hyped it up a little more than they
should have,” he said. “It’s not going to be the worst thing.
But there are going to be inconveniences, and those
inconveniences will grow over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  