-- Revel Casino Said to Plan Bankruptcy Filing This Month
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-08T17:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/revel-casino-said-to-plan-bankruptcy-filing-this-month.html
Revel AC Inc. will file for
bankruptcy sometime in the last two weeks of this month, less
than a year after its Atlantic City,  New Jersey , casino opened,
a person familiar with the plan said.  The resort will remain open during the court case and the
company is in the final stages of preparing the filing, which
was pre-arranged with creditors, the person said. The company
and a majority of creditors plan to use bankruptcy to cut about
$1 billion in debt, Revel said last month.  Ensuring that all creditors continue to support the
reorganization will be the biggest challenge to Revel’s plan to
exit bankruptcy quickly,  Charles A. Stanziale Jr. , an attorney
with McCarter & English LLP in  Newark , New Jersey, who isn’t
involved in the case, said in an interview.  “I’m not sure the value of the casino can ever match the
debt, so there has got to be some give between those holding the
debt” and the company, said Stanziale, who represented Trump
Entertainment Resorts when it put its  Atlantic City  property
into bankruptcy in February 2009.  Revel, Atlantic City’s first new casino since 2003, opened
in April at a cost of $2.6 billion. It struggled to generate
revenue to cover its interest costs, hurt by a weak economy and
new competing venues in Philadelphia, 60 miles (97 kilometers)
away. The company received $150 million in new funding from
lenders in December to help back its gaming projects.  Bankruptcy Filing  A group of Revel’s lenders will provide the company with
$250 million in so-called debtor-in-possession financing. About
$45 million of that loan will provide a new infusion of cash,
the company said last month in a statement.  The bankruptcy filing is likely any time from March 15 to
the end of the month, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly about the filing. Revel had about $1.3 billion of
debt and about $57.7 million of credit capacity on Sept. 28,
according to a regulatory filing. Creditors agreed to swap their
debt for equity in a reorganized company.  “The agreement we have reached with our lenders will
ensure that the hundreds of thousands of guests who visit Revel
every year will continue to enjoy a signature Revel experience
in our world-class facility,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin DeSanctis said in a statement last month.  Gambling revenue in Atlantic City fell 13.2 percent in
January to $205.6 million, the New Jersey Attorney General’s
Office said in a Feb. 11 statement. Revel had the second-lowest
gambling revenue among the market’s 12 resorts during the month,
according to data from the New Jersey Division of Gaming
Enforcement compiled by Bloomberg Industries analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  