-- Rooney Won’t Leave Manchester United Next Season, Ferguson Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-08T10:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/rooney-won-t-leave-manchester-united-next-season-ferguson-says.html
Wayne Rooney  will still be at
 Manchester United  next season despite his benching for a
Champions League match this week, manager  Alex Ferguson  said.  Rooney wasn’t in the starting lineup for United’s game with
Real Madrid three days ago, leading to U.K. media speculation
about the striker’s future at the Premier League club. Ferguson
denied those rumors at his  press conference  today ahead of this
weekend’s F.A. Cup quarterfinal match against Chelsea.  “Wayne will be here next year,” he said. “You have my
word on it. I have no issues at all with the player and he’ll be
involved on Sunday.”  Ferguson didn’t say whether Rooney would start the match at
Old Trafford.  The  Daily Mirror  reported yesterday that Ferguson was
preparing to sell Rooney at the end of the season for 35 million
pounds ($52.6 million). The Telegraph said that the fractured
relationship between the two men could see Rooney moved for as
little as 20 million pounds.  “The issue you’re all going on about in the papers is
absolute rubbish,” Ferguson said. “To suggest we don’t talk to
each other on the training ground is absolute nonsense.”  Ferguson reiterated his stance that Rooney’s benching was
purely tactical. He had said in interview before the Real match,
where United was eliminated by a 2-1 loss, that Danny Welbeck
was starting because he was a better fit going against Real
playmaker  Xabi Alonso .  “ Danny Welbeck  is the best player we have in terms of
operating in a double role,” Ferguson said. “We had to choke
Xabi Alonso’s ability to control the game, which Danny did, and
that took away Alonso’s control of the game and his ability to
go further forward and be an attacking player. We don’t always
get it right but we definitely did on Tuesday.”  Ferguson also remains upset over the red card given to
midfielder Nani by Turkish referee Cuneyt Cakir. The sending off
turned the contest as Real scored both of its goals with the man
advantage.  “It’s hard to keep your faith in the game when you see
things like that,” Ferguson, who didn’t speak with the media
after the match, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 