-- Troubled Berlin Airport Gets New Chief as Prestige Project Slips
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-08T12:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/troubled-berlin-airport-gets-new-chief-as-prestige-project-slips.html
Berlin’s new capital airport, beset
by opening delays and cost overruns, named Hartmut Mehdorn as
its new chief, recruiting a manager who built his reputation on
turnarounds from the national railway to an ailing airline.  Mehdorn, who fills a post that’s been vacant since January,
wants to rebuild trust with the airline customers, he said today
at a press conference in Berlin.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she wished Mehdorn well in his “complex” new task managing the
so-called Berlin Brandenburg Airport.  “Berlin needs an airport, and that’s why we have to do
everything so that this airport is completed as quickly as
possible,” Merkel told reporters today in Munich.  The new airport, located southeast of the capital city near
the footprint of the current Schoenefeld site, was supposed to
start operating last June, a date that has been pushed back
several times as construction and planning faults emerged. A new
date hasn’t been identified and costs have more than doubled to
4.3 billion euros ($5.5 billion) from 2006, when construction
started,  Der Spiegel  said in  January .  Mehdorn stepped down from  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Germany’s second-
largest carrier, this year after initiating a turnaround. He
previously ran Deutsche Bahn AG, the national railway, where he
presided over large-scale infrastructure projects including the
new main train terminus in Berlin and high-speed rail links
across the country.  Berlin has been forced to extend the lifespan of its Tegel
airport in the western part of the city, which is running out of
capacity. Tegel was originally built for fewer than 10 million
passengers, and now serves twice that amount each year.  Carriers including Air Berlin and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
have built new facilities at the Berlin Brandenburg airport, and
airlines are in negotiations with the operator how to recoup
some of the losses incurred by the delays.  Germany ’s biggest
airport is in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  