-- Royal Caribbean Says 105 Passengers Taken Ill on Ship
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-08T21:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/royal-caribbean-says-105-passengers-taken-ill-on-vision-of-seas.html
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  said
105 passengers on its Vision of the Seas cruise liner became ill
with a stomach bug thought to be norovirus.  The ship, which arrived in Port Everglades,  Florida , this
morning, will depart on schedule at 4:30 p.m. this afternoon,
Miami-based Royal Caribbean said today in a statement. The
vessel has gone through “an extensive and thorough sanitizing
onboard” and inside the terminal, the company said.  “An elevated number,” or more than 5 percent of the
vessel’s 1,991 passengers were taken ill, in addition to three
of the 772 crew members, the company said. Those affected are
being treated with over-the-counter medication.  A new norovirus, identified in Sydney last March, has
sickened more than 1 million people worldwide, often in nursing
homes and cruise ships. There were 16 outbreaks of the virus
reported to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
2012, affecting 2,791 of 10.3 million travelers who embarked on
a cruise ship from a U.S. port,  according  to the Cruise Lines
International Association.  “Historic incidence rates of gastrointestinal illness
aboard cruise ships are low,” said David Peikin, director of
public affairs for the trade group. Cruise lines take steps to
keep sick passengers off ships and prevent the spread of
illnesses onboard when they occur, he said.  The norovirus can be spread from an infected person to food
or water, or by touching contaminated surfaces. It causes the
stomach or intestines, or both, to become inflamed, leading to
pain, nausea, and diarrhea,  according  to the CDC.  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s 14-deck Queen Mary 2 sailed into Brooklyn
Jan. 3, after 204 passengers and 16 crew came down with
suspected norovirus. A week earlier, Carnival’s Emerald Princess
arrived in Fort Lauderdale after 189 passengers and 31 crew had
developed the same symptoms, the CDC said.  Royal Caribbean fell 3 percent to $33.31 at the close in
New York. The shares have dropped 2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  