-- Royce Seeks Tough U.S. Sanctions on North Korea After UN
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-03-09T02:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/royce-seeks-tough-u-s-sanctions-on-north-korea-after-un.html
Representative Ed Royce, chairman of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee, says the U.S. should
increase the economic pressure on North Korea to force its
leaders to abandon their nuclear weapons program, and sees a
chance that  China  might support such efforts.  Royce, a California Republican, said yesterday that
imposing sanctions on financial institutions such as Banco Delta
 Asia  that the North Korean regime uses for illicit transactions
could be an important tool in the effort. He spoke a day after
the United Nations  Security Council  voted 15-0 to impose its own
sanctions against the Communist nation.  “What’s interesting is how much of their hard currency
comes from dealing in contraband,” Royce said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. “If you look at how the state receives
money, it manufacturers meth and then it sells it. It sells
rogue missiles that are manufactured there. It counterfeits
currency.”  Royce, who is drafting his own sanctions legislation, said
that during a recent trip to China and North Korea he met with
 Li Keqiang , China’s incoming premier. Royce said that China is
“increasingly irritated” by the fact that North Korean
dictator Kim Jong Un is threatening others in the region and
potentially sparking a nuclear arms race.  If the U.S. gets tough on North Korean financial
institutions, “I think China will sort of be forced to comply
and in some ways will want to comply,” Royce said.  ‘Illicit Activity’  China,  North Korea ’s largest trading partner, drafted with
the U.S. the UN resolution, which targets “illicit activity”
by North Korean diplomats, bulk transfers of cash, and banks and
companies funneling funds or materials to support the country’s
ballistic missile and nuclear arms programs.  In response, North Korea yesterday carried out its threat
to scrap the 1953 armistice that ended the Korean war. The
regime’s foreign ministry denounced the sanctions resolution and
said the Security Council was “abused” to help carry out the
“hostile policy of the U.S.,” according to a statement carried
today by the official Korean Central News Agency.  In  Venezuela , where elections will be held in a month to
replace President  Hugo Chavez  after his March 5 death, Royce
said the U.S. should use broadcasts from the  U.S. Information
Agency  to undercut the front-runner to replace him, vice
president  Nicolas Maduro .  Before Chavez’s death, Maduro -- who is to become interim
president -- lashed out at the U.S., expelling two American
diplomats and accusing the U.S. and other nations of poisoning
Chavez with cancer.  Broadcast Monopoly  Royce said the goal of the U.S. information campaign should
be to help Miranda state Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski,
who lost “a quite close” election challenge to Chavez in
October, rise up to the presidency.  “The problem in Venezuela is when you run against the
president, he has seized all the means of communication,” Royce
said. “So if other countries or broadcasting stations can
broadcast in the message of the opposition to sort of balance
this, this time that popular governor who just won re-election
might win the election.”  On another issue, Royce said he remains supportive of the
use of unmanned aerial drones in attacks on suspected members
and allies of al-Qaeda overseas. He said the administration has
now clearly taken “off the table” any notion of using them on
American citizens on U.S. soil.  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, this week held a
more than 12-hour filibuster on the Senate floor, refusing to
allow a vote on the nomination of  John Brennan  as CIA director
until the administration made clear it wouldn’t use drones on
Americans in the U.S. who aren’t engaged in combat.  Holder Letter  A letter Attorney General Eric Holder sent to Paul on March
7 explicitly made clear the president won’t do so, Royce said.  “You have a decision out of the administration to release
out of the attorney general’s office a statement that drones
will not be used on U.S. soil against U.S. citizens,” he said.
“And I think that perhaps takes it off the table.”  Brennan won confirmation in a 63-34 vote on March 7, and
was sworn in yesterday as the Central Intelligence Agency’s
chief by Vice President  Joe Biden  in a White House ceremony.  At a time when Congress is entering its third year of a
debate over how best to curb U.S.  debt , Royce said he favors
returning to negotiations over a “grand bargain” to replace
the across-the-board cuts known as sequestration that will have
a disproportionate impact on his home state. “Everything is on
the table,” including tax increases, he said, adding that the
only way to get a broader deal is to see more willingness from
Democrats to cut entitlement programs such as  Social Security .  “It’s possible,” he said of a broad debt deal, “but we
still have to move the administration in terms of real changes
in entitlements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  