-- Royce Seeks Tough U.S. Sanctions on North Korea (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-03-08T22:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/royce-seeks-tough-u-s-sanctions-on-north-korea-transcript-.html
Representative Ed Royce, chairman of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that the U.S. should increase the economic
pressure on North Korea to force its leaders to abandon their
nuclear weapons program, and sees a chance China might support
such efforts.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Congressman Ed Royce of
 California , the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. Chairman, thank you for being with us.  ED ROYCE: Thank you, Al.  HUNT: Let’s start with Venezuela. Hugo Chavez is dead. Vice
President Maduro already has kicked out U.S. embassy officials,
accused us of poisoning Chavez. He’s favored to win elections
and says he’s going to continue those policies. What should the
Obama administration policy be towards  Venezuela ?  ROYCE: Well, in their constitution in Venezuela, there is
an election in 30 days. And as a consequence, there was a very -
a quite close election with a very popular governor in - in
Venezuela who is going to run again. And if we can do anything
to broadcast in - the problem in Venezuela is when you run
against the president, he has seized all the means of
communication. So if other - if other countries or broadcasting
stations can broadcast in the message of the opposition to sort
of balance this, this time that popular governor who just won
re-election might win the election.  HUNT: So is that - is that the USIA? Should the U.S. be
more active in doing that?  ROYCE: We definitely should be.  HUNT: More active?  ROYCE: And I hope the administration will do that. Also,
the international community should try to put fair election
observers in play here to get a fair and free election. Because
the prior regime has so collapsed the economy, hyper-inflation,
devaluation of the currency, just absolutely tanked the standard
of living, that there is now an opportunity if they can hear
another viewpoint, especially with the last election being so
close.  HUNT: If Maduro wins in a sympathy vote and he continues
these kind of policies, how far should the U.S. go? Should we
cut off oil from Venezuela?  ROYCE: Well, I think the reality is that it’s going to be
far harder for him - for the vice president than for  Hugo
Chavez . Chavez was one of these charismatic strongmen down there
that had a much - it’s hard to replace that.  And second, you already have the estrangement between  Iran 
and Venezuela. If you noticed that speech that Ahmadinejad,
who’s at the funeral today, that speech that he gave was very
unpopular inside Iran where he said when the - when the imam is
resurrected, Hugo Chavez will be resurrected with him. And of
course this was taken as blasphemy by - and so I think you
already see the distancing. You’re not going to see that close a
relationship where Venezuela is going to be able to help skirt
sanctions for Iran.  So I think you’re going to see more isolation. Besides,
 Colombia , the standard of living is so robust. The economic
changes that are occurring under the neo-liberal order -
economic order is such a contrast for Latin Americans that I do
think this is a situation where it’s increasingly looking more
like East Germany versus  West Germany  when you look at those two
countries.  HUNT: Let me turn to  Asia . You just got back from a trip to
 China . North Korea has threatened a preemptive nuclear strike
against the US. I don’t think we take that seriously, but they
are a real rogue state. What would - you say let’s treat them
like the Mafia. What would you do? What would you do that we’re
not doing now?  ROYCE: What’s interesting is how much of their hard
currency comes from dealing in contraband. So if you look at how
the state receives money, it - it manufactures meth and then it
sells it. It - it sells rogue missiles that are manufactured
there. It counterfeits currency.  HUNT: So what can we do?  ROYCE: And so what we can do is - is the Proliferation
Security Initiative. There is now renewed interest on the part
of all the neighboring states in simply stopping and checking
all the ships that come in and out of  North Korea , and perhaps
again sanctions on Banco Delta Asia or those financial
institutions that are used for transactions with the regime -
regime. If that is done - as you noticed in 2005, it was done
for a year and the result was the regime could not get its hands
on the hard currency, and as a result it impacted their ability
for their missile program and some of their other R&D.  HUNT: Are you confident that China would go along with
ratcheting up any sanctions? And is there any indication they
may be evading some of the sanctions now?  ROYCE: I had the opportunity to speak to the new premier in
China a few - three weeks ago when we had a delegation there.
And the - the inclination - China in my view is becoming
increasingly irritated at this young leader’s reluctance to take
any counsel and to behave in - like a rogue regime threatening
everyone in the vicinity. As the Chinese have observed and as
we’ve observed, we do not want to see an arms race, with  South
Korea ,  Taiwan ,  Japan  all going nuclear. But nothing will drive
that more surely than this type of bellicose, threatening
behavior.  HUNT: So you think China’s going to be with us now?  ROYCE: I think there’s a chance that we can get China,
especially - you’ll notice when we put the sanctions on in 2005,
when we caught them counterfeiting our currency, those sanctions
were applied on those banks in Macao. And the consequence was
that they could not in the regime in North Korea obtain the hard
currency they needed. I think we do that again, and I think
China will sort of be forced to comply and in some ways will
want to comply.  HUNT: The dreaded sequester everybody likes - or dislikes.
Everyone dislikes. Your senator,  Dianne Feinstein , says
California is going to get hit the hardest, lose $9 billion. Do
you think it proportionally is worse for California, and when do
you think there might be an alternative or will there not be?  ROYCE: Well, obviously this is a bad way to make law. If we
think back to the original proposal, we know why it was made.
The concept was out of the White House if - they promoted this.
They proposed this. They thought if this is part of the deal the
Republicans will back off because they won’t want to make the
defense cuts, right? But now the deal wasn’t made in the interim
and so this goes into effect. I think the grand bargain, as it’s
called, is the way to go because -  HUNT: You think it’s a realistic possibility?  ROYCE: - I think it’s possible, but we still have to move
the administration in terms of real changes in entitlements.  HUNT: If you get real changes in entitlements, they give on
that, Republicans give a little on revenues, that’s the grand
bargain?  ROYCE: Well, I think at that point we could probably look
at closing loopholes. But let’s think for a minute. Republicans
already got hit in the minds of Republicans because on Jan. 1
you already had the taxes go up.  HUNT: Let me make sure I got this right.  ROYCE: But if it’s a part of a grand bargain and out of
that you get enough - enough in the way of real deficit
reduction, here’s our concern on the Republican side. We have
not seen that in terms of entitlements.  HUNT: But if you do get enough. That’s the key.  ROYCE: And I think everything’s on the table.  HUNT: Let me - final question. Is Rand Paul right in the
vehement objections he has to the administration’s use of
drones?  ROYCE: Well, I think - I think you have a decision out of
the administration to release out of the attorney general’s
office a statement that drones will not be used on U.S. soil
against US citizens. And I think that perhaps takes it off the
table.  HUNT: So should we be using drones the way we are now
extensively around the world?  ROYCE: Overseas, absolutely. And so I think the question
was simply one of defining whether that was going to be used
domestically to target an attack on a U.S. citizen. And I think
that categorically was - a decision was made by the
administration to take the position in order to take that off
the table.  HUNT: Chairman Royce, thank you so much for being with us
today.  ROYCE: Thank you, Al. Good to be with you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 