-- Rupee Sees Best Asia Gain as Won Falls on North Korean Threat
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-03-08T21:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/rupee-sees-best-asia-gain-this-week-won-falls-on-north-s-threat.html
India ’s rupee posted the biggest
gain in  Asia  this week as improving data in the U.S. spurred a
rally in global stocks and inflows to  emerging markets . South
Korea’s won fell as tensions with  North Korea  intensified.  Indonesia and Philippine equity indexes reached records
after U.S. services and jobless numbers drove the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to an all-time high, boosting prospects for
the region’s exports to the world’s biggest economy. Global
funds poured a net $1.1 billion into shares in India, Indonesia,
the  Philippines  and South Korea during the week. The won dropped
after North Korea warned it may act against the U.S. and other
“aggressors” to defend its “supreme interests.”  “Asian currencies were supported by equity-related
inflows,” said Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-based economist at
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  “At the start of the week, the
markets were concerned over tightening measures in  China , in
particular relating to the property sector.”  The rupee climbed 1.1 percent during the five days to
54.2925 per dollar in Mumbai, the biggest weekly advance since
Jan. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan rose
0.14 percent to 6.2147 and Thailand’s baht advanced 0.2 percent
to 29.71.  Morgan Stanley is bullish on the rupee and predicts  India’s
economy  will expand 6.3 percent in the year through March 2014,
following estimated growth of around 5 percent in the current
period, as the government looks to attract foreign investment
and improve public finances.  “Prospective monetary policy easing over the first quarter
is likely to be positive for growth expectations and support the
currency,” Kritika Kashyap, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a research report received yesterday.  North Korea  South Korea ’s won fell yesterday after the threats from
North Korea. The UN Security Council voted unanimously to impose
tougher sanctions on North Korea over its latest nuclear test, a
measure that may cause provocation from the communist nation,
South Korean central bank Senior Deputy Governor Park Won Shik
said at an emergency meeting in Seoul yesterday.  The Kospi index of stocks dropped 1 percent this week, its
worst five-day performance since the end of January. The won
closed 0.3 percent lower at 1,090.46 in Seoul for a weekly drop
of 0.5 percent.  “Concerns that North Korean risks are heightening are
driving investors away, weakening the currency and the stock
market,” said Jang Bo Hyeong, analyst at Hana Institute of
Finance in Seoul.  Yuan Appreciation  The  yuan  had a second weekly gain, supported by the
People’s Bank of China raising the fixing yesterday by the most
in a month, amid speculation policy makers will allow
appreciation to help contain inflation.  Consumer prices currently face pressure from imported
inflation and carry over effects, the China Securities Journal
reported yesterday, citing central bank Deputy Governor Pan Gongsheng. A rate of more than 3.5 percent may warrant an
increase in borrowing costs, probably in late 2013 or early
2014, Cheng Dongqi, a government researcher, said March 7.  The government reported February trade data yesterday that
beat forecasts. Overseas sales increased 21.8 percent from a
year earlier, compared with a 25 percent advance in January and
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 8.1 percent.  “With inflation likely to rise from the middle of the
year, the yuan will have to be allowed to appreciate to help
curb prices,”  Nizam Idris , head of Asian fixed income and
foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore ,
wrote in a research report yesterday. Policy makers will be
“more tolerant of some yuan appreciation in the months ahead,”
he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.2 percent this
week to NT$29.718 against the U.S. currency, while the
Philippine peso was little changed at 40.675. Indonesia’s rupiah
weakened 0.1 percent to 9,685 and Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 0.2
percent to 3.1060.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  