-- S&P Ratings Debate Doesn’t Show Fraud, Peterson Says
-- B y   A l a n   G o l d s t e i n
-- 2013-03-08T01:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/s-p-ratings-debate-doesn-t-show-fraud-peterson-says.html
Analysts at Standard & Poor’s, the
ratings firm accused by the U.S. of misleading investors about
the risks of mortgage bonds that helped ignite the financial
crisis, were arguing the merits of their views on debt opinions,
not committing fraud, President Doug Peterson said.  “Our culture has always been characterized by vigorous
debate and robust analysis,” Peterson said yesterday in a video
message that the world’s largest ratings firm sent to clients.
“There may have been differing opinions within S&P and some
were strongly held but that is not evidence of fraud.”  The Justice Department sued S&P and its parent,  New York- 
based  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , in federal court in Los Angeles on Feb.
4, alleging analysts inflated ratings on mortgage securities and
collateralized debt obligations leading up to the seizure in
credit markets to win business from Wall Street banks. The civil
lawsuit seeks about $5 billion in penalties, equivalent to more
than five years of McGraw-Hill profit. S&P said on Feb. 5 the
lawsuit is without merit.  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion of residential mortgage-
backed securities and about $1.2 trillion of CDOs from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the Justice Department
complaint. When the U.S. housing boom collapsed, the world’s
largest banks reported $2.1 trillion in losses and writedowns,
triggering the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
and costing 8.8 million people their jobs.  ‘Deeply Regret’  The Justice Department accuses S&P in its complaint of
falsely representing to investors that its ratings were
objective, independent and uninfluenced by any conflicts of
interest. The company shaped its ratings to suit its  business 
needs by weakening adjustments to its analytical models and by
issuing inflated rankings on CDOs collectively worth hundreds of
billions of dollars, according to the complaint.  In the 128-page civil complaint, the U.S. cites internal
e-mail exchanges to bolster its case, including one in which an
S&P analyst allegedly told a colleague in April 2007 that deals
“could be structured by cows and we would rate it.”  “In hindsight, our rating opinions turned out to be
insufficient in anticipating the speed, depth and duration of
the housing crisis,” Peterson said in the video. “This is
something we deeply regret. But we do not believe the government
can prove that this was the product of intentional misconduct by
anyone at S&P.”  ‘Key Enablers’  S&P,  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO)  and Fitch Ratings were “key
enablers of the financial meltdown,” the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, created by Congress with a 10-member
bipartisan board, said in its January 2011 report. “This crisis
could not have happened without the rating agencies.”  The government didn’t sue Moody’s or Fitch. Peterson said
in the video that S&P’s ratings on CDOs cited in the complaint
were “identical” to those from rival firms, and that its
underlying assumptions about the U.S. real estate market were
“consistent” with the opinions expressed at the time by the
Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve.  “Our ratings were independent and issued by us in good
faith, based upon the views of our rating committees at the
time,” Peterson said.  The FCIC’s report also blamed the crisis on lenders’
irresponsible and sometimes fraudulent practices; regulators’
inattention and overconfidence; and the recklessness of
borrowers and investors.  State Lawsuits  McGraw-Hill faces lawsuits from 16 states and the District
of Columbia in addition to the federal case, which may not go to
trial for “two to three years,” Kenneth Vittor, the company’s
chief counsel, said on a conference call Feb. 12.  The company is asking for those lawsuits to be moved to
federal court, where it may claim S&P is protected by the U.S.
Constitution’s guarantee of free speech. McGraw-Hill filed so-
called notices of removal in several courts to put the cases
under federal jurisdiction and combine them for pretrial
matters, such as the exchange of evidence and questioning of
witnesses.  In federal court, the cases will be “adjudicated in a
manner that takes into account the significant federal
regulatory and constitutional issues that are necessarily and
directly implicated,” the company said in papers filed this week
in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The Delaware case is State of Delaware v. McGraw-Hill Cos.,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The U.S.
case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  