-- SAS Predicts First Annual Profit Since 2007 on Cost-Cut Plan
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-08T09:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sas-predicts-first-annual-profit-since-2007-as-cuts-plan-sticks.html
SAS Group (SAS) , the Nordic region’s
largest airline, said it may post its first annual profit since
2007 this fiscal year as job cuts, new pay agreements and the
disposal of assets lifts margins.  SAS rose as much as 7.1 percent after saying there’s a
“possibility” it will achieve a positive pretax result and
earnings before interest and tax equal to more than 3 percent of
sales, assuming a stable fuel price and no external shocks.  Unit costs fell 7 percent in January thanks to the revamp,
SAS said, and the outsourcing of ground handling to Swissport
International Ltd., announced yesterday, will deliver further
savings. The pretax loss for the 12 months to Jan. 31 narrowed
to 1.39 billion kronor ($220 million) from 1.82 billion-krona a
year earlier. Analysts had  predicted  a 1.42 billion-kronor loss.  “We have now provided ourselves with greater control of
our fate,” Chief Executive Officer Rickard Gustafson said in a
statement from Stockholm-based SAS. “Actions taken by our
employees, which enabled us to enter into new and market-based
agreements, were a crucial step toward making SAS profitable.”  SAS shares were trading 6.4 percent higher at 15 krona as
of 10:46 a.m. in the Swedish capital, extending gains this year
to 90 percent and valuing the company at 4.92 billion kronor.
The stock has lost value during each of the past six years.  Disposal Hurdle  “They’re moving in the right direction, but there’s still a
question mark on how to sell the assets they have,” said Finn Bjarke Petersen, an analyst with Nordea markets in Copenhagen
with a “sell” rating on the stock.  The Scandinavian company is seeking to slash expenses as
low-cost carriers including Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA on short-
haul routes and network operators such as  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group
and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  reduce their own cost bases.  “We have anticipated that long-haul competition will
increase with Norwegian entering into the market, and that is
embedded into our plan,” Gustafson said on conference call. “We
have a strong footprint in the corporate and business market.”  SAS’s 4Excellence savings plan, introduced in November,
aims to deliver 3 billion kronor in savings over the next two
years. The planned sale to Swissport of a 51 percent stake in
the ground-handling division, which employs 5,000 people, is
part of a plan to raise the same amount through divestments.  The savings drive includes job cuts and simplification of
the tri-national company’s management. Centralization of traffic
monitoring in  Stockholm  has reduced the staff requirement by 30
percent while retaining punctuality, and SAS has also signed an
agreement to outsource  call centers  to a third party, it said.  Gustafson said the disposal of airport-related properties
is also under way, while the process of selling Norwegian
offshoot Wideroe “has begun and is proceeding as planned.”  SAS also struck a sale and leaseback agreement last month
for surplus aircraft engines which will boost liquidity by 700
million kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  