-- Schrager Says Miami Condo Demand Surging on Record Deal
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-03-08T16:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/schrager-says-miami-condo-demand-surging-on-record-deal.html
Ian Schrager  said domestic and
international buyers are driving unprecedented demand for luxury
property in the Miami area, where two penthouses at one of his
developments are under contract for a record $34 million.  “It’s a new Miami,” Schrager, the pioneer of the
boutique-hotel concept, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” withBetty Liu. “It’s no longer
just a beach resort and seasonal. Apartments fly out the door.”  An undisclosed U.S. buyer earlier this week agreed to pay
$34 million for the two unfinished penthouses at the Edition in
 Miami Beach , the luxury lodging-and-residential project Schrager
is developing with  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  If the deal is
completed, it would be the biggest south Florida condo sale on
record, said Peter Zalewski, principal at  Condo Vultures LLC , a
brokerage and consulting firm based in Bal Harbour.  Half of the Miami Beach development’s 26 condominiums are
under contract, according to  William Pierce , the Coldwell Banker
sales associate who represented the buyer of the two adjacent
penthouses.  The Edition’s  condos , which start at $2.4 million for a
one-bedroom, have been selling at about $3,000 per square foot,
triple the area’s average market price, Schrager said in the
interview. Demand is coming mostly from U.S. buyers, with
interest from  South America  and  Europe  likely to pick up in the
warmer months, he said.  Rooftop Pools  Together, the two triplex penthouses have eight bedrooms
and 11 bathrooms and total 16,200 square feet (1,505 square
meters), including more than 6,000 square feet of outdoor space,
Pierce said. Each has a rooftop swimming pool and views of Miami
and the Atlantic Ocean.  The buyer made a 40 percent deposit this week with the
intention of paying the balance in March 2014, after the
completion of the project, according to Pierce.  Because it was a pre-construction commitment, the deal may
not be completed at the agreed-upon price, according to Zalewski
of Condo Vultures.  “Right now, it’s essentially a reservation until the units
are finished,” he said. “In the past few years, despite a pre-
determined price, we have seen many units being discounted by
the actual sale’s day.”  If the sale is completed at $34 million, it would top the
record $27 million deal January for a penthouse at the Setai in
Miami Beach, according to Condo Vultures.  Marriott, the largest publicly traded hotel chain, is
investing about $900 million within five years to jump-start the
Edition brand, the Bethesda, Maryland-based company said during
its fourth-quarter earnings call last month. An Edition hotel
will open in  London  in mid-2013, according to the company.
Marriott also plans to open an Edition property in  New York .  Schrager, through his Ian Schrager Co., is also expanding
his Public-branded chain of less expensive hotels with high-end
amenities in major cities. He opened his first Public hotel in
 Chicago  in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  