-- Scotland’s Biggest Fund Managers Boost Assets as Widows Trails
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-03-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/scotland-s-biggest-fund-managers-boost-assets-as-widows-trails.html
Scotland ’s four largest money
managers increased their assets by a combined 2.5 percent in the
last three months of 2012, beating gains in global stock and
bond indexes for a second successive quarter.  Led by  Baillie Gifford & Co.  and  Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc (ADN) , assets rose to 587.8 billion pounds ($885 billion) at the
end of the year from 573.4 billion pounds three months earlier,
according to company filings and statements on their websites.
That offset a decline at  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership ,
the Edinburgh-based unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   The rise in assets compares with a 1.5 percent gain in
pound terms for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , a benchmark of global
stocks, over the same period. The Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Index of bonds with a maturity of between seven and 10 years
also advanced 1.5 percent. Standard Life Investments said
yesterday there was growing appetite for stock funds. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  hit a record this week.  “We are seeing a very early toe in the water with people
moving away from low-yielding cash and bonds into equities,”
Keith Skeoch, chief executive officer at Standard Life
Investments, said on a conference call with reporters.  Combined funds at the four companies increased 9.1 percent
in 2012, the statements show. The MSCI World Index gained 8.1
percent in pound terms over the 12 months, while the Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Index advanced 9.1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Biggest Gainer  Baillie Gifford, owned by its partners, increased assets
most in percentage terms in the fourth quarter and over 2012.
Funds under management rose 4.9 percent in the October-December
period, to 85 billion pounds, based on  statements  on the firm’s
website. That was 22 percent higher than a year earlier.  Aberdeen’s funds under management rose 3.3 percent in the
final quarter to 193.4 billion pounds, up 11 percent for the
year, it said in a Jan. 17 statement. The company agreed last
month to buy a fixed-income investor and a private-equity firm
that will take assets above 200 billion pounds.  Standard Life Investments, Edinburgh’s largest fund
company, said yesterday assets under management were 167.7
billion pounds on Dec. 31, up 2.6 percent in the quarter and 9.1
percent from the start of 2012.  Net inflows from external clients increased 42 percent to
6.1 billion pounds last year, insurance parent  Standard Life Plc (SL/) 
said in its earnings statement.  At Scottish Widows Investment, assets fell 0.1 percent to
141.7 billion pounds in the quarter, Lloyds said in its earnings
report on March 1. That was 1.3 percent higher than a year
earlier, while profitability increased, the company said.  Changing Managers  Scottish Widows Investment, Scotland’s third-largest money
manager, is the only one of the top four fund managers not
actively managing most of its equity investments. In April last
year, the company said it was axing 27 of its 38 stock money
managers and turning to computer-generated strategies, known as
quant investing, to cut risk for clients.  “We made important changes to the business, including the
restructuring of our equities business which helped deliver
better outcomes for our clients,” Dean Buckley, chief executive
officer of Scottish Widows Investment, said in a statement. “We
also continued to build on the strong performance in our real
estate and fixed-income businesses.”  The following is a list of the fund companies and their
assets under management in billions of pounds as of Dec. 31,
Sept. 30, and Dec. 31, 2011. 