-- SEC Tech Update, Money-Fund Tax, NFL Adviser: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-08T13:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sec-tech-update-money-fund-tax-nfl-adviser-compliance.html
Exchanges and clearinghouses would
be required to maintain adequate technology systems and report
disruptions under a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission plan
for the first update of automation principles in 22 years.  SEC commissioners were set to vote at a meeting yesterday
on measures that could also include large brokerages and dark
pools in the requirement to regularly audit information systems
for safety and stability. Companies would be required to stress
test their automated systems for how they react to crises.  The SEC is working to minimize damage from failures caused
by automated system errors such as the trading malfunction by
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  in August, which almost bankrupted the
firm and led to its sale to Getco LLC. Exchanges and
clearinghouses for more than 20 years have been subject to a
voluntary program relying on self-audits and SEC inspections.  The SEC has said it accelerated the proposal after the
Knight Capital malfunction. The agency already has enacted rules
requiring broker checks against erroneous orders and circuit
breakers that halt trading during periods of extraordinary
volatility.  The new rule could expand the program’s reach beyond
exchanges and clearinghouses to large brokers and dark pools,
David Shillman, associate director in the SEC’s division of
trading and markets, said in September.  In a speech two weeks ago, SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter
said significant alternative trading systems probably would be
included in the proposal.  The SEC last issued policy guidance about the program to
exchanges and clearing firms in May 1991.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Staff Said to Review Floating Money-Fund Values With IRS  Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission have
met with the Internal Revenue Service to discuss tax
implications if money-market mutual funds were to adopt a
floating share price, two people familiar with the talks said.  Discussions have centered on the tax treatment of small
gains and losses for investors in funds, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks weren’t public. IRS
officials have told the securities regulator that they don’t
have much flexibility to interpret current tax law, one of the
people said.  The discussions suggest SEC staffers are developing a more
detailed proposal to force money funds to adopt a floating share
price, a move the industry has said would destroy their appeal.
One such proposal prepared last year under the direction of
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  was rejected by three of her
four fellow commissioners in August, even before they were
presented with a formal draft.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
money funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund. Schapiro’s plan aimed to make
funds less susceptible to runs and better able to absorb losses.
It would have offered funds a choice of replacing their fixed $1
share price with a floating price that reflects the market value
of holdings, or creating capital reserves and restricting
redemptions.  Following the rejection, Schapiro appealed for help from
the Financial Stability Oversight Council, whose job it is to
identify systemic financial threats. The council acted in
November, pressuring the SEC to revisit the issue and
recommending several reform options, including a floating share
value and capital buffers.  Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said in a Jan.
16 speech that SEC staff were preparing a rule-making proposal
he expected to see before the end of March.  CME Swap-Data Routing Plan Backed by CFTC Over Rivals’ Objection  CME Group Inc. (CME)  won regulatory approval to have information
about swaps routed to its own database over the objections of
the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. and banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 4-0 to grant
Chicago-based CME, owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, the authority. New York-based DTCC, operator of a
rival database, has said it might sue the CFTC if the CME’s
proposal was approved.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory overhaul, gave the CFTC and
Securities and Exchange Commission authority to write rules
requiring swap data to be reported to the agencies and the
public. The law, enacted in response to the 2008 credit crisis,
set up so-called swap data repositories as record-keepers for
information about buyers and sellers, volume and prices.  The DTCC has said the CME plan fails to comply with more
than a year of CFTC rulemaking and would lead to worse oversight
of the market because data will be fragmented.  Larry Thompson, DTCC’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement that the CME rule is anticompetitive. DTCC and other
market participants are considering possible responses, he said.  JPMorgan in a Jan. 11 letter to the CFTC said the CME
proposal is an anticompetitive arrangement between clearing and
data record-keeping. The proposal also will hurt the Dodd-Frank
Act goal of increasing swaps-market oversight, Alessandro Cocco,
a JPMorgan managing director, said in the letter.  Scott O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner, abstained
from the vote because he said the agency’s underlying
regulations should be amended.  India’s Central Bank Signs Currency Swap Agreement With Bhutan  The central bank of India signed a three-year currency swap
agreement with Bhutan, according to an e-mailed statement.  The agreement allows the Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan
to withdraw as much as $100 million in dollars, euros or rupees
in multiple tranches, the Economic Times reported.  Special Section: Senate Banking Committee Hearing  U.S. Bank Agency Wants to Ease Ejection of Secrecy Act Violators  The U.S. regulator of national banks is weighing changes to
make it easier to eject from the industry bankers who knowingly
skirt money-laundering rules, said Comptroller of the Currency
 Thomas Curry .  When bank regulators issued a record fine against  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HBC)  in December, some lawmakers and consumer groups
complained that individual bankers weren’t held to task by the
government for allowing terrorists and drug cartels access to
the global financial system. Curry said his agency is exploring
ways to make it easier to expel officials who knowingly violate
the Bank Secrecy Act.  Curry made the remarks in testimony prepared for a Senate
Banking Committee  hearing  yesterday.  In his testimony, Curry also argued for improving the
information shared between the government and financial
institutions and called for legislation to expand what can be
swapped between the firms themselves.  The Bank Secrecy Act was meant to curtail criminals from
injecting the proceeds of their crimes into the legitimate
financial system. It has since been used as a tool to combat
international drug cartels and terrorist groups. Nine federal
agencies monitor the act.  Warren Pans U.S. Agencies’ Light Touch on Money-Laundering  U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  asked regulators how badly a
bank would have to break laws before they’d weigh pulling its
charter, citing  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  services for drug cartels and
skirting sanctions against Iran.  “What does it take?” the Massachusetts Democrat asked a
panel of banking regulators testifying at a Senate Banking
Committee hearing yesterday. “How many billions of dollars do
you have to launder for drug lords and how many economic
sanctions do you have to violate before someone will consider
shutting down a financial institution like this?”  Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry and Federal
Reserve Governor Jerome Powell explained that a charter
revocation process would depend on a bank being convicted of a
crime, for which Powell said the Justice Department has “total
authority.” London-based HSBC settled for $1.92 billion in
December and promised to fix its operations.  “Banks are much farther along than they were,” James
Freis, a former chief of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network who is now a partner at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP in Washington, said in an interview before the hearing.
“Compliance in the past was considered to be kind of a back-
office issue.”  For more, click here.  Fed Devoting ‘Substantial Resources’ to Bank Secrecy Act  The Federal Reserve has issued 113 enforcement actions
relating to the Bank Secrecy Act, the Treasury’s Office of
Foreign Assets Control compliance in past five years, Fed
Governor Jerome Powell said in prepared testimony for Senate
Banking Committee hearing.  The Fed has levied “hundreds of millions of dollars in
penalties” and brings “every instance of an anti-money
laundering deficiency or violation” to the attention of
Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. It also shares
information with the Justice Department, state authorities and
federal banking agencies.  Compliance Action  Fed Stress Tests Show 17 of 18 Banks Weathering Severe Slump  The Federal Reserve said 17 of the 18 largest U.S. banks
could withstand a deep recession and maintain capital above a
regulatory minimum, a sign of how higher standards and
supervisory prodding are strengthening the financial system.  Only Ally Financial Inc., the auto lender majority-owned by
U.S. taxpayers, fell below a 5 percent Tier 1 common ratio, a
regulatory minimum and measure of financial strength, according
to data released yesterday by the central bank in Washington.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  showed a minimum Tier 1 common ratio of 5.7
percent in the test and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  a ratio of 5.8
percent.  Since the 2008-2009 financial crisis, U.S. regulators have
tried to minimize the odds of another taxpayer rescue,
compelling banks to retain some earnings and reinforce their
buffers against possible losses. New international and domestic
banking rules are also guiding banks toward stronger
capitalization.  Ally disputed the Fed’s results, calling the analysis
“inconsistent with historical experience” and “fundamentally
flawed.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the only U.S. bank among the six biggest to
have its capital plan rejected last year, said yesterday that it
asked the Fed for permission to repurchase $1.2 billion of
shares without seeking a dividend increase.  The bank’s submission “underlines management’s commitment
to build and sustain robust levels of capital,” Citigroup said
in a  presentation  on its website. “At the core of Citi’s
capital assessment framework is a focus on safety, soundness,
credibility and confidence.”  Spokesmen for other banks declined to comment on their
firms’ views of the Fed’s estimates or didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  For more, click here.  Banks Said to Weigh Disregarding Fed by Disclosing Dividends  The largest U.S. banks are weighing whether to disregard a
Federal Reserve request and announce their dividend plans
shortly after the central bank’s stress tests are released,
people with knowledge of the process said.  The Fed has asked 18 firms, including JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to wait until next week, even
though the lenders were expected to get preliminary word
yesterday about whether their capital plans were approved. Bank
executives are concerned that investors could be confused and
are considering whether securities laws may require prompt
disclosure of their plans for  dividends  and share repurchases,
the people said.  The debate reflects pressure from stockholders to restore
dividends and buybacks to levels that prevailed before the 2008
credit crisis, when payouts were cut to token amounts to
preserve capital. Now, after the second-most profitable year on
record for U.S. banks, investors in the six largest lenders are
anticipating increases that could total $41 billion.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requires that
once material nonpublic information has been shared with a
subset of  market participants , it must be released so that no
one gets an unfair advantage.  Bank lawyers are pressing management to disclose plans this
week to avoid running afoul of securities laws, according to one
of the people. Some bankers are resisting because the Fed
results will be preliminary and regulators could still change
their minds, according to three people, who asked for anonymity
because the discussions are private.  The banks’ dilemma stems from the latest round of Fed
stress tests. Banks are allowed to disclose their own report
cards showing how they think they fared under the stress tests.
They’re required to release those assessments by March 31.  Spokesmen for the six biggest banks -- JPMorgan,  Bank of
America Corp. , Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Goldman Sachs
and Morgan Stanley -- said their companies had no comment on
their payouts. The Fed’s  Barbara Hagenbaugh  declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Terrell Owens Adviser Banned After NFL Players Lose $40 Million  Jeffrey Rubin, a Florida broker, was barred from the
securities industry after more than 30 National Football League
players including  Terrell Owens  lost at least $40 million on an
Alabama casino project that went bankrupt.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s
self-funded overseer, said in a  statement  yesterday that one of
Rubin’s clients put the majority of his cash into the project
and lost about $3 million. Finra didn’t say which players were
involved. Owens, the former Dallas Cowboys wide receiver, and
Jevon Kearse, the former Philadelphia Eagles defensive end
nicknamed “The Freak,” were among those who lost money,
according to their lawyers.  Rubin, 38, agreed to the ban without admitting to Finra’s
charges. Patricia Christiansen, Rubin’s lawyer in West Palm
Beach, Florida, declined to comment.  Academic Use of CFTC’s Private Derivatives Data Investigated  The top U.S. derivatives regulator has suspended a program
of visiting academic researchers over concerns about the
handling of confidential trading data.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a
statement March 6 that it began an internal management review
and asked the agency’s inspector general to investigate its
oversight of data used to research issues including high-
frequency trading.  The commission’s concerns were initially triggered by an
outside person who raised questions about academic research that
referenced CFTC data, according to the statement.  The agency in December began looking at the role of non-
public data in the research program, which is aimed at studying
markets the CFTC regulates. The program was suspended and the
agency is barring anyone other than full-time employees from
access to the data, according to the statement.  Andrei Kirilenko , who oversaw the program while at the
CFTC’s Office of Chief Economist, didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  also asked the agency’s internal
watchdog to conduct a review.  The agency didn’t identify the research that sparked its
concerns.  Courts  Ex-Legal & General Trader Milsom Gets 2 Years for Deal Tips  A former  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  equities trader was
sentenced to two years in prison for passing inside information
on block trades 28 times to an independent stockbroker, giving
the U.K. finance regulator the first jail term tied to its
largest-ever insider-trading case.  Paul Milsom, 45, pleaded guilty in January to one count of
passing inside information from October 2008 until March 2010 to
Graeme Shelley, an independent broker who previously worked at
Novum Securities Ltd. Shelley was charged with insider trading
in companies including broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  and hasn’t yet
entered a plea. He is scheduled to appear at the same court on
April 9.  The case is part of the investigation into the front-
running of block trades, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for
little tavern. The regulator charged five other individuals last
year in the case, which it has called its “largest and most
complex insider dealing investigation to date.”  Milsom received about 40 percent of the profits and Shelley
took the rest, Neil Saunders, a lawyer for the FSA, said.  Legal & General said previously that it assisted the FSA
and that Milsom wasn’t in control of any client funds.  Simon Ray, a lawyer for Milsom, said his client is
remorseful and has spent the time since his arrest arranging his
finances so he could pay back the full amount that he made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  