-- Senate’s Brown Sees Growing Support for Higher U.S. Bank Capital
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/senate-s-brown-sees-growing-support-for-higher-u-s-bank-capital.html
U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown  said he
and Senator  David Vitter  are working on a bipartisan bill to
force big banks to set aside even more capital than currently
required to assure they won’t need government bailouts.  The Ohio Democrat and Louisiana Republican have been
working in tandem to keep the biggest banks -- such as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. , whose assets exceed $2
trillion each -- from benefitting from the perception that
they’re too big to fail.  “In the largest Wall Street banks, neither the quantity
nor the quality of their capital is good enough, is adequate
enough to protect the public against too big to fail,” Brown
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for
“Capitol Gains” airing March 10. “We’ve seen people across
the board of the ideological spectrum who realize that this is a
serious problem.”  Brown and Vitter, both on the Senate Banking Committee,
would boost capital levels higher than those agreed to by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  in 2010. Brown, who is
chairman of a subcommittee overseeing financial firms, also
plans to reintroduce a bill he failed to get included in the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act or passed in the last Congress that would
cap bank size and limit non-deposit liabilities.  He said the big banks have “insulated themselves in a way
that’s given them more economic power in the marketplace and
more political power in Washington.”  Industry Strengthened  Tim Pawlenty , a former Minnesota governor who represents
the 100 biggest financial-services firms as president and chief
executive officer of the Financial Services Roundtable, was
hired in September to wield some of that power. He argues that
Dodd-Frank already strengthened the industry after the 2008
credit crisis.  “Dodd-Frank requires banks to have more capital, more
oversight, orderly wind-down, and no taxpayer bailouts,” he
said in a separate “Capitol Gains” interview airing the same
day. “Nobody wants to bail out big financial institutions. And
financial institutions would even say that.”  Brown paired with another Republican, Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa , to write a Jan. 29 letter to Attorney General
Eric Holder questioning the  Justice Department ’s reluctance to
criminally prosecute big banks, such as in the money-laundering
case settled by  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  Holder told Grassley in a
hearing this week that bigger banks can be harder to prosecute
because of potential danger to the economy.  “You can break the law because you’re so big, and if we
went after you it would damage the whole financial system,”
Brown said. “That speaks volumes about the seriousness of this
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  