-- Senator to Play Offense for Saints Against SEC Nominee
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-03-08T17:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/senator-to-play-offense-for-saints-against-sec-nominee.html
How can a U.S. senator score easy
points with home-state voters? Bring up football when others are
talking about the minutiae of Wall Street regulation.  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, plans to
cross-examine Mary Jo White next week about her assessment of
wrongdoing by New Orleans Saints players and coaches in the
National Football League team’s “Bountygate” scandal. White,
nominated by President  Barack Obama  to lead the Securities and
Exchange Commission, was retained by the NFL in 2011 to review
evidence that team paid players to injure opponents.  The probe resulted in the suspension of several key
defensive players and coaches, including Saints head coach  Sean Payton . The players suspensions were overturned last year on
appeal. The Saints didn’t recover from the suspensions,
finishing with a 7-9 win-loss record in 2012, one year after
going 13-3. The team won Super Bowl XLIV in 2010.  “If Mary Jo’s work at the SEC is anything close to her
botched work for the NFL, folks who want to protect their
investments, like the victims of the Stanford Ponzi scheme, are
in trouble,” Vitter said in a statement. The senator’s state is
home to many Stanford investors.  The three-member arbitration panel that overturned the
players’ suspensions faulted NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  for
his handling of the discipline. It didn’t address White’s review
of the facts or the quality of the investigation.  Vitter’s staff says he plans to ask White how many of the
NFL’s cooperating witnesses actually mentioned a “pay for
injury” program, and if any of them had an interest in
verifying the league’s claims.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  