-- Sequestration Hits the Law as Courts Keep Bankers’ Hours
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sequestration-hits-the-law-as-courts-keep-bankers-hours.html
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn
will no longer be holding his usual hearings after hours in his
 Manhattan  courtroom because of the billions of dollars in
congressionally mandated federal spending cuts that took effect
this month.  “As long as sequestration lasts, 5 p.m. will be the stop
time,” Glenn told lawyers for  Residential Capital LLC (ALLY) , the
bankrupt mortgage company, the afternoon of Feb. 28.  Companies in bankruptcy often keep courts open late seeking
approval to continue operating, pay employees or settle creditor
disputes. Debtors and creditors may have to wait longer, now
that Glenn and his colleagues are facing their own financial
squeeze. Alongside the courts, law enforcement agencies and
other components of the U.S. justice system are anticipating
shortages of staff, security, and even paper.  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts
over nine years, including $85 billion over the next seven
months, as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit.
For the federal judiciary this year, sequestration will require
cutting $332 million, about 5 percent of its current $6.97
billion budget.  The courts are scheduled to learn today how much money they
can expect for local court personnel and operations through
Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, if sequestration lasts.  ‘Impact Everything’  A four-page directive by the Administrative Office of the
U.S. Courts that took effect March 1 put in place so-called
emergency measures throughout the federal court system. They
include possible suspension of civil jury trials during
September, deferring payments to court-appointed lawyers for two
weeks and reducing court security 25 hours to 1,933 hours per
officer.  “The immediate effects of sequestration will impact
everything from the security at courthouses to the supervision
of offenders,” U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan, director of
the administrative office, said in a statement. “Work that will
allow the courts to operate more smoothly, and in most cases,
save money, will either be delayed or worse -- canceled.”  The cuts were intended to be so onerous that Congress and
the president wouldn’t let them occur and would come up with a
plan to replace them. Democrats and Republicans now disagree
over whether a substitute plan should include new  tax revenue .  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats say they
want a “balanced” approach including higher tax revenue as
well as spending cuts. Republicans say they won’t agree to
higher tax revenue after Congress voted Jan. 1 to raise tax
rates on top incomes.  New Jersey  New Jersey  residents saw the unintended consequences of a
similar political dispute in December 2011, when Republican
Governor  Chris Christie  refused to fill judicial vacancies
during a standoff with Democratic legislators over his
appointments to various boards and commissions. Citing a growing
list of vacancies on the bench, Patricia Costello, the assigning
judge in Essex County, which includes  Newark  and Montclair,
suspended contested divorce trials for nine months.  About 1,500 couples had to wait to resolve their
differences during the suspension, Winnie Comfort, a spokeswoman
for the court, said in an e-mail this week. Some turned to
arbitrators who charged as much with $400 an hour, said Sandy
Durst, who heads the family law department at Lynch, Osborne,
Gilmore & Durst LLC in Princeton, New Jersey, and practices in
Essex.  When trials resumed in September 2012, pending cases had
grown to 2,121, Comfort said. The county still has vacancies for
17 judges. The last new judge in Essex was sworn in in January
2010, she said.  Justice Department  With sequestration, it isn’t just the courts that will feel
the pinch. The U.S.  Justice Department  will also have to make
changes, officials have said.  Attorney General Eric Holder in a March 4 letter to
department employees said about $1.6 billion would be cut from
the budget of the agency, which includes the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, the Federal  Bureau of Prisons  and the U.S.
Marshals Service. Notices warning of possible furloughs were
sent to 94 U.S. attorneys’ offices.  “Federal prosecutors will have to close cases and let
criminals go,” Obama told reporters at the White House last
month.  Furlough Notices  Last week, the Justice Department sent preliminary furlough
notices to about 115,000 employees, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  told reporters March 4 in  Washington . Those notices
didn’t outline the details of reductions in work hours and
overtime.  U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman in New Jersey said on March 5
that his office already has 10 vacancies and that some
investigations will be slowed and fewer cases will be brought as
a result of the cuts.  “There are lots of investigations that we have to
prioritize,” said Fishman, an Obama appointee. “The most
significant ones will always get priority. There’s always some
in the next year that might not move as fast, and might not move
at all for a period of time because we don’t have the horses to
do it.”  Nationwide, about $100 million will be cut from federal
prosecutors’ offices, which would lead to about 1,600 fewer
civil cases and 1,000 fewer criminal cases being handled, Holder
said in a Feb. 1 letter Congress.  David Patton, head of Federal Defenders of  New York , called
sequestration a “potentially devastating blow” to his
organization, which provides legal help to people charged with
federal crimes who can’t afford to hire lawyers.  20% Cut  “We’re being asked to essentially take a 10 percent cut of
our overall budget in six months, which is essentially a 20
percent cut,” he said in an interview.  The office, which covers  New York City  and  Long Island , has
39 lawyers and about the same number of staff, he said.  “We’re going to have to engage in massive furloughs,” he
said. “We’ve never faced cuts like this before, not even
close.”  The nonprofit service has assisted defendants including
Anna Chapman, accused of taking part in a Russian spy ring, and
 Faisal Shahzad , who was convicted of a foiled attempt to bomb
Times Square. It will learn the full extent of its budget cuts
in the coming weeks, Patton said.  Speedy Trial  The most immediate impact of sequestration will be to slow
the resolution of civil cases, which will increase costs for
individuals and businesses, said Lise Bang-Jensen, a director of
public affairs for the New York State Bar Association in  Albany .
That’s partly because criminal defendants, who are guaranteed
speedy trials under the U.S. Constitution, have first dibs on
court resources, she said.  “One of our fears is that there’s going to be a big
backlog of civil cases,” Bang-Jensen said. “It could be
anything from a personal bankruptcy to a big corporate
dispute.”  The burden on civil cases will be especially heavy in the
southwestern U.S., where dockets are already clogged with
illegal-entry cases and other prosecutions involving border
crossings, according to Russell Wheeler, a visiting scholar at
the Washington-based  Brookings Institution .  “There are judges who say, ‘If you want a civil trial,
don’t come to this district,’” said Wheeler, who studies the
federal judiciary.  Outside the Southwest, Wheeler said, the effect will vary
by district, with larger jurisdictions better able to absorb
shortfalls than smaller ones by juggling funding and staff.  ‘Basically People’  “The judiciary is heavily personnel-dependent. It’s not
like they hand out grants,” Wheeler said. “It’s basically
people.”  The court system’s largest account is salaries and
expenses. It was funded at about $5 billion for fiscal 2012.
Sequestration cut that by $239 million, according to David Sellers, a spokesman for the Administrative Office of the U.S.
Courts.  About $405 million of the federal courts’ budget is immune
from cuts thanks in part to constitutional prohibitions against
cutting judges’ salaries. While compensation for magistrates and
bankruptcy court judges isn’t exempt, those people will be paid
in full, Sellers said in an e-mail.  Reusing Paper  To avoid furloughs or layoffs, bankruptcy courts in the
Southern District of New York, which includes Manhattan, are
using money set aside for office supplies and technology to
cover wages, said Una O’Boyle, chief deputy clerk for the
district. That has meant reusing the blank side of legal briefs
submitted by lawyers, O’Boyle said. The old briefs are used as
copier paper, she said.  “I heard one judge telling another to just put a line
through the original page,” O’Boyle said.  The court must shut down at 5 p.m. because there’s no money
to pay the security officers after that, she said.  Douglas C. Palmer, clerk of court for the Brooklyn-based
Eastern District of New York, which employs about 330 people,
including judges and staff, said they’re waiting for more
information from its policy making body in Washington.  “For now, we’re cutting down all of our expenses,” he
said. Depending on funding, there could be furloughs and even
layoffs, he said.  “What will guide that is what fiscal year 2014 will be,”
he said.  ‘Seriously Impacted’  In  California ’s Eastern District, the court is going to be
“seriously impacted” with layoffs and furloughs, according to
Victoria Minor, the court clerk. Cases will grind to a halt if,
for example, marshals aren’t able to transport defendants from
prison to the courtroom, she said.  Lawsuits in this heavily agricultural region, which
stretches from the Oregon border to  Nevada , address critical
water and land questions, she said. The jurisdiction also
includes 19 of California’s 33 prisons.  “The case load in this district would bring an elephant to
its knees,” Minor said.  Hogan, in his Feb. 27 letter to federal court judges and
employees, said congressional budget planning deadlines at the
end of the month will guide whether deeper spending cuts
outlined in the emergency plan must be imposed.  He urged courts to coordinate with other components of the
justice system, such as marshals and prison officials, to ensure
that adequate security is maintained.  Every employee of every U.S. attorney’s office in the
country has received a notice that they could be furloughed for
as long as 14 days between the middle of April and the end of
September, said Fishman, the New Jersey federal prosecutor.  Cut Back  He discussed the spending cuts while announcing a guilty
plea by Par Pharmaceutical Cos. for marketing an AIDS drug
illegally. Par agreed to pay $45 million to resolve criminal and
civil probes. Fishman suggested that such cases may not be
pursued as prosecutors look for ways to cut back.  “This case, which is bringing back $45 million for the
United States government, is more than the budget of my office
for a year,” he told reporters in Newark on March 5. “If I
were intent on trying to keep the government solvent, this is
not the place that I would cut first.”  Last year, with a budget of about $31 million, Fishman
said, his office recovered $140 million. Nationwide, U.S.
attorneys’ offices, with a total budget of $2 billion, took in
$14 billion, according to Fishman.  “Some of that is for victims, and some of it is shared
forfeiture, and some of it is fines, but that’s a net positive
 cash flow ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 