-- Serb Landline Providers to Take Portability Delay to EU
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-03-08T12:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/serb-landline-providers-to-take-portability-delay-to-eu.html
Serbia’s fixed-line phone companies,
including Mid Europa Partners LLP’s Serbia Broadband, plan to
file a complaint to the  Constitutional Court  and the European
Union about a delay in number portability.  Serbia’s  Agency for Electronic Communications  failed to
fully open the 446 million-euro ($581 million) market by giving
state-owned Telekom Srbija AD, the dominant provider and former
monopoly, another year to prepare for portability that was
supposed to begin in 2012, Serbia Broadband, or SBB, said in an
e-mailed statement. The delay to March 2014, announced this
week, affects three providers, including a  unit  of  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   “We intend to seek protection before the Constitutional
Court” and “will consult with relevant bodies in the EU”
about the delay that’s “damaging to owners,” including the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, said SBB,
 Serbia ’s biggest cable provider that entered the landline market
in 2012.  Seeking to join the EU, Serbia changed laws to allow more
competition and end monopolies, including in energy,
telecommunications and transportation. Mobile number portability
began in July 2011.  “Without being able to keep their numbers, users are very
reluctant to switch to a new provider,” said Slobodan Djinovic,
chief executive officer of Orion Telekom DOO, Serbia’s second-
biggest internet provider, in a phone interview. Orion was the
first to challenge Telekom’s landline monopoly, in 2010.  Landline Users  Both Orion and SBB have the EBRD as a minority stakeholder
and “need to explain to investors that the business plan for
2012 may not be fully achieved,” Djinovic said. The two
operators have 34,000 landline users combined, compared with
Telekom’s 3.03 million, according to the agency’s data.  The dominant provider has “undertaken all necessary
activities to ensure technical and other conditions for
portability,” Telekom said in an e-mailed comment, adding it
would honor the new deadline.  Still, the delay “effectively extends the monopoly of the
state operator, which is contrary to laws and agreements so
far” with the government, Telenor’s chief in Serbia, Ove Fredheim, said in e-mailed comments. The state’s failure to free
up the market as agreed “inflicts direct damage to the
operations of Telenor” in Serbia, Fredheim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  