-- Shirakawa’s Colleagues at BOJ to Decide Size of Farewell Bonus
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-03-08T03:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/shirakawa-s-colleagues-at-boj-to-decide-size-of-farewell-bonus.html
After five years running the  Bank of
Japan (8301) , Masaaki Shirakawa will get a cash bonus of as much as
29.6 million yen ($311,000) or as little as nothing, depending
on how policy board members rate his tenure.  The six members who remain when Shirakawa and his two
deputies step down on March 19 will grade their former
colleagues, according to the BOJ. A maximum rating on a scale of
zero to two would give Shirakawa enough to dine at  Tokyo ’s
Narisawa -- voted Asia’s best restaurant -- every night for
three and a half years, but not enough for the priciest tuna at
Tsukiji Market.  The assessment may shed light on members’ views of a tenure
in which Shirakawa failed to pull the nation of deflation even
as he protected the financial system from shocks. The
government’s nominee to succeed Shirakawa, Haruhiko Kuroda, said
this week the BOJ could buy longer-maturity bonds and bring
forward open-ended asset purchases due to start next year.  “Accountability is an important element if the BOJ is
going to gain the confidence of markets,” said Robert Feldman,
head of  Japan  economic research at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It’s really important to establish
benchmarks and expectations for the future as to what you have
to do to be considered to have performed well.”  A BOJ spokeswoman said she could not provide information on
the timing of the assessment or its criteria.  The only previous governor to be scored on the scale was
Shirakawa’s predecessor Toshihiko Fukui, who received a mark of
1.5, according to the spokeswoman. The rating is multiplied by
monthly salary and months of service, and then divided by eight
to determine the amount.  Pay Scale  Shirakawa’s monthly pay is about 2 million yen, while his
deputies Hirohide Yamaguchi and Kiyohiko Nishimura earn about
1.6 million yen, according to the BOJ.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens is among
the most highly paid central bankers, with a total compensation
of A$986,778 ($1 million) in the year through June, 2012.  The next Bank of  England  governor, Mark Carney, will get
basic pay of 480,000 pounds ($720,000) a year, more than the
combined salaries of U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke
and European Central Bank Governor Mario Draghi.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  