-- Simpson Thacher, Baker Botts, Cooley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/simpson-thacher-baker-botts-cooley-business-of-law.html
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
corporate partner William R. Dougherty took over the
chairmanship of the firm’s executive committee yesterday.  He succeeds Philip T. Ruegger, who served as chairman since
2004, the firm said in a statement. Ruegger, 63, will remain a
member of the executive committee until his retirement later
this year.  “I expect to continue on with the direction Pete Ruegger
set, building on core competencies in banking,  capital markets ,
M&A and litigation,” Dougherty said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Under Ruegger’s leadership, the firm expanded local
practices in London and  Hong Kong  and opened offices in  Seoul  in
December and Houston in 2011. Dougherty expects the firm to
focus on cross-border litigation in  Asia , the California
technology practice and the Houston energy practice.  “Our private equity and corporate clients are very active
in oil and gas, so we will be focusing on that,” he said.  Dougherty, 51, became a partner at the firm in 1995. He was
first elected to the executive committee in 2008 and was co-
administrative partner from 2009 to 2012, overseeing the firm’s
day-to-day operations.  His practice focuses on merger and acquisition and
corporate finance transactions. He was in the Tokyo office from
1990 to 1991 and the  London  office from 1996 to 2002.  Simpson Thacher has more than 850 lawyers at 11 offices in
the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Baker Botts Forms Alliance With Kuwait Law Firm  Energy law firm Baker Botts LLP is expanding its Middle
Eastern reach with an alliance with a Kuwaiti law firm, the
International Legal Group.  The firm currently has 25 lawyers in the region with
offices in  Abu Dhabi , Dubai and  Riyadh ,  Saudi Arabia .  “Many of our key clients are active in  Kuwait , and our
arrangement with ILG will enable us to work for them more
effectively,”  Andrew Baker , managing partner of Baker Botts,
said in a statement.  Former U.S. Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who was
in office during the first Persian  Gulf War  in 1990 when  Iraq 
invaded Kuwait, is a senior partner at  Baker Botts . He announced
the alliance in  Kuwait City .  “We believe our alliance with Baker Botts will enable us
to offer our Kuwaiti client base a breadth of experience that is
superior to that otherwise available in the Kuwaiti legal
market,” Rashid Alanezi, chairman of ILG, said in a statement.  Baker Botts has 725 lawyers in 14 offices worldwide.  Haynes & Boone Forms Cooperation Agreement With Brazilian Firm  Haynes & Boone LLP and MMA Lawyers of  Brazil  said they have
begun working together under a cooperation agreement, allowing
the  Texas  law firm to strengthen its cross-border energy
practice.  Haynes & Boone clients will benefit from the Brazilian law
firm’s position in an emerging market with a strong energy base
and growing trade links to Texas and the U.S, the firm said. The
firm also expects to expand its relationships with Chinese and
Asia clients doing business in Brazil.  “Teaming up with MMA is a big step toward maintaining our
identity as one of the top international law firms with a focus
on  Latin America ,” Haynes & Boone managing partner Terry Conner
said in a statement. “This helps us to provide an expanded
array of services to a broad range of new and evolving
clients.”  MMA Lawyers managing partner Marcelo Mello was for almost
two decades the international legal division manager for
Petrobras, Brazil’s state-owned petroleum and energy company.  Haynes & Boone has 50 Latin America-focused attorneys based
in Texas,  New York ,  Washington  and  Mexico , the firm said.  Among its recent representations, lawyers at the firm
advised Tarahumara Pipeline, a unit of Grupo Fermaca, which will
build and operate a natural  gas pipeline  in northern Mexico, the
firm said.  Haynes & Boone has more than 525 attorneys at 12 offices in
North and South America.  Moves  U.S. Lateral Round-Up: Cooley, Mayer Brown, Greenberg  Cooley LLP announced that two Sheppard Mullin Richter &
Hampton LLP chairs, Kevin Rooney and Louis Lehot, joined the
firm’s business department as partners in the Palo Alto,
California, office.  Rooney chaired Sheppard Mullin’s emerging growth/venture
capital and technology mergers and acquisitions practices, and
Lehot led its capital markets and public company mergers and
acquisitions practices.  Rooney represents U.S., and Canadian and other foreign
public and private companies in corporate and securities
matters. He is an adviser to entrepreneurs at Bay Area
accelerators Kicklabs, NestGSV, Factory and Ahead of Fashion,
and at Communitech Hyperdrive, a Canadian accelerator, the firm
said in a statement.  Lehot advises private and public companies, their investors
and investment banks in complex equity and debt securities
transactions, as well as mergers and acquisitions.  Also in Northern California, Perkins Coie LLP hired James
W. McTarnaghan in the firm’s  San Francisco  office as a partner
in the environment, energy and resources practice group.
McTarnaghan was most recently a partner at Duane Morris LLP.  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo PC also
expanded its San Francisco office with the addition of Robert E.
Burwell, who joins the firm’s corporate and securities section
as a member. Burwell was a partner in the private equity
practice of Latham & Watkins LLP.  On the East Coast, Mayer Brown LLP hired Lewis J. Greenwald
in the New York office as a partner in the tax transactions and
consulting practice. Greenwald, who focuses his practice on
international tax planning, was previously a partner at Sullivan
& Worcester LLP in  Boston , where he headed the firm’s
international tax practice group.  Greenwald is the third recent partner joining  Mayer Brown ’s
tax practice, following the January arrivals of Jason Osborn in
Washington and Mark Leeds in New York, the firm said.  Also in New York, McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP hired Anthony Williams, formerly a partner at DLA Piper LLP, as a partner.
Williams has experience with commercial transactions, including
mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance and securities, and
private equity investments, for both U.S. and non-U.S. clients.
He was chairman of Coudert Brothers LLP from 1993 to 2001.  Steven Russo, former deputy commissioner and general
counsel at the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation, is joining Greenberg Traurig LLP as chairman of
the firm’s New York environmental practice at the end of March.
In the state post, he supervised the agency’s Office of General
Counsel, as well as the Legislative Affairs Department and
Office of Environmental Justice, the firm said in a statement.  Barnes & Thornburg LLP announced that Roy A. Ginsburg
joined the firm’s Minneapolis office as a partner in the labor
and employment law department. He previously was a partner at
Dorsey & Whitney LLP.  Williams Mullen hired two environmental attorneys, John Daniel and Lynne Rhode, as partners in the Richmond, Virginia,
office. Both were previously with Troutman Sanders LLP.  Baker Botts, Sidley, Bird & Bird, Fasken Add European Laterals  Among European lateral partner moves this week, Chris Caulfield, who practices complex civil litigation and focuses on
export control, joined Baker Botts LLP as a partner in the
firm’s London office. He was previously a partner at Squire
Sanders LLP.  Resident in both Sidley Austin LLP’s London and New York
offices is Mark E. Thompson, a new partner in the mergers and
acquisitions and the private equity practices. He was previously
with King & Spalding LLP.  Bird & Bird LLP expanded its tax and trade practices in  The
Hague  with partner Brian Mulier, who is rejoining the
international tax and international trade and customs practice
groups. Mulier, who brings an associate with him, was most
recently at Baker & McKenzie LLP for two years, the firm said.
He has experience covering customs and trade related matters.  In Paris, Fasken Martineau LLP announced that Ludovic Roche
joined the firm’s labor, employment and human rights group.
Roche advises French and international companies on the setting-
up and implementation of their employment policies and assists
them in the daily management of their individual and collective
employment relations.  Video  How Facebook’s Lawyers Price Their Services  Silicon Valley’s Fenwick & West LLP, which incorporated
Apple and took Facebook public, recently hired a new kind of
staff position: a product manager charged with helping clients
understand the value of the legal services the firm provides,
managing partner Kate Fritz tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  The firm took “a page off the way our clients think about
their customers” in creating the position, she says. The
product manager marries client feedback about the firm’s
services with historical information about the costs of each
element in a prospective engagement, such as the stages of an
IPO, she says.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 