-- SNC Forecast Trails Estimates Amid Weaker Metal Markets
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-08T21:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/snc-lavalin-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-infrastructure-gains.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  slid the most
in a year after Canada’s biggest engineering company forecast
lower profit for 2013 than analysts estimated as Chief Executive
Officer Robert Card grapples with weakening metals markets.  Net income  this year will probably climb 10 percent to
15 percent as softer commodity prices and challenges in the
hydrocarbon and chemicals business erode gains from other units,
SNC said in a statement today. The shares plunged 6.2 percent,
their biggest single-day decline since February 2012.  The infrastructure and concessions unit, which Card created
as the company reviews some of its projects for a possible sale,
will fuel yearly net income along with the power division, SNC
said. The CEO, who took the post in October, is reshaping the
Montreal-based company after a corruption scandal that led to a
fraud investigation and investor lawsuits.  “The guidance for 2013 is kind of weak,” Trevor Johnson,
an analyst at National Bank Financial, said in a telephone
interview from in Toronto. Analysts on average had  predicted
2013 earnings  of C$2.84 a share, a 39 percent increase.  Fourth-quarter earnings of 63 cents a share trailed the
92-cent average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net
income attributable to SNC shareholders rose to C$94.6 million
($92.2 million), from C$76 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier,
the company said.  ‘Cost Reforecasts’  Profit was hampered by “cost reforecasts,” including
C$49 million for an unidentified power project, and C$27.6
million for a hydrocarbons and chemicals contract, SNC said in a
regulatory  filing . Both are outside Canada, the company said.  SNC has “a number of challenged projects that are
significant drags on the bottom line,” Card said today on a
conference call. Most of them “are legacies from the 2010 and
2011 timeframe,” he said, without being more specific. SNC has
adopted a new bidding process to prevent those problems from
reoccurring, he said.  The hydrocarbons project, located in  Russia , will be
completed this year, while the unidentified power contract
“ceases to be a risk” in 2013, Card said without elaborating.  The expenses led to a 34 percent drop, to C$24.2 million
from C$36.5 million, in fourth-quarter earnings excluding the
infrastructure and concessions investments unit. Net income in
that unit jumped 78 percent to C$70.4 million due to increased
dividends from Highway 407 in Ontario.  “It’s a large miss” on total profit, said Johnson, who
rates the shares outperform. “The cost reforecasts on the two
projects outside of Canada are really what wiped out the
engineering and construction earnings in the quarter.”  Share Decline  SNC  fell  to C$43.01 at the close in Toronto, its biggest
percentage drop since Feb. 28, 2012 -- the day it announced an
internal investigation into inaccurate documentation of some
payments by its construction unit. That probe led to the
departure a month later of then-CEO Pierre Duhaime, who was
later arrested by Quebec police and charged with fraud.  Fourth-quarter  sales  rose 14 percent to C$2.42 billion, SNC
said. The backlog of future contracts was C$10.1 billion as of
Dec. 31, little changed from a year earlier.  Card, who took over Oct. 1, has appointed new senior
managers and is considering the sale of infrastructure assets
from a toll road to  power lines  after grouping them in a new
unit. The company expects to announce the main elements of a
plan based on the review of those assets when it reports  first-
quarter earnings  in May, Card said today.  “While 2012 was a challenging year for SNC-Lavalin and its
employees, our revenue increased and our backlog remained
solid,” Card said in the statement. “The last months have been
dedicated to putting the house in order and reinforcing our
commitment to excellence, quality, safety and ethics.”  ‘Significant Time’  SNC is facing investigations into allegations of corruption
by authorities including the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  and
the  World Bank  in connection with projects in  Canada  and
elsewhere.  Executives and directors “have been required to devote
significant time and resources to these investigations and
ongoing related matters which have distracted and may continue
to distract from the conduct of the company’s daily business,”
SNC said in its filing today.  SNC said Feb. 22 that it hired Andreas Pohlmann as chief
compliance officer, effective March 1. Pohlmann, a former
executive at Munich-based Siemens AG, oversaw the creation and
implementation of that company’s compliance and corporate
governance policy.  SNC “will continue to cooperate with authorities and other
stakeholders to put this issue behind us as rapidly as
feasible,” Card said today.  ‘Huge Effort’  The company is “getting a lot better handle” on ethics,
Card said. The CEO said he’s not expecting “big surprises” in
matters of compliance.  SNC is putting in “a huge effort” in trying to complete
its own investigation into allegations of impropriety “so that
I can tell you: ‘We think we’re done with that,’” he said. “I
can’t tell you that until we’re really done. What was happening
last year is continuing this year, only far better organized and
controlled, and with more clear objectives.”  Card said those efforts “will likely mean the continuation
of some extra costs and management distraction for the balance
of the year.” He didn’t provide figures.  Also today, the company said it raised its cash  dividend  by
4.5 percent to 23 cents a share. It will be payable on April 5
to shareholders of record as of March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 