-- Storm Dumps Snow on U.S. Northeast Before Heading to Sea
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/snow-falls-from-new-york-to-boston-flood-threat-lingers.html
A storm that confounded forecasters
this week dumped snow in the suburbs of  Boston  yesterday before
heading to sea after traversing the U.S. Midwest and East Coast.  Parts of the Boston area were covered with as much as two
feet (61 centimeters) of snow before the storm blew out at about
6 p.m. yesterday, Joe Dellicarpini, a National Weather Service
meteorologist in Taunton,  Massachusetts , said by telephone. The
storm was centered about 500 miles (805 kilometers) east of New
England as of 7:30 p.m. New York time, he said.  “There are some gusty winds still over Cape Cod, but
that’s about it,” Dellicarpini said. “Everything else is
pretty much winding down.”  The system, which began in the Plains and moved across the
Midwest earlier this week, defied forecasters much of the way,
as heavy snow predicted for  Washington  failed to materialize and
far more than expected blanketed the Northeast.  As much as 7 inches fell in parts of New York City and 15
inches to the north and west of the city. Storm warnings were
lifted for New York by midafternoon yesterday, remaining for
southeastern New England, including Boston, until 7 p.m.
yesterday.  The storm stalled southeast of New England yesterday and
kept dropping snow because a high-pressure system to the north
was blocking its way, said  Charlie Foley , a weather service
meteorologist in Taunton.  “It’s almost like a traffic light,” Foley said by
telephone yesterday. “If you have a high pressure system,
nothing is going to pass that.”  Flight Delays  Some flights into New York’s LaGuardia Airport were being
delayed more than 2 1/2 hours, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration  website. Holds of an hour or longer affected
arrivals at New York’s Kennedy International, while three-hour
backups were reported at Newark Liberty International in New
Jersey.  Logan Airport in Boston received 13 inches of snow, while 3
inches fell at Kennedy and LaGuardia and 6.7 at Newark, the
weather service said.  As of 8 p.m. yesterday, 1,086 flights around the U.S. had
been canceled, most of them at LaGuardia,  Newark  and Logan,
according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracker. More
than 5,600 flights were scrubbed this week, it said.  In New York, 4 inches of snow fell in  Manhattan’s Central
Park , with Queens getting as much as 6.7 inches. Parts of
Westchester County and  Connecticut  got more than a foot of snow.  Sunny Today  Weather conditions were expected to improve today, Stark
said. “We’re looking at temperatures near 50 in the city, and
maybe even a little warmer on Sunday. So sunny days are ahead.”  Foxboro, Massachusetts,  recorded almost 25 inches  and
Boston had more than a foot.  Schools closed in Hull and Scituate and delayed opening in
Marshfield yesterday because of flooding. Crews in those
Massachusetts towns and others along the coast worked to shore
up seawalls.  About 27,000 utility customers were without electricity at
7:30 p.m. New York time yesterday from  Virginia  to Massachusetts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The majority of those
without power were in western Virginia, where as much as 24
inches of snow fell.  Part of the reason for the higher-than-expected snowfall in
Boston was an unforeseen temperature drop,  Tom Kines , a
meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in State College,
 Pennsylvania , said yesterday. That was the opposite of what
happened earlier in the week in Washington, when government
offices closed in anticipation of heavy snow that mostly turned
to rain.  “If this was January, we would have pulled out all the
stops on this storm,” Kines said. It’s harder to predict what’s
going to happen with a storm in March because the sun’s higher
in the sky and stronger, Kines said. The sun, even through
overcast, is able to keep temperatures above freezing, holding
down accumulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 Ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  