-- Sojitz to Buy Soybeans From Ukraine as Japan Seeks Non-GM Crops
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-03-08T01:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sojitz-to-buy-soybeans-from-ukraine-as-japan-seeks-non-gm-crops.html
Japan’s  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  said it will
import Ukrainian soybeans for the first time as Asia’s second-
largest buyer looks outside North America for non-genetically
modified produce.  Sojitz will deliver a trial “few hundred” metric tons
this year and expand that to 5,000 tons within three years,
Fukutaro Kobayashi, deputy chief of one of the food departments
at the Tokyo-based trader, said in an interview yesterday.  U.S. and Canadian farmers are increasingly raising
genetically modified crops, with GM soybeans accounting for 93
percent of the U.S. total last year, according the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Supply from the U.S. and  Canada 
made up 92 percent of Japan’s imports in 2011, according to
Finance Ministry data.  “If we ask ourselves: Will be we able to secure supply of
non-GM soybeans in North America year-in year-out? The answer’s
no,” Kobayashi said. “We need to diversify our geography of
supply.”  While  Japan  doesn’t ban GM oilseeds, consumer preferences
mean that these are only used in cooking oil and sweeteners,
which aren’t required by law to notify buyers about their use.  Japan used more than 950,000 tons of soybeans last year for
foods such as tofu, miso soup paste and natto, stringy beans
eaten for breakfast. Of that, about 80 percent of demand was met
with imports, according to the agriculture ministry.  Longer Wait  Sojitz may sell Ukrainian soybeans at a 10 percent discount
to the North American equivalent as a way to attract buyers in
Japan, Kobayashi said. The transport of soybeans from Ukraine’s
Odessa port to Japan takes about three weeks, compared with a
week from the U.S., he said.  Ukraine  was forecast to produce as much as 2.33 million
tons of soybeans last year, according to Kiev-based ProAgro. The
U.S. and  Brazil , the world’s largest producers, are forecast by
the USDA to produce 83.5 million and 82.1 million tons in the
marketing year that began Oct. 1.  In 2010, Sojitz joined with Soyko International Inc. and
 Grain Alliance , a Ukrainian farm operator and grain elevator, to
secure local supplies, Kobayashi said. The Ukrainian firm owns
40,000 hectares of land, most of which is cultivated, and drying
and storage facilities with a capacity of 80,000 tons, according
to its website.  The venture with Grain Alliance in Ukraine, a newcomer to
soybean cultivation, will produce about 3,000 tons of the
oilseed for use in food this year, Kobayashi said.  “We’ve been sending trial samples to food producers and
the reception has been favorable,” Kobayashi said. While
producers prefer North American soybeans, cheaper supplies from
Ukraine will win market share in Japan, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  