-- South Africa, Sugar Body in Talks to Use Bagasse for Electricity
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-03-08T08:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/south-africa-sugar-body-in-talks-to-use-bagasse-for-electricity.html
South Africa ’s Sugar Association is
in talks with the nation’s government about using bagasse, a
byproduct from cane, to generate power and help stem a shortage
of electricity in the country.  “It is being worked on with government and hopefully, in
the next couple of months, something will come up,” Trix Trikam, the association’s executive director, said in a March 5
interview. “We are at a crucial stage of discussions now.”  South  Africa , where chronic electricity shortages led to
the suspension of mines and factories in 2008, has embarked on a
program to boost generation by awarding contracts to build wind,
solar and biomass plants. Bagasse, the part of sugar cane that
remains once the juice has been extracted, isn’t regarded by the
government as a renewable source of electricity,  according to
 Remgro Ltd. (REM) ’s TSB Sugar Holdings unit, which supplies 2
megawatts to 7 megawatts to the country’s grid.  “We could make about 1,000 megawatts, but a lot of  capital
investment  will be needed,” Trikam said. “So we’ll have a lot
more electricity that we can put on the grid to be used by South
Africans.”  One megawatt is enough electricity to power about 1,000
U.S. homes.  South Africa, which has the continent’s biggest economy, is
seeking 3,725 megawatts of power from renewable sources. The
deadline for companies to submit bids in the third of five
bidding rounds has been postponed to Aug. 19 from May, according
to the Department of Energy’s  website  on the program.  Invest More  Sugar millers, which already generate power to run their
operations, are willing to invest to produce more energy, Trikam
said.  “We can make those boilers much more efficient and we can
invest money in bigger boilers,” Trikam said. “You’ll get much
more electricity, which we can put on the grid to be used by
South Africans.”  The country is Africa’s biggest producer of the sweetener.
Output of saleable sugar fell to 1.82 million tons, the lowest
in 17 years,  in the 2011-12 season after a two-year drought in
the KwaZulu-Natal province cut yields, Trikam said.  Sugar output by the industry, which directly employs 79,000
people, has climbed to 1.96 million tons in the 2013 season,
Trikam said.  Tongaat Hulett Ltd. (TON)  is South Africa’s largest sugar
producer by market value. Illovo Sugar, another producer in the
country, also has operations in Malawi, Zambia, Tanzania,
Swaziland and  Mozambique .  Raw sugar for May delivery gained for a fourth day, adding
0.1 percent to 18.78 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  