-- Soybeans, Corn Gain as USDA Report May Cut South America Outlook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-08T15:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/soybeans-advance-as-u-s-export-sales-jump-draining-inventories.html
Soybeans and corn rose for a second
straight day on speculation that the U.S. Department of
Agriculture will lower its forecast for crops in South America.
Wheat fell.  Argentina , the world’s third-largest soybean exporter, may
harvest 51.2 million metric tons of the oilseed, less than last
month’s estimate of 53 million tons, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The USDA will issue its forecast at noon today in
 Washington . Argentina, which has had dry weather, may harvest
25.7 million tons of corn, less than the 27 million tons
projected in February.  Brazil ’s soybean and corn crops may both
be 0.4 percent less than previously forecast, the survey showed.  “Logistical delays and high moisture content in Brazilian
soybeans continue to prevent product from reaching ports,”
Christina McGlone-Hahn, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in
an e-mailed report today. “Argentine soybean development has
been quite variable.”  Soybean futures for delivery in May added 0.4 percent to
$14.79 a bushel at 9:10 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
headed for the biggest weekly gain in eight weeks. Volume was 56
percent less than the average for the past 30 days for that time
of day. Corn futures for May delivery climbed 0.3 percent to
$6.9325 a bushel, paring this week’s drop to 2.2 percent.  Soybean exporters in the U.S., historically the world’s top
grower,  sold  1.38 million tons in the week to Feb. 28, the most
in four weeks, the USDA said yesterday.  China , the world’s
largest buyer, bought 74 percent of the weekly total.  China ’s soybean imports fell to 2.9 million tons in
February, down from 4.78 million in January and 3.83 million a
year earlier, according to data from the Beijing-based customs
authority.  “Chinese demand continues to drive the soybean market
higher,” Brian Grete, the senior market analyst at Professional
Farmers of America newsletter in Cedar Falls,  Iowa , said in a
telephone interview.  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 042 percent to $6.93 a
bushel, poised for a weekly loss of 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson Chicago at 
 Jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  