-- Sportech Gains on Tax Jackpot Worth More Than Debt: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-08T10:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sportech-gains-on-tax-jackpot-worth-more-than-debt-london-mover.html
Sportech Plc (SPO) , a U.K. gaming operator
that has half its business in the U.S., rose by the most in
eight years after saying it won a tax claim worth more than
80 million pounds ($120 million).  “For a company with a market cap of about 180 million
pounds and net debt of 57 million pounds this is a life-changing
event,” Simon French, an analyst at Panmure Gordon, wrote in a
note today. “It gives Sportech the funds to fully capitalize on
its market-leading position in the U.S., just as certain states
within that country are taking a more permissive approach to
online gaming.”  The shares  advanced  as much as 29 percent to 117 pence, the
biggest intraday gain since February 2005 and the highest price
since 2007. The stock was up 22 percent at 9:44 a.m. as about
1.6 million shares had traded, triple the daily average over the
past three months.  A U.K. tax tribunal found in favor of the company in regard
to rules that affected its “Spot the Ball” game from 1979 to
1996, Sportech said in a statement today. Tax authorities have
until the end of April to appeal the decision and haven’t yet
revealed their intentions, Sportech said.  The company anticipates a repayment of 40 million pounds of
value-added tax, plus interest that will bring the total to more
than 80 million pounds, it said.  Sportech is “very pleased” with the outcome and isn’t
ready to discuss any plans for the cash, Chief Executive Officer
Ian Penrose said in an interview.  New Jersey  New Jersey approved online betting last month, raising
investor expectations that more U.S. states, including
Pennsylvania and  Florida , will allow the practice. The law has
since been barred by a federal judge and the case is expected to
be appealed.  Sportech, which traces its history to soccer betting pool
tickets first sold outside Manchester United’s grounds in 1923,
also offers gambling on horseracing, fantasy sports and casino
games.  Panmure’s French, who has recommended buying Sportech
shares for more than two years, raised his  prediction  for the
stock price to rise to 145 pence from a previous target of 105
pence.  The legal decision came from the First-Tier Tribunal’s Tax
Chamber, Sportech said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 