-- Sri Lanka Holds Rates to Support GDP Growth, Restrain Inflation
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-03-08T02:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sri-lanka-holds-rates-to-support-gdp-growth-restrain-inflation.html
Sri Lanka left interest rates
unchanged for a third month in a bid to support economic growth
while restraining consumer-price increases.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka kept its  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9.5 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7.5 percent, it
said in a statement in Colombo today. Ten of 11 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted no change. One forecast a 0.25
percentage point reduction in both benchmarks.  Central Bank Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said Feb. 21 he
will refrain from cutting borrowing costs in the first half of
this year, seeking to rein in an inflation rate of almost 10
percent, one of the highest in Asia. He also aims to revive
economic growth in 2013, predicting a 7.5 percent expansion, up
from an estimated 6.5 percent in 2012.  “Sri Lanka will need to lower interest rates to boost
growth,” Sarath Rajapakse, director of research at Capital
Trust Securities Pvt. in  Colombo , said before the release.  Consumer prices rose 9.8 percent in February from a year
earlier, the fastest after  India  in a group of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation will moderate from March onwards, the central
bank said in the statement. Economic growth momentum is going to
be “pretty strong” in the next few months, Cabraal said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Sri Lanka’s Treasury Secretary P.B. Jayasundera said last
month he expects better agriculture supply to help slow the pace
of price increases to about 8 percent this year.  The rupee has strengthened 0.3 percent against the dollar
this year. The Colombo All-Share  Index (CSEALL)  is up 0.7 percent in the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  