-- Standard Chartered Leads Rise in Note Sales Tied to China Firms
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-08T05:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/standard-chartered-leads-rise-in-note-sales-tied-to-china-firms.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  is leading a
revival in sales of structured notes tied to the debt of  China ’s
largest companies as investors seek access to assets underpinned
by growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The lender’s  Hong Kong  and Singapore units have sold $41.4
million of the securities this year, accounting for more than 80
percent of all issuance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Barclays Plc is the only other issuer, with $10
million, as Standard Chartered leads the market for the first
time ever, the data show.  The combined $51.4 million in sales of the notes linked to
state-owned companies follows an absence of such securities in
the fourth quarter, according to the data. Issuance is reviving
after data showing economic growth in China accelerated last
quarter for the first time since 2010.  Gabriel Kwan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for  Standard
Chartered , didn’t immediately respond to two e-mails and two
messages seeking comment on the reason for the increase in
sales.  The bank issued $20 million of notes tied to bonds offered
by the Singapore unit of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398) 
Ltd., China’s third-largest company by market value and the
world’s largest lender. The five-year securities, sold in three
offerings from January through March 1, pay a quarterly coupon
of 165 basis points above the three-month dollar London
interbank offered rate.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the underlying bonds at A1,
its fifth-highest grade.  Standard Chartered and Barclays this year also issued a
combined $20 million of securities linked to  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
China’s fourth-biggest company by market value, according to
Bloomberg data. Standard Chartered sold the first-ever notes
linked to closely held China National Petroleum Corp. and China
State Grid Corp. this year, raising a total of $11.4 million.  Issuers of credit-linked notes use the securities to hedge
against possible credit events and pay the buyers for accepting
the risks as long as the underlying assets don’t default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  