-- Storm Aims Snow at New York City, Boston as Heads to Sea
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-08T10:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/storm-aims-snow-at-new-york-city-boston-as-it-exits-to-sea.html
New York  City may get 5 inches of
snow and  Boston  10 inches as a wet, windy storm moves out to sea
after canceling more than 4,000 flights, confounding forecasters
and leaving snow from the Midwest to the East Coast.  New York was expected to get 1 to 5 inches (3 to 13
centimeters) of snow today from the system that has pushed a
storm surge on to the coast from Delaware to  Massachusetts ,
sending sea water over roads.  “The large winter storm slowly moving away from the
Northeast coast will continue to bring a plethora of hazards to
the Northeast” through early tomorrow,  the National Weather
Service  said in a  forecast . “Strong winds, high waves and
coastal flooding will impact the coast from New Jersey to  Maine ,
while heavy snow is forecast across inland locations.”  High winds contributed to the cancellation of 490 flights
yesterday and 99 more today as of 9:06 a.m. London time,
according to  FlightAware , an airline tracking service in
Houston. Today’s cancellations included 30 flights at LaGuardia
Airport in New York City and 19 at Boston’s Logan International.  More than 4,000 flights were canceled across the U.S. from
March 4 through March 6 as the storm moved out of the Plains and
Midwest, dropping 9.2 inches of snow at  Chicago ’s O’Hare
International Airport, as much as 24 inches in the mountains of
West Virginia and about 5 inches in Fairfax County,  Virginia ,
just outside of  Washington .  Slippery Roads  Boston may receive 6 to 10 inches, while its immediate
suburbs get 8 to 12, according to the weather service.  “Untreated roads will become snow-covered and slippery,”
according to a winter storm warning. “Strong winds and wet snow
may result in scattered power outages.”  Snow fell in eastern Massachusetts throughout yesterday
with little accumulation near the coast. As of 1 p.m. yesterday,
1 inch had fallen at Boston’s Logan airport on the city’s
harbor, while 7 inches were on the ground in Mansfield, about 30
miles south-southwest, according to the weather service.  The system will be followed by milder weather in the
Northeast,  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in
State College,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday.  The high temperature in Boston is expected to reach 48
degrees Fahrenheit (9 Celsius) by March 11, according to the
weather service. In New York it should reach into the 50s in
Central Park over the weekend and be 55 degrees on March 11.  Snowfall Fail  An expected heavy snowfall for Washington and Baltimore
that closed federal offices March 5 failed to materialize. A
layer of warm air over Washington and central  Maryland  kept the
snow light and made sure a steady rain was mixed in, said Calvin
Meadows, a meteorological technician for the weather service in
Sterling, Virginia.  The storm has caused moderate flooding along the New Jersey
coast, where a coastal flood warning remains in effect until 9
a.m. today, according to Mitchell Gaines, a weather service
meteorologist in Mount Holly, New Jersey.  “The worst of the coastal flooding has occurred but there
could be some minor coastal flooding events over the next 24 to
36 hours,” Gaines said by telephone yesterday.  Water was reported on streets in Monmouth and Ocean
counties in New Jersey and Sussex County in  Delaware , he said.  Flooding Threat  The Massachusetts coast faces a day of above-normal tides
and the threat of flooding of homes and roads along its east-
facing shoreline, said Scott Kaplan, a meteorologist with
 Hometown Forecast Services Inc.  in Nashua, New Hampshire.  Police in Marshfield, Massachusetts, on the coast 30 miles
south of Boston, patrolled flooded areas of the Brant Rock
neighborhood in Humvees yesterday, while at least two roads in
the town of Hull were impassable because of water, according to
the town’s emergency management department.  The next high tide is expected at 8 a.m. today in
Marshfield, where residents were advised to stay off the roads
and school schedules were delayed by two hours to “avoid the
height of the storm,” according to  the police department .  Block Island, off Rhode Island, may experience coastal
erosion because the shoreline was weakened by  Hurricane Sandy  in
October, according to the weather service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  