-- Suprise Boston Storm Knocks Island Cottage Into the Sea
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-03-08T19:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/suprise-boston-storm-knocks-island-cottage-into-the-sea.html
Defying forecasters’ predictions, a
nor’easter stalled over  Boston  and the surrounding region,
sending snowfall totals to more than a foot, closing dozens of
schools and pushing one cottage into the surf.  “Nobody along that north-facing coast came through this
storm unscathed,” said Peter Judge, a spokesman for the
 Massachusetts  Emergency Management Agency. “We are seeing
porches that are no longer there, stairs missing. That kind of
thing.”  The toppled seaside cottage has become the signature image
of this late winter storm. Photographs of the home were featured
on local news websites. Television stations are looping coverage
of the structure teetering on the edge of a seawall on Plum
Island, located 33 miles (53 kilometers) north of Boston.  “It is a load of memories,” said Stephen J. Bandoian, the
owner, in a telephone interview from his other home in Hillsboro
Beach,  Florida . “My child was born and grew up there. I guess
it is gone now.”  Boston public schools  opened as usual Friday despite dozens
of school closings in the surrounding suburbs. Because so many
of the city’s 58,000 students stayed home, they are being marked
as “constructively present,” so it won’t count against them,
according to schools spokesman Lee McGuire. “It’s essentially
an excused absence.”  Still Falling  McGuire, who didn’t have an exact tally, estimated the
number of children out of school “in the thousands.” He said
the call was made to go to school because bus yards were clear
in the morning and forecasters had said the snow would stop.  “Then it kept snowing,” McGuire said.  Students who did attend will be excused at normal times and
all after-school activities have been canceled, he said.  At noon, the  Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority  was
running its subway, commuter rail, bus and boat routes on a
regular weekday schedule, according to the agency website.  Logan Airport  was operating and crews were out trying to
clear the runways, according to Richard Walsh, a spokesman.
Airlines have canceled more than 200 flights into and out of
Boston today, and about 275 have been delayed, according to
FlightStats.com, an industry data tracker.  The storm stalled because of a high-pressure system
blocking it to the north, according to  Charlie Foley , a National
Weather Service meteorologist in Taunton, Massachusetts.  The temperature near the ground also played a big role,
said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with commercial forecaster
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  The little accumulation yesterday was due to the
temperature that remained above freezing. That changed overnight
when it fell below 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Celsius) and the
snow piled up, Kines said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  