-- Sweden Industrial Output Contracts as European Demand Falters
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-03-08T08:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/sweden-industrial-output-contracts-as-european-demand-falters.html
Swedish industrial production fell
in January after falling foreign demand hurt exports.  Industrial production  fell an annual 7.8 percent after
declining 2.2 percent the previous month, Stockholm-based
Statistics Sweden said in a statement today. Production was
 estimated  to fall 4.8 percent, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of six economists. Output fell a  monthly  2
percent after rising 1.3 percent the previous month.  “Today’s production figures suggest that there’s yet no
turnaround in the manufacturing sector,”  Andreas Jonsson , an
analyst at Nordea Bank AB in  Stockholm , said in a note today.
“A glimpse of light is perhaps the pick-up in order intakes
over the last two months, which suggest that the situation may
stabilize soon, but so far indicators only suggest stabilization
-- not a recovery in the manufacturing sector.”  Swedish  economic growth  slowed to 0.8 percent last year
from 3.7 percent in 2011 as a slowdown abroad hurt demand for
the country’s exports, which account for about half of its
economic output. It will accelerate to 1.1 percent this year,
the government forecast on Dec. 21. Unemployment will rise to an
average 8.2 percent this year, from 7.7 percent in 2012, th
government estimates.  Swedish companies’ industrial orders fell an  annual  5.4
percent and decreased a  monthly  3.1 percent in January,
 Statistics Sweden  said today.  Sweden ships about 70 percent of its exports to  Europe ,
where countries are cutting spending to reduce debt. Lower
foreign demand has prompted Swedish exporters such as  Ericsson
AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest maker of wireless networks, and truck
maker  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , to cut thousands of jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  