-- Swissport Seeks More Deals After Buying SAS Ground-Handling Unit
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-08T09:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/swissport-seeks-more-deals-after-buying-sas-ground-handling-unit.html
Swissport International AG, the
world’s largest aviation ground handling operator, plans more
acquisitions after announcing its largest deal yet and may be
ready to sell shares to the public in three to five years.  “It’s part of our strategy to expand into new countries,´´
Chief Executive Officer Per Utnegaard said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘We’ll continue to grow and we are always aiming for
bolt-on acquisitions.´´  Swissport yesterday said it plans to buy the majority of
the ground-handling operations from  SAS Group (SAS) , the biggest
Nordic airline. Utnegaard said today the company later aims for
full ownership of the business, which will add 5,000 employees
to the Zurich-based company’s 40,000. Future transactions will
be smaller as the market is scattered, he said. Utnegaard
declined to provide financial details on the transaction.  Ground handling operators are expanding as cash-strapped
airlines focus on their cabin operations and airport operators
seek higher margins in retail and real estate operations. The
trend may lead to closely held Swissport eventually selling
shares, the CEO said.  A listing ‘‘could make sense, but we’d need to be bigger
than we are today,´´ Utnegaard said, adding that such a decision
may be three to five years away. ‘‘In the meantime, we’ll
continue to grow the company profitably.´´  Gate Services  Swissport operates ground-handling services for about 118
million passengers and 3.5 million metric tons of cargo each
year, including ticketing sales desks, gate services, aircraft
loading, cleaning and crew transport at more than 190 airports
worldwide, including those in Geneva and Zurich and at
 Washington ’s Dulles International.  The company, which competes with  Derichebourg SA’s (DBG) 
Servisair and the aviation unit of  John Menzies Plc (MNZS) , is owned by
private equity firm PAI Partners SAS, and generated sales of 1.9
billion Swiss francs ($2 billion) last year, 10 percent more
than in 2011. Utnegaard said the company doesn’t provide
earnings data, other than saying it was ‘‘profitable.´´  Swissport in September completed the acquisition of
Flightcare Spain and Flightcare Belgium from Madrid-based FCC
Versia SA, adding about 3,000 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  