-- U.K. Weapons Exports Face Rising Rivalry From Former Customers
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-08T12:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-k-weapons-exports-face-rising-rivalry-from-former-customers.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  is among U.K.
weapons manufacturers facing increased competition from previous
customer countries joining established companies in seeking
sales abroad.  “You are seeing countries which you helped into a position
of having a defense industry becoming your competitors,” said
Richard Paniguian, the head of the Defence & Security
Organisation at the U.K. Trade & Investment export agency. “The
marketplace is ever more competitive.”  Among countries emerging as a force on the global arms
scene is South Korea, which entered the list of top five
exporters in 2011, and  Turkey  is also pushing for a more
dominant role, according to the arms export agency. The U.K. was
the second-largest arms exporter in 2011, behind the U.S.  Defense companies from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest weapons maker, to BAE, Europe’s biggest, have been
pursuing sales in the  Middle East  and  Asia  to mitigate the
effect of military spending cuts in the U.S. and Europe. To
bolster exports, Paniguian’s organization has increasingly been
promoting security exports in addition to traditional weapons
deals as border protection and cybersecurity gain prominence.  The emergence of new competitors creates pressure on
companies to find industrial partners, Paniguian said. BAE’s
strong exports attracted European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. last year as it sought a combination before European
governments blocked the merger. Both companies have said they’re
not entertaining a renewed attempt to merge.  Fighter Sales  For BAE, the Middle East has turned into a major region of
growth. Oman in December agreed to buy 12 Eurofighter Typhoons,
built by a consortium of BAE, EADS and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)  Prime
Minister  David Cameron  used a recent visit to the United Arab
Emirates to lobby for the jet.  In  Latin America , naval modernization, particularly in
Brazil, is gaining attention, Paniguian said. The U.K. has been
trying to interest Brazil in the Type 26 Global Combat Ship in
development by BAE. Asia also remains a priority for British
firms, Paniguian said, with Malaysia expected to increase
efforts to buy a new combat plane this year.  While U.S.  defense spending  is stagnant as the White House
and Congress spar over expenditure levels, Paniguian said sales
to the Pentagon continue to be important.  “Even after the full effect of sequestration, the U.S.
remains by some distance the largest defense market in the world
and the U.K. remains well placed to perform in that market,” he
said.  A new area of attention is to sell equipment traditionally
used by militaries to support civil emergency applications.  “We often find that the technologies and products
developed by the defense and security industry have lateral
applications in disaster recovery,” Paniguian said. “This is
something we are turning our attention to with greater
seriousness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  