-- U.K.’s Record Norway Gas Need Spells Price Jumps: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-03-08T12:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-k-s-record-norway-gas-need-spells-price-jumps-energy-markets.html
The U.K. has never been so reliant
on natural gas from  Norway , raising the possibility of higher
prices when supplies to  Europe ’s biggest market for the fuel are
disrupted.  Gas for same-day delivery surged 64 percent to a seven-year
high on March 4 after a power failure cut supply from Norway’s
Ormen Lange, Europe’s third-largest gas field.  The U.K., a benchmark for Europe’s $1 trillion gas market,
is becoming increasingly dependent on foreign producers as North
Sea supplies decline and shipments of liquefied natural gas, or
LNG, trade near a record high. Norway was the source of an
unprecedented 48 percent of Britain’s gas Dec. 26, data from
network operators Gassco AS and  National Grid Plc (NG/)  show.  “The recent price spikes highlight our reliance on Norway
in a period when there isn’t the LNG arriving that we got used
to,” Craig Lowrey, a consultant at the Utilities Exchange Ltd.
who has tracked gas markets for 18 years, said in a March 6
phone interview from Ipswich,  England . “I don’t see there being
a shift in reliance on pipeline gas until we see an easing in
the LNG market.”  U.K. gas for  next-month  delivery averaged 66.74 pence a
therm in the first two months of this year, the most for the
period since at least 2004, when Bloomberg began collecting
broker data from Marex Spectron Group Ltd. It traded at 68.75
pence today in London. That’s equivalent to $10.34 per million
British thermal units.  Gas for April delivery on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
was at $3.59 per million Btu today, after climbing as much 3.2
percent yesterday to $3.582, the highest closing level in 13
weeks.  LNG Imports  Imports from Norway rose 23 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier to the highest level for the period since
the U.K.’s Department of Energy and Climate Change began
compiling the data in 2000.  Power use at Ormen Lange returned to normal on March 6,
according to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which owns 17 percent of the
field.  LNG tankers with a total capacity of 5.5 million cubic
meters (3.1 billion cubic meters of gas) arrived in the U.K. in
the five months through February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s down 53 percent from the same period a year
earlier.  LNG for delivery in four to eight weeks in Northeast Asia
cost $17 a million Btu on March 4, after reaching a record
$19.40 on Feb. 4, according to assessments by New York-based
World Gas Intelligence.  Norway, with the biggest pipeline capacity into the U.K.,
has been the main beneficiary. Britain’s imports from the
Scandinavian country rose as high as 138 million cubic meters a
day on Jan. 16, compared with an average 76 million last year,
Gassco  data  show.  Belgium, Netherlands  Norway provided the U.K. with 8.8 billion cubic meters in
the fourth quarter, according to provisional DECC data. Links
from  Belgium  and the Netherlands supplied a combined 3.4 billion
cubic meters. LNG shipments accounted for 2.5 billion.  The U.K. produced 41 billion cubic meters of gas in 2012,
down from 86 billion in 2006 and a peak of 117 billion in 2000,
DECC data show. The decline in output accelerated last year as
Total SA’s Elgin-Franklin platform in the North Sea was closed.  Norway has gained a growing share of the U.K. market partly
because it has embraced “spot” rather than oil-linked pricing
faster than rivals such as  Russia , making it cheaper for
consumers, according to Thierry Bros, a gas analyst at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. The amount of European gas bought at these
market prices may surpass 50 percent in 2014 for the first time,
he said.  ‘Good Business’  Russia doesn’t ship directly to the U.K., yet its fuel may
end up in Britain through the links from the Netherlands and
Belgium. The former Soviet country supplied 26 percent of
European gas last year and 27 percent in 2011, according to OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s monopoly exporter.  “Because Norway has been more flexible in prices they are
earning market power and market share,” Bros said by phone from
Paris. “It’s a good business for Norway. The U.K. needs to hope
they don’t abuse their market position.”  Most Russian gas is sold to European customers under long-
term contracts linked to oil prices, according to Gazprom. Fuel
from Russia cost $410.04 a thousand cubic meters ($11.17 a
million Btu) at the German border in January,  data  from the
International Monetary Fund show.  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s state-owned gas company, has cut
output to boost prices in a strategy it calls “value over
volume” since at least 2010.  Record Sales  “In Europe, as part of the value-over-volume strategy, the
company produced somewhat higher gas volumes in 2012 than
previously assumed, which reduces estimated 2013 gas production
by approximately 15,000 barrels of oil equivalent (2.4 million
cubic meters) per day,” Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil said
Feb. 7 in a statement.  Sales to Europe reached a record 88 billion cubic meters in
2012, up from 80 billion a year earlier, the company said.  “History has shown Norway and Statoil to be a very
reliable supplier of natural gas, a position we intend to
keep,” Morten Eek, a spokesman for Statoil in Stavanger, said
in an e-mailed response to questions, declining to comment on
value over volume.  No single supplier to the U.K. should be able to abuse its
position without triggering a reaction from other participants,
either by increasing supply or reducing demand, according to
Jonathan Stern, chairman and founder of the Oxford Institute for
Energy Studies.  The U.K. accounts for more than half of Europe’s gas
trading after being the first to move away from long-term
contracts tied to the price of crude and oil products, according
to London-based Prospex Research Ltd.  Russian Retreat  Russia, which has defended the use of oil-indexed gas
pricing, saw its exports to Europe through state-controlled
Gazprom drop 8 percent to 138 billion cubic meters in 2012.  While Norway may expand gas exports by as much as 22
percent through 2020, according to Petroleum and Energy Minister
Ola Borten Moe, a drop in production this year may leave the
U.K. even more vulnerable to periods of high demand.  Western Europe’s largest natural gas exporter may produce
15 percent less of the fuel in 2013 because of maintenance work
at offshore fields from April, according to the Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate.  The March 4 price jump showed that the U.K. has developed a
vulnerability to supply cuts as LNG imports have declined,
Michael Hsueh, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said in
a March 6 research note.  “We expect next winter’s balance to be similarly dependent
on storage and interconnectors,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  