-- U.K. Liberal Democrat President Bemoans Party’s ‘Critical State’
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-08T12:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-k-liberal-democrat-president-says-party-in-critical-state-.html
The president of Britain’s  Liberal
Democrats , Tim Farron, said his party, the junior partner in
 David Cameron ’s coalition government, is in a “critical state”
and may struggle to survive at the next election in 2015.  Even though they held on to a parliamentary district
targeted by their Conservative coalition partners in a special
election last week, the Liberal Democrats trail in national
opinion polls as activists gather for a spring rally this
weekend. The party is not indestructible, Farron said.  “We may well be cockroach-ish, but we shouldn’t take that
for granted,” Farron was cited as saying in an interview in
“The House” magazine, distributed to lawmakers in London
today. “One day someone will stand on us if we are not careful.
We shouldn’t assume our survival is guaranteed.”  Even though national elections are not scheduled until
2015, the Liberal Democrats, led by Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , and Prime Minister Cameron’s Tories will contest local-
government and European Parliament elections this year and next
as separate parties. They are now beginning to make clear to
voters the differences between them.  Farron criticized Cameron as a “weak leader” and was
quoted as saying that the Liberal Democrats have “got at least
three candidates for chancellor of the exchequer who could do a
better job” than the current Tory holding that position,  George Osborne . Farron’s party gathers in Brighton, southern  England ,
today for its spring conference.  Morrissey Probe  Newton Investment Management Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
 Helena Morrissey  was named to head an inquiry into the Liberal
Democrats’ culture and attitudes toward women after allegations
were made about former CEO Chris Rennard, the party said today
in an e-mailed statement. Rennard denies claims that he sexually
harassed female party workers and Clegg has said that the party
did not try to suppress the allegations.  An analysis of the Liberal Democrats’ prospects by Michael Ashcroft, a upper-house Conservative lawmaker who commissions
opinion polling, found only 29 percent of those who voted for
the party in 2010 said they would do so again tomorrow. Still,
Ashcroft’s report also found causes for hope for the Liberal
Democrats: just under a quarter of those who now say they’d vote
for the party next time didn’t do so last time. Ashcroft’s
pollsters interviewed 20,022 adults online between Jan. 22 and
Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  