-- U.S. Credit Swaps Decline to Two-Year Low as Jobless Rate Falls
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-03-08T21:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-s-credit-swaps-decline-to-two-year-low-as-jobless-rate-falls.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped to a two-year low as the  unemployment rate  fell to
the least since 2008.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2
basis points to a mid-price of 80.6 basis points at 4:13 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since the measure closed at 79.7 basis points on
Feb. 21, 2011.  Payrolls increased in February and the jobless rate fell to
7.7 percent from 7.9 percent, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . Hiring in construction jumped by the most
in almost six years. Signs that the labor market is
strengthening may ease investor concern that an economic
slowdown will constrain companies’ ability to repay obligations.  “Business sentiment is improving as is demonstrated by the
strong economic data in the U.S.,” Scott Carmack, a portfolio
manager at Leader Capital Corp. in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a
telephone interview today. “This market has finally changed and
shed the bear market mentality, and short-term corporate bonds
will benefit the most in credit markets.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Sales Fall  Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S. fell this week and
relative yields narrowed as political wrangling in Washington
deterred borrowers.  International Lease Finance Corp., the commercial aircraft
unit of insurer American International Group Inc., and
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  led issuance of about $25 billion,
down from $35.2 billion last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales this year total $307 billion, below $344.9
billion sold in the similar period 2012.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 8.5 basis points to 404.4 basis points, the
lowest level in two years, Bloomberg prices show.  Defaults Hold  The trailing 12-month, global default rate for high-yield
bonds graded by Moody’s Investors Service held at 2.7 percent in
February, according to a report from the ratings company.
Defaults in  North America  were 3.3 percent.  The ratings firm forecasts global defaults will end this
year at 2.7 percent. Default rates will be the highest in the
forest products and paper sector in the U.S., the company
expects, analysts led by Albert Metz, wrote in the report.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt fell 1.6 basis points to 492.8 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  