-- U.S. Said to Focus on Constellation Plans to Expand Plant
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-03-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-s-said-to-focus-on-constellation-plans-to-expand-plant.html
Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) ’s plans
for expanding a beer plant now owned by  Grupo Modelo  SAB are
being examined by U.S. antitrust investigators to see if they’re
sufficient to approve Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s purchase of the
Mexican brewer, two people familiar with the matter said.  The  Justice Department  is reviewing Constellation’s plan to
boost brewing capacity by about 70 percent at the Piedras Negras
plant in Mexico to ensure it can keep Modelo-brand products as a
viable competitor in the U.S. beer market, said the people.  The sale of the plant to Constellation by Modelo is the key
element of AB InBev’s revised proposal to resolve a U.S. lawsuit
seeking to block its $20.1 billion purchase of the  Mexico  City-
based brewer. Under the plan, Constellation would pay $2.9
billion for the production assets and perpetual rights to Modelo
brands in the U.S., where its Corona is the largest-selling
imported beer.  An independent beer supply that can meet U.S. demand is
critical to resolving regulators’ antitrust concerns, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the matter is
confidential.  Talks between the companies and the Justice Department are
progressing smoothly with exchanges of documents and
information, the people said.  Court Date  Even so, an agreement might not be ready by March 19 when
both sides are due to update U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts
in  Washington  on the status of settlement talks or propose a
schedule for the litigation if the case is headed to trial, the
people said.  Angie Blackwell, a spokeswoman for Constellation,  Marianne Amssoms , a spokeswoman for AB InBev and Jennifer Shelley, a
spokeswoman for Grupo Modelo, and Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman
for the Justice Department, also declined to comment on status
of the review.  Constellation shares fell as much as 4 percent on news of
the antitrust scrutiny before closing little changed at $44.04
in  New York . Modelo shares fell 1 percent to 113.22 pesos in
Mexico City. AB InBev rose 2 percent to 74.15 euros in Brussels.  Under the revised deal, Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev, the
world biggest brewer, also gave up an option to buy back a stake
in Crown Imports LLC, the U.S. distributor of Corona and the
other Modelo brands that’s also being sold to Victor,  New York- 
based Constellation.  Emerging Markets  AB InBev agreed to buy the 50 percent of Mexico City-based
Modelo it didn’t own in June 2012, seeking to increase its
penetration of  emerging markets . Beer sales are rising at a
faster pace in Mexico than in developed economies such as the
U.S., the world’s second-biggest beer market by volume after
 China .  The Piedras Negras brewery, just across the border near
Eagle Pass,  Texas , is the crown jewel of Modelo’s manufacturing
network, Constellation Chief Executive Officer Robert Sands said
in a Feb. 14 interview.  The plant uses automated production lines and sophisticated
water treatment facilities, making it “the most modern in the
world,” according to Modelo, which spent $600 million less than
three years ago to build the plant. The facility currently
produces 10 million hectoliters (264 million gallons) of beer a
year and was designed to be easily and quickly expanded to
produce three times that amount, Sands said.  U.S. Supply  The plant’s current production can meet about 60 percent of
the supply needed for Modelo brands in the U.S., according to
Sands. Constellation plans to invest $400 million to expand the
plant to have capacity to satisfy all U.S. demand, bringing
output to about 17 million hectoliters.  AB InBev agreed to supply Constellation during the
expansion with the additional beer it needs through a three-year
supply contract.  “This makes them the third-largest brewer in the U.S.,
answering only to themselves and gives them 100 percent
authority on new packages, innovation, pricing and supply
chain,” said Bump Williams, whose Stratford, Connecticut-based
BWC Co. advises more than 100 beer retailers, distributors and
brewers. He declined to disclose the names of his clients.
“It’s a great thing for them and the entire U.S. beer business.
The Justice Department got everything it asked for.”  The case is U.S. v.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  