-- U.S. Commercial-Property Prices Seen Rising Near Peak
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-s-commercial-property-prices-seen-rising-near-peak.html
Prices for U.S. commercial property
are expected to climb in the next six months, extending a
rebound that has sent values close to levels reached at the
market’s peak in 2007, according to Green Street Advisors Inc.  There is an 80 percent likelihood that commercial real
estate prices will rise over the next six months, the  Newport
Beach , California-based research firm said in a report
yesterday. Prices climbed 1 percent in February and are within 1
percentage point of their August 2007 high, according to the
company, which tracks real estate investment trusts.  “We’re effectively back to peak pricing,” Mike Kirby,
Green Street’s director of research, said in a phone interview.
“We’re fairly confident that the rebound will continue.”  A “renaissance” in the issuance of commercial mortgage-
backed securities will help boost prices, particularly for
lower-quality properties, because financing will be more
available, according to the report. JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
its 2013 CMBS sales forecast to $70 billion from $45 billion
last month as issuance in January and February exceeded
expectations.  Green Street’s commercial real estate price index is based
on its estimate of the value of portfolios of  REITs (BBREIT) , which tend
to own high-quality properties. Another measure of national
values, the Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price Index, is 20
percent below its peak in November 2007.  REITs are trading at “moderate” premiums to net asset
values, which historically has been a positive sign for prices
of apartments, industrial and office properties, malls and strip
shopping centers, according to the report. The spread between
real estate returns and yields on investment-grade corporate
bonds is also wider than usual, which is also a signal for
climbing prices, Green Street said.  “Values of high-quality (i.e., REIT-owned) properties have
recovered virtually all of their lost value, while prices of
lower-quality assets remain mired in the doldrums,” according
to the report, written by Kirby and Peter Rothemund. “A recent
renaissance in the CMBS market –- issuance is back to ’04 levels
-– bodes well for a narrowing of the gap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  