-- U.S. Stocks Cap Best Weekly Rally Since January Amid Jobs Data
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/u-s-stocks-cap-best-weekly-rally-since-january-amid-jobs-data.html
U.S. stocks  had the biggest weekly
rally since January, driving the Dow Jones Industrial Average to
a record, amid faster-than-forecast jobs growth and speculation
that the Federal Reserve will continue to stimulate the economy.  All 10  industry groups  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced in the week.  Citigroup (C)  Inc. jumped 11 percent as the
lender asked regulators for permission to buy back shares.
McDonald’s Corp. climbed 3.2 percent and Gap Inc. rose 7 percent
after reporting better-than-estimated February sales.
Networking-equipment makers increased after Ciena Corp. posted a
surprise quarterly profit.  The S&P 500 rallied 2.2 percent to 1,551.18 over the five
days, and is less than 1 percent below its record. The Dow added
307.41 points, or 2.2 percent, to 14,397.07, the highest level
in the gauge’s 116-year history. Both measures capped their best
weekly gains since Jan. 4.  “The U.S. economy is in a really strong position right
now, relative to the globe and relative to where we were three
or four years ago,” Jeff Schwarte, a money manager who helps
oversee about $282 billion in Des Moines,  Iowa , at Principal
Global Investors, said in a phone interview. “The Fed will
continue with this low growth, high-liquidity market until we
have a sustained period of jobs growth.”  Stocks rose every day during the week amid data showing
jobless-benefit claims fell to a six-week low and American
employment rose by 236,000 jobs last month, exceeding forecasts.
Investors shrugged off automatic cuts in U.S. federal spending
that went into effect March 1 following a congressional impasse.
The cuts, known as sequestration, total $1.2 trillion over the
next nine years.  Fed Stimulus  While the jobless rate dropped to 7.7 percent, the lowest
since December 2008, it’s still above 6.5 percent, a reason the
Fed cited for keeping interest rates near zero. Fed Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen said on March 4 the central bank should
press on with $85 billion in monthly bond buying while tracking
possible costs and risks from the unprecedented program.  More than $10 trillion has been restored to U.S. equity
values during the four-year  bull market  as the  S&P 500 (SPX)  more than
doubled from the bottom in 2009, fueled by better-than-estimated
corporate earnings and monetary stimulus from the Fed. The Dow
recouped all its losses from the financial crisis in less than
65 months, more than a year faster than the recovery from the
Internet bubble.  Record Highs  While the S&P 500 remains 0.9 percent below its 2007 peak,
American gauges including the Dow Jones Transportation Average,
the  Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  of smaller companies, the S&P Midcap 400
Index have all reached record highs. By contrast, equity
benchmarks in the 45 largest markets are an average of 27
percent below their peaks, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It continues the story that the U.S. market is the best
place to invest,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset
allocation for ING Investment Management, which oversees $170
billion, said by phone. “The housing market is recovering, the
jobs market is recovering and that’s leading to a positive
reinforcement.”  Options traders scaled back hedges against equity losses as
stocks rallied. The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility
Index (VIX) , which measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the S&P 500, tumbled 18 percent to 12.59 for
the week, trading near its lowest level since April 2007.  Financials Rally  Financial companies rose the most among 10 S&P 500 groups,
surging 3.4 percent. The Fed said that of the 18 largest U.S.
banks, all except Ally Financial Inc. could withstand a deep
recession and maintain capital above a regulatory minimum.  Citigroup jumped 11 percent, the most since December 2011,
to $46.68. The lender’s Tier 1 common ratio, a measure of
financial strength, would fall to 8.3 percent in a dire economic
scenario, the highest among the six biggest U.S. banks,
according to the Fed report. Citigroup asked regulators for
permission to buy back $1.2 billion of shares a year after its
previous request was rejected.  Bank of America Corp., whose ratio would be at 6.8 percent,
according to the Fed, rallied 6.4 percent to $12.07.  McDonald’s added 3.2 percent to $98.71. The world’s largest
restaurant chain said sales at stores open at least 13 months
fell 1.5 percent in February, less than the average analyst
estimate of a 1.6 percent drop compiled by Consensus Metrix, as
low prices kept consumers coming to restaurants.  Gap advanced 7 percent to $36.23. The biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer posted a 3 percent increase in sales
last month, more than the 2.3 percent gain projected by
analysts.  Ciena, JDS  Ciena (CIEN)  jumped 16 percent to $17.15. The maker of fiber-optic
networking equipment reported first-quarter profit of 12 cents a
share, compared with a 14-cent loss estimated by analysts on
average. JDS Uniphase Corp., another communications-equipment
supplier, advanced 10 percent to $15.48.  Boeing Co. climbed 5.1 percent to $81.23. The upgrade of
the company’s 777 wide-body jet, a model coveted by airlines and
central to Boeing’s strategy to keep its lead over Airbus SAS in
twin-aisle airliners, moved closer to board approval with the
appointment of Bob Feldmann to lead development of the plane.  Genworth Financial Inc. rallied 15 percent to $9.84. The
provider of life insurance and mortgage guaranties is suspending
sales of individual long-term care coverage in  California  as the
company works to start replacement offerings with better
returns. Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney is seeking to
improve results after fourth-quarter profits at the unit tumbled
75 percent amid low interest rates and rising health-care costs.  Best Buy  Best Buy Co. surged 18 percent to $20.17. Daniel Binder, an
analyst with Jefferies Group LLC, raised the stock’s rating to
buy from hold, citing the retail’s efforts to cut costs and a
potential sale of the company’s business in  Europe  and Asia.  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. added 5.7 percent to
$33.28. The world’s second-largest copper miner may double sales
of copper concentrate to  China  in the next three years as mined
production expands, according to Javier Targhetta, the company’s
senior vice president of marketing and sales.  TripAdvisor Inc., operator of a travel-research website,
jumped 12 percent to $51.03 amid anticipation that a bidding war
for display advertising will bolster sales growth. As
Priceline.com Inc., the biggest Internet travel site by market
value, and its smaller rival Expedia Inc. compete for bookings,
they’re spending more for display ads on TripAdvisor, said Tom White, an analyst at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in New York.  Time Warner Inc. climbed 7.2 percent to $57.46. The media
company said it will spin off its magazine business later this
year, turning the nine-decade-old publisher of Time, People and
Sports Illustrated into a separate publicly held company.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  slumped 15 percent to $15.11. Vornado
Realty Trust, once its second-biggest shareholder, sold 10
million shares at $16.03 each, almost half of its stake in the
struggling department-store chain. The retailer is cutting an
additional 2,200 jobs to trim costs as Chief Executive Officer
Ron Johnson’s revamp of the company causes sales to plunge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff Sutherland at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net  