-- Lukoil Billionaire Fedun Sees Damage From Ruble Countered by Oil
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-03-08T15:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/lukoil-billionaire-fedun-sees-damage-from-ruble-countered-by-oil.html
Leonid Fedun , the billionaire deputy
chief executive officer of  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , said any negative effect
on the second-biggest Russian  oil company  from the rising ruble
is being countered by gains from crude prices moving in tandem.  “The stronger the oil price, the higher the ruble,” Fedun
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “It’s very
comfortable for an oil company, because our expenditure is in
rubles but our profits are in dollars.”  The ruble has risen 8 percent against the dollar since June
1, and Brent crude prices gained the same amount. Russia is the
world’s biggest oil and gas producer, and the industry accounts
for half of the nation’s tax revenue. Lukoil plans to use record
profit last year to boost output 18 percent by the end of 2015.  The Moscow-based company is counting on its deposits in
Siberia, the  Caspian Sea , Iraq and Uzbekistan to spur growth.  “In the U.S. or the  North Sea , oil output is about 50
percent of potential resources,” said Fedun, the second-largest
shareholder in the company after Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov . “In Russia, it’s about 20 percent. We have huge
potential to increase production at our oil field without any
additional spending on infrastructure or pumping.”  Explorers will probably look to the Arctic before turning
to Russia’s shale oil and gas deposits as the country still has
untapped conventional resources, Fedun said. Total production
will be little changed for 10 to 15 years, he said. Lukoil is
currently barred by the government from exploring in the Arctic.  Lukoil isn’t threatened by an agreement by state-backed  OAO
Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia’s biggest oil company, to buy TNK-BP, the third-
largest, almost doubling its production, Fedun said. “We like
the government and the government likes us,” he said. Neither
will Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s death hurt the company’s
operations in the Latin American country, the deputy CEO said.  Lukoil will consider raising the proportion of profit it
pays as dividends to investors next year when investment demands
ease, Alekperov said yesterday. It will look to raise the ratio
to 30 percent in the mid-term from 23 percent in 2012, he said.  Fedun was nominated to Lukoil’s board in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  