-- Hungary’s Recession Deepens on Agriculture Output
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-08T08:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/hungary-s-recession-deepens-on-agriculture-output.html
Hungary’s recession deepened in the
fourth quarter, boosting pressure on policy makers to continue
cutting the European Union’s highest benchmark interest rate.  Gross domestic product  shrank  2.7 percent from the same
period a year ago, the steepest slump in three years, the
statistics office in Budapest said today, confirming its
preliminary estimate. The economy shrank 0.9 percent from the
previous three months, a fourth consecutive quarterly decline.  Hungary’s second recession in four years and slowing
inflation give the central bank room to keep cutting interest
rates. The bank, which has reduced borrowing costs by 1.75
percentage points in the last seven months, lowered the two-week
deposit rate by a quarter-point in February to a record-low 5.25
percent.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban, under pressure to generate
growth before elections in 2014, selected former Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  as the new central bank president.
Matolcsy has vowed to work with the government to boost GDP.  The forint fell to as low as 300.13 per euro on March 6, a
nine-month low. The currency traded at 298.77 per euro at 8:41
a.m. today, little changed from yesterday.  The central bank, in cooperation with the government, can
expand sources of corporate lending, which is “key” to ending
the recession, Matolcsy wrote in a column published in Heti
Valasz yesterday, vowing a growth rebound this year. His
unorthodox policies, including the highest bank tax in  Europe ,
damaged lending and helped push the economy into a recession.  Agriculture production dropped 26.4 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012 from a year ago, while industrial production
declined 3.8 percent, the statistics office said. Construction
output fell 6.1 percent and household spending eased 1.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  