-- Turk Telekom Owner Said to Seek Debt for $1.5 Billion Payout
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-03-08T17:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/turk-telekom-owner-said-to-seek-loans-for-1-5-billion-dividend.html
Ojer Telekomunikasyon AS, the
majority owner of  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM)  controlled by Saudi
Oger Ltd., is seeking $4.75 billion of loans to pay a $1.5
billion dividend and refinance debt, according to three people
with knowledge of the deal.  The company, known as OTAS, is seeking a five-year $500
million  term loan , an eight-year $3 billion facility and a $250
million  credit line  to be provided by Akbank TAS and Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the transaction is private.  The loans are being marketed to a wider group of lenders,
according to a statement from banks arranging the loan. The
bookrunners of the transaction are Akbank, BNP Paribas SA, BNP
Paribas Fortis SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Garanti Bank, it said.  Banks have also underwritten a $1 billion two-year bridge
loan, according to the statement. Bridge loans are often used as
backstops to bond offerings or longer-dated bank debt.  Mazen Fayed, director of corporate communication at Saudi
Oger, didn’t return a telephone call and an e-mail seeking
comment on the debt.  OTAS bought a 55 percent stake in  Turkey ’s largest
telephone company at an auction in 2005. It  raised  about $3.7
billion of loans to back the $6.55 billion deal and then
borrowed a further $1.35 billion from lenders in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Turkey’s Treasury own about 32
percent of the Ankara-based telecommunications operator and is
considering selling a sale of 6.68 percent stake, it said in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  