-- Vietnam’s Coffee Premium Doubles as Local Sales Come to a Stop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-08T17:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/vietnam-s-coffee-premium-doubles-as-local-sales-come-to-a-stop.html
Buyers of coffee from  Vietnam , the
world’s largest producer of the robusta variety used in instant
drinks, are paying a bigger premium for their beans as local
sales came to “a complete stop,” according to Volcafe Ltd.  Beans from Vietnam for shipment in April and May were at a
premium of $50 a metric ton to the futures price on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in London, said Volcafe, the coffee unit of
commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. That is double the $25
a ton premium a week earlier, according to the company.  “Differentials strengthened and are not weakening at
all,” the Winterthur, Switzerland-based trader said in a report
e-mailed today, referring to a discount or a premium paid to
obtain physical coffee in relation to the price on the futures
market. “Sales have come to a complete stop.”  Local prices reached 43,200 dong ($2.06) a kilogram (2.2
pounds) on March 5, the highest since Oct. 3,  data  from the
Daklak Trade & Tourism Center on Bloomberg show. Robusta coffee
futures on NYSE Liffe climbed 3 percent this week as growers
held back beans amid a drought that may reduce the crop that
starts Oct. 1.  Sales probably reached 820,000 tons, or 57 percent of the
crop, less than the 60 percent a year earlier, according to the
median of 11 trader and shipper estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Water levels at many reservoirs in the central provinces are 20
percent to 50 percent of designed capacity, the government said
Feb. 26. Drought may hurt the crop, it said.  ‘Strong Hands’  “Coffee in strong hands, speculating on higher prices and
with the continuing dry weather and low water reserves,
speculation will continue,” Volcafe said. Demand is “still
strong,” especially for second half of the year, it said.  In  Indonesia , the second-biggest producer, the premium paid
by buyers remains “firm,” Volcafe said. Indonesian beans were
$50 a ton above the exchange price for shipment in April and
May, unchanged from last week, data from the trader show.  “Differentials for nearby shipment remain tight at the
moment as crop has not started yet,” Volcafe said. “Local
roasters continue to be actively buying in domestic market. As
they can afford higher prices than the exporters, prices will
remain high until their commitments are filled or the new crop
will start to pressure in April or May.”  In  India , prices are falling after the government announced
an additional 2 percent incentive for coffee to be shipped
before March 31, according to Volcafe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 