-- Volatility Rises Most in Malaysia as Flows Imperiled
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-03-08T04:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/volatility-rises-most-in-malaysia-as-flows-imperiled-currencies.html
Currency swings are rising in
 Malaysia  at the world’s fastest pace as concern mounts that the
ruling coalition will lose its 55-year grip on power after
attracting more foreign capital than any other emerging market
except  Mexico .  Three-month implied volatility for the ringgit, a measure
of expected exchange-rate moves used to price options, jumped
2.2 percentage points to 7.4 percent in 2013, more than any of
the 47 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The ringgit has lost 1.6
percent this year and reached a five-month low in February as
Credit Suisse Group AG and ING Groep NV cut their forecasts.  Polls show support for Prime Minister Najib Razak, who
embarked on a $444 billion  development plan  to build railways
and power plants, is the lowest since 2011 ahead of elections
due before the end of June. Investors may pull from the local
 bond market  as much as $10 billion, or 24 percent of their total
holdings, as opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  pledged to review
highway-toll contracts and the granting of tax permits to large
companies, according to Credit Suisse.  “The volatility rate reflects worries of capital outflows
in the lead up to the election, which looks uncertain at this
time,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in  Singapore , said in a March 6 interview. “In
the long term, I am still positive on the fundamentals of the
ringgit and the bond market in Malaysia.”  Spending Boost  Malaysia, Southeast  Asia ’s third-largest economy after
Indonesia and  Thailand , attracted investment, including bonds
and stocks, equivalent to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the year through September, the second-highest percentage
among 21 developing nations after Mexico, strategists at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a Feb. 25 report.  Overseas funds boosted ownership of government  debt  to a
record 132 billion ringgit ($42.5 billion) as of January, or 30
percent of the securities outstanding, Bank Negara Malaysia data
show. That compares with foreign holdings of $28.9 billion in
Indonesia local-currency  notes  and $16.9 billion of Thai baht
 debt , based on central bank and finance ministry figures.  “For any government, whether the new or existing one, they
want to maintain stability,” Sean Chang, the Hong Kong-based
head of Asian debt at Barings Asset Management, which oversees
$52 billion globally, said in a Feb. 25 interview.  New Government  Credit Suisse said in a Feb. 21 report that foreign
purchases of Malaysian bonds rose 27 percent last year and those
of Treasury bills increased 73 percent, “much larger” than any
other Asian markets.  “The anxiety experienced by investors may only be short
term,” Chang said. “But over the medium to long run, the
government has proven they are effective in implementing their
policies.”  Najib, 59, must dissolve Parliament by the April 28
deadline and hold the poll within 60 days. His Barisan Nasional
coalition lost a two-thirds majority in Parliament after winning
the 2008 election by the smallest ever margin.  His approval rating fell to 61 percent in February, the
lowest since August 2011, from 63 percent at the end of December,
according to a survey from the Merdeka Center for Opinion
Research issued Feb. 26.  Stocks Drop  The ringgit dropped to 3.1265 per dollar on Feb. 1, the
weakest level since Sept. 3. It gained 0.1 percent to 3.1065 in
Kuala Lumpur today. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI  Index (FBMKLCI)  of stocks
has fallen 2.2 percent this year, the worst performance in Asia.  The ringgit’s three-month implied volatility has climbed
from a five-year low of 4.55 percent on Dec. 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Since coming to office, Najib has liberalized the services
sector, including allowing overseas investors to own private
schools and universities. He also raised foreign-ownership
limits in local banks and insurers to 70 percent from 49 percent.  The opposition People’s Front coalition will review the
current administration’s business policies if it comes to power
and is debating whether to continue with the government’s plans
to develop a $20 billion energy hub in the southern state of
Johor, Rafizi Ramli, strategic director of the People’s Justice
Party, which is part of that coalition, said Dec. 18.  Forecasts Lowered  Strategists at ING predicted the ringgit will weaken 0.7
percent to 3.128 per dollar in six months, cutting their
forecast from 3.046. Politics could add “depreciation
pressure” on the currency,  Tim Condon , the chief Asian
economist at ING in Singapore, wrote in a Feb. 4 report.  Credit Suisse’s analysts expected a 0.8 percent drop to
3.13 per dollar in three months, compared with a prior estimate
of 3.0, according to its Feb. 21 report. Citigroup Inc. took an
“underweight” position in the ringgit in its model for
emerging-market bonds on Feb. 10, expecting a decline in the
run-up to the elections.  “The reform agenda may be somewhat deflected in the near
term but we think there’s enough momentum behind that process
that it’s not going to come to a complete standstill,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based  fund manager  at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, which manages $314 billion globally, said in a
March 4 interview. “We would look for opportunities if the
market overreacts to the election risk to actually reposition in
the  currency market .”  Expanding Economy  Malaysia’s $288 billion economy expanded 5.6 percent last
year, the fastest pace since 2010. While growth will slow to 5
percent in 2013, it is still above its five-year average,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey published Feb. 27.  The surplus in the country’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, amounted to about 11 percent of GDP in 2011,
more than any other Asian country except Singapore, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It is easier to do business in
Malaysia than in Sweden, Canada and  Germany , according to the
 World Bank ’s Doing Business 2013  report , which ranks the Asian
nation 12th among 185.  As part of Najib’s development plan started in 2010, the
ruling parties set out to reduce the country’s reliance on
exports by luring foreign companies such as Dutch oil storage
firm Royal Vopak NV, German chipmaker Infineon Technologies AG
and U.S. computer-solutions provider International Business
Machines Corp.  ‘Panic Unwinding’  Companies in the Southeast Asian nation raised 21.2 billion
ringgit in initial public offerings in 2012, the fifth highest
in the world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While “panic unwinding” is less likely, investors may
pare their holdings of Malaysian fixed-income securities ahead
of the polls, causing capital outflows of as much as $10 billion
in the first half, Credit Suisse analysts led by Singapore-based
Ray Farris wrote in the report.  In the event of a win by the opposition coalition, which
the bank puts at 10 percent, the currency may weaken toward 3.25
per dollar, a level last seen in 2010, according to the report.  “An opposition victory would likely be disruptive to
capital flows and the ringgit, not because it would necessarily
be a ‘bad’ outcome, but because after decades of Barisan
Nasional rule, it would create significant uncertainty for
investors about the direction of policy and the structure of
business in Malaysia,” according to Credit Suisse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  