-- Vueling Says British Airways Owner’s Bid Too Low, Spurring Stock
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-08T09:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/vueling-says-british-airways-owner-s-bid-too-low-spurring-stock.html
Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) ’s board said
investors should reject a 113 million-euro ($148 million) bid
from IAG SA for shares the  British Airways (IAG)  parent doesn’t yet
own, spurring the stock to its biggest gain since the offer.  The 7 euros-a-share proposal from IAG, as International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known, undervalues Vueling’s
business, the Barcelona-based discount carrier said yesterday
after European markets had closed.  Vueling stock rose as much as 6.6 percent to 8.37 euros and
was trading 4 percent higher at 8.17 euros, 17 percent above the
bid price, as of 9:36 a.m. in  Madrid , valuing the whole company
at almost 245 million euros. The IAG proposal fails to offer a
sufficient premium, the board said in a statement.  “The inherent value for IAG in having full ownership of
Vueling is possibly far greater than 7 euros per share over the
longer term,” Donal O’Neill, an analyst at Goodbody Stockbrokers
in Dublin, who rates the stock “buy,” said in an investor note.  IAG Chief Executive Officer Willie Walsh has made the
takeover of Vueling central to his plan to overhaul the London-
based company’s Spanish Iberia arm after the unit pushed the
group to a 23 million-euro operating loss last year.  Walsh is seeking to acquire the 16.2 million shares of
Vueling -- equivalent to 54.14 percent of the total -- that IAG
doesn’t already control and has said the business would become
an independently-run entity within IAG.  While buying the low-cost airline would improve IAG’s
“financial stability,” according to the CEO, analysts have said
the operation could be used as a vehicle to lower costs across
Iberia, where workers are striking over 3,807 job cuts.  “We will reflect on Vueling’s announcement and provide an
update in due course,” IAG spokeswoman Laura Goodes said.  Shares of IAG traded 0.5 percent higher at 242.80 pence,
taking gains this year to 31 percent and valuing the company at
4.5 billion pounds ($6.8 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  