-- Wal-Mart’s Reputation Management Chief Dach to Leave in June
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/wal-mart-s-washington-relations-executive-dach-to-leave-in-june.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s reputation
management chief, a former Democratic strategist, is leaving in
June, the company said yesterday in a memo.  Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs Leslie A. Dach, 58, has been responsible for public policy, government
relations, corporate communications and sustainability
initiatives. Wal-Mart is searching for a successor, Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  said in the memo to employees. The
announcement came as U.S. regulators continue to probe
allegations of bribery in Wal-Mart’s Mexico operations.  Dach, who commutes weekly between his Washington home and
the company’s Bentonville, Arkansas, headquarters, told Duke
that now is the “right time” to leave, Duke said in the memo.  When Dach’s appointment was announced in 2006, observers
including Patricia Edwards, then a  money manager  at Wentworth,
Hauser & Violich, said Dach would help Wal-Mart augment its
image. At the time, critics said the company needed to improve
working conditions for its employees -- complaints still voiced
by union-backed groups such as OUR Walmart.  Before joining the world’s largest retailer, Dach held
senior positions in Democratic presidential campaigns and
handled work for the Clinton administration, according to his
bio page on Wal-Mart’s website. He has served on the government-
relations staffs of the National Audubon Society and the
Environmental Defense Fund.  Edelman Connection  Dach was also vice chairman of Edelman, a global public
relations firm, where his work included leading Wal-Mart’s
corporate social responsibility division. He has been a special
assistant to the chairman of the U.S. Senate Agriculture
Committee and sits on the World Resources Institute board.  “Leslie has played a pivotal role in helping us understand
the broader role Wal-Mart can play in meeting the major
challenges facing society today, and social goals are now an
integral part of how we run our business,” Duke said in the
memo. He cited Dach’s work in the areas of hunger, nutrition and
women’s economic empowerment.  Dach was unavailable for comment, Brooke Buchanan, a Wal-
Mart spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Dach’s is the second executive-level departure to be
announced in as many weeks. Tom Mars, executive vice president
and chief administrative officer for Wal-Mart U.S., will leave
March 13 after 11 years with the company.  Corporate Image  Dach led efforts to improve Wal-Mart’s corporate image
through environmental and anti-obesity initiatives and others
aimed at making the company seem “more worker- and women-
friendly,” Faye Landes, an analyst at New York-based Cowen
Group Inc., said in a note.  Dach was a frequent participant at analyst meetings, where
“he convincingly documented the company’s improved standing in
consumers’ eyes,” Landes said in the note.  Wal-Mart rose 0.3 percent to $73.03 at the close yesterday
in  New York . The shares have gained 7 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with an 8.8 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  