-- Wells Fargo Hits 4-Year High, Buffett Stake Surges
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-08T21:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/wells-fargo-hits-4-year-high-buffett-stake-surges.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, climbed to a 4-year high, increasing the value
of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s stake to more than $16 billion.  The bank climbed less than 1 percent to close at $36.50 in
 New York . Earlier, it hit $36.62, the highest since October
2008. At that price, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s 456.2
million shares held at Dec. 31 are worth $16.7 billion.  Warren Buffett , Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, has praised Wells Fargo’s managers and business as he
amassed the holding in the San Francisco-based bank over more
than two decades. The lender is among his company’s  “big four” 
stock investments, a group that Berkshire will probably continue
to build over time, he said last week.  “Mae West had it right: ‘Too much of a good thing can be
wonderful,’” Buffett wrote in his  annual letter  to Berkshire
shareholders March 1, referring to the late Hollywood actress
and comedienne.  The three other stocks in Buffett’s “big four” are
International Business Machines Corp.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)   Wells Fargo posted record  profit  of $18.9 billion last
year, helped by a boom in home-loan refinancing. The bank has
been taking a greater share of mortgage and commercial markets
while betting on an economic turnaround in the U.S.  Last year, Wells Fargo bought back more than $3.8 billion
of shares and increased its quarterly dividend to 22 cents a
share from 12 cents. The bank raised its quarterly dividend
again in January to 25 cents a share.  Distributing Capital  “It’s very important in this environment to continue to
increase the amount of capital distribution that we are
providing to our shareholders,” Chief Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said at a Feb. 13 investor conference in Miami.  Berkshire has  increased its stake  in the lender in nine of
the past 10 quarters. Buffett said in the letter that his
company’s rising share of the bank’s equity entitles Berkshire
to a greater slice of its future earnings.  The stream of profit from Wells Fargo and the three other
largest holdings don’t immediately get paid to Berkshire through
dividends, he wrote. Still, the gains are “every bit as
valuable” to Berkshire shareholders, Buffett said.  The fact that Buffett held onto his stake, even as Wells
Fargo plunged about 80 percent from September 2008 to March of
the following year amid the credit crisis, shows conviction,
said  David Kass , a professor at the University of Maryland’s
Robert H. Smith School of Business who has accompanied students
to meet the billionaire in Omaha.  “That requires nerves of steel,” he said in a phone
interview. Buffett had confidence that “the  U.S. economy  would
come back and, with the U.S. economy, so would Wells Fargo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  