-- White House Said to Expect Immigration Plan in April
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-09T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/white-house-said-to-expect-immigration-plan-in-april.html
The White House anticipates senators
drafting immigration legislation will miss their March target
date and unveil the bill in April after a two-week congressional
break, officials told faith leaders who met with President
 Barack Obama  yesterday.  “They told us it will be after recess,” said Stephan
Bauman, the president of World Relief, the humanitarian arm of
the National Association of Evangelicals, who attended the 90-
minute session with Obama. Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to
Obama, told the group the bill could be ready for a Senate vote
in May, or “early June at the far-latest,” he said.  Obama has been pressing a bipartisan group of senators to
complete their measure this month, and has said he’ll release
his own proposed rewrite of immigration policy if they don’t
reach a timely agreement.  “The president noted that there is good progress being
made by a bipartisan group in the Senate, but urged the leaders
to continue to make this important issue a priority,” the White
House said in a statement yesterday.  At the meeting with evangelical Christian, Catholic, Jewish
and Mormon leaders, among others, Obama emphasized his desire
for quick action on the issue, while giving no indication he was
ready to pull the plug on the Senate process.  “It was a very hopeful meeting,” Bauman said in an
interview. Obama “sees now is the time to get this done. His
message was, ‘We like what you’re doing -- could you do it even
more?’ ”  Biblical Lens  Bauman’s group is part of a coalition of evangelicals that
has begun a multi-pronged campaign to push through an
immigration rewrite, in part by encouraging pastors and
lawmakers to look at the issue through a biblical lens. The
group is organizing telephone campaigns to Congress and paying
for advertisements geared toward generating grassroots support.  Senators have raised doubts in recent days that they would
complete their work by the end of the month.  “I don’t know the timing,” Republican Senator Marco Rubio
of  Florida  said in a March 5 interview. “We’re working on it --
as soon as we have it ready.”  Negotiators have been unable to resolve a dispute over a
new guest-worker program for lower-skilled immigrants, and are
divided over the criteria for admitting future legal immigrants
into the U.S.  Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina told
the Associated Press this week that it wouldn’t be a good idea
to release the measure just before a two-week congressional
break, thus giving opponents an opportunity to criticize it
while lawmakers are home in their districts.  “You don’t want to leave it hanging out for two weeks to
get shot up,” he told the AP.  The Senate recess is scheduled from March 25 to April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  