-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Increase More Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-08T15:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-jump-by-most-in-more-than-a-year.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers
jumped in January by the most in more than a year as companies
shrugged off concerns about fiscal policy and ramped up in
anticipation of rising consumer demand.  The 1.2 percent increase in stockpiles exceeded all
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists and was the
biggest since December 2011, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . Sales fell, reflecting a
slump in non-durable goods including petroleum and farm
products.  Distributors are restocking warehouses as  consumer spending 
picked up at the end of 2012 as the holiday season drew shoppers
and auto sales rebounded. Combined with another report today
showing employment accelerated in February, the figures indicate
the world’s largest economy is strengthening in early 2013.  “The economy looks like it’s on better footing,” said Sean
Incremona, a senior economist with 4Cast Inc. in  New York .  Payrolls increased more than forecast in February and the
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a four-year low of 7.7
percent, a sign employers were undaunted by the budget impasse
in Washington, figures from the Labor Department also showed
today.  Payroll Gain  Employment rose 236,000 last month after a revised 119,000
gain in January that was smaller than first estimated. The
median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
an advance of 165,000. The jobless rate, the lowest since
December 2008, dropped from 7.9 percent. Hiring in construction
jumped by the most in almost six years.  Stocks were little changed as the jobs data spurred
specualtion  Federal Reserve  policy makers may curtail stimulus.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell less than 0.1 percent to
1,543.52 at 10:17 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  fell,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.04
percent from 2 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  of 27 economists
called for a 0.3 percent gain. Estimates ranged from increases
of 0.1 percent to 0.9 percent. The prior month’s figure was
revised to a 0.1 percent gain from a previously reported 0.1
percent decline.  At the current pace of sales, wholesalers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.21 months, up from 1.19 months in December,
the report showed.  Durable Goods  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1.1 percent, boosted by machinery
and computers. Sales of durable goods climbed 0.7 percent in
December.  The value of unsold non-durable goods climbed 1.2 percent
as sales dropped 2.1 percent.  Wholesalers, which make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles, might be feeling the effects of improved  consumer
confidence  as Americans looked beyond budget rancor in Congress
and continued to spend.  Steinway Musical Instruments Inc. (LVB)  is increasing production
with new hires, boosted  capital spending  and added inventories.
The manufacturer of pianos and band instruments, based in
Waltham,  Massachusetts , has been able to raise prices as
consumer demand strengthens.  “We’ve been in an under-inventoried position and the fact
that inventory dropped is not necessarily where we want to be,”
Chief Executive Officer Mike T. Sweeney said on a March 6
earnings call. “We expect 2013 to be a good year overall and
have ramped up production accordingly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  