-- Women Crusaders Absent at Awards Event Highlight Perils
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-03-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/women-crusaders-absent-at-awards-event-highlight-perils.html
Persecution, imprisonment, death and
controversy whittled down from 10 to five the number of women
able to accept awards from Secretary of State  John Kerry  and
First Lady  Michelle Obama  as international women of courage.  Honorees from  Tibet ,  Vietnam  and  Syria  were unable to
attend the ceremony yesterday at the State Department in
Washington because they were denied the right to travel,
imprisoned or in hiding. An Indian gang-rape victim -- who
demanded justice and whose plight mobilized massive protests
against gender violence -- was honored after she died from her
injuries.  In addition, Samira Ibrahim, an Egyptian woman who
campaigned against sexual abuse of female protesters by security
forces, was denied the award after anti-U.S. and anti-Semitic
comments were found on her Twitter account.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday
that the controversy over Ibrahim shouldn’t overshadow the
important advocacy work for a variety of causes by the other
 awardees  under difficult and dangerous circumstances.  The nine women who were honored include the posthumous
award for the 23-year-old Indian physical therapy student who
was brutally gang-raped. She managed to give police statements
from her hospital bed and demand justice against her six
attackers in December before dying from internal injuries. The
attack, on a bus in  New Delhi , sparked mass protests demanding
that Indian government and law enforcement enact laws and
training to better prevent, investigate and prosecute widespread
violence against women.  Called Fearless  The woman, whose identity has been kept confidential, has
become known in the Indian media as “Nirbhaya,” a word meaning
“fearless” in Hindi. After praising her bravery, Kerry called
for the audience at the awards ceremony to stand for a moment of
silence.  Other honorees included Tsering Woeser, also known as Wei
Se, a Tibetan author, poet and blogger. She runs the website
 Invisible Tibet  and has emerged as a leading voice documenting
persecution of ethnic Tibetans in  China . She was denied a
passport by the Chinese government, and was unable to travel to
 Washington  for the award.  Razan Zeitunah, a Syrian human rights lawyer and a founder
of the Local Coordination Committees, was honored for her
reporting on the killing and torture of civilians by Syrian
security forces. She is in hiding for her safety, unable to
travel for the award.  Imprisoned Blogger  Vietnamese blogger Ta Phong Tan also was unable to receive
her award, as she is serving a 10-year prison sentence and two
additional years of house arrest for publishing articles
critical of the Vietnamese Communist Party.  “This just speaks to the extreme difficulty or the
conditions that these women confront and their courage that they
have displayed in speaking out” in their home countries, Nuland
said, when asked about the three women who were unable to travel
to receive their awards.  Their bravery and that of the five honorees who were
present are an inspiration, said Obama, who joined Kerry in the
presentations at the State Department.  “These women have inspired millions to stand with them,
and find their own voices, and work together to achieve real and
lasting change,” she said.  The award “is not simply an honor bestowed upon a few, but
a call for all of us to open our eyes to the injustices around
us, and to ask ourselves just what kind of courage we’ve got
inside our own hearts, she said. The State Department has
bestowed the awards annually since 2007.  Afghan Woman  The other awardees included Malalai Bahaduri, who overcame
family prejudice and societal barriers to become the first
female member of the Afghan National Interdiction Unit, which
arrests and prosecutes drug traffickers. Elena Milashina, a
Russian human rights activist and journalist, was honored for
reporting on terrorist attacks, trafficking and military
disasters, despite physical and verbal attacks.  Others recognized by Kerry were: Julieta Castellanos,
rector, National Autonomous University of Honduras, who has has
pressed for systemic reform of the country’s police and justice
sector institutions; Josephine Obiajulu Odumakin, president of
the Campaign for Democracy, whose advocacy for  women’s rights  in
Nigeria led to her arrest and detention seventeen times during
the dictatorship of General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida; and
Fartuun Adan, executive director of the Elman Peace and Human
Rights Centre in Mogadishu, Somalia, who has championed human
rights, peace-building, and the rehabilitation of child
soldiers.  Asked to Leave  ‘‘The life stories of the women we’ve honored today are
tremendously inspiring and heroic; it has been an honor to
welcome them to the  United States , and to introduce them to more
Americans,” Sharon Wiener, acting ambassador-at-large for
global women’s issues, said in an interview. “We hope their
visit to the United States will galvanize them in their work and
that they will make even more contributions to their countries
and to the world in the years to come.”  Before the ceremony, Ibrahim, whom the State Department had
flown to Washington for the award, was asked to leave, Nuland
said.  “We did not consider some of the public statements that
she made appropriate,” Nuland said. Ibrahim had been nominated
for the award by the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and there were
“obviously some problems with our review process,” Nuland
said.  No Apology  In the State Department’s earlier announcement, Ibrahim was
to be honored for drawing attention to so-called virginity tests
forced upon her and other women during anti-government protests
that brought down the regime of President  Hosni Mubarak .  After Samuel Tadros, an Egyptian researcher at the Hudson
Institute, a research group in Washington, reported March 6 that
messages on Ibrahim’s Twitter account celebrated a terrorist
bombing that killed Israeli tourists in  Bulgaria  and cheered the
anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S., the State
Department opened an investigation.  Ibrahim initially told the State Department that her
account had been hacked, Nuland told reporters, though later
March 7, Ibrahim sent a message in Arabic saying she refused to
apologize for “anti-Zionist” remarks, according to a
translation by Egyptian activist Mina Rezkalla.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  