-- Won, Bonds Fall After North Korea Nuclear Threat, UN Sanctions
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-08T06:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/won-bonds-fall-after-north-korea-nuclear-threat-un-sanctions.html
South  Korea ’s won and government
bonds fell after North Korea threatened to launch a preemptive
nuclear strike against the U.S. and other “aggressors,”
increasing geopolitical risk.  The UN Security Council voted unanimously to impose tougher
sanctions on North Korea over a forbidden nuclear test, just
hours after the totalitarian state warned yesterday it would act
to defend its “supreme interests.” Tougher sanctions may cause
provocation from the communist nation, South Korean central bank
Senior Deputy Governor Park Won Shik said at an emergency
meeting in Seoul today. The won dropped to a four-day low after
the yen’s decline sparked concern the country may act to weaken
its currency to protect exports.  “Concerns that North Korean risks are heightening are
driving investors away, weakening the currency and the stock
market,” said Jang Bo Hyeong, analyst at Hana Institute of
Finance in  Seoul . “The yen’s decline is also spurring concerns
that South Korea’s competitiveness may be hurt.”  The won declined 0.3 percent to 1,090.46 per dollar in
Seoul, taking the loss this week to 0.5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, rose 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 6.98
percent today.  North Korea will close a border liaison channel with South
Korea, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said
today, carrying a statement from Peaceful Reunification of Korea,
the communist state’s propaganda organization. South Korea will
sternly respond to any North Korean provocation, President Park
Geun Hye said in a speech today.  Close Monitoring  The Bank of Korea will closely monitor financial markets
and work with the government to ensure stability if needed, the
central bank’s Park said at today’s meeting. The Finance
Ministry will hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss financial
markets and the North Korean risk.  Japanese policies that have weakened the yen by 14 percent
against the dollar in the past three months are threatening the
competitiveness of Korean companies such as Samsung Electronics
Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. The won gained 0.2 percent against its
Japanese counterpart to 11.44 per yen today.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due September 2017 rose
one basis point to 2.78 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  