-- Brent Crude Falls to 2013 Low as Pipeline Flow Resumes
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-08T13:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/wti-oil-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-three-brent-system-opens.html
Brent crude  declined to its lowest
level this year, erasing this week’s advance, as flows increased
through a  North Sea  pipeline after a five-day halt.  Brent futures dropped as much as 1.8 percent to the lowest
since Dec. 26. The Brent Pipeline System in the North Sea is
“approaching” its targeted flow rate of 80,000 barrels a day,
an official for  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA) , or Taqa, said by
phone today. The system had an unplanned halt on March 2. West
Texas Intermediate crude was little changed, paring losses after
the U.S. added more jobs than forecast last month.  “Supply normalization” is undermining the premium for
Brent, said Miswin Mahesh, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London .
“Steady supplies from key fields are also expected to lend
support” to North Sea output next month, he said.  Brent for April settlement decreased as much as $2.01 a
barrel to $109.14 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It traded for $109.95 at 1:47 p.m. local time, and is
down 0.4 percent this week. The volume of all futures traded was
more than three times the 100-day average. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $18.66 to WTI futures.  WTI for April delivery was 27 cents down at $91.29 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract rose $1.13 to $91.56 yesterday, the biggest gain since
Feb. 11 and the highest close since Feb. 28. Futures are up 0.9
percent this week, the first weekly advance in three.  Pipeline Restart  Taqa said yesterday it had started restoring the flow “of
an estimated 80,000 barrels a day of crude” to the North Sea
Brent pipeline, which accounts for about 10 percent of U.K. oil
production. The company can’t yet say when the targeted flow-
rate will be reached. Brent is one of four North Sea grades that
make up the Dated Brent pricing benchmark.  Payrolls increased more than forecast in February and the
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a five-year low of 7.7
percent, a sign U.S. employers were undaunted by the budget
impasse in  Washington .  “There was an immediately positive reaction from the
market in response to exceptional payrolls numbers,” said
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London. “We
shall have to wait and see what happens next, but there’s no
doubt this is a macro-driven session.”  Employment rose 236,000 last month after a revised 119,000
gain in January that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected an
advance of 165,000. The jobless rate dropped from 7.9 percent.  Iran Minister  Oil prices  are “at a reasonable level and will stay at
this level” in the first half of the year, Iranian Oil Minister
Rostam Qasemi said today in Tehran, according to the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency .  Indian refiners including  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL)  may be forced to halt purchases of Iranian
crude as local insurers refuse to cover the risks for any
refinery using that oil, a company executive said.  “There’s a problem with getting insurance for refineries
processing Iranian oil,” Mangalore Refinery Managing Director
P.P. Upadhya said by phone today from his office in the southern
city of Mangalore. “If there’s no clarity very soon, we all
have to stop buying from  Iran  or risk operating the refineries
without insurance.”  Seventeen of 37 analysts and traders, or 46 percent,
forecast WTI will decrease through March 15, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Thirteen respondents, or 35 percent, predicted
a gain. Seven said there would be little change. Last week, 57
percent of analysts projected a decrease.  “The fundamental situation in the oil market is well-
supplied,” said Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich. “A correction could come at any time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  