-- Smartphones Lift Tech Stocks in ETF Jump: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/wuxi-tops-first-jump-in-month-on-profits-china-overnight.html
An exchange-traded fund of
technology stocks is providing the highest returns of China-
focused ETFs in the U.S. as the nation’s growing middle class
stokes demand for smartphones.  The  Guggenheim China Technology Exchange-Traded Fund Trust
2 (CQQQ)  returned 6.9 percent this year, outperforming all Chinese ETFs
listed in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NQ
Mobile Inc. (NQ)  surged 43 percent after raising its sales outlook
last week, while NetEase Inc.,  China ’s second-largest online
games website operator, jumped to a four-month high. The
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. rallied for the first week in five.  China had 1.1 billion mobile subscribers through January,
up 52 percent from 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Fourth-generation mobile services will probably be widely
available in about a year, Industry and Information Technology
Minister Miao Wei said March 8. The country has pledged to
support greater urbanization, with as many as 300 million people
to move from the countryside by 2030, Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimates show.  “The penetration is increasing and the potential there
still has a lot of room to grow,” Michael Ding, the lead
manager of the China Region Fund at U.S. Global Investors Inc.,
which oversees $2.2 billion, said by phone March 7 from  San
Antonio ,  Texas . “The growing middle class of course will help
because of their increasing purchasing power. Mobile shopping is
a new way of life.”  Beating Property  The Guggenheim China Technology ETF beat a 0.6 percent jump
in the Guggenheim China Real Estate ETF and the 0.3 percent
advance in the Global X China Industrials ETF, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the
largest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.2
percent last week to $39.08, and is down 3.4 percent in 2013.  Smartphones provide a way for technology companies from
mobile game developers to Internet search engine operators to
engage China’s growing consumer class, Ding said.  “On smartphones you can play things, do social
networking,” Ding said. “It’s an emerging opportunity.”  NQ Mobile, China’s biggest mobile-phone security company,
raised its 2013 sales  outlook  March 6 to as much as $183 million
from an earlier forecast of up to $155 million. The Beijing-
based company also unveiled a partnership with Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB to provide products
for security, privacy and family protection to subscribers in
 Latin America . NQ’s American depositary receipts soared to $9.86
in a record weekly gain.  Phoenix Upgraded  NetEase, based in Beijing, rallied 7.1 percent to $54.23 in
 New York  last week, the highest close since Nov. 8.  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG)  gained 1.8 percent to $4 March 8,
the highest price since Aug. 13 amid trading volumes more than
two times the daily average over the past three months. Deutsche
Bank AG raised the ADRs to buy from hold. The Beijing-based
provider of TV and mobile news  reported  fourth-quarter adjusted
earnings of 35 cents per ADR March 6, beating the average of two
analysts’ projections for adjusted EPS of 17 cents.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. rose for the first
week in three as the Chinese government said that it’s seeking
to open new railway lines in 2013. The ADRs jumped 8.9 percent
to $13.35 last week, the steepest advance since November.  China Lodging Group Ltd. (HTHT) , which runs the nation’s fourth-
largest economy hotel chain, tumbled 8.1 percent last week after
reporting fourth-quarter net income that was 36 percent below
the average of four analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
The ADRs rebounded March 8, adding 4.4 percent to $17.24, the
biggest jump since Jan. 14.  ‘Disposable Income’  ADRs of  WuXi PharmaTech Cayman Inc. (WX)  climbed 2.6 percent to
$17.75 March 8. The Shanghai-based provider of pharmaceutical
research  forecast  2013 adjusted earnings of $1.49 to $1.53 per
ADR, above the average $1.46 per ADR expected by analysts.  “The Chinese consumer’s disposable income growth is pretty
robust, and stocks of companies that are consumer-facing look
like they’re reporting good results,” Charlie Awdry, a
portfolio manager for Henderson Global Investors’ 500 million
pound ($746.4 million) China Opportunities Fund, said by phone
from London March 8. “There’s a really good long-term growth
driver there.”  Suntech Power Holdings Company Ltd., the largest solar-
panel company by shipments in 2011, jumped 3.3 percent to $1.26
March 8. The ADRs pared their decline last week after the
company reached a settlement with an affiliated company, GSF
Capital Pte Ltd., and a former sales agent, Javier Romero,
involved in a potential fraud.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  jumped 1.5 percent to
11,484.35 March 8 for a weekly advance of 1.2 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares slid 0.2
percent to 2,318.61, capping a 1.7 percent  decline for the week .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  