-- ThyssenKrupp Chairman Quits as Company Breaks With Past
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-08T17:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/thyssenkrupp-chairman-resigns-to-support-steelmaker-s-renewal-.html
Gerhard Cromme, who shaped the fate
of German steelmaker  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  in a career spanning almost
three decades, unexpectedly resigned as chairman of the
supervisory board as the company seeks to break with a past
tainted by corruption and price-fixing scandals.  Cromme, 70, is stepping down from the post he held for 12
years on March 31, Essen-based ThyssenKrupp said in a statement
today. He will also quit as vice chairman of the board of
trustees and as a member of the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und
Halbach Foundation, the company’s largest shareholder.  His departure ends a reign that began more than 27 years
ago, when Cromme was handpicked by industrialist Berthold Beitz,
99, to take the helm at a predecessor of ThyssenKrupp’s steel
unit. Cromme, also chairman of  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s supervisory board,
resisted calls to resign at the steelmaker’s annual general
meeting in January in the biggest shareholder rebellion in the
14-year history of the merged company.  “It’s a good day for the shareholders,” Trudbert Merkel,
who is responsible for Deka Investment GmbH’s 0.78 percent stake
in ThyssenKrupp, said by phone. “It’s a logical conclusion.
He’s taking responsibility for the investment disaster with
Steel Americas. For all Beitz’s blind loyalty, he can’t ignore
the mistakes of the supervisory board.”  Shares Gain  ThyssenKrupp  gained  the most in almost six months after the
announcement, advancing 6.4 percent to 18.285 euros by the close
in  Frankfurt . The stock has lost 49 percent since March 31,
2008, compared with a 22 percent gain in the DAX Index of the 30
largest German companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  is attempting to
repair the damage from the missteps that cost the company 3.6
billion euros ($4.7 billion) in writedowns in the year ended
Sept. 30 and prompted ThyssenKrupp to cancel its dividend for
the first time since the company was formed through the 1999
merger of Thyssen AG and Fried. Krupp AG.  Hiesinger became CEO two years ago amid price-fixing and
bribery scandals and after a botched expansion in the Americas
that produced a 4.7 billion-euro loss in the last fiscal year.  The supervisory board waived half of last year’s pay in
response to the shareholder unrest, Cromme said at the annual
shareholder meeting on Jan. 18.  ‘Support Renewal’  “I want to support a renewal regarding the supervisory
board,” Cromme said in today’s statement.  Germany ’s Federal Cartel Office raided ThyssenKrupp’s
offices in the city of Duisburg last month in the latest in a
wave of investigations into the company’s business practices.  The antitrust watchdog raided four offices as well as
private apartments in a probe into supplies to the automotive
industry. ThyssenKrupp last year ousted three board members as
Hiesinger instigated cultural and leadership change.  While last month’s raids are based on the suspicion of
antitrust law violations, they serve to gather information and
don’t mean the affected companies or people involved have
engaged in wrongdoing, the regulator said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  