-- Hyundai, GM Dealer Apologize for China Lapse After Death
-- B y   M a   J i e ,   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-03-08T08:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-08/hyundai-apologizes-for-weibo-lapse-as-china-mourns-baby.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and a dealer of
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Buicks apologized for postings that touted
their child-safety features on Chinese social media while 
alluding to an outcry over the murder of a two-month-old baby.  Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker, said the posting
was unauthorized and the company will be more vigilant in
monitoring its social media accounts. The independently owned
Chinese Buick dealer apologized this week for making
“inappropriate” remarks.  The lapses come less than six months after  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi told a Chinese dealer to remove a banner advocating the
murder of Japanese people -- a photograph of which had spread
through Chinese social media. That incident occurred at a time
when anti-Japan sentiment flared across  China  amid a territorial
dispute between Asia’s two largest economies.  “This is definitely a learning occasion for Buick and
other car brands on what could possibly go wrong,” said James Roy, a senior analyst at China Market Research Group in
 Shanghai . “You do need to have a measure of control over
anybody who is the face of your brand on the frontline.”  A suspect turned himself in to Chinese police this week,
confessing to stealing a sport-utility vehicle in the
northeastern city of Changchun, then strangling the infant on
board to death and burying him in the snow, the official Xinhua
news service reported yesterday. The tragedy triggered so much
outrage across China that “Changchun baby abduction” was among
the most searched phrases on Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo
service throughout the week.  Hyundai’s Weibo  According to  Xinhua , the father had parked his Toyota RAV4
-- motor running with the baby in the back seat -- in front of
his supermarket to briefly turn on the heat. When he came back
out, the vehicle was missing and the father reported the
incident to local police March 4, according to Xinhua.  A posting on Hyundai’s Weibo account on March 6 made
references to a missing child and vehicle as it promoted the
safety features of the new imported  Santa Fe  SUV, causing a
backlash from dozens of micro-bloggers on Weibo criticizing
Hyundai. The posting was made by a non-Hyundai employee
expressing a personal opinion and the company deleted it as soon
as it was detected, Hyundai said.  “We pledge to be more vigilant in managing our social
networking service accounts, while we send our deepest
condolences to the victim’s family,” Hyundai said in an e-mail.
“Hyundai Motor is a responsible corporate citizen that is not
in the practice of taking advantage of tragic incidents.”  On March 5, Liaoning Tianhe Buick wrote: “A few thoughts
following the Changchun stolen car and child incident: When
buying a car it’s completely okay to choose brands with better
technology. Tianhe Buicks carry the OnStar GPS system, which can
track down the location of a stolen vehicle at any time and
automatically report it to the police. Feel at ease, have peace
of mind, if you’re going to buy a car, why not choose a
completely safe Buick!!!.”  Dayna Hart, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman for GM, which owns
the Buick brand, said the U.S. automaker is monitoring the
situation and isn’t ready yet to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  