-- ‘Mission Impossible’ Leads Final Box-Office Weekend of 2011
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-02T19:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/-mission-impossible-leads-final-box-office-weekend-of-2011-1-.html
“Mission: Impossible - Ghost
Protocol” was the top U.S. and Canadian film over the New
Year’s weekend, collecting $38.3 million for  Paramount Pictures 
and closing out a tough year at home for Hollywood.  With no new movies in wide release, the fourth film in the
series with  Tom Cruise  coasted to No. 1 in its third week,
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in a statement. “ Sherlock
Holmes : A Game of Shadows” was second with $26.5 million, while
“Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked” drew $21 million.  “Ghost Protocol” helped propel  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount to
first place for 2011 in U.S. cinemas and worldwide, a bright
spot in a disappointing year for competitors. Paramount films
generated $1.96 billion in North American sales, up 13 percent
from 2010, and $3.21 billion internationally, according to a
statement today. The industry’s U.S. revenue fell 3.4 percent
and attendance slid 4.2% to a 16-year-low.  “It’s the movies themselves, it’s the economy and it’s all
the competing technology,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president
of the box-office division of Hollywood.com. “We’ll find out in
2012” whether studios can counter the latter two issues with
potentially better movies and new marketing tactics, he said.  Elementary, Watson  In “Ghost Protocol,” Cruise returns as Ethan Hunt, leader
of an elite special-operations squad that takes on the
government’s most difficult assignments. This time, team members
go underground to clear their names after being falsely
implicated in a bombing at the Kremlin. The movie also features
 Jeremy Renner  and  Simon Pegg .  The film opened Dec. 16 for an exclusive, five-day run in
large-screen theaters, including 300  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  locations,
before moving to wide release on Dec. 21. The first three films
generated $1.4 billion in global ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo, another researcher.  In “Sherlock Holmes,” Robert Downey Jr. reprises his role
as the cerebral sleuth created by novelist Arthur Conan Doyle.
Holmes and sidekick Dr. John Watson match wits with arch-
criminal Moriarty, who plots to create an arms race among
European powers. Jude Law plays Watson and Jared Harris portrays
Moriarty in the film from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  “Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox studio, has emerged as the top family film after three weeks
of release. The movie is the third in a series of animated
pictures since 2007 that have generated $981.8 million in
worldwide theatrical sales, according to  Box Office Mojo .  ‘War Horse’  In the latest installment, the singing chipmunks are
marooned on a seemingly deserted tropical island. The picture
has taken in $97.4 million since its Dec. 16 release.  Among other returning films,  Steven Spielberg ’s “War
Horse” collected $19.2 million to finish in fourth place for
the director’s DreamWorks Studios and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the
distributor.  “War Horse” traces the friendship of a horse named Joey
and a young man called Albert against the backdrop of World War
I. The film follows the horse as he moves through the war with
British cavalry, German soldiers, and a French farmer and his
granddaughter.  Spielberg’s other holiday entry, “The Adventures of
Tintin,” brought in $15 million in its second week of release
to finish in seventh place.  ‘Dragon Tattoo’  Finishing fifth was “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,”
from  Sony Corp. (6758)  with $19 million in its second week. Rooney Mara
stars as Lisbeth Salander, a computer hacker employed by a
security firm. She joins with a journalist, played by  Daniel Craig , to investigate a chain of homicides. The film is an
English-language remake of a Swedish adaption of the novel by
Stieg Larsson.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 5.8 percent to
$140 million from a year ago, Hollywood.com said. For 2011,
revenue fell 3.4 percent to $10.2 billion while attendance
dropped 4.2 percent. The amounts below are based on actual
ticket sales for Dec. 30 to Jan. 1 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  