-- After Tumult of 2011, Watch These Global Hotspots for 2012: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-02T00:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/after-tumult-of-2011-here-are-some-global-hotspots-to-watch-in-2012-view.html
Could the world in 2012 surprise us
more than it did in 2011? Certainly, after  Japan ’s earthquake,
the  Middle East ’s upheavals and Osama bin Laden’s death, the bar
on shockers will be high.  The known unknowns for 2012 already form a daunting list:
the fate of the  euro zone (CRIS) ; the war in Afghanistan and the
“peace” in Iraq; turmoil in Syria, Egypt and across the Middle
East;  Iran ’s nuclear-weapons program; Pakistan’s chronic
instability; Kim Jong Un’s succession and  China ’s soft landing,
to name a few. But on the periphery of the media’s vision are
other places where attention is likely to be rewarded, and
neglect punished. Herewith five hotspots that offer challenges
and opportunities over the coming year:  The Arctic: This is not so much a hotspot as a cold spot,
but it’s getting warmer. And as the planet’s northern icecap
 melts , it is  becoming a cockpit of international competition .
Tussles over newly accessible oil, other resources and suddenly
navigable waterways may bring out the testiness even in such
perennially agreeable countries as Denmark and Canada.  Arctic states other than the U.S. are preparing their
claims as signatories to the United Nations  Convention on the
Law of the Sea , which determines who has the right to benefit
from the riches of any ocean. Die-hard conservatives in Congress
have blocked U.S. approval of the law, falsely claiming that it
would constrain the military -- arguments that the military,
among others, rejects. A push by President  Barack Obama , could
probably win approval for the law in the Senate, thereby helping
to safeguard the U.S. stake in the Arctic race and its role in
keeping the peace there.  Mexico : More than one presidential election is happening in
 North America  this year. In July, Mexicans face what mega-writer
Carlos Fuentes has called “the most decisive” election in
their history. Leading the polls is Enrique Pena Nieto from the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, which ruled Mexico for 71
years until voters tired of its corrupt and undemocratic ways.  Now, Pena Nieto offers the prospect of not only an end to
the drug wars that have killed as many as 40,000 Mexicans over
the past five years, but also economic reforms that could, for
example, allow private investment in its oil industry. Behind
the lurid headlines of cartel killings, Mexico has quietly
become the ninth-biggest maker of cars and may soon displace
 Canada  as the second-biggest source of U.S. imports. A new
relationship between two wary neighbors? Maybe, if the U.S. can
curb the southward flow of guns and work with Mexico to come up
with sensible and humane border policies.  Libya : During the country’s tumultuous civil war, an
unknown number of small arms, explosives and shoulder-fired
missiles went missing from official stockpiles. The U.S. has
devised  a program  with the transitional government to retrieve
and disable the most dangerous of the weapons, but some may have
slipped into the wrong hands already and others may still.  Israeli officials have said that Palestinian militants in
the  Gaza Strip  have purchased thousands of anti-aircraft
missiles and rocket-propelled grenades from Libyan merchants.
Officials in  Algeria ,  Egypt ,  Niger  and Tunisia have expressed
similar worries. Purloined Libyan weapons and weakened security
along the country’s long borders may prove especially beneficial
to al-Qaeda’s regional affiliate in North Africa,  al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb .  Your Smartphone: Or whatever device connects you to the
Internet, where by one measure (an  Open Security Foundation 
database), the number of hacking incidents rose 37 percent last
year. One attack on SK Communications Co., which operates  South
Korea ’s third-largest Internet portal, scooped up the personal
information of 35 million customers.  Look for more high-profile hacks this year, and don’t fall
victim to one. The first and best line of defense against this
threat is personal and corporate  vigilance . Led by the U.S.,
governments are beginning to make cooperation on cybersecurity a
higher diplomatic priority. Initiatives such as the  Budapest
Convention on Cybercrime , though, will be effective only if they
are underpinned by robust public-private partnerships.  Myanmar: By any measure, the country once known as  Burma 
had a tumultuous 2011. The recently installed civilian leader,
President Thein Sein, allowed the regime’s most prominent
opponent, Aung San Suu Kyi, to re-enter electoral politics; set
free more than 6,300 prisoners; took steps to liberalize the
economy; and suspended the construction of a Chinese-financed
dam on the Irrawaddy River after protests over its likely social
and environmental effects. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  was right to insist, during a timely and historic visit
to Myanmar in December, that longstanding sanctions against the
junta can be lifted only if the government builds upon this
progress.  No country in Southeast Asia has greater potential for
drastic advancement. And, given Myanmar’s abundant resources and
strategic location, such progress would have enormous
consequences. The country had a brief moment in the media sun
last year. The best way to ensure that the  Thein Sein  regime’s
incipient reforms are more than just token gestures is to keep
it in the spotlight in 2012.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 