-- Croatia, Zinfandel Home, Prepares to Join World Wine Battle
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-01-03T19:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/ancient-croatian-grapes-revive-wineries-in-home-of-zinfandel-john-mariani.html
When  Croatia  was part of Yugoslavia,
government policies forced farmers to rip out more than 160,000
hectares of vineyards. Ethnic conflicts in the 1990s destroyed
thousands more.  Now, with about 33,000 hectares under vines -- still more
than double the amount of  New Zealand  -- Croatia is looking to
fight its way into a saturated global market when it enters the
European Union in 2013. Currently, Croatia exports only 5
percent of its 60 million liters annual production, which helps
explain why Croatians are third overall in wine consumption.  The discovery that popular California varietal zinfandel
was a variant of Croatia’s plavac mali (“little blue”), helped
focus attention on a country that once made 650 different wines
from 130 varietals.  Another catalyst was Miljenko Grgic, who left  Yugoslavia  in
1958 and made his fortune as one of California’s premier
winemakers under the name  Mike Grgich . He returned to help
modernize Croatian wineries, opening his own, Grgic Vina, in
1996.  The change from cheap bulk wine to modern viticulture has
been rapid, with stainless-steel tanks introduced only in the
1990s. The burgeoning industry is full of youthful enthusiasm,
typified by winemakers like 32-year-old  Bruno Trapan , from the
Istrian peninsula, who invested in the business in 2004 after
taking a college winemaking course two years earlier.  “I had no wine knowledge before getting into making it,”
said Trapan. “My grandfather planted grapes in a tiny vineyard
as a hobby and I was interested. After two vintages making my
own wine, I was hooked.”  Organic First  By 2005 he had purchased 5 hectares and planted a year
later, experimenting with international varietals like syrah,
never before grown in Croatia. By 2009, Trapan’s was the
country’s first organic winery, now with 12 hectares producing
everything from traditional malvasia to new entries like
chardonnay and cabernet sauvignon.  I spoke with Trapan and two other Croatian vintners over a
dinner of lobster, crab cakes, steaks and onion rings at  New
York ’s Porter House.  Trapan’s white Ponente Malvasia Istriana 2010, never aged
in oak, had a lovely, bold aromatic nose, which came from seven
hours of grape-skin contact, and an ample 13.5 percent alcohol.
The 2009 syrah had an odd smell at first, but a little
evaporation revealed a Rhone-like varietal character rather than
the Australian shiraz style.  Porter House’s wine director, Roger Dagorn, (one of only
180 master sommeliers in the world) stocks a 2008 Dingac plavac
mali ($65 retail) from Croatia’s southern coast.  ‘Not All Great’  “The few Croatian wines I’ve tasted are not all great,”
he said. “But I’m fond of the plavac mali for its unique, Old
World earthy character, which is very pleasurable to the
American palate. It has good structure, body and fruit, and
enough acidity to give it balance.”  I felt the same way about this big-bodied wine with 15
percent alcohol, from the  Saints Hills Winery , founded in 2006.
Made in low yields, the wine gets plenty of minerality from the
steep terraced vineyards in Dalmatia.  Dingac is one of the rare, cherished appellations, dating
back to 1961, when Croatia was part of Yugoslavia. Saints Hills
is owned by Ernest Tolj, 40, a wealthy entrepreneur and chairman
of Eurocable Group, who named his vineyards after his children,
Lucia, Roko and Ante, and who hired Bordeaux enologist  Michel
Rolland  as a consultant.  Bottled History  Of all the wines I tasted that evening, the  Matosevic
Winery  Alba Antiqua 2008 ($23) had the most viticultural history
behind it. Owner Ivica Matosevic, 47, now considered a visionary
in the wine industry, took a degree in landscaping and
horticulture at the University of Zagreb, followed by a Ph.D. in
Biotechnology in  Italy , focusing on the potential of terroir.  Matosevic returned to Croatia in 1996 at a crucial point in
the industry’s redevelopment, as director for Istria’s institute
for managing natural protected areas. He bottled his own first
vintage that year. In 2011 he established the association of
Croatian wine producers to represent family estates and small
producers.  His Alba Antiqua is 100 percent malvasia istriana, with
12.7 percent alcohol, and with an unusual, highly floral aroma
that I learned comes from aging it in acacia barrels.  Matosevic’s Grimalda White 2009 was a blend of 50 percent
chardonnay, 25 percent malvasia istriana, and 25 percent
sauvignon blanc, a very low-yield wine that showed the triple
punch of those grapes -- the rich buttery taste of chardonnay,
the floral notes of malvasia and the vegetal flavors of
sauvignon blanc.  The Grimalda Red 2009, at a robust 15 percent alcohol, was
a blend of 85 percent merlot and 15 percent teran, an acidic
varietal that gives a coppery edge to the soft merlot. U.S.
retail prices for these two wines aren’t available.  While Porter House was filled that night with people
drinking Bordeaux and  California  cabs, I was happy to sip
malvasia istriana with my lobster salad and the Dingac with the
sliced steak. And with onion rings, that Croatian syrah really
hit the spot.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 