-- Manufacturing Grows in India, China as Most of Europe Struggles: Economy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-01-02T11:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/manufacturing-grows-in-india-china-as-most-of-europe-struggles-economy.html
Manufacturing expanded in  India  and
 China  in December, indicating  Asia ’s fastest-growing major
economies have so far withstood the fallout from Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis.  India’s manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in six
months, stoking inflationary pressure, and a Chinese
manufacturing gauge rose by more than economists expected,
suggesting that a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
may be stabilizing. In the euro area, output fell for a fifth
month though the rate of decline eased slightly from November.  “The figures from today show we’re absolutely not seeing a
hard landing,” said  Andreas Rees , an economist at UniCredit
Markets & Investment Banking in Munich. “There’s no massive
uncertainty shock around the globe that’s weighing heavily on
investment activity.”  Ripples from  Europe ’s debt turmoil have dented confidence
among companies and consumers and hit global demand. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Nov.
30 that trade in goods stalled in most major economies in the
third quarter and it cut its growth forecast.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, manufacturing
probably increased last month. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  factory index (NAPMPMI)  climbed to a six-month high of 53.4
in December, economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected before a
report tomorrow. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Euro Anniversary  American manufacturers also saw orders increase near the
end of 2011.  Bookings (TMNOCHNG)  for factory goods climbed 2 percent in
November, according to economists surveyed before a Jan. 4
report from the Commerce Department.  Spending on  construction projects (CNSTTMOM)  advanced 0.4 percent in
November amid signs of improvement in the housing market,
economists said ahead of figures from the Commerce Department
tomorrow. That would be the fourth straight monthly gain,
matching the longest streak since late 2010.  In the euro area, where leaders return to work this week
seeking to rescue the single currency from fragmentation, a
contraction in the manufacturing sector eased from November as
an indicator of output in Germany, the region’s largest economy,
reached a two-month high.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of  purchasing
managers  in the 17-nation euro region rose to 46.9 from 46.4 in
November, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s in
line with an initial estimate published on Dec. 15. A reading
below 50 indicates contraction.  ‘Another Recession’  “Euro-zone manufacturing is clearly undergoing another
recession,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said
in today’s  report . “Despite the rate of decline easing slightly
in December, production appears to have been collapsing across
the single-currency area at a quarterly rate of approximately
1.5% in the final quarter of 2011.”  Williamson said new orders are falling at a “far faster
rate” than manufacturers have been cutting output. Companies
“have been reliant on orders placed earlier in the year to
sustain current production levels,” he said. “This is
particularly evident in  Germany , and suggests that operating
capacity will be slashed in coming months unless demand
revives.”  Indian manufacturing surged even as global demand slowed.
The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 54.2 in December from 51
in November, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit said in an e-mailed
statement. Domestic demand helped the PMI in India to bounce
back, they said, adding that growth will be constrained by
higher borrowing costs and global economic weakness.  ‘No Room’  Production growth increased inflationary pressure, leaving
“no room” for India’s central bank “to ease its tight
monetary policy stance in the near term,” Leif Eskesen, a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC, said in the statement.  In China, the purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.3 from
49 in November, the Beijing-based logistics federation said. The
reading exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of 15
analysts where the median estimate was 49.1.  Two reports yesterday highlighted the toll that faltering
global growth may take on Asia. In the Chinese data, an index of
export orders indicated a third month of contraction, while
 South Korea  forecast that its own overseas shipments will grow
in 2012 at only about a third of last year’s pace.  “Europe’s debt woes, the austerity measures the European
countries are taking and the sluggish U.S. recovery mean demand
for Asian goods this year is likely to be weak, posing a
downside risk,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist for
Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  