-- Australia’s Manufacturers Show First Expansion Since June on Basic Metals
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-01-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/australian-manufacturing-shows-first-expansion-since-june-on-basic-metals.html
Australian  manufacturing (AIGPMI)  expanded for
the first time in six months in December, driven by gains in
basic metals, transport and publishing, a private survey showed.  The  manufacturing index (AIGPMI)  was 50.2 last month compared with
47.8 in November, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released today. It was
the third reading for 2011 that was above 50, the dividing line
between expansion and contraction.  “Pockets of strength in the Australian manufacturing
industry remain,” Peter Le Huray, PwC’s Australian head of
industrial products, said in a statement. “This suggests that
the efficiency and productivity improvements achieved by the
manufacturers are better positioning them to ride out a global
economic downturn.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered its benchmark
 interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent on
Dec. 6, making its first back-to-back rate cut since 2009, to
help safeguard the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis. An
investment boom meant there was no “strong need” based on the
domestic outlook to reduce borrowing costs, policy makers said
Dec. 20 in the minutes of that meeting.  The Australian dollar reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was floated in 1983, before declining in
subsequent months as concern intensified about the fallout from
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. The currency dropped 0.7 percent
in December, the fourth decline in the past five months.  Structural Shift  Australia , the only developed economy to avoid a
contraction during the global recession of 2009, is experiencing
what RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has called a “structural
adjustment” prompted by the biggest mining boom in a century
and the resulting climb in the nation’s currency.  Resource projects in Australia valued at A$456 billion
($467 billion), fueled by companies such as BHP Billiton Ltd.,
have cushioned a slump in manufacturing and services hit by a
record currency and subdued  consumer spending .  The manufacturing index’s reading on wages climbed 4.8
points to 61.1 and inventories rose 3.4 points to 53.9, today’s
report showed. Supplier deliveries added 6.9 points to 52.8.  A gauge of employment advanced 0.7 point to 46.0 in
December, and new orders gained 1.8 points to 49.9, the report
showed. The production measure gained 1.4 points to 51.0, while
exports dropped 6 points to 47.4.  Metals, Coal Decline  Seven of the 12 sub-sectors saw activity fall in December,
including declines in textiles, fabricated metals and chemicals,
petroleum and coal, the report showed.  “It needs to be borne in mind that the majority of the
sub-sectors recorded declines, highlighting the continuing
impact the high dollar, soft domestic demand and the uncertainty
in the global economy are having on the industry,” said  Heather Ridout , the AIG’s chief executive officer, in the report. “The
sector remains vulnerable to any renewed downturn in the global
economy and to the underlying structural pressures associated
with strong commodity prices,” said Ridout, who will join the
RBA board Feb. 14.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, polled more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  