-- Bond Sales in Korea to Reach Record in 2012 as Europeans Retreat
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-01-02T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/bond-sales-in-korea-to-reach-record-in-2012-as-europeans-retreat.html
Foreign-currency bond sales by South
Korean companies will climb to a record in 2012 as European
banks, facing an escalating sovereign-debt crisis at home, pare
back on their lending, the market’s biggest underwriters predict.  Issuance may rise to $31 billion this year, the most in
data compiled by Bloomberg which dates back to 1999, from $27.5
billion in 2011, according to the average estimate from  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc,
last year’s first-, second- and sixth-largest arrangers. The
forecast exceeds the five-year average by more than 47 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fewer loans from European banks as borrowing costs surge to
the highest level in two years may prompt Korean borrowers to
raise funds in the bond market. Investors demand 303 basis
points more in yield to own Korea dollar-denominated debentures
rather than Treasuries, compared with a spread of 419 basis
points on dollar-denominated bonds globally, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co’s indexes (JACIKOBS) .  “Loans from European lenders are expected to contract due
to those banks’ recapitalization concerns,” Rhee Sangho, the
head of debt  capital markets  at the Seoul-based brokerage unit
of HSBC, said in a Dec. 21 interview. “If such concerns linger,
Korean companies may look to the  bond market  or other direct
funding sources in 2012.”  The large amount of debt that needs to be refinanced in
Korea will also help bolster bond sales, according to Shin Jinwook, the head of Korean capital markets at the Seoul-based
unit of Bank of America Corp.  Under Pressure  Some $26.6 billion of foreign-currency bonds will mature in
the coming 12 months, a 96 percent increase from the $13.6
billion that were due within 12 months at the end of 2010, the
Korea Center for International Finance said in a Dec. 6 report,
citing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Syndicated loans to Korean companies from European lenders
slid 40 percent to $469 million in the last three months of 2011
from $780 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA accounted for no
syndicated loans last quarter, compared with $72 million in the
same period of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. French
banks top the list of  Greece ’s creditors with $57 billion in
exposure to private and public debt at the end of March,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements  based in
 Basel ,  Switzerland .  European banks, under pressure from regulators to bolster
capital, are selling some of their fastest-growing businesses
and exiting markets, including structured and leveraged lending
in  Asia , to raise funds. The European Banking Authority last
month ordered the region’s financial firms to raise 114.7
billion euros ($148 billion) of additional capital in order to
help withstand losses on Greek bonds.  ‘Cut and Run’  “They will reduce loans, they have to,” Alan Roch, Royal
Bank of  Scotland ’s Singapore-based head of bond syndication,
said in a Dec. 14 phone interview. “One thesis is that the
European banks will withdraw from the loan market completely,
cut everything they can cut and run back home.”  The retreat by European banks helped Korean lenders boost
their share of the market for arranging loans in the nation to
33 percent in 2011 from 18 percent in 2010.  “Korean bond sales will get a boost this year,” Bank of
America’s Shin said. “Borrowers may seek to issue more bonds if
foreign banks reduce loan financing.”  Bank of America helped arrange the most bond sales last
year, underwriting $2.7 billion of deals for a 9.7 percent
market share. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank also
managed the most issues, Bloomberg data show. HSBC moved up five
spots to the No. 2 position while Royal Bank of Scotland rose to
sixth from 10th after helping to arrange deals including  Korea 
National Oil Corp.’s $1 billion offering in October.  Overseas Expansion  A growing appetite for cross-border acquisitions by Korean
companies, particularly in the energy sector, will also boost
bond sales, according to the Korea Center for International
Finance report. Korea National Oil, the state-held energy
developer that sold the third-most amount of international bonds
last year, said it may spend as much as $4 billion this year on
buying overseas oil assets to expand production.  Doosan Infracore Co., the nation’s largest construction
equipment maker, announced in November it will raise $2.2
billion through bonds and loans to refinance the purchase of its
Bobcat unit, bought from Ireland-based Ingersoll-Rand Co. in
2007 for $4.9 billion. HSBC is advising Doosan on the
refinancing plan, under which $350 million has already been
raised via a bond sale.  “Thanks to preemptive measures by the Korean regulator and
the collective effort by banks to secure liquidity in foreign
capital, it’s highly unlikely we’ll have the same degree of pain
as the Lehman crisis,” HSBC’s Rhee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  