-- BP Seeks Recovery of All Gulf Spill Costs From Halliburton
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-03T17:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/bp-seeks-recovery-of-at-least-20-billion-spill-damages-from-halliburton.html
BP Plc (BP/)  seeks to have  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
its cement contractor for the Macondo well project whose blowout
set off the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill , pay all of the oil
company’s related costs and damages.  BP had paid more than $21 billion in cleanup costs and
economic damages to individuals, businesses and governments
harmed by the spill as of Dec. 1, the company said on its
website. BP reserved more than $40 billion to cover costs
related to the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling  rig (RIG) .  The oil company seeks “the amount of costs and expenses
incurred by BP to clean up and remediate the oil spill, the lost
profits from and/or diminution in value of the Macondo prospect,
and all other costs and damages incurred by BP related to the
Deepwater Horizon incident and resulting oil spill,”  Don
Haycraft , BP’s lead trial attorney, said in a filing yesterday
in federal court in New Orleans.  BP and Halliburton accuse each other’s employees of making
critical mistakes that caused the blowout of the London-based
oil company’s well off the Louisiana coast in 2010. The
explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon killed 11 workers and
caused the worst offshore spill in U.S. history.  BP rose 2.3 percent to 471 pence at the close of  trading (BP/)  in
 London .  500 Lawsuits  BP, which owned the Macondo lease, and Halliburton, which
provided well-completion services for the project, jointly face
more than 500 lawsuits by coastal property owners, businesses
and governments claiming billions of dollars in damages from the
drifting oil. The lawsuits have been combined for pretrial
processing in federal court in  New Orleans , where a judge is
scheduled to begin a trial in February to determine liability
for the spill.  Halliburton, based in Houston, has said in court papers
that its cementing-services contract requires BP to indemnify it
from all damage claims, even if its employees were found to have
shared blame for the disaster.  BP, rejecting that argument, accused Halliburton in
yesterday’s filing of gross negligence. That level of misconduct
“will suffice to eliminate any indemnity obligation for damages
of any kind,” Haycraft said in the filing.  Halliburton has said in court filings that the actions of
BP’s employees caused the explosion on the rig.  “Halliburton believes it is fully indemnified by BP
against any loss resulting from the Macondo incident and any
penalties arising from the violations,” Beverly Stafford, a
spokeswoman for the company, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Transocean,  Mitsui (8031)   The defendants in the lawsuits over the spill also include
Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of the Deepwater
Horizon;  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the maker of the blow-out
prevention equipment used on the well;  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
which owned 25 percent of the Macondo prospect; and Mitsui &
Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, which owned a 10 percent stake in
the well.  Cameron, Anadarko and Mitsui have reached settlements with
BP. Transocean, along with Halliburton, hasn’t.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  