-- Bristol Acquisition Plans Remain Intact After Levin’s Loss
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-02T18:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/bristol-s-acquisition-plans-won-t-change-with-loss-of-levin-to-teva.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s (BMY)  “string
of pearls” strategy of acquisitions and partnerships will remain
in place even after the loss of the executive who was most
responsible for implementing it, the drugmaker said.  Jeremy Levin, 58, Bristol’s senior vice president of
strategy, alliances and transactions, left the New York-based
drugmaker yesterday to become chief executive officer of  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the Petach Tikva, Israel-based
company said today in a statement.  For the time being, Bristol CEO Lamberto Andreotti will
share the duties of Levin’s former job with Chief Scientific
Officer Elliott Sigal, who has held similar responsibilities,
 Jennifer Mauer , a Bristol spokeswoman, said today. Whoever gets
the job has big shoes to fill, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
at International Strategy & Investment Group.  “A lot of companies say they want to acquire and license
stuff, but I can’t think of a company that’s done it as
successfully as Bristol,” Schoenebaum, based in  New York , said
in a telephone interview. Levin “is thought of as the number
one person in business development.”  Levin had been with Bristol since 2007, around the time
when now-Chairman James Cornelius, as CEO, implemented a
strategy involving small- and mid-size acquisitions and
partnerships that Cornelius said then would develop into a
“string of pearls” for the company.  Diversified Portfolio  The plan was created as a way to diversify the company’s
 drug portfolio (BMY)  as it was facing revenue decreases from Plavix, a
blood thinner with $6.67 billion in 2010 sales, and other top-
selling drugs.  The strategy has resulted in 17 transactions, Mauer said,
the largest being the acquisition of Medarex in 2009 for $2.3
billion. While Bristol isn’t ready to announce a replacement,
the string of pearls strategy remains in place, Mauer said.  “We have a very strong and experienced team, and business
development remains a priority,” Mauer said by telephone.
“There is no change in our string of pearls strategy.”  More recently Levin was implementing an initiative Bristol
had dubbed its “Oyster Strategy.” Under that plan, the company
handed off compounds it probably wouldn’t have developed itself
to drugmakers in  emerging markets , with agreements to split the
sales should the products eventually get approved.  ‘Engine of Innovation’  That strategy was planned to “create an engine of
innovation” in  developing countries , Levin said in a telephone
interview last month. If the companies were successful in
developing the compounds, “we’ll position ourselves as partners
of choice,” he said.  Ron Cohen, CEO of Acorda Theraputics Inc., said that Levin
has spent years as an investor, biotech company CEO and then at
Bristol developing close, personal relationships across the
industry that will be hard for anybody replicate.  Cohen met Levin in 1994, after both had gone after a job at
Cadus Pharmaceuticals Corp., a biotechnology company now known
as Cadus Corp., he said. Cohen thought he’d gotten the role. In
fact, Levin wound up with the job, Cohen said by telephone.  They have remained friendly, Cohen said, and are part of a
group of just over a dozen biotechnology executives and friends
who meet at least once a year for dinner.  “He’s one of the most trustworthy people I’ve ever met,”
Cohen said. “If you’re talking about doing deals with someone,
you want to do deals with somebody who’s smart and you can trust.
He brings that to the table in spades.”  Cohen said Teva may have turned to Levin “to take the
company in new directions. He’s incredibly imaginative and very
creative about how to grow a business with partnerships and
deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  