-- Saints Have Best Super Bowl Odds Among NFL Teams in Postseason First Round
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/broncos-texans-host-nfl-first-round-playoff-games-after-losing-streaks.html
The  New Orleans  Saints haven’t lost
in more than two months and boast the best odds to win the Super
Bowl among the eight teams playing in the first round of the
National Football League playoffs.  The Saints enter the postseason ranked 5-1 to take the
Super Bowl, backed by an eight-game winning streak, a record-
setting quarterback, an unbeaten home record and the experience
of an NFL title two years ago.  Only the  Green Bay Packers  and  New England Patriots , who
both have a shorter potential championship path with first-round
playoff byes, are given a better chance to win the Super Bowl,
according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  “We’re playing as well as we’ve played all season long
right now,” said Saints quarterback Drew Brees, who passed for
an NFL-record 5,476 yards this season. “The real season starts
now. We have to continue to progress and get better. All of our
goals, dreams and aspirations are right there in front of us.”  The Packers have 8-5 odds of successfully defending their
Super Bowl title after becoming the sixth team in NFL history to
go 15-1 during the regular season.  Green Bay  got a bye as the
top seed in the National Football Conference and won’t play this
weekend, when there are four first-round games.  The Patriots, with a 13-3 record, are the top seed in the
American Football Conference and have 7-2 odds of winning the
Super Bowl, according to the Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports
Book. Like New Orleans, the Patriots -- behind quarterback  Tom Brady  -- didn’t lose in the second half of the season.  First-Round Byes  The Saints have better championship odds than the other two
teams with first-round byes: the Baltimore Ravens at 6-1 and the
San Francisco 49ers at 12-1. The 49ers (13-3) got the No. 2 seed
in the NFC ahead of the Saints because they had a better record
against conference opponents. While  San Francisco  has a week off,
the Saints prepare to host the  Detroit Lions  on Jan. 7 at the
Superdome.  New Orleans is listed as a 10 1/2-point favorite against
the Lions, who surrendered 480 passing yards and six touchdowns
to Packers backup quarterback Matt Flynn in losing their
regular-season finale 45-41. The Saints beat Detroit 31-17 at
home on Dec. 4 -- one of eight straight wins to end the regular
season -- and the Lions have lost five straight playoff games
since their last postseason win in 1991.  The New York Giants host the  Atlanta Falcons  in the NFC’s
other first-round game on Jan. 8. The Giants are three-point
favorites after beating the  Dallas Cowboys  in the final game of
the regular season two days ago to win the NFC East.  The AFC’s first-round matchups have the Houston Texans
hosting the  Cincinnati Bengals  on Jan. 7 and the Pittsburgh
Steelers visiting the  Denver Broncos  and quarterback  Tim Tebow 
the following day.  Texans’ Debut  The Texans, in the postseason for the first time in their
10-year history, are three-point favorites against the Bengals.
Pittsburgh is a 7 1/2-point favorite against the Broncos, who
ended the season with three losses.  The Steelers are the sixth-favorite among the 12 playoff
teams, with 10-1 odds to win their record-extending seventh
Super Bowl title. The Giants have 12-1 odds, followed by the
Falcons and Texans at 40-1, the Lions at 60-1 and the Bengals
and Broncos at 70-1.  Denver has the worst record of the postseason participants
at 8-8 and made the playoff field by winning the AFC West in a
three-way tiebreaker. Tebow, who won seven of his first eight
games as a starter this season, has committed eight turnovers
during the losing skid.  The Saints lost their final three regular-season games in
2009 and went on to win the  Super Bowl . Last season, as
defending champions, the Saints were knocked out in the first
round of the playoffs by the 7-9  Seattle Seahawks .  “It’s a clean slate, new season,” Broncos running back
Lance Ball said. “That’s how we have to handle it. The past is
the past. We’re in here now. We’re all for one goal. We just
have to get back to the winning ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  