-- Cablevision Entices Buyers With Lowest Value on Record: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-03T21:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/cablevision-entices-buyers-with-lowest-value-on-record-real-m-a.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  is now the
cheapest U.S. cable or satellite-television provider for
potential acquirers from Time Warner Cable Inc. to  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
following the resignation of its chief operating officer.  After COO Tom Rutledge stepped down last month, Cablevision
shares tumbled to the lowest level relative to free  cash flow 
since April 2009, making it less expensive than any rival with a
market value greater than $1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bethpage, New York-based company and its
controlling shareholder, the Dolan family, would demand more
than $23 a share in an acquisition, said Albert Fried & Co., or
a 62 percent premium to last week’s closing  stock price (CVC) .  Even at $23 a share, Cablevision would be valued at 7 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the past 12 months, the industry’s lowest takeover multiple
for a publicly traded target on record, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. While ISI Group says the Dolans may try again to
take the company private after failed attempts over the last six
years, Cablevision’s 3.63 million customers may also attract
 Time Warner Cable (TWC) , Comcast or Charter Communications Inc., said
Solaris Group LLC and Gamco Investors Inc.  “At this valuation level, it becomes something that
investment banks will look at and try to encourage a bid,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , who oversees $2 billion as chief investment
officer of Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills , New York, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s very attractive. There are
advantages to combining with other systems that would benefit
margins at this company, make it more profitable.”  Today’s Trading  Kim Kerns, a spokeswoman for Cablevision,  Alex Dudley , a
spokesman for New York-based Time Warner Cable, Jennifer Khoury,
of Philadelphia-based Comcast, and Anita Lamont, for Charter of
 St. Louis , declined to comment on market speculation.  Cablevision climbed as much as 5.8 percent today before
closing up 3.9 percent at $14.78 in New York.  Rutledge, 58, who had worked at Cablevision since 2002,
announced his resignation on Dec. 15 for undisclosed reasons,
pushing the shares down 8.5 percent the next day. He had
transformed Cablevision into a company focused on cable
infrastructure after the spinoffs of Madison Square Garden Co.
and  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  in the past two years.  Charter (CHTR) , the fourth-largest U.S. cable provider by
subscribers, named Rutledge chief executive officer less than a
week later. Cablevision is the fifth-biggest cable operator.  ‘In Play’  The day after Rutledge’s exit was announced Cablevision
shares fell to 4.7 times free cash flow, the lowest since
reaching 4.6 times in April 2009 during the longest U.S.
 recession  since the Great Depression. The stock closed last week
at $14.22, or 5.21 times  free cash flow (CHTR) , making it the cheapest
U.S. cable or satellite-TV provider with a market value greater
than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industry
trades at a median multiple of 8.63.  “The recent COO departure could put this company in play
given the substantial drop in the share price that occurred,”
 Todd Lowenstein , a portfolio manager who helps oversee about $16
billion for Highmark Capital Management Inc., said in a phone
interview from  Los Angeles . “The COO was considered one of the
best executives in the cable industry. What that means for the
company’s future? That’s what the market’s asking.”  Cablevision, led by CEO Jim Dolan, 56, dropped  44 percent (CVC) 
since spinning off AMC on June 30 through last week, compared
with a 4.8 percent decline for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   ‘Viable Scenarios’  A buyer would have to offer more than $23 a share to avoid
pushback from shareholders, said Richard Tullo, an analyst at
Albert Fried in New York. A deal at that price would value
Cablevision’s equity at $6.55 billion, plus the assumption of
$10.2 billion in  net debt (CVC) .  At 7 times Cablevision’s Ebitda of $2.4 billion in the past
12 months, it would be the cheapest takeover on record of a
publicly traded U.S. cable or satellite-TV company, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Deals in the industry have been
completed at a median of 18.5 times, the data show.  “Cablevision has to consider strategic alternatives,”
Tullo said in a phone interview. “Going private or selling the
company are both viable scenarios. As far as price, there’s a
balance that needs to be struck with the reality of the
situation and what shareholders will accept.”  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York ,
said the hurdle to gain support from the Dolans may be closer to
$30 a share. That would be more than double the current stock
price and value the company at 7.8 times Ebitda, the data show.  ‘Vast Gulf’  “They can be patient, and they won’t be selling it for $15
a share,” Joyce said in a phone interview. “The Dolans aren’t
going to leave a whole lot of value on the table. There’s a vast
gulf between what they feel the company is worth and what the
market is saying.”  Buying Cablevision makes the most sense for Time Warner
Cable because of overlapping sales forces and technicians in the
region,  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in New York, said
in a phone interview. Time Warner Cable could lower costs by
cutting jobs, consolidating the companies’ master facilities for
receiving TV signals and reducing programming fees, Jayant said.  “Time Warner is probably the natural player and could
probably bid the highest,” said Highmark’s Lowenstein. “It’s a
crown jewel asset. You’re not buying a rough-cut diamond.”  Comcast and Charter may also be interested buyers,  Chris Marangi , a  fund manager  at Gamco in Rye, New York, said in a
phone interview. A deal would increase scale, giving them more
leverage in future programming negotiations with cable and
broadcast networks. Gamco oversees about $35 billion, including
about 15 million  shares (CVC)  of Cablevision.  Limited Growth  The question is timing, Marangi said, as Time Warner
Cable’s $3 billion acquisition of Insight Communications Co. is
pending, Comcast is still focused on integrating NBC Universal
and Charter just introduced Rutledge as CEO.  Limited growth prospects may hamper the multiple
Cablevision can fetch in an acquisition, said Jayant. The
company added almost 300,000 subscribers when it acquired
Bresnan Communications Co. in 2010. Without Bresnan,
Cablevision’s video customers have fallen 2 percent since 2005.  While Cablevision has gained market share in New York,
northern  New Jersey  and Connecticut, there’s little more the
company can do to expand its customer base, said  Craig Moffett ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  has built out its FiOS TV
network to overlap with more than 40 percent of households in
Cablevision’s New York metropolitan area, according to
Cablevision’s regulatory filings. Verizon has also run
promotions to recruit Cablevision’s customers in recent years.  Waiting to Sell  The Dolans, who own about 21 percent of the shares
outstanding and control more than 70 percent of the voting power
through a  dual-class stock structure (CVC) , may prefer to take the
company private, Jayant said. Maintaining control of the company
founded by 85-year-old Chairman Charles Dolan may still be a top
priority for the family, he said.  “One theory is that first Cablevision goes private and it
waits to sell itself,” Marangi said. “If you take it private,
you stabilize the situation with management, you wait until
you’ve got three good strategic buyers, and then you run an
auction.”  It wouldn’t be the family’s first buyout attempt. In 2005,
the board rejected the Dolans’ offer to buy the company for
about $7.9 billion, or $33.50 a share. The family tried again in
October 2006 and increased the bid twice before reaching a deal
in May 2007 for $10.6 billion, or $36.26 a share. Investors
Gamco, Clearbridge Advisors and T. Rowe Price Group Inc. then
joined together to defeat the proposal.  ‘Great Prices’  “In hindsight, those prices the Dolans offered a few years
back look like great prices,” Tullo said. Now, “Charles Dolan
is very old. I’d say they’d be more likely to sell than go
private.”  The family’s prior takeover attempts valued the company at
as much as 15 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Now, a rival cable operator could offer a 100 percent premium
and pay only half that multiple.  “It’s a solid company,” said Ghriskey of Solaris Group.
“It’s generating a really good dividend for shareholders,
including the Dolans. They don’t necessarily have to do anything
here. If somebody steps up and offers them a huge amount of
money, great. It could be that a competitive company like Time
Warner, Comcast or Charter might step in at this valuation
level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 