-- Cameron Pledges Action to Tackle Excessive Pay in U.K. Financial Services
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/cameron-pledges-action-to-tackle-excess-in-u-k-financial-industry-pay.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
pledged more action to deal with “excess” in pay in the
finance industry as he said the country “will get through” a
difficult year.  In his New Year message, Cameron said the eyes of the world
will be on Britain in 2012, with the  Olympic Games  in London and
the celebrations for Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on the
throne. “It gives us an extraordinary incentive to look
outward, look onwards and to look our best: to feel pride in who
we are and what -- even in these trying times -- we can
achieve,” he said.  Assuring families struggling with inflation and young
people unable to find work amid weak economic growth that he
understands their concerns, Cameron pledged to be “bold about
working to cure the problems of our society.”  “While a few at the top get rewards that seem to have
nothing to do with the risks they take or the effort they put
in, many others are stuck on benefits, without hope or
responsibility,” the premier said. “So we will tackle excess
in the City just as we’re reforming welfare to make work pay and
support families,” he said, in a reference to  London ’s
financial district.  This year will see Cameron hit the halfway stage of his
five-year term. The premier said he’ll take action on
shortcomings in the public sector.  “Too often our schools aren’t up to scratch, our hospitals
aren’t always clean enough and our police don’t catch
criminals,” he said. “Brilliant and committed people work in
public services -- but somehow the system stops them doing their
job. So we’ll change it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 