-- China Export Orders Show Threat From Europe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-02T08:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/chinese-manufacturing-gauge-improves-even-as-europe-demand-slows-economy.html
Chinese and Indian manufacturing
gauges rose in December, suggesting that  Asia ’s fastest-growing
major economies are so far withstanding the fallout from
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  In China, a purchasing managers’ index was at 50.3 from 49
in November, the Beijing-based logistics federation said in a
statement yesterday. An Indian PMI rose to 54.2 from 51, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today.  Two reports yesterday highlighted the toll that faltering
global growth may yet take on Asia. In the Chinese data, an
index of export orders indicated a third month of contraction,
while South Korea forecast that its own overseas shipments will
grow in 2012 at only about a third of last year’s pace.  “Europe’s debt woes, the austerity measures the European
countries are taking and the sluggish U.S. recovery mean demand
for Asian goods this year is likely to be weak,” said Yao Wei,
a Hong Kong-based economist for Societe Generale SA.  The “festival effects” of western and Chinese New Year
celebrations helped to boost  China ’s PMI reading, said the
logistics federation, which releases the data with the
statistics bureau. China has also unwound some tightening
measures to spur growth, cutting banks’  reserve requirements (CHRRDEP)  in
November for the first time since 2008.  Seasonal Factors  Yao said that seasonal demand ahead of the weeklong Lunar
New Year holiday that begins Jan. 23 may largely have accounted
for yesterday’s better-than-expected reading, “reminding us
again not to underestimate the consumption power of Chinese
households.”  In the Indian data, measures of output, employment, orders,
and export orders all rose, HSBC said.  A Chinese manufacturing index released by HSBC and Markit
on Dec. 30 indicated that manufacturing contracted for a second
month. At the same time, HSBC said that “the pace of China’s
slowdown is starting to stabilize.”  Across Asia,  Indonesia  reported today that inflation slowed
for a fourth straight month in December. Purchasing managers’
indexes from the euro region,  Germany ,  France ,  Italy  and  Spain 
will give the latest readings of the strength of manufacturing
in Europe.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index slipped 0.4
percent as of 3:08 p.m. in  Singapore  on global growth concerns.  ‘Contingency Plans’  In  South Korea , Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor
Co., the nation’s largest companies, told employees to brace for
intense competition in a weak global economy as the government
called for contingency planning.  “South Korea’s economy is facing increased uncertainties
this year, and the global economy may rapidly deteriorate if the
European debt crisis worsens,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
said in a New Year statement released today. “Contingency plans
to prevent contagion from Europe’s crisis should be
strengthened.”  President  Lee Myung Bak  said today he would focus in the
coming year on reducing inflation and bringing down unemployment
by investing more than 10 trillion won ($8.6 billion) in
creating jobs. The government’s goal is to get inflation down to
the low 3-percent range, he said. Consumer prices rose 4.2
percent in December.  The nation’s exports may gain 6.7 percent this year, down
from 19.6 percent in 2011, the government said yesterday. In
December, the increase was 12.5 percent, a report showed.  Export Orders  “The momentum for global growth is weakening,” South
Korea’s Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement.
“Export and import growth will slow down on increased
uncertainty in the global economy.”  In the Chinese PMI data, an index of export orders was at
48.6 from 45.6 in November, still below 50, the dividing line
between contraction and expansion. A measure of output jumped to
53.4 from 50.9.  President  Hu Jintao  said Dec. 31 in his New Year address
that China aims for steady and “relatively fast” growth in
2012 amid an increasingly unstable global recovery. Besides
pressure on exports, a crackdown on property speculation may
limit the expansion by damping construction and officials are
also grappling with banks’ bad-loan risks.  The rebound in the PMI “does not signal that the economy
has turned around,” said Zhang Zhiwei, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund . “Growth momentum will continue to
wane this quarter, as the European crisis will hurt China’s
exports and a cooling property market will drag down domestic
demand.”  Cutting Reserve Requirements  Standard Chartered Bank said yesterday that the central
bank may cut lenders’ reserve requirements before financial
markets reopen on Jan. 4. Besides spurring growth, policy makers
may want to ensure that there is enough cash in the system ahead
of the holiday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 22 percent last year,
the most since 2008, on concern that monetary tightening and
efforts to rein in property prices in big cities will limit
growth. The index’s 33 percent drop since 2009 makes it the
worst performer among the world’s 15 biggest markets.  Over the year, shares of  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) , China’s
biggest producer of the metal, slid 51 percent.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates that the Chinese
economy grew 8.7 percent in the three months through December
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the second quarter
of 2009.  ‘Weak’ Momentum  In yesterday’s statement, the logistics federation said the
economy’s slowdown is stabilizing even as growth momentum
remains “relatively weak.”  December’s rebound in the manufacturing index shows that
China “won’t see a big slowdown in 2012,”  Zhang Liqun , a
senior researcher at the Development Research Center of the
State Council, said in the statement. In November, the gauge had
pointed to the first contraction in manufacturing since February
2009.  Nomura estimates that  China’s economy , the biggest
contributor to global growth, will expand 7.9 percent in 2012,
the least in 13 years. Inflation is moderating after reaching a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  “The urgency of containing inflation isn’t as high as that
in the beginning of 2011,”  Zhou Xiaochuan , the governor of the
central bank, was cited as saying in an interview published by
Caixin Century magazine on its website on Dec. 31.  The logistics federation’s manufacturing index is based on
a survey of purchasing managers in more than 820 companies in 20
industries. The HSBC PMI covers about 430 businesses.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  