-- Danish Investors Balk as Debt Yields Turn Negative Amid Foreigners’ Buying
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-03T15:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/danish-investors-balk-as-debt-yields-turn-negative-amid-foreigners-buying.html
A surge in demand for Danish bonds
and bills from investors seeking to escape  Europe ’s debt crisis
is allowing the Nordic nation to get paid to borrow. Local
buyers aren’t as enamored.  The country last week sold 2.02 billion kroner ($351
million) in two-month and five-month bills at negative yields. A
central bank report yesterday showed foreign ownership of
government debt rose to 35 percent in November, the most since
October 2000, as investors outside Denmark raised their holdings
by 49 percent to 267 billion kroner from a year earlier.  “There’s a lot of appetite for Danish debt,” Henrik Henriksen, chief investment strategist at PFA Pension A/S, which
has assets of $53 billion, said by phone yesterday. “However,
we do think that Danish bonds are looking a bit expensive now.”  European leaders are struggling to contain a debt crisis
that has entered its third year and threatens  Italy , the euro-
area’s third-largest economy. While Denmark’s Social Democratic-
led government plans stimulus to secure growth, debt investors
are rewarding the country that has opted out of the euro. Its
government debt will be 44 percent of gross domestic product
this year, compared with a euro-area average of 88 percent, and
the country is expected to be within the European Union’s 3
percent deficit limit by 2013, the European Commission said Nov.
10.  First Time  Denmark on Dec. 29 sold 1.8 billion kroner of 59-day bills
and 220 million kroner of 151-day bills at negative yields of
0.21 percent and 0.07 percent, respectively. At the end of
November, foreigners owned 56 billion kroner in Danish T-bills,
94.5 percent of the total, according to central bank data.  “It’s the first time that the Danish state has issued
notes at a negative yield,” Ove Sten Jensen, a spokesman for
the central bank’s debt office, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “There are some investors who are very eager to
place their money in papers where they are very certain to get
the principle amount back.”  The yield on  Denmark’s 2-year bond (GDGB2YR)  fell five basis points
to 0.09 percent today. The country’s 10-year notes yield 26
basis points less than German debt with a similar maturity.
Danish government debt returned 13.45 percent last year,
according to index compiled by Bloomberg and European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies. That compares with a gain of
1.5 percent for the euro area’s debt.  Increased Risk  The increasing level of foreign ownership in Danish debt
may pose a risk, Bo Andersen and Frederik Nordsborg, economists
at SEB AB, said in a note yesterday.  “We see the current tight pricing of Danish government
bonds to contain a higher risk of underperformance if foreign
investors lower demand for Danish  government bonds , which for
now, however, doesn’t seem to be the case,” the Copenhagen-
based economists said in the note.  While a member of the EU, Denmark hasn’t adopted the common
currency and its central bank keeps the krone fixed against the
euro. The bank cut  interest rates  twice last month, bringing its
 benchmark (DERE)  to a record-low 0.7 percent, to offset a capital
influx as investors flee euro-denominated assets.  The central bank said today that it purchased net foreign
currency of 17.8 billion kroner in December to defend the peg,
the biggest monthly amount since May 2010, according to Nordea
Bank AB. Overall, foreign currency reserves rose 14 billion
kroner to 481.7 billion kroner, the central bank said.  Advance Financing  The bank said Dec. 15 it will finance the issuance
requirement for 2013 one year in advance to reduce the
refinancing risk after it sold more bonds than expected in 2011.
The  Finance Ministry  on Dec. 19 raised its estimate for its 2012
gross domestic financing need to 179 billion kroner from an
August forecast of 177 billion kroner as the government is
bringing forward 10.75 billion kroner of investments to
stimulate the economy.  Denmark is the Nordic region’s weakest economy as the
country grapples falling  consumer spending  caused by housing
prices that have dropped to a six year-low and a banking crisis
that has sapped lending. GDP shrank 0.5 percent in the third
quarter and there’s a risk the economy also contracted in the
fourth quarter, according to Steen Bocian, chief economist at
Copenhagen-based Danske Bank A/S, the country’s largest lender.  “It’s a reverse beauty contest where  Denmark  is looking
less bad compared with most of the euro-zone economies,” said
Henriksen at PFA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  