-- Digital Albums, Adele Help U.K. Music Industry Contain Slump
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2012-01-02T11:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/digital-albums-adele-help-u-k-music-industry-contain-slump.html
Digital music album sales in the U.K.
climbed 27 percent last year and singer Adele’s “21” set a new
industry record, helping curb a slide in demand for CDs.  While digital album sales surged to 26.6 million units,
sales of CDs dropped 12.6 percent to 86.2 million last year, the
British Recorded  Music Industry  group  BPI  said today. Combined
sales of digital and physical albums fell 5.6 percent, less than
the year earlier’s 7.5 percent decline.  The music industry, which suffered under the launch of free
music-sharing services such as Napster, is taking back some of
the market with the help of paid-music services like  Apple
Inc.’s (AAPL)  iTunes and Spotify Ltd. Demand for digital albums grew
faster than for singles last year, according to BPI.  “The most encouraging news is the strong backing consumers
are giving to the digital album format,” Geoff Taylor, BPI
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “British music
fans understand that the album remains the richest way to
connect with an artist’s work.”  Digital music sales now account for 24 percent of all music
sales in the U.K., up from 4.7 percent in 2007, BPI’s statement
shows. CDs make up most of the remainder.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  recently
introduced a music service for its Android phone and tablet
computer, striking deals with 1,000 record labels.  Taylor said the U.K. government is taking too long to fight
piracy, one of the reasons Britain’s music market has fallen
behind  Germany ’s.  Vinyl’s Comeback  “While other countries take positive steps to protect
their creative sector, our government is taking too long to act
on piracy, while weakening copyright to the benefit of U.S. tech
giants,” he said in the statement. “Unless decisive action is
taken in 2012, investment in music could fall again -- a
creative crunch that will destroy jobs and mean the next Adele
may not get her chance to shine on the world stage.”  Adele’s single “Someone Like You,” released on Beggars
Group’s XL Recordings label, was the top seller in the U.K. with
1.2 million copies and became the biggest-selling album in a
single year, according to BPI.  Vivendi SA’s (VIV)   Universal Music
Group  had five singles in the top ten sold last year, including
Maroon 5, Rihanna and  Jennifer Lopez , and  Warner Music , owned by
billionaire Len Blavatnik, had two singles in the top ten, from
Bruno Mars and Ed Sheeran.  Sales of vinyl LPs rose 44 percent last year to 337,000,
the highest level since 2005, according to BPI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  