-- LDK Solar Makes Bid for Sunways to Secure Distribution
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-04T13:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/ldk-solar-enters-german-market-adds-technology-with-sunways-bid.html
(Corrects to show that Standard & Poor’s doesn’t rate LDK
debt in ninth paragraph of story published on Jan. 3)  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ’s plan to buy  Germany ’s
 Sunways AG (SWW)  provides China’s second-largest solar-panel maker
with access to new technology and a distribution network in the
world’s biggest photovoltaic market.  Sunways shares  rose (SWW)  the most in six months in Frankfurt
yesterday after LDK offered to purchase the Constance-based
maker of solar cells and panels for about 24.2 million euros
($31.4 million), excluding contributions in kind. The stock
dropped 0.1 percent today. The acquisition would be the first by
a Chinese solar-energy company in Germany, where a record 7,400
megawatts of solar capacity was installed in 2010.  LDK “will buy a company with a well-known brand, decent
technology and established sales channels for little money,”
Stefan Freudenreich, an analyst with Equinet Bank AG, which
advises Sunways on the share sale, said by telephone from
 Frankfurt  yesterday. The Chinese company will also get access to
Sunways’ solar-inverters business, devices used in all
photovoltaic installations, he said.  German panel makers are struggling as demand is falling and
competition from  Asia  is rising. The factory capacity Chinese
manufacturers added in recent years resulted in price declines
that contributed to insolvency filings in December by  Solar
Millennium AG (S2M) , a project developer with headquarters in
Erlangen, Germany, and Berlin-based module maker  Solon SE. (SOO1)   Own Brand, Listing  “The hope has arisen that consolidation of the solar
industry has started,” Erkan Aycicek, an analyst at Stuttgart,
Germany-based Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, said yesterday.
“The recent insolvencies also mean that overcapacity is being
reduced.”  Sunways, which was  profitable (SWW)  in 2010, reported losses in
the first and third quarters of 2011. In addition to inverters,
which convert electricity from panels for use on the  power grid ,
it makes modules and cells.  Linklaters LLP’s Dusseldorf office is the legal adviser for
Sunways in the deal, Harald Schaefer, a company spokesman, said
by phone today. LDK is advised by Sidley Austin LLP’s Frankfurt
office, according to a Dec. 31 statement from LDK.  LDK and Sunways plan to complete their transaction by the
end of the first quarter and the German manufacturer will
maintain its own brand and stock market listing, the companies
said yesterday in a separate statement. LDK said it’s
“convinced of the Sunways products and business model.”  LDK had about $262 million in cash and near cash as of
Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
on Dec. 7 sold 500 million yuan ($79 million) of three-year
notes.  Standard & Poor’s  doesn’t rate LDK’s debt while Moody’s
Investors Service ranks it B1, the company’s fourth-highest junk
rating.  Wafers, Cells  In the third quarter, LDK’s net loss widened to $114.5
million from a loss of $87.7 million in the second quarter, the
company said on Nov. 22. LDK may report a fourth-quarter net
loss of $79 million, according to the median of 12 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Xinyu-based LDK supplied Sunways with wafers, a silicon-
based material that’s cut into cells. The companies agreed to
terminate the long-term supply contract, they said. Sunways will
make a final payment to LDK in “the lower double-digit million
range,” they said.  The German company is backing a full takeover “as this
would give us an anchor investor and easier access to financing
to pursue growth,” said Sunways’s Schaefer.  “Sunways has come under financial pressure and it may have
had no alternative than selling to LDK, with which it has
cooperated for years,” Freudenreich said.  Solar-Fabrik AG (SFX)  is
also a potential takeover target for Chinese producers because
of a successful business model, access to German sales channels
and a “very cheap” price, the Equinet analyst said.  Possible Cooperation  Solar-Fabrik is in talks with other companies in the
industry, including from  China , over possible cooperation
agreements, Chief Executive Officer Guenter Weinberger said in a
phone interview yesterday. The Freiburg-based company, which
obtains solar cells in Asia for manufacturing modules in
Germany, isn’t planning a share sale, making a takeover by
another company more difficult, he said.  Production of inverters has already started to shift from
Europe to China and  Southeast Asia  as manufacturers seek to cut
costs, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a Nov. 30 note.
“Even for inverters manufactured in Western markets, the drive
for cost reductions means more of the components are being
sourced from Asian markets,” the research agency said.  The solar-panel supply glut in China may lead to a
consolidation, cutting the number of domestic manufacturers to
15 within five years, according to the Beijing-based Energy
Research Institute at the National Development and Reform
Commission. There were 330 panel makers in 2008, the Chinese
Renewable Energy Society estimated.  Module Production  The contributions in kind include Sunways taking indirect
ownership in a Chinese company, providing the German
manufacturer with access to module production in that country as
well as sales outlets for inverters, they said.  Sunways  fell (SWW)  0.1 percent to 1.865 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt today, after soaring 21 percent yesterday.
That pared the stock’s decline in the past 12 months to about 53
percent.  Shares in Solar-Fabrik had the biggest three-day advance in
nearly three months. They were unchanged at 1.80 euros by the
close in Frankfurt after yesterday’s 16 percent jump, taking its
increase over the past three trading days to 19 percent, the
most since the three days through Oct. 10, 2011.  LDK is unlikely to keep Sunways’ solar-cell production
plants in the long run amid global overcapacity, though it may
develop new cell technology in Germany and expand the inverters
business, Freudenreich said.  ‘Grabbing Technology’  “This is the first Chinese company grabbing German
inverter technology,” Freudenreich said. “With LDK’s help,
Sunways may be able to sell inverters in growing markets such as
China and the U.S.”  The Chinese company has signaled that the German
manufacturer’s cell plants will be kept operating amid a push to
develop “premium products made in  Europe ,” said Schaefer, the
Sunways spokesman.  Robert Bosch GmbH  said on Dec. 21 that it bought Conergy
AG’s solar inverters unit, putting the Stuttgart-based car-parts
maker, the world’s biggest, into competition with established
suppliers including Germany’s  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92)  and Power-
One Inc. based in Camarillo,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  