-- Dollar’s Demise Exaggerated as 13% Gain Since 2008 Proves Currency’s Value
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-03T18:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/dollar-s-demise-exaggerated-as-13-gain-since-2008-proves-currency-s-value.html
Moves by the  Federal Reserve  to flood
the world with dollars are doing little to dent the currency’s
value, bolstering the appeal of U.S. assets at a time when the
government needs the support of foreign investors the most.  The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY)  has appreciated 13 percent from a
record low in March 2008 even as the Fed kept  interest rates  at
about zero and printed cash to buy  $2.3 trillion (FARBAST)  of Treasury and
mortgage-related bonds, and is little changed since 1991. The
 International Monetary Fund  said Dec. 30 that the greenback’s
share of global foreign-exchange reserves rose in the third
quarter by the most since 2008.  That long-term stability shows America’s currency is a
store of value and may help explain why the U.S. is attracting
record demand for the unprecedented amount of  bonds (DEBPMARK)  the Treasury
Department is selling to finance a  budget deficit  exceeding $1
trillion. Even though  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its
AAA rating in August, investors see the nation as a refuge from
slower global economic growth and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  “The safe-haven function of the dollar is still alive,”
said Achim Walde, head of global fixed income and currencies at
Deutsche Bank AG’s Cologne, Germany-based Sal. Oppenheim
private-wealth manager, which oversees 3 billion euros ($3.9
billion). “The dollar will be strong in 2012,” he said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 29.  Currency Correlation  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canada
dollar and Swedish krona, rose 1.46 percent last year. That
followed a gain of 1.5 percent in 2010, marking the first time
it advanced two years in a row since 2000-2001.  The Dollar Index weakened 0.9 percent to 79.532 at 1:55
p.m. New York time. The gauge is up from 70.698 in March 2008
and compares with 1991’s low of 80.34. The dollar appreciated
1.11 percent last year, the most after the yen’s 5.5 percent
climb among 10 developed-nation peers as measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The indexes show that since 1975,
only the yen and Swiss franc have done better than the dollar.  The performance counters officials in China,  Germany  and
 Brazil  who said that the Fed’s policies were weakening the
dollar. House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and three other
Republicans sent Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke a letter in 2010
expressing “deep concerns” about the central bank’s plan to
print money to buy bonds, saying it risked weakening the dollar
and fueling asset bubbles.  Europe Crisis  That was before Europe debt crisis spread, sparking demand
for the safest of assets.  Russia  is now unlikely to reduce the share of U.S. assets
in its international reserves, President Dmitry Medvedev’s chief
economy aide, Arkady Dvorkovich, said in an interview outside
Moscow on Dec. 27. The nation boosted dollars to 45.4 percent of
its reserves as of June 30 from 45.3 percent three months
earlier, its central bank said in a report published on Dec. 27.  For the first half of 2012, “the dollar continues to look
appealing,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a London-based senior trader at
ETX Capital, which provides services including currency trade
execution, in a Dec. 29 telephone interview. “In the second
half we could have something resembling a global recovery, with
potentially a bottom to this euro-zone crisis and further
clarification from China on how hard or soft the landing will
be. Money could then shift back away from the dollar and into
riskier assets.”  Global Reserves  The  U.S. dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves
climbed in the third quarter to 61.7 percent, the  highest (CCFRUSD%)  since
late 2010, while holdings of  euros (CCFREUR%)  fell to a three-year low of
25.7 percent, according to figures from the Washington-based IMF
quarterly data.  While the dollar is up since 2008, it’s down 34 percent
from its highs a decade ago, IntercontinentalExchange’s index
shows. The Fed’s  Trade-Weighted Real Broad Dollar Index (USTRBROA)  that
tracks it against those of 38 countries shows the dollar has
depreciated 15 percent from its average in 1973, the year global
currencies began freely floating.  The dollar has been the world’s reserve currency since the
U.S. and allies agreed at the 1944 Bretton Woods conference to
peg it to a rate of $35 per ounce of gold. It remained the most-
traded legal tender after global currencies began freely
floating in 1973, accounting for 85 percent of the $4 trillion
per day foreign-exchange market, according to the Basel,
Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements.  Japan- China  Accord  The currency’s value peaked in 1985 before finance
ministers from the world’s largest economies forged the Plaza
Accord, agreeing to weaken the dollar to reduce a record U.S.
current-account deficit, the broadest measure of trade because
it includes investment.  While the dollar’s shares of the more than $10 trillion in
global reserves has increased, it has tumbled from a peak of
72.7 percent in 2001.  Some nations are seeking ways to reduce dollar dependence.
Japan and China said last month they will promote direct trading
of the yen and yuan and will encourage the development of a
market for companies involved in the exchange rates.  The appeal of U.S. financial assets can be seen in the
market for Treasuries, which gained 9.8 percent, the most since
2008 at the height of the financial crisis. Treasuries due in 10
years or more soared 29 percent.  Foreign Holdings  The Treasury Department attracted $3.04 for each dollar of
the $2.135 trillion in notes and bonds sold last year, the
highest bid-to-cover ratio since the government began releasing
the data in 1992 during the George H. W. Bush administration,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. drew an all-
time high  ratio (USB4WBC)  of 9.07 for $30 billion of four-week bills it
auctioned on Dec. 20 even though they paid zero interest.  The amount of Treasuries held by foreigners has surged,
with  holdings (HOLDTOT)  rising to a record $4.66 trillion in September
from $4.44 trillion at the end of 2010 and $3.69 trillion in
December 2009, the latest government data show.  “The U.S. dollar was recognized as really the ultimate
source of liquidity in terms of the very uncertain conditions in
the euro-zone,” said  Stewart Hall , senior currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto in a telephone interview on
Dec. 28. “You’ve also got a U.S. economic growth dynamic that
is throwing off a little bit of a feel good story that is not
the case in Europe and in  Asia .”  Economies Decouple  The value of the dollar will hold steady over the next year
versus peers including the euro, yen, and U.K. pound, according
to strategists and economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Demand for American assets is increasing as consumer
confidence, manufacturing and employment show the U.S. is
strengthening as Europe struggles to save its currency union and
the developed world weakens. U.S. gross domestic product will
expand 2.1 percent next year, compared with 1.25 percent for all
Group of 10 nations, Bloomberg surveys of economists show.  “In 2012, I believe the stronger U.S. data -- a relatively
better performing  U.S. economy  -- will be a dollar positive,”
 Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley, said in a Dec. 23 interview with Owen Thomas on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Balance Sheets  A stronger U.S. economy is boosting speculation that the
Fed won’t need to undertake a third round of bond purchases, or
quantitative easing, as central banks elsewhere expand their
balance sheets to counter slowing economies.  The ECB’s balance sheet expanded to a record 2.73 trillion
euros, and its lending to euro-area banks jumped 214 billion
euros to 879 billion euros in the week ended Dec. 23, the
Frankfurt-based central bank said in a statement on Dec. 28. Its
holdings were 553 billion euros more than three months ago.  The Bank of  Japan  expanded its asset-purchase program three
times last year, to 20 trillion yen ($260 billion). The Bank of
England has left its asset-buying target at 275 billion pounds
($429 billion).  “We have favored stronger dollar positions given our Fed
is essentially on hold and the U.K., Euro-zone and Japanese
central banks are in expansive phases,”  David Kotok , the chief
investment officer of Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland
Advisors, which manages about $1.8 billion, said in a telephone
interview on Dec. 28. “The U.S. economy seems to be growing at
a slow but steady pace and improving, while inflation is not a
threat.” --With assistance from Ilya Arkhipov and Scott Rose in
Moscow and Kristine Aquino in  Singapore . Editors: Philip Revzin,
Garfield Reynolds  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  