-- Egypt Holds Final Round of Election as Mubarak’s Prosecutor Slams ‘Tyrant’
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-01-03T14:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/egypt-holds-final-voting-round-as-prosecutors-present-case-against-mubarak.html
Egyptians voted in the third round of
parliamentary elections today as prosecutors began their case in
the trial of former President  Hosni Mubarak  by describing him as
a “tyrant” responsible for violence and oppression.  The final stage of the vote, the first since Mubarak was
ousted in February, covers nine provinces including the North
and South Sinai governorates. Islamist groups are expected to
consolidate the gains they made in earlier rounds, in which the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice party took the lead
ahead of the more conservative Nour party, which represents
Salafi Muslims.  “The third phase will not change much the nature of the
upcoming parliament,” Nabil Abdel Fattah, director of the Al-
Ahram Center for Social and Historic Studies in Cairo, said in a
telephone interview. “It will likely underline the control of
Islamists.”  The election and Mubarak’s trial, which resumed last week
after a two-month hiatus, take place amid growing opposition to
the ruling generals, who say they won’t cede power before
presidential elections are held by the end of June. It’s unclear
what powers the elected assembly, due to hold its first session
on Jan. 23, will have and how a new government will be formed.  Clashes in Cairo last month between security forces and
demonstrators calling for an earlier end to military rule left
at least 17 people dead. Protesters are preparing to take to the
streets on Jan. 25 to mark the anniversary of the mass rallies
that drove Mubarak from power.  Slowing Growth  “The new parliament will witness political struggles
between the military council, the Brotherhood and Salafis, and
the revolutionary forces,” said Abdel Fattah.  Economic growth has slowed as the unrest deters tourists
and investors. Foreign-currency reserves declined by 44 percent
to $20.2 billion in the first 11 months of 2011. The benchmark
 EGX 30 stock index (EGX)  lost 49 percent last year, making it the
third-worst performer among world markets tracked by Bloomberg.  About 14 million voters are eligible to vote in this round,
and 150 parliamentary seats are up for grabs. In Minya, one of
the provinces where balloting is being held today, Mina Magdy, a
Christian, said gains by Islamists in previous rounds encouraged
him to vote for the secular Egyptian Bloc alliance.  “We’re trying to balance things out,” he said. “We want
more liberals in parliament.”  The court trying Mubarak adjourned until tomorrow, state
television reported. It showed Mubarak carried on a gurney to
and from the makeshift courtroom in a police academy.  ‘Oppression and Violence’  Prosecutor Moustafa Soliman told the court Mubarak was a
“tyrant” who sought to install his son, Gamal, in his place,
the state-run Middle East News Agency reported. His trial is a
reminder to future rulers that they will be held accountable for
breaking the law, the prosecutor said.  Mubarak allowed former Interior Minister Habib el-Adli to
“practice oppression and violence against Egyptians so he could
remain in office,” Soliman said, according to MENA. Police
seeking to block protesters from reaching Cairo’s  Tahrir Square 
targeted their heads and chests, and some were run over by
police vehicles, he said.  Prosecution arguments against the former president, who has
pleaded not guilty to charges of corruption and conspiring to
kill protesters, will continue over the next two days, state
television said. At least 846 people were killed during the
revolt.  Gamal Mubarak  and the former president’s other son, Alaa,
are facing corruption charges, and el-Adli and six of his aides
are also on trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 