-- Eli Manning, Giants Finish Season With Division Title, Playoff Spot
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-02T07:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/eli-manning-giants-finish-season-with-division-title-playoff-spot.html
New York Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  said he heard the word “finish” over 100 times on the
sidelines last night as his team beat the Dallas Cowboys 31-14
to clinch the  National Football League ’s final playoff berth.  The Giants led 21-0 at halftime before giving up two
touchdowns. Victor Cruz -- who caught six passes for 178 yards
including a 74-yard touchdown for the first score -- then hauled
in a 44-yard catch on a third down play that led to a field goal
and the restoration of New York’s 10-point advantage with six
minutes to play.  “Getting that drive where Victor made that play and got
the field goal, it seemed like momentum started changing,” Tuck
told reporters. “That’s when you started hearing the word
‘finish.’”  Many among last night’s season-high Giants’ crowd of 81,077
at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , waved white
rally towels that read “All In,” which has become a team
mantra along with “finish.”  “We’re ‘All In,’” Tuck said. “I love that phrase because
that’s how this team has played the last two weeks.”  The Giants and Cowboys entered the game tied atop the
National Football Conference East division, with each needing a
win to prolong their season.  The Giants had struggled down the stretch in recent
seasons, losing two of their final three games to miss the
playoffs last year with a 10-6 record and going 1-3 in 2009 to
also miss out on the postseason.  ‘We Got it Done’  “We’ve done great in the fourth quarter and we finished
the season strong,” Giants quarterback Eli Manning said. “We
needed two wins to make the playoffs. We knew what we had to do
and we got it done.”  After losing four straight games through Dec. 4, the Giants
won three of their final four games to close the regular season.
The run included two wins over the Cowboys and a 29-14 victory
on Dec. 24 against the  New York  Jets.  “We had a lot of ups and downs throughout the season and
when our team needed it the most we responded,” Cruz, 25, said.
“We were able to keep a level head throughout a four-game skid
and found a way to keep our composure.”  The Giants (9-7) host the  Atlanta Falcons  in the first
round of the playoffs Jan. 8.  Manning threw for 346 yards and three touchdowns last
night, including a 4-yard touchdown pass to Hakeem Nicks with
four minutes remaining to secure a 17-point victory, New York’s
biggest of the season.  Record Breaker  It was Manning’s 15th fourth-quarter touchdown pass this
season, breaking a record held by Johnny Unitas and Eli’s
brother Peyton.  New York’s 30-year-old quarterback completed 24 of 33
passes to eight different receivers and finished without an
interception for the first time in nine games.  “We’re playing smart football,” Manning said. “We’re not
making many mistakes and we have the big play potential.”  Cruz’s 74-yard touchdown catch was the team’s 17th pass
play of 40 or more yards this season, the most in the NFL. An
undrafted second-year receiver, Cruz finished the regular season
with 1,536 receiving yards, second only to  Calvin Johnson  of the
 Detroit Lions  in the NFC.  Manning threw for a franchise-record 4,933 yards this year,
trailing Drew Brees of the  New Orleans Saints , Tom Brady of the
 New England Patriots  and  Aaron Rodgers  of the  Green Bay Packers .
Nicks and Cruz are the first pair of Giants wideouts to top
1,000 yards receiving in the same season.  The Giants last won a playoff game during the 2007 season,
when they made the playoffs as a wild card and beat the 16-0 New
England Patriots in the  Super Bowl .  Running back Brandon Jacobs, who led the 2007 Giants in
rushing, said he sees similarities between this year’s team and
the Super Bowl-winning roster.  “It’s the same kind of feeling,” Jacobs said in an
interview. “I wouldn’t want to face the  New York Giants  in the
playoffs right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at MetLife Stadium at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  