-- Euro Slips to 11-Year Low Against Yen as Region’s Debt Woes Enter New Year
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-02T16:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/euro-slips-to-11-year-low-against-yen-as-region-s-debt-woes-enter-new-year.html
The euro slipped to an 11-year low
against the yen, before paring declines, on concern that the
European debt crisis will hamper economic growth and destabilize
financial markets as 2012 begins.  The single currency weakened against the dollar as a report
confirmed European manufacturing shrank for a fifth straight
month in December. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in a New
Year’s speech she expects turbulence this year and will do
“everything” to save the euro and end the region’s debt
crisis. Sterling weakened against all major currencies as Prime
Minister  David Cameron  pledges more action to deal with
“excess” in pay in the finance industry.  “We remain negative about the euro,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva. “Lack of growth in peripheral nations will be a major
issue there this year, and I don’t think what leaders have
proposed will be enough to ring-fence the economic problem.
Concern about debt sustainability in peripheral countries will
escalate.”  The euro fell to as low as 98.66 yen, the least since
December 2000, before trading 0.3 percent lower at 99.40 yen at
4:26 p.m. London time. It weakened 0.3 percent to $1.2924.  The euro posted its first back-to-back annual declines
against the dollar in a decade last year. It was also the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies in 2011, sliding
2.1 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  Pound Declines  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5480 and 0.3 percent to
119.056 yen. It weakened 0.2 percent to 83.50 pence per euro.
Sterling gained 0.6 percent in the past month against the other
nine developed-nation currencies gauged by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, outperforming the euro, the Swiss
franc, the Norwegian krone and the Swedish krona.  European leaders pledged to draft a stricter rulebook for
controlling  government spending  for the more than two-year-old
debt crisis. Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will
meet in Berlin on Jan. 9 to work out details.  A gauge of euro-region manufacturing was 46.9 in December
versus 46.4 in the previous month, London-based Markit Economics
said today. That’s in line with an initial estimate published on
Dec. 15. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. While the
gauge for German manufacturing exceeded economist forecast, it
remained below 50.  “Euro-zone manufacturing is clearly undergoing another
recession,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said
in today’s report. “Despite the rate of decline easing slightly
in December, production appears to have been collapsing across
the single-currency area at a quarterly rate of approximately
1.5% in the final quarter of 2011.”  ECB Deposits  The euro pared losses as the  European Central Bank  said
today overnight deposits from financial institutions fell, after
reaching an all-time high last week.  Euro-area banks parked 413.9 billion euros with the
Frankfurt-based ECB, down from 445.7 billion euros the previous
day. Deposits reached 452 billion euros on Dec. 27, the most
since the euro’s introduction in 1999, a sign banks were
reluctant to lend as concern about counter-party risk deepened.  The ECB has reduced its benchmark rate to 1 percent,
matching a record low, and flooded banks with cheap loans in an
effort to keep credit flowing to the economy. It has resisted
pressure to step up its bond purchases, putting the emphasis on
governments to solve the debt crisis with fiscal reforms.  The euro will weaken to $1.30 and 99 yen by the end of the
first quarter, according to analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg, as the debt crisis drags on.  Germany ’s government today declined to comment on a report
that it may push creditors to accept bigger losses on Greek debt
than previously agreed upon, saying only that talks on lowering
 Greece ’s debt level may end soon.  Germany is studying a proposal to write down 75 percent of
Greek  government bonds  held by private creditors as part of a
planned debt swap to ensure greater sustainability, Greek news
website Euro2day.gr reported today, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  