-- Teva’s Levin May Boost Branded Drugs as Copaxone Threat Looms
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-02T17:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/teva-says-jeremy-levin-named-to-succeed-shlomo-yanai-as-ceo.html
After helping  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  acquire new drugs in a bid to offset the expected loss of
revenue from its top-selling blood thinner Plavix,  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s chief executive officer-
designate Jeremy Levin faces the same task at the Israeli
drugmaker.  Levin, 58, will replace retiring Teva CEO Shlomo Yanai, 59,
in May, the Petach Tikva-based company said yesterday. Teva, the
world’s biggest maker of generic drugs, needs new sources of
sales as its No. 1 drug, a branded multiple sclerosis medicine
called Copaxone, faces competition from newer treatments.  Yanai is stepping down after Teva’s  shares (TEVA)  last year
plunged the most since 2006. A former Israeli army general with
no previous pharmaceutical experience, he sought to broaden
Teva’s portfolio of innovative medicines with the $6.5 billion
acquisition of U.S. biotechnology company Cephalon Inc. last
year, then told investors in December that Teva may not meet its
long-term target of $31 billion in sales by 2015.  “He’s the perfect guy for this,” Ori Hershkovitz, a Tel
Aviv-based partner at Sphera Funds Management Ltd., said of
Levin in a phone interview yesterday. “If Jeremy can do one or
two good product selections as he has done in the past for
Bristol-Myers, that will be very, very good for Teva.” Sphera
owns Teva shares.  Teva rose 3.3 percent to 160.60 shekels at the close in  Tel
Aviv  yesterday, the stock’s biggest increase in two months. The
more actively traded American depositary receipts lost 21
percent in 2011 including reinvested dividends,  compared with (TEVA)  an
11 percent return for the Bloomberg EMEA Pharmaceuticals Index.  ‘Orderly Transition’  Levin, a Cambridge University-educated physician who worked
at New York-based Bristol-Myers as senior vice president for
strategy, said in a press conference in Tel Aviv yesterday that
he will work closely with Yanai to achieve an “orderly
transition.”  “There are some parallels between Bristol-Myers from a few
years ago and Teva,”  Les Funtleyder , a New York-based portfolio
manager for Miller Tabak & Co., said in an e-mail yesterday.
“BMY had to come up with a new strategy to deal with slow sales
and looming patents.”  At Bristol-Myers, Levin helped oversee the so-called
“string of pearls” policy of partnerships and smaller
acquisitions to replace revenue that will be lost when Plavix, a
blood thinner, faces generic competition in the U.S. this year.
Analysts predict the drug had $7.2 billion of sales in 2011,
based on the average of three  estimates (BMY)  compiled by Bloomberg.  Potential Targets  Fruits of the policy include Yervoy, a skin cancer drug
gained in the 2009 acquisition of  Medarex Inc (MEDX) ., Hershkovitz
said. The strategy has generated 17 acquisitions and agreements
with smaller companies so far.  Levin also handed off drugs Bristol-Myers didn’t plan to
develop itself to partner companies in  emerging markets , in what
he described as an “oyster plan” to build its partners into
potential acquisition targets.  “The oysters are being seeded to help create innovation,”
Levin said in an interview last month, comparing the Bristol-
Myers strategy to the process used to create pearls. “What
you’re hoping is that they’ll create an engine of innovation,
and then we can do a transaction. Over the years to come, we’ll
position ourselves as partners of choice.”  Bristol-Myers won’t change its string-of-pearls strategy,
Jennifer Mauer, a spokeswoman for the New York-based drugmaker,
said in a phone interview. “We have a very strong and
experienced team in that role,” she said. “Business
development remains a priority.” Levin left the company Jan. 1,
she said.  ‘His Decision’  Teva started looking for Yanai’s replacement during the
course of last year, Chairman Phillip Frost said at a news
conference in Tel Aviv today. He declined to be more specific.  Yanai wasn’t asked to retire, said Denise Bradley, a Teva
spokeswoman. “Shlomo came to the board with his decision, and
the board accepted it, appreciating his considerable
contributions to Teva but recognizing his desire to move on,”
Bradley said by e-mail.  “The time has come to start a new path,” Yanai said at
the news conference. “I intend to use all my knowledge, ability
and experience for the good of  Israel ’s industry, economy and
society.”  Yanai is considering both public and private possibilities,
Frost said. The executive may be weighing an entry into
politics, Gilad Alper, a Tel Aviv-based analyst for Excellence
Nessuah Brokerage, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Conference Call  Teva plans a conference call for analysts at 8:30 a.m. New
York time today.  Teva announced Dec. 21 it would buy back as much as $3
billion of its shares to return money to investors. The $31
billion sales goal for 2015 is “aspirational,” Yanai said
then.  Analysts suggested the share buyback might herald a
pullback from a streak of acquisitions that in recent years
included Germany’s Ratiopharm GmbH and Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc.
of the U.S.  Teva said last month sales of Copaxone probably will peak
this year at $3.8 billion. The injected MS drug accounted for 24
percent of Teva’s $4.34 billion of revenue in the third quarter.  Copaxone contributes as much as 40 percent of Teva’s
earnings, Alper said by phone. “The company will need to do
something dramatic relatively quickly.”  Novartis Competition  The medicine is already facing competition from Novartis
AG’s Gilenya, the first oral drug for MS.  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) 
reported that its own experimental MS pill, BG-12, is safe and
reduces the risk of relapses in a late-stage trial in October.
BG-12 may generate as much as $3 billion in annual sales,
according to analysts with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco .  Meanwhile, Teva’s own experimental MS pill, laquinimod,
disappointed in two trials last year.  The South African-born Levin was global head of business
development and strategic alliances at Novartis from 2003 to
2007. He has worked as a practicing physician and has a medical
degree from Cambridge and a doctorate from Oxford University in
molecular biology, according to the statement. Levin is a
citizen of both the U.S. and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  