-- Ex-HSH Nordbank Executives Indicted Over Omega 55 Investment
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-02T15:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/ex-hsh-nordbank-executives-indicted-over-omega-55-investment.html
Six former  HSH Nordbank  AG executives
were charged with breach of trust and accounting crimes over
their role in collateralized-debt obligations that led to
writedowns of 500 million euros ($647 million) in 2008.  Prosecutors have been investigating the so-called Omega 55
transaction since 2009. Among the six now charged are former
Chief Executive Officers Dirk Jens Nonnenmacher and Hans Berger
and ex-management board members Bernhard Visker and Jochen Friedrich, Hamburg prosecutors’ spokesman Peter Bunners said in
an interview today.  “We will release more details of the allegations later
this week once we have confirmation that all accused have
received the indictment,” Bunners said.  Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, which control more than 80
percent of HSH Nordbank, were forced to bail out the lender in
2009. The states provided the bank, based in Hamburg and Kiel,
with 3 billion euros in capital and 10 billion euros in
guarantees to cover potential losses. The lender also tapped the
federal government’s  Soffin  bank-rescue fund for 17 billion
euros in guarantees.  Nonnenmacher didn’t commit any crimes in relation to the
Omega 55 transaction, his attorney, Heinz Wagner, said in a
phone interview. Nonnenmacher signed the deal after the
responsible people at the bank had cleared it, said Wagner. As
soon as Nonnenmacher learned that something may have been wrong,
he ordered an internal investigation, Wagner said.  “A bank of this size cannot be managed without some
division of labor,” said Wagner. For a loan “of the size in
question here, his signature wasn’t even required by banking
laws.”  Capital Markets  Visker’s lawyer, Gaby Muenchhalffen, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Friedrich’s attorney, Wolfgang Prinzenberg, said his client
didn’t act contrary to HSH’S interest or his duties at any
stage. Friedrich was responsible for  capital markets  at the
lender at the time of the alleged violations.  Bloomberg News was unable to immediately locate contact
details for Berger or his lawyer.  HSH Nordbank’s press office didn’t immediately reply to a
request for comment.  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  reported the indictment
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 