-- Fiji’s Bainimarama to Lift Emergency Laws, Consult on New Constitution
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-01-02T03:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/fiji-military-government-to-lift-emergency-laws-consult-on-constitution.html
Fiji’s military-led government
announced it will lift emergency regulations in place since
2009, amid international pressure on authorities to restore
democracy in the Pacific island nation.  The Public Emergency Regulations will end on Jan. 7 and
public consultations on a new constitution will begin in
February, Commodore Voreqe Bainimarama, the nation’s prime
minister, said in a New Year’s address.  Australia  and  New Zealand , which have been at the forefront
of criticism of Bainimarama since he toppled Fiji’s elected
government in a 2006 coup, welcomed the announcement. The
emergency laws gave the police and military extended powers,
censored the media and limited freedom of association.  “While there are a range of steps that will be required
before free and fair elections can be held, these are important
moves in the right direction,” New Zealand Foreign Minister
Murray McCully said in an e-mailed statement today.  Australia is ready to provide support for elections “once
the interim government takes credible and concrete steps to
restore democracy,” Acting Foreign Minister Martin Ferguson
said in an e-mailed statement. Consultations on a new
constitution should “involve a genuine, inclusive political
dialogue between all the stakeholders, without predetermined
outcomes,” he said.  Bainimarama says he wants to change the electoral system in
the ethnically divided nation before holding a ballot. Under the
present system, people in some constituencies can only vote for
candidates from their ethnic community.  The 883,000-strong population is made up of 57 percent
indigenous Fijians and 38 percent ethnic Indians, according to
U.S. government  data . Three of the nation’s four coups since
1987 were sparked by ethnic tensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  