-- Fondiaria Stock Advances the Most in a Month on Unipol Merger Speculation
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-01-02T15:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/fondiaria-stock-advances-the-most-in-a-month-on-unipol-merger-speculation.html
Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA) ,  Italy ’s second-
biggest insurer, rose the most in a month in Milan trading after
 Il Sole 24 Ore  reported it may merge with  Unipol Gruppo
Finanziario SpA (UNI)  to strengthen capital.  Fondiaria  climbed as much as (FSA)  6.8 percent and was up 5.8
percent to 65.6 cents at 4:40 p.m., the most since December 1,
valuing the company at 288 million euros ($370 million). Unipol,
Italy’s No. 3 insurer, rose 3.3 percent to 25.78 cents.  Fondiaria is considering an all-stock merger with Unipol,
the Italian newspaper reported Dec. 31, without saying where it
obtained the information. The combination may also include
 Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , Fondiaria’s biggest investor. Unipol
assets, including Unipol Banca, may be sold after the
transaction, the newspaper reported.  Premafin shares were halted in Milan after rising 43
percent to 20 cents. A spokesman at Fondiaria declined to
comment. Officials at Unipol didn’t answer calls to their cell
phones.  “We would appreciate an integration from both Unipol’s and
Fondiaria-Sai’s perspective only if this follows a preemptive
and definitive fixing of Fondiaria-Sai’s issues,” Gianantonio
Villani, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who has a
“reduce” recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note today.  Fondiaria’s board proposed on Dec. 23 a new capital
increase of as much as 750 million euros after its solvency
ratio fell below the minimum requirement of 100 percent in
September. The firm raised about 450 million euros in a share
sale in July.  Fondiaria Chief Executive Officer Emanuele Erbetta, who
hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as an adviser, is selling assets
and real estate to boost capital. The insurer expects a net loss
in 2011 of about 925 million euros, while its solvency ratio is
about 90 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  