-- Fulham Rallies to Beat Arsenal on Zamora’s Last-Minute Goal; Chelsea Wins
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-03T00:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/fulham-beats-arsenal-on-zamora-s-last-minute-goal-as-chelsea-gets-late-win.html
Bobby Zamora  grabbed a stoppage-time
winner as Fulham rallied to defeat 10-man Arsenal 2-1 in
soccer’s Premier League and enable Chelsea to take fourth place
from the Gunners.  Steve Sidwell’s header tied the scores in the 85th minute
at Craven Cottage in  London  last night after Laurent Koscielny
had put the away team ahead in the 21st minute. Arsenal was
reduced to 10 men after Johan Djourou was shown a second yellow
card for a 78th-minute foul on Zamora.  “We had the chances to kill the game off before that and
to win,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said of Djourou’s red
card. “It’s very unlucky for us to lose the game with 10 men.”  Arsenal’s defeat enabled Chelsea to replace the Gunners in
fourth place after  Frank Lampard ’s 89th-minute volley secured a
2-1 win at Wolverhampton Wanderers. Wolves defender Stephen Ward
had tied Ramires’s 54th-minute opener with six minutes left.  It was Chelsea’s first win in the league since beating
leader  Manchester City  on Dec. 12, when Lampard’s late penalty
kick secured a 2-1 win. City tops the standings on goal
difference from  Manchester United , with both teams on 45 points
following upset losses in their last games.  “If we go on a run of five or six wins we can be fighting
for this league,” Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas said in
comments on his club’s website. “December has proved that the
top teams can lose points but we need to find the consistency
throughout, which we haven’t found yet.”  City hosts sixth-place Liverpool in one of today’s three
matches. Third-place Tottenham faces West Brom and Sunderland
travels to Wigan.  Stoke and Norwich also won 2-1 away from home last night,
against Blackburn and Queens Park Rangers, respectively. Swansea
scored a goal in each half to beat Aston Villa 2-0 and secure
its first away league victory this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  