-- Germany, France Send Political Players to European Central Bank’s Board
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/germany-france-appoint-key-government-officials-to-ecb-s-executive-board.html
Germany  and France send two key
government officials to fill positions at the  European Central
Bank  today, setting off a struggle for the job of chief
economist.  Joerg Asmussen and Benoit Coeure join the ECB’s six-member
Executive Board as the sovereign debt crisis enters its third
year, replacing Germany’s Juergen Stark and  Italy ’s Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, who both departed prematurely. Asmussen, 44, was
Germany’s deputy finance minister, while Coeure, 42, served as
the French Treasury’s No. 2 official.  “It’s fresh blood at the table and they may bring a
different approach,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
“Because they come from the heart of government there may be a
risk that it’s seen as becoming too political, but I doubt that
the ECB will entertain anything that will be seen as endangering
its independence.”  The new arrivals transform the ECB’s core policy-making
panel just as the debt crisis threatens to tip the 17-nation
economy into recession and raises questions about the future of
the euro. Four board positions have now changed hands in the
past seven months and a fifth is up for grabs in May when Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo of  Spain  ends his term.  Germany ‘Outvoted’  “I’m not sure that the personalities matter that much at
this stage,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, senior European
economist at Jefferies International in London. “The ECB has a
clear roadmap. It will need to do what is necessary to fight
deflation, and that will mean further rate cuts and quantitative
easing. Germany was outvoted on bond purchases and going forward
there will be a majority for other measures.”  The ECB has reduced its  benchmark rate (EURR002W)  to 1 percent,
matching a record low, and flooded banks with cheap loans in an
effort to keep credit flowing to the economy. It has resisted
pressure to step up its  bond purchases (ECBCSMP) , putting the emphasis on
governments to solve the debt crisis with fiscal reforms.  Asmussen and Coeure will both vie for the ECB chief
economist role vacated by Stark, who threw in the towel two and
a half years early after the bank started buying Italian and
Spanish government bonds to contain the debt crisis, a policy he
opposed.  While the purchases aim to restore transmission of the
ECB’s monetary policy on financial markets, “we are also
reducing  interest rates  for the sovereign,” Stark told
Bloomberg News in August. “That’s where the problem is.”  ‘Closer to Government’  By contrast, Coeure signaled in testimony to the European
Parliament on Dec. 13 he may support further bond purchases. “If
we feel there is a deterioration in terms of the transmission of
monetary policy, then we should do more,” he said.  “It’s a good thing that the new people are closer to
government,” said Stephane Deo, chief European economist at UBS
AG in London. “The last two years were quite fraught on that
front. The crisis has dragged the ECB into new territory, but I
don’t really think anyone can argue that it’s not independent.”  Still, Bini Smaghi was pressured by Italy and France to
make way for a French policy maker on the board after  Mario Draghi  succeeded  Jean-Claude Trichet  as ECB President on Nov. 1.
Italy won France’s backing for Draghi on condition Bini Smaghi
vacate his seat.  While ECB statutes prohibit political interference, the
euro area’s four largest economies unofficially demand
representation on the board. As pressure grew on Bini Smaghi to
depart in June, the ECB insisted its board members are
“appointed for eight years” and take decisions in “full
independence.”  ‘Should I Kill Him?’  Bini Smaghi, whose term was due to end in 2013, held firm,
prompting France to call on then Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to honor his commitment. “What should I do, should I
kill him?” Berlusconi said in October. Bini Smaghi announced his
resignation on Nov. 11 and will join Harvard University’s Center
for International Affairs.  Coeure joined the French Treasury in 1995 after working for
Insee,  France ’s national statistics office. In 1999 he became
head of the ministry’s foreign-exchange market and economic-
policies unit, before moving on to Agence France Tresor, where
he gained market experience handling sovereign debt sales. He
became deputy chief executive of the AFT in 2002 and was
appointed chief executive in 2006.  Asmussen has been a key negotiator at the heart of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government since she came to power in
2006 and helped to draw up plans for the Greek debt writedown.
He and new Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann studied together
under the previous Bundesbank chief,  Axel Weber , when he was a
university economics professor. Weber, a frontrunner to succeed
Trichet, resigned his post at the Bundesbank in February over
the ECB’s bond purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  