-- German President Comes Under Scrutiny as Newspaper Phone Call Is Disclosed
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-02T17:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/german-president-under-scrutiny-as-newspaper-phone-call-revealed.html
German President  Christian Wulff  came
under increased scrutiny after reports that he telephoned a
newspaper editor in an effort to block a story revealing a
private home loan he received in 2008.  Bild ,  Germany ’s most-read newspaper, said the president
called its editor, Kai Diekmann, on Dec. 12 and left a voice-
mail message expressing anger at the forthcoming story and
threatening legal action. Wulff called Diekmann back two days
later and apologized for the tone and substance of the previous
call, Bild said in an e-mailed statement today.  The president’s office in Berlin didn’t respond to three
phone calls seeking comment. Wulff declined to comment on
individual discussions or telephone conversations, saying that
media freedom is a “great value,”  Deutsche Presse-Agentur 
reported.  Bild reported Dec. 13 that Wulff negotiated a 500,000 euro
($646,000) loan from the wife of a businessman friend to pay for
a new home when he was Lower Saxony state premier. Wulff
apologized for not revealing the loan last month in a bid to
calm criticism that risks becoming a distraction to  Chancellor
Angela Merkel . Both Merkel and Wulff are from the Christian
Democratic Union party.  Wulff was elected to the largely ceremonial office in 2010
with the backing of Merkel’s coalition after his predecessor,
 Horst Koehler , unexpectedly quit. The leader of the opposition
Social Democrats, Sigmar Gabriel, said last week that two
presidential resignations in as many years would lead to a
“state crisis.”  ‘Critical Reporting’  “Christian Wulff needs to clarify things as quickly as
possible without raising new questions again and again,”
Hubertus Heil, the SPD’s deputy chairman, said in a statement
today. He also said Wulff shouldn’t try to block critical
reporting.  Bild said the phone call to its editor occurred after Wulff
had prepared a statement regarding the credit for Bild to
publish, only to retract it before the newspaper’s deadline. The
newspaper said it decided not to report on the call after a
“broad newsroom debate.”  Lower Saxony Green Party legislators in 2008 questioned
Wulff’s ties to the lender’s husband, Egon Geerkens, and a
company in which he had a stake. Wulff initially said he had
answered properly in saying that he had no business deal with
Geerkens. In a Dec. 22 press conference in Berlin, Wulff said
that while his response to the inquiry adhered to the law, “not
everything that is legally correct is right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  