-- Iowa Campaign Ads Show Power of Negativity in Republican Race
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/gingrich-standing-falters-as-negative-advertising-dominates-iowa-airwaves.html
As  Iowa (BEESIA)  Republicans take in the final
appeals before tonight’s caucus voting, one major lesson the
candidates will take away: Going negative works.  An estimated $5.8 million was spent on  television
advertising  in Iowa through Dec. 30, with $3.7 million financing
negative ads, according to most recent data available from New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks
advertising.  Most of those negative ads were directed against one
candidate: former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who led national
and Iowa opinion polls from mid-November to mid-December.  Since Dec. 1, 45 percent of all ads airing in  Iowa (NFSEIA) 
criticized Gingrich for shifting policy positions and advocacy
for  Freddie Mac , a government-backed mortgage-finance company
caught up in the housing crisis, and other groups after
resigning the House in 1999.  The commercials were primarily financed by Texas Republican
Congressman Ron Paul, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and an outside
committee that backs former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ,
who used his own campaign cash to run only commercials promoting
himself.  “The big story is what a huge proportion of the
advertising was spent against Gingrich,” said  Ken Goldstein ,
president of CMAG. “In a multicandidate race, to have such a
huge proportion of the advertising focus on a negative way on
one person, with him unable to respond, is really
unprecedented.”  Scant Positives Ads  According to CMAG’s data, 6 percent of Iowa television
advertising since Dec. 1 supported Gingrich’s candidacy.  The anti-Gingrich ads began as he became the fifth
candidate to rise in opinion polls as the alternative to Romney.  “That momentum had to be quickly broken, and everybody
jumped on the bandwagon do to it,” said  Eddie Mahe , a
Republican consultant.  Since the start of the campaign, an independent committee
supporting Romney’s campaign, Restore Our Future, has aired
1,746 commercials -- all of them negative, and most aimed at
Gingrich. That committee is run by Romney’s political allies,
although it can’t legally coordinate with his campaign. While
Restore Our Future took over the anti-Gingrich messaging, Romney
used his campaign cash to air 2,049 positive commercials about
his candidacy.  Gingrich also was the subject of a hard-hitting ad by Paul,
which was titled “serial hypocrisy.” In all, Paul has run
2,572 commercials, of which 1,310 were attack ads.  Freddie Mac Criticism  Criticism of Gingrich focused extensively on his appearance
in a climate change advertisement with House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, and his $1.6 million in
earnings as an advocate for Freddie Mac, seized by the
government in 2008 after its stake in subprime loans pushed it
to the brink of collapse.  By contrast, Gingrich had financed 1,215 commercials
through Dec. 30, all of which were positive, according to the
CMAG data.  The onslaught of negative attacks has coincided with a
decline in support for Gingrich in polling. A Dec. 31 Des Moines
Register Iowa Poll of likely caucus attendees put Gingrich in
fifth place with 12 percent support; an Iowa Poll released on
Dec. 3 had him in first place with 25 percent.  Gingrich, who has called the advertising targeted at him
“dishonest,” criticized his rivals at a town hall meeting Dec.
30 in  Des Moines , Iowa.  Shameful Ads  “I would be ashamed to run some of the ads they are
running and I will not participate in that kind of process,”
Gingrich said. “I can’t be a witness to America’s future while
smearing my opponents and I would simply ask every Iowan before
Tuesday night to ask yourself, ‘Do you really want to reward the
consultants, the lies, the negativeness, or do you want to say
to the country, ‘A brand new day has arrived.’”  Brittany Gross, a spokeswoman for the pro-Romney Restore
Our Future committee, declined to comment. Andrea Saul, a
spokeswoman for Romney, did not respond to a request for
comment.  Romney defended the ads financed by Restore Our Future in a
Dec. 21 interview on  Fox News  and said they helped bring down
Gingrich’s ratings.  Romney Defends Ads  They “pointed out some of the aspects of his record that
people weren’t aware of and that’s brought the numbers down,”
Romney said on Fox. “By the way, there’s nothing that any of
these ads by any of the candidates are showing about Speaker
Gingrich that President Obama wouldn’t put out with his billion-
dollar money that he’s going to have down the road. So it’s
probably a good time for people to see these things to make up
their mind.”  Other candidates received less negative attention, CMAG
data show. Twenty percent of the ads attacked Romney. About
eight percent of the ads mentioning Perry were negative.  Mahe said the negativity in  Iowa  is only a preview of what
the Republican nominee, and President  Barack Obama , will face
later.  “This campaign will be nothing but negative ads on all
sides,” Mahe said. “We know Obama will, because that’s the
only story he’s got. Obviously, as we’ve seen, there’s a lot
things folks have to say about Obama that could be characterized
as negative.”  -- Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Justin Blum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  