-- Global Growth Slows to 3.9% as O’Neill Sees BRICs Diminished by Population
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-02T16:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/global-growth-slows-to-3-9-as-o-neill-sees-brics-diminished-by-population.html
A year ago, Catherine Liu employed
more than 2,000 people at her five Shanghai luggage-making
factories. Now, as the dwindling supply of low-paid young
workers forces wages and costs higher, she has 1,200 left.  “Local workers are getting much older,” said Liu, owner
of Shanghai Worldwide Trading Co. “If you want to train them,
they must be young. It’s very difficult to survive.”  Aging and shrinking labor pools are also poised to curb
expansion across the other so-called BRIC nations that
contributed almost half of global growth in the past decade.
With fewer youths keeping factories going and more pensioners to
support in those markets, the world economy is set to slow,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  says.  The number of people older than 65 in  Brazil , Russia,  India 
and  China  will rise 46 percent to 295 million by 2020 and to 412
million by 2030, according to United Nations  projections . The
pool of 15 to 24-year-olds, the mainstay for factories like
Liu’s that drove China’s boom for three decades, will fall by 61
million by 2030, about the population of Italy.  As the BRICs slow down, global growth probably will peak at
about 4.3 percent this decade and fall to 3.9 percent in the
2020s, according a Dec. 7 report by Goldman analysts. That’s
prompting fund managers including  Mark Mobius  to invest in so-
called frontier markets such as Nigeria, Vietnam and Argentina,
where average annual growth is set to rise to 5.1 percent this
decade, from about 4.3 percent in the previous 10 years.  One of his holdings, Nigeria’s  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , has risen
11.9 percent in the past two years, while the  MSCI Emerging-
Markets Index (MXEF)  is down 7.4 percent.  Top Ten  Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill, who
coined the BRICs acronym a decade ago, said other emerging
economies may now be better investments -- especially Indonesia,
Turkey, Egypt and Mexico.  “These four countries could be in the top 10 contributors
to global GDP this decade, adding well over $2 trillion,”
London-based O’Neill said in an e-mailed response to questions
on Dec. 29. “With large young populations, these countries
could become powerful growth stories.”  While Goldman started its  N-11 fund (GSYIX)  in February covering
the “Next Eleven” emerging nations to “benefit from superior
growth potential,” O’Neill said the size of the BRICs economies
means they will remain “the most dominant and positive force in
the world economy.”  Together, Brazil, Russia, India and China account for about
25 percent of world gross domestic product, according to
Goldman.  ‘Demographic Realities’  O’Neill’s company predicts that the average annual
expansion of the BRIC countries will fall during this decade to
6.9 percent from 7.9 percent in the 10 years to 2009, then drop
to 5.3 percent in the 2020s. “In terms of the role of the BRICs
in driving global growth, the most dramatic change is behind
us,” the Goldman analysts, led by  Dominic Wilson  in  London ,
wrote in a Dec. 7 note.  Already, the demographic volte-face has prompted calls for
China to end its one-child policy, which exacerbated the drop in
workers since its implementation in 1979; and has forced
legislation in Brazil to control the cost of public-service
pensions. In Russia, a shortage of qualified middle-aged workers
is being blamed for a crisis in its space program after failed
exploration and satellite launches.  In India, where the working-age population is projected to
rise more than a quarter by 2030 to 972 million, illiteracy
among more than one-third of workers is preventing the nation
from capitalizing on its demographic fortune.  China Shift  “Financial markets, businesses and policy makers have
failed to recognize that demographic realities are creating
pressures for slower future growth,” said Nicholas Eberstadt, a
demographer at the American Enterprise Institute in  Washington ,
who has advised the World Bank.  The shift to a society with a dwindling number of employees
funding a growing pension bill is most pronounced in China, the
world’s biggest growth engine last year.  After expanding 2.5 percent a year over the past three
decades, China’s working-age population has almost stopped
growing, said Richard Jackson, director of the Global Aging
Initiative at the  Center for Strategic and International Studies 
in Washington. That pool will contract almost 1 percent a year
by the mid-2020s, he said.  The number of 15- to 24-year-olds, who staff the factories
that make cheap clothes, toys and electronics, will fall by
almost 62 million, to 164 million, in the 15 years through 2025,
UN projections show. Meanwhile, those over 65 will rise 78
percent to 195 million.  More Children Needed  The positive contribution that came from an expanding
workforce in China will turn negative in 2013, wiping at least
half a percentage point off the potential annual growth rate,
according to Wang Feng, a director of the Brookings-Tsinghua
Center for Public Policy in Beijing.  “China’s shooting itself in the foot” with the one-child
policy, said Wang. “It needs to think of ways to encourage
young couples to have more children.”  The shortage of labor has left employers such as  Shanghai 
Worldwide’s Liu with a conundrum. Moving production to a country
like Vietnam where wages are lower is “too complicated” for a
small company like hers, with $10 million in annual sales. And
relocating to lower-cost regions within China may not help, she
said.  “Young inland workers are not like their parents,” said
Liu in an interview. “They want easier jobs in supermarkets or
restaurants.” And the surplus of farmers older than 40 don’t
want to work in factories or would need months of expensive
training, she said.  Life Expectancy  In Russia, the number of people aged 65 or more as a
proportion of those aged 20 to 64 -- known as the old-age
dependency ratio -- will rise to 45 percent by 2050, from about
20 percent in 2000, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a Dec. 12 report.  While that’s in line with the change forecast across OECD
economies, the causes are different, the report said. Russia has
a declining working-age population because both life expectancy
and birth rates are low, rather than because the number of
elderly people is increasing.  The country also suffered a brain drain during the 1990s
when the economy slumped and public funding stalled for many
research programs. There are more than 100,000 Russian-speaking
researchers working or studying outside Russia, Kommersant
reported in November, citing an estimate from the Russian-
Speaking Academic Science Association.  When fragments of a Meridian satellite rained down in
Siberia on Dec. 23 after its Soyuz rocket failed, Vladimir Popovkin, director of the Federal Space Agency, blamed it on a
workforce hollowed out by the exodus.  ‘In Crisis’  “The industry is in crisis,” Popovkin said, according to
state-run RIA Novosti. “We need to find a solution and to put
more trust in young people. There are basically no middle-aged
people.” Debris from Russia’s failed Mars probe, launched in
November, is expected to fall to earth this month.  Russia’s pension fund deficit will double in 2012 to 3
percent of GDP because of a net increase of about 500,000
retirees and tax cuts, Yury Voronin, a deputy health and social
development minister, said in October.  “Who will pay our pensions?” said Farida Kolyulina, 55, a
pensioner selling vacuum flasks outside Moscow’s Belorusskaya
metro station. “It’s a complete mess. I shouldn’t be working.”  BRIC funds recorded $15 billion of outflows in 2011 as the
 MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  trailed the  S&P 500  for five straight quarters,
EPFR Global data show.  Like the BRICs  Frontier markets “are now in the position that emerging-
market countries like the BRICs were 20 years ago,” said
Mobius, who oversees more than $40 billion as executive chairman
of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group in Hong Kong.  “In many cases frontier markets are now in their take-off
stage where self-sustaining development is taking place as a
result of high consumer spending,” said Mobius in an e-mail.  Templeton is finding “bargains” in Nigeria, Saudi Arabia,
Egypt, Kazakhstan, Qatar, Ukraine and Argentina, Mobius said.
His focus is on consumer stocks, including banks, automakers,
retailers and telecommunications; and producers of oil, iron
ore, aluminum, copper, nickel and platinum.  Templeton Frontier Markets Fund’s top holdings are
Kazakhstan’s  KazMunaiGas Exploration Production (RDGZ) ,  Commercial Bank
of Qatar (CBQK)  as well as Zenith Bank. Since 2009 the S&P Civets 60
Price Return Index, a measure of stocks from Colombia,
Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and  South Africa , has risen 78
percent while the MSCI BRIC Index gained 52 percent.  African Boom  Five of the 20 projected fastest-growing countries last
year were in Africa, including Ghana at 13.5 percent; Eritrea at
8.2 percent; Ethiopia at 7.5 percent; and Mozambique at 7.2
percent, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  O’Neill said non-BRICs emerging markets need to improve
performance in economic policy, education and technology to
sustain their strong growth.  The Goldman Sachs N-11 Equity Fund has lost 10.7 percent
since inception on Feb. 28 while the Goldman Sachs BRIC Fund
lost 24.3 percent. The  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 5.3
percent in the same period.  Even as the BRICs slow, they may still outpace the
developed world over the coming decades, enabling their share of
global GDP to rise to almost 40 percent by 2050, Goldman
estimates.  O’Neill’s book “The Growth Map,” published last month,
says the group still has “rosy prospects.” He estimates that
even with slower growth, the BRICs economies will collectively
be bigger than the U.S. by 2015.  Degree of Influence  “In terms of growth rates, other countries will perhaps
grow at a similar fast rate as the BRICs, some more,” said
O’Neill. “But they won’t have the same degree of influence on
the world economy.”  BRICs can soften the impact of aging by liberalizing
financial markets and services, raising retirement ages, and
boosting productivity, said Eberstadt.  “The BRICs have significant scope to offset the
intensifying demographic drag,” said Markus Jaeger, an
economist with Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . They can increase
output via urbanization and greater labor force participation or
by moving up the technological ladder, he said.  Five of the world’s 10 biggest economies -- Japan, Germany,
France, Italy and Canada -- have elderly dependency ratios that
are among the highest in the world, boosting their own health-
care and pension claims.  Pension Bill  The growth of Brazil’s working-age population contributed
44 percent of its economic gain in the decade to 2010, according
to Amlan Roy, head of global demographics and pension research
at Credit Suisse AG in London.  That group’s growth is projected to fall to 11.3 percent
this decade and 2.7 percent in the 2020s from 16.3 percent in
the last decade, according to the UN. Brazilians aged 65 or
older will more than double by 2030 to 30.1 million.  Age-related spending in Latin America’s biggest economy
will surge to 17 percent of GDP by 2030 from 13.6 percent in
2010 and to almost 26 percent by 2050, according to estimates by
rating company  Standard & Poor’s .  The ballooning cost of paying retirees has made legislation
to limit the share of public service pensions a top priority for
President Dilma Rousseff’s government. Social Security minister
Garibaldi Alves says the nation’s pension deficit is rising at
10 percent a year in a country where civil servants account for
almost 20 percent of all jobs.  The demographic standout among the BRICs is India. Its
working-age population will rise 117 million by 2020 and 98
million more the following decade, according to UN data.  Literacy Hurdle  That may still not be enough for the South Asian nation to
emulate the industrial development that transformed China into
the world’s second biggest economy. Fewer than half of Indians
in their 20s completed secondary education and 37 percent of
adults are illiterate, according to Jackson at CSIS.  For Vinod Sharma, who runs Deki Electronics Ltd. in Noida,
on the outskirts of New Delhi, the growing ranks available for
work are of little help.  “We are demographically well placed but scratch the
surface and you will find 100 million people looking for a
job,” said Sharma, who employs about 500 people to make parts
for TVs and fluorescent lights. “You have the numbers but not
the right skills. I simply can’t find trained people.”  Sharma said government training programs aren’t geared to
new industries and his company has to hire unskilled staff and
teach them in-house to solder components and wind capacitors.  Shop Floor  “It takes about six months for people our company hires
to hit the shop floor,” he said. “A guy who learns to wind a
capacitor becomes reasonably good only after three years.”  For China, the demographic shift is happening faster
because of the one-child policy.  “Unless China prepares, a retirement crisis of immense
proportions looms just over the horizon in the 2020s,” said
Jackson. “On the current course, tens of millions of Chinese
are on track to reach old age without pensions, without health
care, and without family support networks.”  The World Bank said a 2005 report that China’s unfunded
pension liabilities may be as high as $1.6 trillion. A
subsequent lack of action and rising life expectancy mean that
liability is “going to be larger now,” said Wang of Brookings.  “Our generation is getting old, but the biggest problem
has yet to come,” said Zhao Meidi, 69, as she walked her
grandson home from music school in one of Shanghai’s last
undeveloped neighborhoods. “Look at the generation born after
the establishment of the People’s Republic. Who will take care
of them?”  --Kevin Hamlin. With assistance from Unni Krishnan in New
Delhi, Scott Rose in Moscow, Alfred Cang in Shanghai and Maria
Rabello in Brasilia. Editors: Adam Majendie, Anne Swardson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  