-- Gold Climbs to One-Week High as Iran Makes Nuclear Rod
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-01-03T10:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/gold-jumps-by-3-2-to-1-613-40-an-ounce-on-first-day-of-trade-in-2012.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous intraday gold price in
second paragraph in story published Jan. 2. Story reflects
closing price throughout.)  Gold climbed to the highest level in
a week in thin holiday trading on reports that  Iran  produced its
first nuclear fuel rod, spurring investors to buy the precious
metal as a haven.  Bullion for immediate delivery closed at $1,566.27 an
ounce, the highest closing level since Dec. 27. Silver for cash
delivery was little changed at $27.8625 an ounce.  A domestically made rod was inserted into the core of
Tehran’s atomic research reactor after performance tests, the
Iranian Students News Agency reported today, citing the
country’s atomic energy agency. The Tehran reactor produces
radioisotopes for cancer treatment, according to Mehr news
agency. Nuclear fuel rods contain pellets of enriched uranium
that provide fuel for nuclear  power plants .  “Iran’s nuclear plans have raised fears that it is getting
desperate and will take some drastic step,” Gnanasekar Thiagarajan, a director at Commtrendz Risk Management Services
Pvt., said by phone from Mumbai. “More sanctions are expected
from the U.S. and other nations. This will have a positive
impact on  gold prices  as ideally people would try to buy gold.”  The U.S. and allies are increasing pressure on Iran to halt
what they say may be a covert nuclear weapons program. Sanctions
signed into law by President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 aim to
deter dealings with the Iranian central bank, and the European
Union is considering a ban on imports of oil from Iran, the
world’s third-largest oil exporter. Iran denies seeking to
develop atomic weapons.  Reserves Climb  Gold reserves increased in November at Belarus, Turkey,
Tajikistan, Macedonia, Mauritius and Morocco, and declined in
Mexico, according to data on the  International Monetary Fund ’s
website. Turkey’s holdings increased to 5.758 million ounces
from 4.429 million ounces and  Mexico ’s declined to 3.413 million
ounces from 3.417 million ounces in October, the data showed.
Morocco’s holdings were 710,000 ounces in November compared with
708,800 ounces in October, according to the data.  Gold gained 10 percent in 2011, rallying for an 11th year,
as investors bought gold to protect their wealth from market
volatility due to the Euro zone debt crisis.  “The outlook for 2012 for gold and silver is not very
bullish and rallies should be sold,” said  Kunal Shah , head of
commodity research at Mumbai-based brokerage Nirmal Bang
Commodities  Pvt. “The strength in the dollar, slack demand
from India and  China  are seen negative for gold prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  