-- Time Warner Cable-MSG Programming Fee Fight Knocks Knicks, Devils Off Air
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/time-warner-cable-msg-programming-fee-fight-knocks-knicks-devils-off-air.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  subscribers
won’t see today’s  New York Knicks  basketball and  New Jersey 
Devils hockey games on  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ’s networks, a
result of the programming-fee standoff between the companies.  Time Warner Cable’s 2.8 million MSG subscribers lost access
to the channels after an agreement lapsed at 12 a.m. yesterday.
MSG and Time Warner Cable are fighting over the rates the
network is paid for allowing broadcast of its content.  The cable company told subscribers in a broadcast message
yesterday that they could still watch some of the hometown
teams’ games on other channels, while MSG Media President  Mike Bair  said that would be small consolation.  “Sports fans are passionate about their teams,” Bair said
yesterday by e-mail. “They do not want some of the games, they
want all of the games. They want comprehensive pre- and post-
game shows and they want to watch MSG’s award-winning coverage
of the Knicks and our other teams.”  The haggling over prices underscores the tension in the
pay-TV industry over the cost of sports shows. If the dispute
continues through this month, 15 of 17 Knicks games and 9 of 12
 New York  Rangers hockey contests will be affected, according to
MSG.  Programs scheduled on the MSG or MSG Plus channels today
include a game between the Knicks and Toronto Raptors at Madison
Square Garden in New York and the Devils’ match with the Ottawa
Senators, their  website  shows. Fans would miss a New York
Islanders hockey game tomorrow and a Knicks-Charlotte Bobcats
contest on Jan. 4.  ‘Refused to Negotiate’  “We had a deal within reach earlier this year” offering a
6.5 percent rise in prices to MSG, Mike Angus, a Time Warner
Cable senior vice president, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “MSG reneged on the deal and instead, demanded a
whopping 53% increase and refused to negotiate further.”  Bair called Time Warner Cable’s claim that his company is
seeking a 53 percent price increase a “gross
mischaracterization.”  No progress in the negotiations was expected on New Year’s
Day,  Alex Dudley , a spokesman at New York-based Time Warner
Cable, said yesterday in an e-mail.  MSG has urged the company’s customers to switch to  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS or DirecTV to get access to its
networks.  MSG Co. is controlled by New York’s Dolan family, which
also holds majority voting stakes in AMC Networks Inc., another
cable programmer, and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  MSG Co. also
owns the Madison Square Garden arena and Radio City Music Hall.  Cable Rates  Cable and satellite-TV operators pay more than $4.50 a
month per subscriber for MSG and MSG Plus, according to
researcher SNL Kagan. Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN, the most expensive
cable network, charged an average of $4.69 a month in 2011 and
will fetch $5.06 in 2012, Kagan said.  MSG’s rates have increased more than 70 percent over the
past five years, according to Kagan. Time Warner Cable was
willing to pay 6 percent more in 2012, according to Melinda Witmer, an executive vice president, who said MSG sought
“dollars more” than any other sports network.  Time Warner Cable is betting few customers will cancel
after losing Knicks and regional NHL games. The company said it
would provide replacement programming, without being more
specific.  Many Manhattan residents are unable to get satellite TV
because tall buildings obstruct signals, and not all buildings
are wired for FiOS or RCN Corp., a smaller cable provider that
serves certain areas of  New York City , according to  David Joyce ,
an analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak & Co.  8 Million Subscribers  Counting other pay-TV systems, MSG network and MSG Plus
have about 8 million subscribers, primarily in New York, New
Jersey and  Connecticut , according to a regulatory filing. MSG
Co. also owns Fuse, which was a factor in the negotiations.
Time Warner Cable dropped Fuse last month.  Heads of pay-TV services, including Time Warner Cable’s
Glenn Britt,  DirecTV (DTV) ’s  Michael White  and Dish Network Corp.
Chairman  Charlie Ergen  have all lamented the role of sports in
rising cable bills.  Time Warner Cable CEO Britt told the Wall Street Journal
last month that sports networks should be sold separately from
basic cable to lower bills for customers who don’t care about
athletics. MSG and MSG Plus are part of the expanded basic
package on Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable
service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  