-- Manufacturing Gains in China, India Show Asia Resilient to Europe Crisis
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-03T01:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/india-manufacturing-grows-at-fastest-pace-in-six-months-as-orders-rebound.html
Manufacturing in India and  China 
improved in December, a sign the world’s fastest-growing major
economies are withstanding  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index in India rose to 54.2, the
most in six months, from 51 in November, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. In
China, the index was at 50.3 from 49 in November, the Beijing-
based logistics federation said in a statement on Jan. 1. A
number above 50 indicates expansion.  In another positive sign, a Chinese index for non-
manufacturing industries rose today. Europe’s crisis may still
cap demand for goods from  Asia  with an index for Chinese export
orders indicating a third month of contraction in December.
 India ’s economic growth will be constrained by higher borrowing
costs and global economic weakness, HSBC and Markit said.  “Asian economies are holding up as of now despite the
turmoil in overseas markets,” said  Madan Sabnavis , chief
economist at Mumbai-based Credit Analysis & Research Ltd.
“Europe’s debt woes though will keep demand for Asian goods
subdued in the coming months.”  A Chinese non-manufacturing PMI jumped to 56 in December
from 49.7 in November, the logistics federation and statistics
bureau said today.  Optimism in Asia  Asian stocks rose on optimism the region’s economies will
withstand Europe’s crisis. The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan
Index gained 1.3 percent as of 9:33 a.m. in  Hong Kong .  In the euro area, where leaders return to work this week
seeking to rescue the single currency from fragmentation, a
contraction in the manufacturing sector eased from November as
an indicator of output in  Germany , the region’s largest economy,
reached a two-month high.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region rose to 46.9 from 46.4 in
November, London-based Markit Economics said yesterday.  In China, the “festival effects” of western and Chinese
New Year celebrations helped to boost the manufacturing PMI,
said the logistics federation, which releases the data with the
statistics bureau. China has also unwound some tightening
measures to spur growth, cutting banks’ reserve requirements in
November for the first time since 2008.  Chinese Stocks  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 22 percent last year,
the most since 2008, on concern that monetary tightening and
efforts to rein in property prices in big cities will limit
growth. The index’s 33 percent drop since 2009 makes it the
worst performer among the world’s 15 biggest markets.  In the Chinese manufacturing PMI, an index of export orders
was at 48.6 from 45.6 in November, still below 50, the dividing
line between contraction and expansion. A measure of output
jumped to 53.4 from 50.9.  A Chinese manufacturing index released by HSBC and Markit
on Dec. 30 indicated that manufacturing contracted for a second
month. At the same time, HSBC said that “the pace of China’s
slowdown is starting to stabilize.”  India’s “manufacturing activity rebounded on the back of
increases in output and new orders,” Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-
based economist at HSBC, said in the statement yesterday.
“Inflationary pressures remain firm leaving no room for the RBI
to ease its tight monetary policy stance in the near term.”  In India’s PMI data, measures of output, employment,
orders, and export orders all rose, HSBC said.  India’s central bank on Dec. 16 kept rates unchanged for
the first time in eight meetings after the economy expanded in
the three months through September at the weakest pace in more
than two years.  Car Sales  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  may cut its
annual domestic passenger-car sales target as higher rates and
fuel prices sap demand for Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. and Honda
Motor Co. vehicles, Sugato Sen, a senior director for the group,
said last month.  The  Reserve Bank  of India’s repurchase rate is 8.5 percent
after 13 increases since mid-March 2010. The next policy
decision is scheduled to be announced on Jan. 24.  India’s central bank may reverse its rate increases to
boost growth as inflation is showing signs of easing, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported citing Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao . The central bank’s approach to managing inflation and
growth will be different in 2012, the  BBC  quoted Subbarao in an
interview posted on its website yesterday.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation slowed to a
one-year low of 9.11 percent in November from 9.73 percent in
October.  India’s inflation readings in December were “not
encouraging,” according to the statement from HSBC and Markit.
Input price increases remained “well above historical levels”
and the index of output prices rose to 56.2 from 55.4 in
November, the statement showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  