-- Indonesian Inflation Slows, Giving Central Bank Room to Cut Interest Rates
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-01-02T05:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/indonesian-inflation-slows-giving-central-bank-room-to-cut-interest-rates.html
Indonesia ’s  inflation (IDCPIY)  slowed for a
fourth straight month in December to the lowest level since
March 2010, an easing that may give the central bank scope to
cut  interest rates  further.  Consumer prices (IDCPIY)  rose 3.79 percent from a year earlier in
December, the Central Bureau of Statistics said in Jakarta today.
That compares with the 3.86 percent median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inflation was 4.15
percent in November.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board left
the nation’s benchmark interest rate at 6 percent last month
after cuts in October and November, joining  New Zealand  and
 South Korea  in holding borrowing costs as  Europe ’s growth
prospects deteriorated. Price pressures are easing in the Asia-
Pacific region as demand for exports slows.  “December’s inflation figure is better than our
expectation,” said a, senior economist at PT Bank Mandiri in
Jakarta. “We think inflation this year may accelerate to 5.5
percent. The government’s plan to limit subsidized-fuel
consumption and to raise electricity tariffs may give pressure.
With this condition, the chance for the central bank to cut the
benchmark rate decreases. We think it will maintain the rate at
6 percent.”  The central bank last month predicted inflation may
accelerate to as much as 5 percent in 2012.  Stocks, Currency Decline  The rupiah fell 0.6 percent to 9,125 per dollar at 12:21
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency slid 0.6 percent last year. The
 Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  declined 0.3 percent to 3,810.31 at the
noon break, falling for the first time in three days.  Indonesia regained on Dec. 15 an investment-grade rating
for its sovereign debt at  Fitch Ratings , as Southeast Asia’s
largest economy withstands faltering global growth. The fourth-
most populous country lost its investment-grade rating during
the Asian financial crisis in December 1997.  Consumer prices climbed 0.57 percent in December from the
previous month, today’s report showed.  Core inflation  slowed to
4.34 percent in December on a year-on-year basis, compared with
4.44 percent previously reported for November.  Exports (IDEXPY)  rose 8.3 percent in November from a year earlier,
the statistics department said. That compares with the 16.7
percent pace reported for October. Imports rose 18.4 percent,
compared with 29.1 percent in October.  The central bank’s next scheduled policy meeting is Jan. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  