-- Iowa Caucuses End Candidacies Instead of Predicting Nominees
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/iowans-confer-stature-without-points-in-republican-presidential-nomination.html
Iowa (BEESIA)  Republicans will get the first
crack at selecting a presidential nominee tonight by casting
votes in a caucus process that’s become best known for ending or
fueling candidacies rather than predicting the nominee.  Based on past patterns, a fraction of  Iowa (NFSEIA)  Republicans will
attend the 1,774 caucus meetings held at 809 locations --
schools, community centers, churches and other public venues --
at 7 p.m. central time.  Each presidential campaign may have one surrogate speak for
as long as five minutes. Attendees cast their votes usually by
writing the candidate’s name on a piece of paper that they
deposit in envelopes or boxes. The vote counting is public and
may be observed by representatives of the presidential
campaigns.  Caucus officials transmit the results to state party
headquarters in Des Moines, where the standings are announced.
The first-place finisher won’t be awarded official delegates
because the caucus votes aren’t binding. The real prize is
momentum going into the Jan. 10  New Hampshire  primary.  “It’s a big statewide straw poll,” Rhodes Cook, a
political analyst and the editor of The Rhodes Cook Letter, said
in an interview. “You need to win, place or show, that’s the
tradition.”  Last Primary 1916  Iowa (STPIIA)  has always used a caucus and convention system to
select presidential delegates to national conventions, with the
exception of 1916 when it held a presidential primary. No major
candidate entered that primary, turnout wasn’t strong, and the
presidential primary was scrapped in 1917.  Advantages of the caucus system include saving the state
the expense of running a presidential primary and promoting
grassroots party building at what are essentially neighborhood
meetings.  A downside to the system is that it caters to the most
zealous political activists and draws a much lower voter turnout
than primary elections. Caucuses require a time commitment of
several hours on a weeknight.  The caucuses are open to registered party voters who will
be at least 18 years old by the November general election.
Democrats and independents are allowed to crossover to
participate in the caucuses. They would have to change their
registration to Republican, which is allowed on the day of the
event.  There were about 614,000 active registered Republicans in
 Iowa  as of Dec. 1, according to the Iowa Secretary of State’s
office.  Participation Levels Low  In a good year, about a fifth of them participate. In 2008,
the party had a record turnout of 119,000 -- about 21 percent of
the active registered Republicans at that time.  The Democrats also saw strong participation four years ago,
when then-Senator  Barack Obama  worked to expand participation by
motivating young voters. About 240,000 Democrats wound up
attending the 2008 caucuses, according to a Democratic National
Committee memo.  Dennis J. Goldford, a political scientist at Drake
University in Des Moines, said he would consider a Republican
turnout of 125,000 to be a “substantial increase over 2008”
and that he “can’t imagine” it would approach the 2008
Democratic turnout.  Close Race  This year’s Republican contest may draw even more voters,
in part because the race is close and there aren’t competitive
Democratic caucuses vying for attention since Obama is
uncontested.  “We are set up to have a strong turnout, and people do
need to remember, in the Iowa caucuses, as an independent or a
Democrat, you can register as a Republican that night and
participate,” Matt Strawn, the chairman of the  Republican Party 
of Iowa, said Jan. 1 on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Iowa’s primacy in the presidential selection process dates
to the 1972 campaign, when Democratic officials revised the
caucus schedule and set the first round for late January, before
the New Hampshire primary.  George McGovern’s better-than-expected showing in that
year’s caucuses presaged his rise to the Democratic presidential
nomination.  Jimmy Carter  campaigned more extensively in Iowa
ahead of the 1976 caucuses, in which he outperformed all other
candidates en route to winning the presidency.  “It was Carter who first recognized that time spent in
retail politicking in the state might propel him ultimately to
the nomination and successfully implemented that strategy,”
Christopher C. Hull wrote in his 2008 book, “Grassroots Rules:
How the Iowa Caucus Helps Elect American Presidents.”  Retail Politics  The key, Carter found, has been to spend time courting the
most devoted party activists in living rooms, nursing homes and
veterans’ halls. White House contenders since Carter have tried
to replicate his success by making repeated trips to Iowa,
seeking a boost in a state where the national media view caucus
performance as a test of candidates’ organizational strength.  George H.W. Bush  upset  Ronald Reagan  to win the 1980
Republican caucuses, though Reagan recovered to win the New
Hampshire primary and went on to win the nomination and the
presidency. In 1988, Republican Senator  Bob Dole  and Democratic
Representative  Richard Gephardt  won the caucuses, though they
faltered in New Hampshire and weren’t nominated.  Some candidates who fared poorly in Iowa despite frequent
personal visits include Howard Baker and John Connally in the
1980 Republican caucuses, Alan Cranston and Reubin Askew in the
1984 Democratic caucuses and Phil Gramm in the 1996 Republican
caucuses.  Romney Wounded  The 2008 Republican caucuses wounded the candidacy of
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who spent heavily and
lost to former Arkansas governor  Mike Huckabee .  Arizona Senator  John McCain , who won the Republican
nomination, eschewed an active campaign in Iowa and finished
fourth there. He was the second candidate since 1972 to finish
lower than third in the Iowa caucuses and win the presidential
nomination.  In this year’s race, a poor caucus showing might be harmful
to the two leaders in the closing polls: Romney and
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas . For former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania , Representative  Michele Bachmann  of
 Minnesota  and Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a finish in the top
three may be transformative. And for former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , who has bounced up and down in surveys of voters,
the caucuses may be defining.  Managing Expectations  Romney is running a less expensive campaign in Iowa than he
did four years ago, and until recently his campaign sought to
tamp down expectations for his showing. As polls have shown him
at or near the top, though, he has accelerated his bid to win
the vote.  Perry, Santorum and Bachmann are trying to exceed
expectations by winning Iowa’s large bloc of evangelical voters.  A depressed turnout caused by bad weather or other factors
may favor Paul, who’s built what Iowa Republicans such as former
state party director Craig Robinson consider the best
organization among the candidates. For the  Des Moines  area, the
forecast calls for temperatures in the mid-30s, with no chance
of precipitation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  