-- Iran Makes First Nuclear Fuel Rod
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-01-02T11:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/iran-makes-first-nuclear-fuel-rod-as-it-offers-to-restart-talks.html
Iran  produced its first nuclear fuel
rod, state-run news agencies reported, as the country offered to
restart international talks over its atomic program.  The domestically made rod was inserted into the core of
Tehran’s atomic research reactor after performance tests, the
 Iranian Students News Agency  reported, citing the country’s
atomic energy agency. The Tehran reactor produces radioisotopes
for cancer treatment, according to  Mehr  news agency. Nuclear
fuel rods contain pellets of enriched uranium that provide fuel
for nuclear  power plants .  The U.S. and allies are increasing pressure on Iran to halt
what they say may be a covert nuclear weapons program. Sanctions
signed into law by President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 aim to
deter dealings with the Iranian central bank. The European
Union, which is considering a ban on imports of oil from Iran,
will be ready by Jan. 30 to take a decision on extending
sanctions,  Michael Mann , a spokesman for the EU, said today in
an e-mailed statement. Iran, the world’s third-largest oil
exporter, denies seeking to develop atomic weapons.  “If Iran has indeed produced its first nuclear fuel rod
using its own domestic capabilities that would represent
progress in its program, as just last year there was significant
doubt they had that ability,” Meir Javedanfar, lecturer on
Iranian politics at the Herzliya Interdisciplinary Center in
 Israel , said in a phone interview. “It is possible though that
this is part of the psychological warfare launched by Iran
against what they see as the tough economic sanctions being
placed against it by the U.S.”  New Talks  The country’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , plans
to send a letter to European Union foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton , which may be followed by a new round of talks,
Mehr reported on Dec. 31, citing Iran’s ambassador to  Germany ,
Alireza Sheikh Attar.  Mann said on Dec. 31 that Ashton hadn’t received a response
to a letter sent to Jalili in October. The EU continues to
pursue a “twin-track approach” and is “open for meaningful
discussions on confidence-building measures, without
preconditions from the Iranian side,” Mann said Dec. 31.  Iran began 10 days of naval exercises on Dec. 24 in the
Strait of Hormuz, a waterway that carried 17 million barrels of
oil a day last year, or a third of the world’s seaborne oil
trade according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Naval Exercises  The navy test-fired its long-range Qader surface-to-sea
missile for the first time during the military drills, the
Islamic Republic  News Agency  reported today, citing the deputy
commander of the navy, Mahmoud Mousavi. The country’s navy plans
to test-fire two other missiles today, he said.  Crude futures surged to a three-week high of $101.77 a
barrel on Dec. 27 after the  Islamic Republic News Agency  cited
Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi as saying the country would
bar shipments through the strait if sanctions are imposed on its
oil exports. They dropped to $98.83 a barrel on Dec. 30.  Iran produced 3.56 million barrels a day in November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , holder of
the world’s biggest crude reserves, has spare capacity to pump
an extra 2.45 million barrels a day and the remaining Gulf Arab
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can
provide about 200,000 more, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  