-- Israeli, Palestinian Envoys Meet in Jordan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-03T10:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/israeli-palestinian-envoys-meet-in-jordan.html
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators
meet in  Jordan  for the first time in more than a year today to
determine whether there is hope of reviving the Middle East
peace process.  The meeting in Amman between Israel’s Yitzhak Molcho and
the Palestinian representative,  Saeb Erakat , was put together by
members of the so-called Quartet, which comprises the U.S.,
 Russia , the European Union and the  United Nations . King Abdullah
of Jordan is pushing for a breakthrough, stepping into a role
played previously by  Egypt ’s former President Hosni Mubarak.  Working against the resumption of peace talks is a
rapprochement between Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party and the Islamic Hamas movement, which is
considered a terrorist organization by  Israel , the U.S. and the
EU. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he won’t
negotiate with a Palestinian government that includes Hamas.  “There is a lot of negative baggage between the two sides,
so I wouldn’t be very optimistic,” said Benadetta Berti, a
research fellow at  Tel Aviv  University’s Institute for National
Security Studies.  Abbas says he won’t return to peace talks, which broke down
in September 2010, unless Israel freezes all settlement
construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, a condition
Netanyahu rejects.  Hamas Opposition  Hamas condemned the Palestinian Authority’s willingness to
meet with Israeli officials in Jordan.  “These meetings are a repetition of a track that has
failed over the past years,” Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement to reporters in the  Gaza
Strip .  Hamas ousted forces loyal to Abbas’s Fatah faction from
Gaza in 2007 to gain full control of the Palestinian enclave
after winning parliamentary elections the year before. Hamas and
Fatah, which rules the West Bank, are holding reconciliation
talks in an effort to form a unity government ahead of
Palestinian elections.  Israel has said it won’t negotiate with the  Palestinian
Authority  if it includes Hamas, unless the Islamic movement
first renounces violence, recognizes Israel’s right to exist and
pledges to abide by prior agreements.  While the Israeli and Palestinian officials meet in Jordan,
the second Arab nation after Egypt to make peace with the Jewish
state, Gaza’s top Hamas leader, Ismail Haniyeh, has been on a
regional tour that includes Turkey and  Iran , Abu Zuhri said.  Limited Expectations  Erakat told reporters in Ramallah yesterday to limit their
expectations about the meeting with Molcho, saying it could not
be described as a formal negotiating session.  He urged Israel to “seize this opportunity to stop all
settlement construction, accept the two-state solution on the
1967 border, and release Palestinian prisoners” to provide the
right environment for “meaningful and credible talks.”  Peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians broke down
more than year ago after Netanyahu declined to renew a 10-month
freeze on building in  West Bank  settlements that Abbas says is
necessary before negotiations to resume.  In a bid to restart the peace talks, the Quartet has asked
Israel and the Palestinians to submit proposals for security
arrangements and the borders between Israel and a future
Palestinian state by Jan. 26. Israel said it would present such
proposals only in the context of actual negotiations, while the
Palestinians have given the Quartet their answers.  Reason for Optimism  Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Dan Meridor said he saw
reason for optimism in the fact that the Palestinians were
willing to show up today.  “This is the first time in a long time that the
Palestinians are prepared to speak with us directly,” Meridor
told  Army Radio  yesterday. “If they want to reach an agreement,
now is the time.”  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said that while his
government wouldn’t agree to any conditions to talks, that “did
not exclude the right of each side to make demands and propose
confidence-building measures.”  Such steps though should be discussed “in the negotiating
room at the table,” Barak told Army Radio yesterday.  In announcing the meeting, Jordanian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Muhammad Al-Kayed said Jan. 1 that  King Abdullah  led
an “intensive effort” to bring the two sides together,
including a visit to the Palestinian Authority’s West Bank
headquarters in Ramallah, and a meeting at his palace with
Israeli President Shimon Peres.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  