-- Jets’ Season Ends With Holmes on Sideline Afer Altercation With Teammates
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-02T06:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/jets-season-ends-with-holmes-on-sideline-afer-altercation-with-teammates.html
Santonio Holmes  spent the final
minutes of the  New York Jets ’ season-ending loss in Miami on the
bench after an incident in which teammates questioned his
motivation.  Holmes, a team captain who signed a new five-year, $50
million contract during the offseason, failed to catch a pass in
the Jets’ 19-17 loss to the Dolphins yesterday that eliminated
them from playoff contention. The Jets finished 8-8 after
reaching the conference championship the previous two years.  Holmes was taken out of the game after having a verbal
altercation with teammates in a huddle during the fourth quarter.
Afterwards, Jets running back LaDainian Tomlinson said players
balked at Holmes’s demeanor and body language.  “It’s tough for guys to follow a captain that kind of
behaves in that manner,” Tomlinson told reporters. “You got to
lead by example. You got to play your tail off until the last
play. And when that doesn’t happen, you will have guys look at
you in the way that captains shouldn’t be looked at.”  Tomlinson said Holmes’s body language suggested that he
wasn’t “really in the game” and was “feeling sorry” for
himself.  “What happened on the field is between us players, not for
anybody else to know about,” Holmes told reporters.  The Jets gave up 13 straight fourth-quarter points to fall
behind 19-10 before Patrick Turner, who came in for Holmes,
caught a touchdown pass with 1:15 remaining. The Jets failed to
recover the ensuing onsides kick and the Dolphins ran out the
remaining time on the clock to seal the victory.  “When you have a group of guys that’s fighting their butts
off and one guy, for whatever reason, their demeanor’s not with
them, you’re going to get some guys to say something to him and
tell them how they feel,” Tomlinson said. “That’s what you got
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  