-- Nigeria Army Sends Troops to Northern Areas to Battle Boko Haram Militants
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-03T10:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/nigeria-s-boko-haram-militants-give-christians-three-days-to-quit-north.html
Nigerian troops are increasing
patrols in the north to clamp down on Islamic militants who have
carried out bombings and told Christians to leave the region, an
army spokesman said.  The army has deployed two brigades to areas in and around
the states of Plateau and Borno, where the Boko Haram group has
carried out most of its attacks in recent months, army spokesman
Brigadier-General Ralph Isa said today by telephone from Abuja,
the capital.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  declared a state of emergency
in some northern regions of Africa’s top oil producer on Dec. 31
and set up a special counterterrorism unit within the armed
forces after attacks left at least 43 people dead and 73 wounded
in a Christmas day bombing of a church near Abuja. Isa said that
so far Christians were not reacting to Boko Haram’s ultimatum
yesterday to quit the region within three days.  “I have not seen anyone move away,” he said. “Patrols
are on and life goes on normally.”  Boko Haram, which means “Western education is a sin,”
says it’s fighting to establish sharia law. A Taliban-inspired
group, it has carried out a series of raids and bombings in the
north and Abuja. Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation of more
than 160 million people, is roughly split between a mainly
Muslim north and predominantly Christian south.  Nigerian Police Training  The group follows a spiritual leader, Imam Shekau, and has
an 18-member Shura, or council, according to Shehu Sani,
president of the  Civil Rights Congress , which is based in the
northern city of Kaduna.  “Citizens are afraid of cooperating with the government
out of fear that they will be targeted by the group,” he said
today by phone. “The Nigerian police have not, over the years,
been well trained or equipped in handling terrorism issues of
this kind due to the corruption in the service.”  Boko Haram, in an e-mailed statement yesterday, urged
Muslims to come to the north and told Christians to leave
northern  Nigeria  within three days.  Most Christians in northern Nigeria were born there and
have no place to go, Sani said today by phone.  “For any group to tell Christians in northern Nigeria to
move out is farce because you have indigenous northerners who
are Christians; where can they go to?” Sani said. “But the
fact remains the threat is credible and the group can launch
attacks in churches.”  At least 72 people have been killed in fighting since Dec.
22 between Nigerian security forces and the militant group in
the northeastern city of Damaturu, according to the government.  Boko Haram claimed responsibility for a suicide car-bomb
attack on the United Nations building in the capital on Aug. 26
that killed 25 people.  “The strategy by the group is simply to draw the larger
Muslim and Christian population into a civil war,” Sani said.
“These are people who are insisting they want an Islamic rule
in the whole of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  