-- Suspect in L.A. Fires Arrested on Arson Charges
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-01-02T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/los-angeles-police-arrest-man-suspected-of-setting-car-fires-in-arson-case.html
Los Angeles  investigators arrested a
man in connection with more than 50 fires reported in the past
four days and said they planned to file arson charges.  Police Chief Charlie Beck, interviewed by City News
Service, said, “I feel very good that we’ve got the right
guy.” The suspect “had the right stuff in his van, and we are
very confident we found our man.”  No new fires have been reported since the suspect was taken
into custody at about 3 a.m., Captain Jaime Moore, a Los Angeles
Fire Department spokesman, said at a briefing. The unidentified
man was driving a minivan that contained materials that could be
used to start fires, officials said.  A Joint Arson Task Force of the Los Angeles Fire and Police
departments, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s and Fire
departments and the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives is investigating the fires, many in vehicles,
which have occurred since Dec. 30. Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa said in a statement he was “encouraged” police
had the person of interest detained.  “Over the past few days we have been faced with an ongoing
series of arson fires committed by an individual with wanton
disregard for the lives and property of Angelenos,”
Villaraigosa said. “Thankfully, there have been no lives lost
to these criminal acts and only minor injuries to date.”  100 Clues  Moore said investigators were looking at about 100 clues in
the case, now believed to involve 53 incidents. The fires have
caused about $2 million in damages, Moore said.  The auto had Canadian license plates, while detectives
believed the man might originally be from  Germany , the Times
reported. He was believed to be the person captured on a video
that was  released  by police yesterday.  A U.S. immigration official helped police identify the man,
radio station KFI reported today. The man, a foreign national,
may have set fires out of anger after his mother was held for
deportation, the radio station said, citing law enforcement
sources it didn’t identify.  The alleged arsonist may have employed fire-starting cubes
that are often used with charcoal barbecues, the station said.
They are sold at drug and grocery stores.  Officials had attributed as many as 55 fires to the alleged
arsonist. At a noon press conference, they reduced the total to
53, saying two were unrelated. The fires were reported in the
Los Angeles area,  West Hollywood  and Burbank, according to Erik
Scott, another Fire Department spokesman.  “This frequency is unusual as well as the pattern,” Scott
said yesterday in an interview. “There are so many of them in a
short period of time. This is one of the largest sprees of arson
fires I have witnessed.”  Parked Cars  Officer Wendy Reyes, a police spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t confirm the person picked up was the white male with a
ponytail identified in a surveillance video. She also didn’t
have an estimate of damages.  “There are so many fires, it will take a while to sort
that out,” Reyes said today in a telephone interview.  Most of the fires were set in vehicles, many under parking
structures, according to Scott. As of yesterday, one firefighter
suffered non-life-threatening injuries. He was treated and
released from a hospital.  Officials were offering a $60,000 reward, consisting of
$25,000 from the city council, $10,000 from the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and $25,000 from the
county, Scott said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  