-- Oklahoma State Beats Stanford 41-38 in Overtime as Oregon Wins Rose Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-03T07:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/houston-beats-penn-state-in-ticketcity-bowl-as-keenum-throws-for-3-scores.html
Oklahoma State beat Stanford
University 41-38 in overtime at the Fiesta Bowl, sending
Cardinal quarterback Andrew Luck to a loss in his final college
football game.  Quinn Sharp’s 23-yard field goal gave Oklahoma State the
win at University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale,  Arizona , after
Stanford freshman kicker Jordan Williamson missed field goal
attempts at the end of the fourth quarter and in overtime.  Last night’s victory caps the most successful season in
school history for third-ranked Oklahoma State, which finishes
with a 12-1 record. No. 4 Stanford fell to 11-2. The Fiesta Bowl
matchup featured college football’s two highest-ranked teams
outside the Bowl Championship Series title game between No. 1
Louisiana State and No. 2  Alabama .  “These seniors have won 41 games in four years and
Oklahoma State football has come a long ways,” Oklahoma State
coach Mike Gundy said as he accepted the Fiesta Bowl trophy in a
televised ceremony. “The challenge will be for our
underclassmen to keep it at a high level.”  The  University of Oregon  outscored  Wisconsin  45-38 to earn
its second  Rose Bowl  win and first since 1917. It was the
highest-scoring game in the Rose Bowl’s 98-year history.  In the first of yesterday’s six bowl games, Case Keenum
passed for 532 yards and three touchdowns as the  University of
Houston  beat Pennsylvania State University 30-14 in the
 TicketCity Bowl . It was Penn State’s first bowl appearance since
1962 without  Joe Paterno  as coach.  Triple-Overtime Win  Michigan State  rallied to beat  Georgia  33-30 in triple
overtime at the  Outback Bowl ,  Florida  defeated  Ohio State  24-17
in the  Gator Bowl , and  South Carolina  beat  Nebraska  30-13 in the
 Capital One Bowl .  Oklahoma State won its first BCS bowl game as  Brandon
Weeden  threw three touchdown passes to Justin Blackmon to offset
the play of Stanford’s Luck. Blackmon, a junior and two-time
Biletnikoff winner as the nation’s top wide receiver, had eight
catches for 186 yards and said after the game he’ll enter the
2012 National Football League draft.  Luck, a two-time Heisman Trophy runner-up, is projected as
the top pick in this year’s NFL draft, and completed 27-of-31
passes for 347 yards and two touchdowns. He drove the Cardinal
into position for a potential winning field goal in the closing
minutes, though Williamson missed a 35-yard kick. Williamson
also missed a 43-yard field goal attempt to start overtime.  “At the end of the day we lost and I’m as much to blame as
the next guy,” said Luck, who talked about his jump to the NFL
in post-game interviews.  Oklahoma State’s Success  While Oklahoma State has been to nine bowl games in the
past 10 years, the Cowboys 23-3 record over the past two seasons
is their most successful stretch in school history. The program
has received a boost in more than $500 million in donations from
 T. Boone Pickens , the Texas oilman turned hedge fund investor
who said he had gotten tired of watching his alma mater’s
football team lose.  “We have a tremendous administration, we’ve got people who
are willing to pay the price and our coaches have been
unbelievable,” Gundy said.  At the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California ,  Darron Thomas 
threw three touchdown passes while De’Anthony Thomas and
 LaMichael James  combined to rush for 314 yards and three
touchdowns as the fifth-ranked Ducks topped No. 10 Wisconsin.  12-Win Season  Oregon , the  Pacific-12  Conference champion, finishes the
season with a 12-2 record, a year after losing to Auburn
University in the BCS national championship game. Wisconsin (11-
3) had a five-game winning streak snapped in losing the Rose
Bowl for the second straight season.  The teams combined for 1,129 total yards, with neither
leading by more than seven points.  Keenum, who led college football’s top level with 5,099
passing yards this season, threw for 380 in leading Houston to a
24-7 halftime lead against  Penn State .  Houston (13-1) won for the second time in its past 11 bowl
games, while the No. 22 Nittany Lions finish the season 9-4.  “The guys came out and they played hard,” Penn State
interim coach Tom Bradley said. “It’s been a difficult year for
them. It just didn’t go our way.”  Penn State played 36 bowl games from 1967 to 2009 under
Paterno, who was fired in November after 46 years over his
handling of child-abuse allegations against former assistant
coach Jerry Sandusky.  At the Outback Bowl in Tampa,  Florida , 17th-ranked Michigan
State forced overtime against  Georgia  when Le’Veon Bell rushed
for a one-yard touchdown with 19 seconds to play. After Dan
Conroy’s 28-yard field goal in the third overtime, the Spartans
blocked a 47-yard attempt by Georgia’s Blair Walsh to end a
five-game bowl losing streak.  Gamecocks Snap Streak  South Carolina  quarterback Connor Shaw threw for two
touchdowns and rushed for another as the Gamecocks shut out
 Nebraska  for the final three quarters of the Capital One Bowl.  The victory gave ninth-ranked South Carolina 11 wins for
the first time in school history and ended a run of three
straight bowl defeats. Nebraska, ranked 20th, finishes 9-4.  Florida (7-6) avoided its first losing season since 1979 by
beating Ohio State (6-7) at Everbank Field in Jacksonville,
Florida, behind a pair of special teams touchdowns. Ohio State
had its first losing season since 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  