-- Pakistan Inflation Slows to Two-Year Low, Easing Rate Pressure
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-01-02T13:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/pakistan-inflation-slows-to-two-year-low-easing-rate-pressure.html
Pakistan ’s inflation slowed in
December to the lowest level in 25 months, giving the central
bank scope to cut  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose 9.75 percent from a year earlier, the
 Bureau of Statistics  said in Islamabad today. That compares with
a 10.19 percent gain in November.  Emerging markets from  Indonesia  to  Thailand  have eased
monetary policy to support consumer demand as  Europe ’s debt
crisis threatens a global economic slump. Pakistan’s central
bank last month left rates unchanged, pausing to gauge the
impact of a 2 percentage-point cut since the end of July as
foreign investment declines.  “The easing inflation trend will give room for another
rate cut,” said Raza Jafri, an economist at AKD Securities Ltd.
in Karachi. “The central bank will still closely monitor
inflation pressures emanating from the rupee’s weakness.”  The Pakistan rupee weakened 5 percent to 89.95 against the
 U.S. dollar  in 2011, risking higher import costs. The Karachi
Stock Exchange 100 Index declined 5.6 percent last year.  Policy makers in Pakistan plan to boost economic growth
from 2.4 percent in the year ended June 30, one of the lowest
expansions in the past decade, as the country struggled to cope
with floods and militant attacks.  The growth rate may be 0.5 percentage point lower than the
government target of 4.2 percent for the current fiscal year, a
finance ministry official said Oct. 19, citing the impact of
floods in the country.  Floods in August forced more than one million people from
their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from the worst ever monsoon inundations in
2010. Terror attacks in the South Asian nation have killed at
least 35,000 people since 2006, according to government
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  