-- PDVSA to Settle Exxon Claim With $255 Million Cash Payment
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-01-02T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/pdvsa-says-it-must-pay-only-255-million-to-settle-exxon-claims.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA) , the state
 oil company , said it was given 60 days to pay  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
about $255 million in cash to settle an arbitration claim over
assets seized by  Hugo Chavez  in 2007.  The cash payment will settle a $907 million ruling by the
New York-based International Chamber of Commerce, adding to $191
million of Exxon debt that the Venezuelan company will cancel
and $300 million from frozen funds in a New York account, PDVSA
said on its website today. The ICC deducted $160 million in
counterclaims from the ruling provided the payment is made in 60
days, PDVSA said.  Exxon, the world’s largest oil company by market value,
originally sought to freeze $12 billion of PDVSA assets as
compensation for the nationalization of the Cerro Negro heavy-
crude project in the Orinoco belt. The freeze was overturned by
a U.K. court in March 2009, leading Exxon to reduce its
arbitration claim to $7 billion in 2010.  “The government of  Venezuela  has always indicated that it
is willing to compensate investors for decisions made in the
strategic interest of the country,” PDVSA said in a statement
today.  The ICC handed Exxon the ruling for a net $746.9 million
payment on Dec. 23, according to a copy of the document obtained
by Bloomberg News today.  First Expropriation  Exxon Mobil was the first international oil company to
abandon Venezuela after Chavez expropriated oil assets. The
World Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes, or ICSID, is also due to rule on the claim in a suit
filed against the Venezuelan government.  “This ICC arbitration award represents recovery on a
limited, contractual liability of PDVSA that was provided for in
the Cerro Negro project agreement,” Exxon spokesman Patrick McGinn said today in an e-mailed response to questions. “The
larger ICSID arbitration against the government of Venezuela is
ongoing and is expected to be argued in February.”  Chavez forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures as
minority partners in 2007 and is in international arbitration
with Exxon and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which rejected Venezuela’s
revised terms. The Cerro Negro venture refined tar-like crude
into synthetic oil from wells in the Orinoco belt.  “The amount awarded represents a huge success for PDVSA,
which has said all along that the amount claimed was grossly
exaggerated,” George Kahale, a lawyer who at New York-based
Curtis who represents PDVSA, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Remember that this is the case that began with
the $12 billion freezing order in  London .”  PDVSA set aside about $1 billion to $1.5 billion in
anticipation of the judgment, Credit Suisse said in June.  Exxon recognizes Venezuela’s legal right to expropriate
assets subject to compensation at fair market value, Exxon’s
McGinn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  