-- Petroplus French Refinery Halt May Mean Death of Normandy Site, Union Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-01-02T16:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/petroplus-french-refinery-halt-may-mean-death-of-normandy-site-union-says.html
Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN) ’s refining halt
at units in Normandy today may mark the plant’s end, a union
said, shrinking the crude-processing industry in  France  that may
have posted losses of 800 million euros ($1.04 billion) in 2011.  Europe’s largest independent refiner by capacity, unable to
buy adequate oil because of a credit freeze, will halt refining
at three of its five plants, including at Petit Couronne in
northern France, Antwerp and Cressier in  Belgium  and in
 Switzerland , it said in a statement Dec. 30. The sites have a
combined processing capacity of 337,300 barrels of crude a day.  “This is a hidden way to kill” the refinery, Yvon
Scornet, a representative of the CGT union at the plant near
Rouen, said today on France Info radio. “We have negative
margins, we aren’t making any money right now.”  The suspension is the fourth plant halt in France in two
years and reflects  Europe ’s declining refining profits. French
Industry Minister Eric Besson will meet on Jan. 4 with Petroplus
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Vettier about the future of
Petit Couronne and the company’s talks with lenders, a ministry
official said.  Petroplus, which is based in Zug, Switzerland and also has
refineries in  Germany  and the U.K., is struggling to secure
crude supplies for its five European refineries after lenders
froze uncommitted loans last week.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
company’s corporate credit rating last month, saying it may go
bankrupt if an agreement with banks isn’t reached.  The French refinery, with about 550 employees, has lost
money for the past three years and has an “uncertain” future,
unions for workers at the plant have said.  ‘Stabbed in the Back’  “It’s like being stabbed in the back,” Scornet said,
adding that units at the refinery will be gradually halted
starting today under a process that is expected to take about
one week and last for at least five.  With the French  unemployment rate  at 9.7 percent at the end
of September, the government has been pushing companies not to
cut jobs in France. Besson, who announced a “national action
plan” for the French crude-processing industry last year, has
yet to find a buyer for LyondellBasell Industries NV’s Berre
refinery in southern France after the company announced the
plant would be mothballed after its own efforts to find an
acquirer failed.  Losses at French refineries may reach 800 million euros in
2011 because of “abysmal” crude-processing margins, Jean-Louis Schilansky, the head of the oil companies’ association Union
Francaise des Industries Petrolieres. UFIP represents refiners
in France, including  Total SA (FP)  and Exxon Mobil Corp., said in an
interview on Nov. 30.  Tumbling Profit  French refiners lost 1 billion euros in 2009 when margins
averaged 15 euros a ton and “hundreds of millions of euros”
more in 2010, UFIP has said.  Profits from processing crude into fuels such as gasoline
and diesel in northwest Europe plunged to 51 cents a barrel in
November, compared with $1.52 in October, the  International
Energy Agency  said in a Dec. 13 report.  Lower profits from processing crude oil into fuels have
forced refiners to cut costs and shut plants across Europe. In
the last two years, LyondellBasell, Petroplus and Total have
decided to stop refining at their French plants in Berre,
Reichstett and Dunkirk on lower European demand.  After the closures, France will have nine working plants
compared with 24 in 1977. A permanent shutdown at Petit Couronne
would bring the number down to eight.  The CGT union, the largest among refinery workers, last
week called on the government to take over energy-related
industries. The union led a strike by refinery workers in 2010
that caused fuel shortages at the pumps after crude imports were
blocked and refineries halted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  