-- Poland Relaxes Copper Tax Proposal, Sticks to Revenue Target
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-01-02T16:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/poland-relaxes-copper-tax-proposal-sticks-to-revenue-target-1-.html
KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) ,  Poland ’s sole
copper and silver producer, may pay a lower tax than expected
after the Finance Ministry relaxed its plan for a new levy it
plans to impose this year for extracting the metals.  “The new proposal is more favorable for the company,”
Tomasz Krukowski, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Warsaw, said
by phone today. KGHM will pay about 450 million zloty ($130
million), or 20 percent, less in tax using the formula published
today on a government website than it would using the one
announced last month, according to Krukowski.  KGHM shares lost 34 percent through Dec. 30 after Prime
Minister Donald Tusk announced the plan in his policy speech on
Nov. 18. The benchmark WIG20 Index fell 6.5 percent in the same
period. Poland, which holds a 32 percent stake in KGHM, plans to
raise 1.8 billion zloty ($521 million) from the tax this year to
raise revenue for cutting the  budget deficit .  In an updated draft bill that took into account comments
from the company and other ministers, the  Finance Ministry  set
the maximum tax level at 20,000 zloty a ton, compared with
32,000 zloty a ton in the previous proposal.  While changing the formula, the ministry kept its target of
raising 1.8 billion zloty from the tax next year after it raised
its forecasts for the copper price, spokesman Wieslawa Drozdz
said in an e-mailed reply to questions from Bloomberg today. The
ministry, which plans to introduce the tax on March 1, estimates
that copper will trade at an average of 25,500 zloty a ton in
2012. It didn’t give the previous forecast.  ‘Disproportionate’ Formula  The zloty has weakened 4.4 percent against the dollar since
Tusk’s policy speech.  The Treasury Ministry, which supervises the company,
proposed lowering the old tax formula by calling it
“disproportionate” in comparison with global standards, it
said in a statement published on a government website earlier
today.  KGHM earlier said that the old formula bears
“substantial” risk of it “generating negative results” if
prices of the metal decline. Company spokesman Dariusz Wyborski
had no immediate comment when contacted by Bloomberg by phone
about the new formula.  “The impact of the new formula is definitely positive,”
 Leszek Iwaszko , an analyst at Societe Generale SA, said by phone
today. “What’s strange is that it’s relatively easier on the
company when the price of the metal is high, while there’s no
such material difference with the old formula at lower copper
levels. The logic should be the other way round.”  Copper closed at $7,600 a ton on Dec. 30 and the zloty was
at 3.4610 against the dollar at 2:55 p.m. today.  KGHM expanded gains, rising as much as 7.6 percent to 119
zloty at 5:09 p.m. in Warsaw, or most since Oct. 27.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maciej Martewicz at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net  