-- Trakcja-Tiltra of Poland to Book Profit on Eco-Wind Sale to CEZ
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-01-02T12:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/trakcja-tiltra-of-poland-to-book-profit-on-eco-wind-sale-to-cez.html
Trakcja-Tiltra SA (TRK) , Poland’s largest
publicly traded railway builder, will book a profit on the sale
of a stake in windfarm developer Eco-Wind Construction SA,
pushing the shares up the most in almost four years.  Warsaw-based Trakcja agreed to sell its 41 percent stake in
Eco-Wind to  CEZ AS (CEZ) , Chief Executive Officer Maciej Radziwill
said in an interview today. CEZ agreed to buy 67 percent in Eco-
Wind, with an option to buy the remainder, the Czech power
utility said on Dec. 30, without naming the sellers.  Trakcja, the second worst-performing construction company
on the Warsaw bourse last year, is selling assets after debts
rose following the acquisition of Tiltra Group. Its shares fell
83 percent in 2011, compared with a 55 percent decline of the
Warsaw WIGCON construction index, as rising competition squeezed
builders’ earnings.  Trakcja, which slumped to a record low in Warsaw last month
after banks canceled loans to two of its units, advanced as much
as 21 percent to 0.82 zloty at 12:19 p.m. today, rising the most
since April 1, 2008.  Trakcja will book profit in the fourth quarter, the CEO
said today, declining to give the value of the transaction
because it’s below the required disclosure level.  Polish companies are required to report transactions whose
value exceeds 10 percent of equity. Trakcja’s equity was at
755.2 million zloty ($218.7 million) at the end of the third
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Polish
construction company valued the Eco-Wind stake at 35.4 million
zloty in its 2010 annual report.  Eco-Wind, in which Trakcja’s biggest shareholder Comsa SA
of Barcelona,  Spain  also owns a stake, has 24 windfarm projects
in  Poland  with a total capacity of 889 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  