-- Rams Fire Coach Spagnuolo After Finishing Season 2-14, Fox Sports Reports
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-02T23:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/rams-fire-coach-spagnuolo-after-finishing-season-2-14-fox-sports-reports.html
Raheem Morris was fired as coach of
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  on the same day the St. Louis Rams
dismissed Steve Spagnuolo and Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay
removed his vice chairman and general manager.  Irsay ousted Bill Polian and his son Chris Polian after the
Colts ended the season with a 2-14 record, tied with the Rams
for the worst in the  National Football League .  “This season has been a tremendous disappointment,” Irsay
said in a  statement  on the team’s website today. “It was time
to make a change.”  The Colts will have first pick in this year’s NFL draft and
may opt for Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck , who is
projected by analysts to be the No. 1 overall pick.  Bill Polian joined the Colts in 1998 and Indianapolis took
 Peyton Manning  as the top pick in that year’s draft, the last
time Indianapolis had the first choice.  Manning has led the Colts to eight division titles, 11
playoff appearances and a  Super Bowl  win after the 2006 season.
The 35-year-old quarterback missed this season after undergoing
neck surgery.  Morris, 35, was fired after a 4-12 season during which the
Buccaneers lost their final 10 games and allowed an NFL-high 494
points. Morris was also the team’s defensive coordinator.  Morris had been hired in 2009 to replace Jon Gruden, who
was fired after seven seasons, three playoff appearances and a
Super Bowl championship. The Buccaneers were 3-13 in Morris’s
first season and improved to 10-6 in 2010, the greatest single-
season turnaround in franchise history.  Spagnuolo’s Record  Spagnuolo, 52, had a 10-38 record since joining St. Louis
in January 2009. The Rams haven’t had a winning season since
2003, when they went 12-4.  “No one individual is to blame for this disappointing
season and we all must hold ourselves accountable,” Rams owner
 Stan Kroenke  said in a statement. “However, we believe it’s in
the best interest of the  St. Louis Rams  to make these changes.”  Morris and Spagnuolo are the first coaches dismissed since
the NFL’s regular season ended yesterday. Three others -- Jack Del Rio of the Jacksonville Jaguars,  Tony Sparano  of the Miami
Dolphins and Todd Haley of the Kansas City Chiefs -- were
released during the season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  