-- Rupert Murdoch Takes to Twitter on Jobs Biography, U.S. Politics
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-02T18:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/rupert-murdoch-takes-to-twitter-on-jobs-biography-u-s-politics.html
Rupert Murdoch , the media tycoon once
portrayed as a skeptic of the Internet, started his own Twitter
Inc. account, sharing views on topics from a biography on  Steve Jobs  to U.S. politics and his New Year’s resolutions.  The News Corp. chairman and chief executive officer has
attracted more than 56,000 followers since  comments  appeared on
the microblogging website two days ago under the handle
rupertmurdoch.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K.
publishing unit, confirmed the authenticity of the account.
Twitter co-Founder Jack Dorsey and Zynga Inc. CEO Mark Pincus
are among people Murdoch is following.  The 80-year-old, holidaying on the Caribbean island of
Saint Barthelemy, wrote that a recently published biography on
Apple Inc.’s founder was “interesting but unfair,” while an
article in  News Corp (NWSA) .-owned Wall Street Journal on Republican
presidential hopeful  Ron Paul  showed the “huge appeal of
libertarian message.” Murdoch himself plans to “try to
maintain humility and always curiosity. And of course diet!”  Murdoch’s turn toward the Internet to express his opinions
follows an unsuccessful stint in the world of social networks,
which ended last year with the sale of Myspace for a fraction of
the price News Corp. paid in 2005. It also contrasts with the
personal antipathy to the Web portrayed by his biographer
Michael Wolff, who wrote in a 2009 Vanity Fair  article  that for
Murdoch the Internet is “predatory” and “a place for porn,
thievery, and hackers.”  Phone Hacking  News Corp. was rocked last year by revelations its News of
the World U.K. tabloid hacked into phones of celebrities and
politicians as well as a murdered schoolgirl. The scandal led to
the closure of the 168-year-old newspaper in July, at least 21
arrests, and thwarted News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12
billion) bid to buy all of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  Murdoch didn’t refer to the scandal in his postings.  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , last month received a $300
million investment from Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who
also owns a stake in News Corp. That investment would value
Twitter at more than $10 billion.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  