-- Samsung, Hyundai Brace for Weakness in ’12 Economy From Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-01-02T05:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/samsung-hyundai-brace-for-weakness-in-12-economy-from-europe-debt-crisis.html
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest companies, told employees to
brace for intense competition in a weak global economy as the
government called for contingency planning.  “South Korea’s economy is facing increased uncertainties
this year, and the global economy may rapidly deteriorate if the
European debt crisis worsens,” Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
said in a New Year statement released today. “Contingency plans
to prevent contagion from  Europe ’s crisis should be
strengthened.”  Exports from  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy may grow 6.7
percent in 2012 from 19.6 percent in 2011, according to
government forecasts. Security risks from a leadership change in
 North Korea  are adding to uncertainties for the South as
European leaders struggle to hold their monetary union together
in the face of credit downgrades and a looming recession.  “The global economy’s low-growth trend will continue and
uncertainty surrounding the business environment won’t be easily
removed,” Samsung Chairman Lee Kun Hee said, according to a
summary of a speech to employees today that was distributed by
the company. “We should make our corporate culture more open,
flexible and innovative.”  The maker of televisions, computer chips and mobile phones
and affiliated  Samsung Group  companies had combined sales in
2010 equivalent to one-fifth of South Korea’s gross domestic
product.  President’s Goals  President Lee Myung Bak today said he would focus in the
coming year on reducing inflation and bringing down unemployment
by investing over 10 trillion won ($8.6 billion) in creating
jobs. The government’s goal is to get inflation down
to the low 3-percent range, he said. Consumer prices rose 4.2
percent in December.  “The  auto industry  in 2012 is expected to show slow growth
and intense competition between companies,”  Chung Mong Koo ,
chairman of Hyundai and its affiliate,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , said
today in a New Year speech to workers in Seoul.  The carmakers will focus on improving quality and the image
of their brands as they seek to increase global sales by 6.1
percent this year to a combined 7 million vehicles.  “Compared to the last two years, the growth target is
conservative,” said Park In Woo, an analyst at LIG Investment &
Securities Co. “This may come from the grim economic outlook,
but more so, Hyundai is planning to take this year to focus on
internal management such as quality control.”  Production Disruptions  Demand for Hyundai’s Sonata sedan and Kia’s Sportage sports
utility vehicle helped the companies  boost (005380)  global sales in 2011
as Japanese rivals were hampered by a strong yen and suffered
from production disruptions after the March quake and record
flooding in  Thailand .  Hyundai shares fell 1.4 percent to 210,000 won at 1:36 p.m.
in  Seoul  while Kia declined 0.8 percent. Samsung rose 1.4
percent to 1,073,000 won and the benchmark Kospi index slipped
0.4 percent.  Samsung Electronics, the flagship unit of the Samsung
Group, had record net income of 16.2 trillion won ($14 billion)
in 2010. Profit may have fallen to fall to 13.8 trillion won in
2011, according to the average of 38  estimates (005930)  from analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Preliminary earnings from the company,
based in Suwon south of Seoul, will be released on Jan. 6.  “This year is a big uncertainty for Samsung,” Park Hyun,
a Seoul-based analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. said.
“Potential demand may be there, but whether it will materialize
totally depends on the macroeconomic situation.”  Finance Minister Bahk said that while the European debt
crisis may reach its peak in the first half of the year, the
global economy could rapidly deteriorate if the situation
worsens. The government will work to support households,
companies and financial markets, he said.  South Korea ’s economy may expand 3.7 percent in 2012, from
3.8 percent last year, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  