-- Sears Chief Says Retail Turnaround Means Melding Tech With Store Upgrades
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2012-01-03T13:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/sears-chief-says-retail-turnaround-means-melding-tech-with-store-upgrades.html
Lou D’Ambrosio, chief executive
officer of  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , said creatively combining
technology with spending on stores is the best way to turn
around the largest U.S. department store chain.  On Dec. 27, Sears announced it was closing as many as 120
locations after same-store sales slipped 5.2 percent in the
eight weeks ended Dec. 25. The shares plunged 27 percent on the
news, the biggest drop since April 29, 2003. Sears fell 3.4
percent in  New York  on Dec. 30 to $31.78.  A former Avaya Inc. and  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  executive who joined the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based
company in February, D’Ambrosio is drawing on his tech
background and telling managers to gather more information about
customers’ buying patterns and product preferences and to ramp
up Web operations.  “Everything starts with knowing what our customers want to
buy and how and then delivering that across platforms,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Sears technicians each year make 17 million visits to
customers’ homes and communicate even more frequently with
shoppers online and on the phone, according to D’Ambrosio.  As part of that effort, Sears has given store salespeople
more than 5,000  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads and 11,000 iPod touches to
track inventory and customer orders, he said.  Capital Starved  Sears named Ron Boire chief merchandising officer and
executive vice president today. Formerly president and CEO of
 Brookstone Inc. (BKST) , he will lead store formats for Sears and Kmart,
and will focus on integrating Web and mobile services, the
company said in a statement.  Chairman  Edward Lampert , who along with his  hedge funds 
owns 60 percent of Sears, has attempted multiple turnaround
strategies that have failed to reverse a slide in sales.
D’Ambrosio is the fourth CEO since Lampert merged Sears with
Kmart in 2005.  The company’s larger stores have been starved of  capital
investment  and customers have defected, according to  Gary Balter , an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  Sears is spending less than a quarter of the $8 a square
foot that retailers typically invest to maintain stores,
according to International Strategy & Investment Group. In an
August report, the New York-based company put Sears and Kmart at
the bottom of the list of a dozen retailers ranked by sales per
square foot and operating profitability.  ‘Iconic Brand’  “Sure we want to have stores that look nice so we’re
investing in fixtures, paint and new designs but store
appearance in itself isn’t enough,” D’Ambrosio said. “Borders
had great bathrooms but that didn’t help them because they
missed the e-book revolution in their industry.”  While Lampert sticks mostly to his base in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , D’Ambrosio is in close touch with managers down the
ranks and visited several Sears stores last month, he said.  “Eddie and I have aligned views about what it takes to
make this company great,” D’Ambrosio said. “We’re in touch
regularly.”  The  retailer’s (SHLD)  “assets are undervalued, which creates an
opportunity,” said D’Ambrosio, who recalls visiting Sears auto
centers with his father as a child. “Sears is an iconic brand.
It’s important to revitalize this company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  