-- Sunways Soars as China’s LDK Bids for German Solar Company
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-02T17:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/sunways-jumps-as-china-s-ldk-bids-for-german-solar-panel-maker.html
Sunways AG (SWW) , a German solar-cell and
module maker, jumped to a seven-week high in  Frankfurt  after
 China ’s  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  said it intends to buy the company.  Sunways rose 21 percent to 1.87 euros a share, the highest
price since Nov. 14, at the 5:30 p.m. close. The Konstanz-based
company said LDK Solar will acquire a 33 percent stake and offer
to purchase the remaining stock at 1.90 euros a share. Sunways
has a market value of 21.6 million euros
($27.9 million).  LDK, China’s second-largest panel maker, “will buy a
company with a well-known brand, decent technology and
established sales channels for little money,” Stefan Freudenreich, an analyst with Equinet Bank AG, said by phone
from Frankfurt. “Sunways has come under financial pressure and
it may have had no alternative than selling to LDK, with which
it has cooperated for years.”  Solar-energy companies in  Germany , the world’s biggest
market for the industry in 2010, have been struggling with
falling demand while competition from abroad has risen. Added
capacity at Chinese manufacturers has contributed to a prices
slump, tipping Germany’s  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , a project
developer, and panel maker  Solon SE (SOO1)  into insolvency in December.  Separate Identities  LDK, based in Xinyu, and  Sunways (SWW)  plan to complete the
transaction by the end of the first quarter and the German
manufacturer will remain a listed company under its own brand,
they said today in a separate statement. LDK said it’s
“convinced of the Sunways products and business model.”  The Chinese  company (LDK)  is unlikely to keep Sunways’ solar-cell
production plants in the long run amid global overcapacity,
though it may develop new cell technology in Germany and expand
the company’s solar inverters business, Freudenreich said. Solar
inverters are devices that connect electricity generated by
solar panels to the transmission grid.  “This is the first Chinese company grabbing German
inverter technology,” Freudenreich said. “With LDK’s help,
Sunways may be able to sell inverters in growing markets such as
China and the U.S.”  Robert Bosch GmbH  said on Dec. 21 that it bought Conergy
AG’s solar inverters unit, putting the Stuttgart, Germany-based
car-parts maker, the world’s biggest, into competition with
established suppliers including Germany’s  SMA Solar Technology
AG (S92)  and Power-One Inc. based in Camarillo,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  