-- Syrian Army Leaves Cities, Arab League Says
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-01-02T16:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/syrian-army-leaves-cities-arab-league-says.html
The Syrian government has withdrawn
its military from cities since the arrival of  Arab League 
monitors, though snipers remain a threat, said Nabil el-Arabi,
the bloc’s secretary-general.  “The accomplishments of the delegation include the
withdrawal of all military, such as tanks, from cities and
residential areas, as well as the access of food items to Syrian
populations and the retrieval of corpses,” el-Arabi said in
televised remarks from Cairo today. “Yes, there is still
gunfire, yes, there are still snipers, and we wish for all these
aspects to end.”  Seven people were killed today in the central province of
Homs, Idlib in northern Syria and the outskirts of Damascus,
Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said in a telephone interview today. An average of 35 people
have died every day since the mission started touring  Syria  last
week, said Merei and Mustafa Hamitoglu, a member of the main
opposition alliance, the Syrian National Council.  President Bashar al-Assad started pulling out his forces
from restive cities on Dec. 26 and demonstrations swelled as 50
observers from the Arab League started their inspections. The
Syrian government still keeps armored troops outside urban
areas, according to activists and opposition members.  ‘Better’ Situation  The 88-member Arab Parliament, set up by the Arab League,
yesterday urged the league to recall the observers because
Assad’s government continues to kill protesters. Mohammed Ahmed
Mustafa al-Dabi, who leads the delegation to Syria, will arrive
in Cairo by the end of this week to deliver the mission’s first
report, el-Arabi said today.  “The situation as a whole is better since the delegation’s
arrival,” Merei said. “We only hope for the killing to stop.”  More than 5,000 people have died since the unrest started
in mid-March, according to the  United Nations . Assad has blamed
the violence on foreign provocateurs and his forces have used
tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to crush the uprising.  Syria agreed Dec. 19 to let the Arab League monitor its
compliance with a protocol to withdraw security forces from
cities, release political prisoners and allow demonstrations. In
exchange, the bloc dropped plans to submit a proposal to the UN
Security Council.  ‘Trying to Win Time’  There are monitors in six cities and the delegation
succeeded in persuading authorities to release 3,484 prisoners,
el-Arabi said. More observers are expected in Cairo this week
before they are deployed to Syria, the Arab League said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The government isn’t doing justice to the protocol,”
Hamitoglu said today in a telephone interview from Istanbul.
“All its forces were supposed to be withdrawn from cities, yet
they’re still in surrounding areas. Tens of thousands of people
are still imprisoned for political reasons. And they were
supposed to allow protests. If all these happened, it would
speed up the regime’s downfall. Assad is aware of this and is
trying to win time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible f
Emre Peker at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net . 