-- U.S. Farmer Optimism Rises on Harvest, Profits, DTN Survey Shows
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-01-02T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/u-s-farmers-more-optimistic-after-record-harvest-profit-dtn-survey-shows.html
U.S. farmers are more optimistic
about their current and future economic situation than they were
in September after profitable harvests, according to a survey-
based index produced by  DTN/The Progressive Farmer .  Farmers rated their confidence in the agricultural economy
with an index score of 109.8, compared with 107.7 in September,
the agricultural news service said today in a  report . The
benchmark of 100 is based on sentiment in April 2010, when the
survey was inaugurated. Higher confidence may make farmers more
likely to boost purchases of  Monsanto Co. (MON)  seeds or  Agrium Inc. (AGU) 
fertilizers, said Greg Horstmeier, editor-in-chief of DTN, a
unit of Madrid-based Telvent GIT SA.  “Things are really good today,” Horstmeier said in a
telephone interview Dec. 30 from Omaha,  Nebraska . “Even if they
are not as good in the future, that’s still a pretty good
outlook.”  U.S. net-farm income will increase 28 percent this year to
a record  $100.9 billion  as livestock sales expand and exports
push crop prices higher, the Department of Agriculture said last
month. Trade also reached a record $137.4 billion in the year
that ended Sept. 30, the department said in a separate report.  Higher Livestock Prices  Cattle futures traded in  Chicago  rose 12 percent last year,
while hogs increased 5.7 percent. Average prices for corn, wheat
and soybeans were all at least 21 percent over the average of
the previous five years.  The DTN/Progressive Farmer survey also asked respondents
for their expectations about prosperity for 12 months from now
and their present situation in the farm economy. The
expectations number was 94.1, unchanged from September.
Attitudes toward the present rated 133.5, up from 128.3.  Lower expectations for the future are ingrained in farmer
thinking, said Pam Johnson, who raises 2,700 acres of corn and
soybeans about 30 miles (48 kilometers) east of Mason City,
 Iowa .  “A lot of us have history,” Johnson, who has farmed for
39 years, said in a telephone interview. “When we hear that the
farm economy is good, we know deep down in our souls that that
is transitory. Our business is cyclical. When it is good, we
plan for when the next foot falls.”  The year-end Agriculture Confidence Index was compiled
after surveying 500 farmers and ranchers in the last week of
November. The next survey will be in March, before the start of
planting season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth in Chicago at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 