-- Hungarian Opposition Holds Joint Anti-Government Protest Over Constitution
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-02T20:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/hungary-opposition-parties-plan-joint-anti-government-protest.html
Hungary ’s opposition groups held a
joint demonstration against the country’s new constitution,
which took effect yesterday amid European Union and United
States criticism that it curbs democracy.  About 100,000 people gathered today outside the Opera in
Budapest, the event’s organizers said. Premier  Viktor Orban , who
used his two-thirds parliamentary majority to pass the new
constitution as the culmination of his self-styled “ballot-box
revolution,” was attending a gala in the building to celebrate
the legislation.  Orban’s overhaul of the judiciary, electoral law and
independent institutions helps the premier fortify his power,
opposition groups said. The constitution marks the end of the
country’s transition to democracy from communism that started in
1990, Orban told  Magyar Nemzet  in a Dec. 24 interview.  “This is a full-court press against democracy,” Sandor
Szekely, a co-president of the Solidarity Movement, said by
phone today. “All checks and balances have been eliminated.”  Lawmakers in Orban’s Fidesz party last week approved a
central bank law that expands the rate-setting Monetary Council
while curbing the power of central bank President Andras Simor.
The  International Monetary Fund  and the EU broke off talks on a
bailout last month over the plan. Orban said he rejected
European Commission President  Jose Barroso ’s request to withdraw
the legislation.  Junk Debt Grade  Hungary received its second sovereign-credit downgrade to
junk in a month when Standard and Poor’s followed Moody’s
Investors Service in stripping the country of its investment
grade on Dec. 21.  The forint dropped 16 percent against the euro in the
second half of 2011, the worst performance among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 314.1 at 4:45 p.m.
in Budapest, nearing its record-weak 317.92, reached on Nov. 14.
The yield on Hungary’s 10-year government bonds rose to 10.11
percent today, the highest since June 24, 2009, according to
generic prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Orban shunned IMF aid after taking office in 2010 to
protect what he called “unorthodox” measures from oversight.
The steps included the effective nationalization of $13 billion
of private pension-fund assets and extraordinary industry taxes
to control the budget, which had a  deficit (HUGBCBAL)  of 182 percent of the
Cabinet’s full-year target at the end of November.  Hungary’s economy may grow at the slowest  rate (HUGPTOTL)  with the
highest public debt level this year among the EU’s eastern
members, according to the European Commission’s forecasts
published in November.  Orban’s Power  Orban has been reducing the power of independent
institutions and asserting his influence since winning elections
last year, bucking objections from the U.S. and the  United
Nations .  Ruling-party lawmakers ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the  Constitutional
Court , replaced an independent Fiscal Council with one dominated
by the premier’s allies, created a media regulator led by
ruling-party appointees and chose a party member to lead the
State Audit Office.  One judge, Tunde Hando, the wife of Jozsef Szajer, a
European Parliament member from Orban’s ruling Fidesz party,
will be responsible for naming all new judges, including
replacing scores who were forced into retirement last year.  ‘Regime Change’  “We have significant and well-founded concerns,” U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wrote in a Dec. 23 letter to
Orban, according to Nepszabadsag newspaper, which published the
letter in Hungarian on Dec. 30. She called on Orban to protect
individual liberties and checks and balances, Nepszabadsag said.  Foreign journalists are “right when describing what
happens in Hungary not just as simple governing, but a regime
change,” Orban said in the Magyar Nemzet interview.  “They say this in a disparaging way but I think this is a
compliment,” Orban said, according to the newspaper. “We
Hungarians have failed for over a hundred years to show western
 Europe  our own virtues.”  Orban’s office and the government spokesman’s office didn’t
reply to questions about the nature of regime change the premier
described.  Hungary risks losing its EU membership, obtained in 2004,
if the government doesn’t reverse course, Mark Palmer, the U.S.
ambassador to Budapest between 1986 and 1990, said in a
Nepszabadsag interview published today.  “Hungary’s ejection from the European Union is now no
longer unthinkable,” Palmer told the Budapest-based newspaper.
The country “won’t be tolerated if it no longer counts as a
democracy.”  Orban’s Fidesz still leads all parties with 18 percent
backing among eligible voters, even as its support plunged from
42 percent in May 2010 when it won the last election, pollster
Szonda Ipsos said on Dec. 14. The Socialists are second with 11
percent. Fifty-five percent said they’re “unsure or wouldn’t
vote.”  The poll was conducted between Dec. 5 and Dec. 12 and has a
2.5 percentage point margin of error. The next parliamentary
election is scheduled for 2014.  Today’s protest outside the Opera will be the first time
disparate opposition groups, including two parliamentary
parties, will demonstrate together against Orban’s government,
Szekely said. Thousands demonstrated last year at various
rallies against the new constitution, media law and the
scrapping of early retirement benefits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  