-- Hungary’s New Constitution Triggers First Joint Opposition Demonstration
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-03T13:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/hungary-s-new-constitution-triggers-first-joint-opposition-demonstration.html
Hungarian opposition groups rallied
against the country’s new constitution, which came into effect
on Jan. 1, the first joint protest against Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  since he came to power in May 2010.  The rally was held outside the Opera house in central
Budapest where Orban and other dignitaries celebrated the
constitution that the European Union and U.S. criticized for
curbing democracy. It was the first time disparate groups,
including two opposition parties, protested together.  An unidentified spokeswoman for Budapest police declined to
estimate the number of participants, while state news agency  MTI 
said several tens of thousands joined the rally and organizers
claimed about 100,000 protesters were present.  “Viktor Orban claims he’s a strong captain, but he’s the
captain of the Titanic, headed for the iceberg,” Peter Konya,
head of the Hungarian Solidarity Movement, the event’s
organizer, told demonstrators yesterday. “We must join our
forces to restore the rule of law and the republic.”  Orban used his two-thirds parliamentary majority to pass
the new constitution as the culmination of his self-styled
“ballot-box revolution.” The constitution marks the end of the
country’s transition to democracy from communism that started in
1990, Orban told  Magyar Nemzet  in a Dec. 24 interview.  Judicial, electoral and institutional overhauls are helping
the premier fortify his power, opposition groups said.  “Yesterday’s events proved that Hungary is a democracy,
this is a free and constitutional state,”  Peter Szijjarto ,
Orban’s spokesman said in an interview on commercial television
TV2 today.  Central Bank Law  Lawmakers in Orban’s Fidesz party last week approved a
central bank law that expands the rate-setting Monetary Council
while curbing the power of central bank President Andras Simor.
The  International Monetary Fund  and the EU broke off talks on a
bailout last month over the plan. Orban said he rejected
European Commission President  Jose Barroso ’s request to withdraw
the legislation.  Hungary received its second sovereign-credit downgrade to
junk in a month when Standard and Poor’s followed Moody’s
Investors Service in stripping the country of its investment
grade on Dec. 21.  The forint dropped 16 percent against the euro in the
second half of 2011, the worst performance among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 315.53 at 2:13
p.m. today in Budapest. The yield on  Hungary ’s 10-year
government bonds rose to 10.33 percent today, the highest since
June 9, 2009, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg.  IMF Aid Shunned  Orban shunned IMF aid after taking office in 2010 to
protect what he called “unorthodox” measures from oversight.
The steps included the effective nationalization of $13 billion
of private pension-fund assets and extraordinary industry taxes
to control the budget. There was a  deficit (HUGBCBAL)  of 182 percent of the
Cabinet’s full-year target at the end of November.  Hungary’s economy may grow at the slowest  rate (HUGPTOTL)  with the
highest public debt level this year among the EU’s eastern
members, according to the European Commission’s forecasts
published in November.  Orban has been reducing the power of independent
institutions and asserting his influence since winning elections
in 2010, ignoring objections from the U.S. and the  United
Nations .  Ruling-party lawmakers ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the  Constitutional
Court , replaced an independent Fiscal Council with one dominated
by the premier’s allies, created a media regulator led by
ruling-party appointees and chose a party member to lead the
State Audit Office.  One Judge Responsible  One judge, Tunde Hando, the wife of Jozsef Szajer, a
European Parliament member from Orban’s Fidesz party, will be
responsible for naming all new judges, including replacing
scores who were forced into retirement last year.  “We have significant and well-founded concerns,” U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wrote in a Dec. 23 letter to
Orban, according to Nepszabadsag newspaper, which published the
letter in Hungarian on Dec. 30. She called on Orban to protect
individual liberties and checks and balances, Nepszabadsag said.  Foreign journalists are “right when describing what
happens in Hungary not just as simple governing, but a regime
change,” Orban said in the Magyar Nemzet interview.  ‘Show Our Virtues’  “They say this in a disparaging way but I think this is a
compliment,” Orban said, according to the newspaper. “We
Hungarians have failed for over a hundred years to show western
 Europe  our own virtues.”  Orban’s office and the government spokesman’s office didn’t
reply to questions about the nature of regime change the premier
described.  Hungary risks losing its EU membership, obtained in 2004,
if the government doesn’t reverse course, Mark Palmer, the U.S.
ambassador to Budapest between 1986 and 1990, said in a
Nepszabadsag interview published today.  “Hungary’s ejection from the European Union is now no
longer unthinkable,” Palmer told the Budapest-based newspaper.
The country “won’t be tolerated if it no longer counts as a
democracy.”  Orban’s Fidesz still leads all parties with 18 percent
backing among eligible voters, even as its support plunged from
42 percent in May 2010 when it won the last election, pollster
Szonda Ipsos said on Dec. 14. The Socialists are second with 11
percent. Fifty-five percent said they’re “unsure or wouldn’t
vote.”  The poll was conducted between Dec. 5 and Dec. 12 and has a
2.5 percentage point margin of error. The next parliamentary
election is scheduled for 2014.  Thousands demonstrated last year at various rallies against
the new constitution, media law and the scrapping of early
retirement benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  