-- Hungary Bond Yields Jump to 2 1/2-Year High on Concern Over Aid
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-02T16:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-02/hungary-bond-yields-jump-to-2-1-2-year-high-on-concern-over-aid.html
Hungary’s 10-year bonds slumped,
lifting the yield to the highest in 2 1/2 years, as new rules
for the central bank fueled speculation the European Union’s
most-indebted eastern member may fail to get international aid.  The yield on the  10-year notes (GHGB10YR)  rose 21 basis points, or
0.21 percentage point, to 10.11 percent, the highest since June
2009, according to generic prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
forint appreciated 0.4 percent to 313.9 per euro by 4:03 p.m. in
Budapest.  Lawmakers approved new central  bank regulations  on Dec. 30
that stripped its bank President Andras Simor of his right to
name deputies, expanded the rate-setting Monetary Council and
created a position for a third vice president. Work on the
legislation prompted the  International Monetary Fund  and EU to
break off talks last month.  “The prospect of a deal with the IMF looks more and more
distant, so the risk attached to debt securities increases,”
Andras Sovany, a Budapest-based fixed-income trader at ING Groep
NV, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg
today. Trading volume was low with markets in the U.K. and U.S.
closed for a holiday, Sovany added.  Hungary received its second sovereign-credit downgrade to
junk in a month when  Standard & Poor’s  followed Moody’s
Investors Service in taking the country out of its investment
grade category on Dec. 21.  “The chance of a deal with the IMF and EU in January or
February is getting smaller and smaller, the accord may get
delayed,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based fixed income
analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report
today, citing the dispute over the central bank law approved
last week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  