-- Abu Dhabi’s Senaat Said to Hire HSBC, JPMorgan for Share Sale
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-09-22T13:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/abu-dhabi-s-senaat-said-to-hire-hsbc-jpmorgan-for-share-sale.html
Abu Dhabi  holding group Senaat,
which owns companies including National Petroleum Construction
Co., hired  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for a
share sale, two people familiar with the matter said.  The company appointed the banks as joint book runners for
an initial public offering this year, the people said, declining
to be identified because the matter isn’t public. Senaat Chief
Financial Officer Jassem Saleh Busaibe declined to comment, as
did a spokesman for HSBC. Calls to JPMorgan’s media office in
London outside of office hours weren’t immediately answered.  Senaat  is among  United Arab Emirates ’ companies planning
share sales after stock values surged. Abu Dhabi’s benchmark ADX
General Index gained 45 percent this year, while the government
forecasts average economic growth of 4.6 percent between 2012
and 2015, more than twice as fast as the previous four years.  Senaat, which also owns Emirates Steel Industries PJSC,
posted a 7 percent rise in revenue to 12.3 billion dirhams ($3.3
billion) in 2012, while assets rose 8 percent to 25.4 billion
dirhams, according to a statement on the company’s website.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
rose 8 percent to 2.3 billion dirhams in the period.  Just Falafel, the U.A.E. fast-food chain, is weighing the
sale of a 25 percent stake in an initial public offering, two
people with knowledge of the matter said last week. Gulf
Capital, the Abu Dhabi-based private equity firm, hired
Rothschild to advise on a share sale of its Gulf Marine unit,
while private equity firm Abraaj Group is planning an IPO of its
Stanford Marine Group unit in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  