-- Thai Farmers Hooked on Subsidies Test Yingluck: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-09-23T04:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/thai-farmers-hooked-on-subsidies-test-yingluck-southeast-asia.html
Thailand’s decision to expand
subsidies for rice and rubber farmers to quell protests is
undermining efforts to control rising debt, even as governments
in neighboring  Malaysia  and  Indonesia  cut back support programs.  The government will pay 21.2 billion baht ($681 million)
directly to rubber farmers’ bank accounts to offset falling
prices, up from 10 billion baht agreed on earlier, after violent
clashes between the police and growers demanding subsidies. The
administration also promised to buy rice at above-market rates
for another crop year, at a cost of 270 billion baht.  The payouts may slow Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s
plan to balance the budget by 2017 and contain the ratio of debt
to gross domestic product that rose to 44.3 percent in June this
year from 38.2 percent in end-2008. A  business sentiment index 
dropped in July to the lowest level in more than a year and
 consumer confidence  fell to a nine-month low on concern
political risk is rising as the economy weakens.  “It’s a tricky situation, given the demands of the
protesters,” said  Euben Paracuelles , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Singapore . “The government doesn’t have much
more room for subsidies. The risk is the protests could be drawn
out and the longer they persist the more they become a concern,
especially if they are more disruptive and add to an already
weak growth outlook.”  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  slid 1.7 percent as of 11:31 a.m. in
Bangkok today, the biggest decline in  Asia . The baht slipped 0.1
percent, and is the third-worst performer in the past six months
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Roads Blocked  As many as 12,000 farmers blocked roads and railways for
two weeks from Aug. 26, stranding thousands of passengers and
disrupting traffic in the southern provinces that account for 80
percent of the nation’s rubber output. About 76 police officers
were injured and nine vehicles torched in Nakhon Sri Thammarat
at the height of the clashes earlier this month.  Yingluck said on Sept. 15 that the government and most
rubber farmers had agreed on the subsidy amount, prompting many
demonstrators to return to their plantations.  Rubber futures in  Tokyo  have dropped 14 percent from an 11-month high in February as slowing growth in  China  and a
recession in  Europe  reduced demand. In  Thailand , the world’s
largest rubber producer and exporter, prices tumbled 19 percent
to 83.20 baht a kilogram from this year’s peak of 102.7 baht.  The Southeast Asian nation has also spent 675 billion baht
since October 2011 on buying rice directly from farmers. The
government estimates it lost about 137 billion baht in the 2011-2012 crop year as it then sold the grain at a loss.  Yingluck’s administration earlier this month backtracked on
a plan to lower payments after rice farmers threatened to
demonstrate on the streets of Bangkok.  Mounting Losses  Rice exports tumbled 35 percent last year to 6.95 million
tons, ending the nation’s 30-year reign as the world’s largest
exporter. With purchases at as much as 50 percent above the
market rate, the government may lose up to 100 billion baht in
2013-2014, according to Capital Economics Ltd.  “The rice-pledging scheme has set a precedent for other
groups,” said Steffen Dyck, assistant vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service in Singapore. “The risk is whether these
programs will be contained or adjusted in the future.”  While agriculture accounted for 8.4 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product last year, rural residents make up almost
87 percent of the population of 67 million people. Yingluck’s
party won a parliamentary majority in 2011 elections with
support from poorer rural areas in northern Thailand.  “They try to please voters to keep their popularity,”
said  Somjai Phagaphasvivat , a political science lecturer at
Thammasat University in Bangkok. “But they create fiscal
problems which may explode sooner rather than later if the
global economy faces a serious downturn.”  Malaysia, Indonesia  Meanwhile, countries from Malaysia to Indonesia are
reducing subsidies to ease pressure on their budgets, with both
nations raising fuel prices this year.  Fitch Ratings  cut
Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative in July, citing that
nation’s rising debt and lack of budgetary reform.  Thailand’s debt is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch, and Baa1 by Moody’s, three levels above junk. The country
still has “strong fundamentals” including high foreign
reserves and continued foreign direct investment, Dyck said.  The Thai parliament last month passed the 2014 budget for
the year beginning Oct. 1 with a deficit of 250 billion baht,
down from a shortfall of 300 billion baht this year. Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong has said the government will cut
the deficit every year to achieve a balanced budget by 2017.  No Driver  Falling commodity prices will increase pressure on the
economy, which unexpectedly contracted 0.3 percent in the three
months through June from the previous quarter, when it shrank by
1.7 percent, official data showed. The statistics agency cut its
2013 GDP forecast to 3.8 percent to 4.3 percent from 4.2 percent
to 5.2 percent, and the exports growth target to 5 percent.  Thai rice prices may drop to $425 a ton by year-end from
about $458 now, and fall to $400 a ton by the end of 2014,
Capital Economics estimates. The nation’s  total exports  fell 1.5
percent in July, a third straight month of declines.  “There is no real driver for the economy except exports,”
said Pipat Luengnaruemitchai, vice president at Phatra
Securities Pcl in Bangkok. “Falling agricultural prices weaken
farm income and  consumer spending . Investments won’t rise when
the economic outlook is grim. We should hope for the best and
prepare for the worst in the second half.”  The central bank last month kept its  benchmark interest
rate  unchanged for a second straight meeting after cutting by a
quarter of a percentage point in May to aid growth. Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Aug. 28 the economy had hit bottom
last quarter and should recover in the second half.  No Negotiation  Yingluck’s two-year-old administration has tried to speed
up budget disbursement as plans to spend 2 trillion baht on
infrastructure and 350 billion baht on water-management projects
have been delayed. The government also plans to cut  import
duties  on luxury products to help boost tourism revenue and
counter the slowdown in domestic spending.  Kittiratt said on Sept. 16 there will be no further
negotiations on rubber prices. The government has sought a long-term solution by zoning farms and investing in adding value to
agricultural products, Yingluck said the same day.  “I want to ask the farmers to sympathize with us because
if we spend too much money on this, we won’t have enough in the
budget to allocate to other areas,” Yingluck said. “We need to
find the balance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  