-- Al-Shabaab Attack Fulfills Threat in Kenyan Support for Somalia
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2013-09-22T10:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/al-shabaab-attack-fulfills-threat-in-kenyan-support-for-somalia.html
The attack by the Islamist militant
group al-Shabaab on an upscale mall in Nairobi yesterday
fulfills a threat it made two years ago to retaliate over
 Kenya ’s military intervention to back Somalia’s government.  At least 59 people died and 175 were injured when gunmen
stormed the Westgate mall yesterday in the Kenyan capital. An
unspecified number of hostages were being held more than 24
hours after the raid began, according to the government. The
group, whose full name means Mujahedeen Youth Movement in
Arabic, claimed responsibility for the attack.  Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s government since at
least 2006 to establish an Islamic state and impose Shariah law
in the Horn of Africa nation. The group targeted Kenya after the
country’s army invaded Somalia in October 2011 to help African
Union peacekeepers and Ethiopian forces battling al-Shabaab.  The militant group claimed responsibility in July 2010 for
twin bomb attacks in neighboring  Uganda  that killed 76 people
watching the soccer  World Cup  final at two separate venues. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because the country has troops
serving in Somalia’s African Union peacekeeping force.  Yesterday’s attack marked the third time in two days that
Islamist militants have struck an African capital.  Members of the Boko Haram Islamist group clashed on Sept.
20 with Nigerian security forces who were investigating a
suspected militant weapons cache at a building site in Abuja.
Nine people died in the fighting, the Nation newspaper reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified witness. At least five people
died in grenade and gun attacks blamed on al-Shabaab in the main
Bakara market in Somalia’s capital, Mogadishu, yesterday.  Kenya’s Incursion  The U.S. designated al-Shabaab as a terrorist organization
in 2008. The  United Nations Security Council  has  imposed
sanctions  on the group and at least 13 individuals linked to it.  The Kenyan government sent its troops into Somalia after
accusing al-Shabaab of carrying out a wave of attacks on
foreigners, including the murder of a British tourist and at
least four kidnappings. The group denied responsibility and
vowed to strike back at Kenya with bomb attacks.  The incursion by Kenyan troops helped liberate strategic
areas in Somalia from al-Shabaab’s control, including the port
of Kismayo in October 2012. Kismayo was key to the group’s
ability to collect taxes to finance its activities and receive
weapons and supplies. Income from Somali ports earned the group
as much as $50 million a year, the UN Monitoring Group on
Somalia said in 2011.  Al-Shabaab previously threatened to attack Kenya in
retaliation for training Somali police officers.  Al-Shabaab’s spiritual leader is thought to be Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys, who fought against  Ethiopia  as a colonel
under the former Somali dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in the
1970s, according to the  Council on Foreign Relations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  