-- Manchester City Routs United 4-1; Arsenal Wins to Top League
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-22T17:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/arsenal-defeats-stoke-to-top-premier-league-swansea-victory.html
Sergio Aguero  got two goals as
Manchester City routed defending champion Manchester United 4-1
in English soccer’s Premier League today.  Arsenal beat Stoke 3-1 to top the standings, while Swansea
had a 2-0 win at Crystal Palace and Tottenham won 1-0 at
Cardiff. Tottenham is level on points with Arsenal and has an
inferior goal difference.  Yaya Toure and Samir Nasri also scored for City at its
Etihad Stadium.  Wayne Rooney  got a late goal for United from a
free kick.  “The whole match we had possession of the ball, and we
had security in defense,” City manager Manuel Pellegrini told
 Sky Sports . “This was a hard test today and the players had a
great answer.”  Aguero opened the scoring in the 16th minute, volleying in
from close range. Toure made it 2-0 following a corner just
before halftime, and Aguero scored his second two minutes after
the break.  United’s defense was in disarray in the face of the hosts’
rampaging forward line, and Nasri scored the fourth City goal
three minutes later with a volley from Jesus Navas’s right-wing
cross.  Both United and 2011-12 title-winner City were under new
managers. Pellegrini succeeded  Roberto Mancini  and  David Moyes 
followed in the footsteps of the retired Alex Ferguson, who’d
been in charge since 1986.  Arsenal and Tottenham have 12 points from five games.
Manchester City, Chelsea and Liverpool have 10, followed by
Everton (9) and Southampton (8). United, Swansea, Stoke, Hull
and Newcastle have seven points.  Arsenal Victory  Aaron Ramsey , Per Mertesacker and Bacary Sagna scored for
Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium, Geoff Cameron getting Stoke’s
goal. The Gunners led 2-1 at halftime.  Tottenham grabbed the winner through Paulinho in injury
time at Cardiff, leaving the Welsh club 16th on five points.  Michu gave Swansea a 1-0 lead in the second minute at
Palace and Nathan Dyer made it 2-0 soon after halftime. Palace
is one place above bottom club Sunderland, which has just one
point.  Yesterday, Chelsea beat Fulham 2-0, Liverpool lost 1-0 at
home to Southampton, Hull had a 3-2 victory at Newcastle, and
 Aston Villa  won 1-0 at Norwich. West Brom defeated Sunderland 3-0 and West Ham went down 3-2 at home to Everton.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  