-- U.S., Europe Stocks Drop as Banks Fall; China Shares Gain
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-09-23T20:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/australian-futures-fall-before-china-data-as-euro-climbs.html
Stocks fell in the U.S. and Europe,
led by financial shares, amid concern about weakening bank
earnings and a political showdown in  Washington  over the budget.
Commodities retreated, while Chinese equities rallied after
industrial production beat estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.5 percent to
1,701.84 at 4 p.m. New York time, capping its first three-day
retreat in a month and trimming its third-quarter rally. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 0.5 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 1.3 percent after a two-day holiday in
 China . Copper slid after a report showed Chinese imports of the
metal decreased and oil dropped to a six-week low on easing
concern that  Syria ’s conflict will disrupt supplies.  The  biggest  U.S. banks’ fixed-income trading revenue will
probably fall 20 percent in the third quarter from a year ago,
according to Atlantic Equities LLP. Federal Reserve Bank of New
York President William C. Dudley and the Atlanta Fed’s Dennis
Lockhart both said the economy still needs monetary stimulus,
while Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said the central bank
harmed its credibility with the decision last week not to taper
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  “The market has had quite a run,”  Scott Armiger , chief
investment officer at Christiana Trust in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
said in a phone interview. The firm has $6 billion under
administration. “At some point, investors are going to say
‘what’s underpinning this strong rally? We need some solid
numbers.’ The sales numbers aren’t great and earnings keep
getting revised down.”  Banks Retreat  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., BB&T Corp., Regions
Financial Corp. and Bank of America Corp. lost more than 2
percent to lead declines in 23 of 24 stocks in the  KBW Bank
Index. (BKX)  Citigroup’s quarterly revenue may fall by “significantly
more” than 10 percent amid a decline in trading revenue, the
Financial Times reported, citing unnamed people familiar with
the matter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley each
fell more than 2.6 percent each.  Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities, cut his
estimate for Goldman Sachs’ per-share earnings by 18 percent and
Morgan Stanley’s by 25 percent. Staite also reduced his estimate
at Citigroup by 14 percent. JPMorgan Chase, the biggest U.S.
bank, and Barclays Plc have told investors that third-quarter
trading revenue will probably drop from a year earlier.
Jefferies Group LLC said last week that revenue from fixed-income trading plunged 88 percent in its fiscal third quarter
that ended Aug. 31 compared with the same period in 2012.  Apple Inc. led an advance in technology stocks, jumping 5
percent after selling a record 9 million iPhones in the weekend
debut of two models. BlackBerry Ltd. was little changed in
Toronto after getting a tentative $4.7 billion buyout offer from
a group led by its biggest shareholder, forging a path to go
private after a new line of smartphones failed to catch on.  Economy Watch  The S&P 500 is up about 19 percent so far this year,
including a 6 percent rally in the third quarter.  Reports this week on data from second-quarter U.S. gross
domestic product to  consumer confidence  and new home sales may
help investors gauge the outlook for stimulus tapering from the
Fed. Bullard told Bloomberg TV that last week’s decision to
retain its $85 billion a month in bond buying was a “borderline
decision” after “weaker data came in.”  The U.S. House of Representatives voted last week to
finance the federal government through mid-December and choke
off funding for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law,
setting up a showdown with the Senate and the White House.  Government Funding  Government funding expires Oct. 1 and the Treasury is
expected to exhaust its ability to borrow funds in mid-October,
when it will reach the statutory debt limit. The White House
said Obama would veto the House bill. The Senate will consider
its version of the funding measure next week.  Banks helped lead declines in the Stoxx 600 as Barclays Plc
dropped 2.6 percent. The volume of shares changing hands in
Stoxx 600 companies was 6.3 percent below the 30-day average and
in-line with the average for S&P 500 stocks.  The Stoxx 600 has advanced for three straight weeks,
driving its  valuation  to 14.4 times estimated earnings, the
highest since the end of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge has risen more than 5 percent in September,
putting it on course for the biggest monthly gain in almost two
years. A gauge of euro-area services and manufacturing rose to
52.1 in September, the highest level since June 2011.  German Elections  German stocks fell today as investors considered the
composition of a new government following Angela Merkel’s
election victory. The DAX Index slipped 0.5 percent today and
the yield on the 10-year bund fell 2.5 basis points to 1.92
percent. Merkel secured the biggest election victory since
Helmut Kohl’s 1990 post-unification triumph.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent of the
vote in  Germany  while the Social Democrats won 25.7 percent,
according to official  results . She is still short of a majority
and need a coalition partner to govern Europe’s biggest economy.  “The election resulted in a really strong chancellor,
though one who is not yet able to govern,” said Michael Woischneck, who helps oversee about $1.6 billion in equities at
Lampe Asset Management in Dusseldorf, Germany. “The
negotiations between the two main parties may not be as smooth
as people had hoped, which could force some market jitters.”  About 11 stocks increased for every one that fell in the
Shanghai Composite Index. The preliminary reading of 51.2 for a
Purchasing Managers’ Index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics compared with the median estimate of 50.9 in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Australia ’s dollar climbed versus 15 of 16 major peers,
increasing 0.5 percent to 94.44 U.S. cents. The euro was down
0.2 percent at $1.3496 after touching a seven-month high of
$1.3569 on Sept. 19. The yen jumped 0.6 percent to 98.77 per
dollar.  Treasury Yields  Treasury (USGG10YR)  10-year note yields fell 3.3 basis point to 2.70
percent. The Fed last week unexpectedly refrained from reducing
its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, saying it needed to
see more signs of sustained labor market gains. Fed Bank of St.
Louis President James Bullard said Sept. 20 that it was a
“borderline decision.”  The New York Fed’s Dudley said policy makers must
“forcefully” push against economic headwinds as the U.S. has
yet to show “any meaningful pickup” in momentum.  “The economy still needs the support of a very
accommodative monetary policy,” Dudley, who is vice chairman of
the Federal Open Market Committee, said today in a speech in New
York. “Improving economic fundamentals versus fiscal drag and
somewhat tighter financial conditions are pulling the economy in
opposite directions, roughly canceling each other.”  Metals, Oil  Copper paced declines in industrial metals, falling by as
much as 1.6 percent to $7,166.50 per metric ton before paring
its loss to 0.5 percent. Refined copper imports by China fell 10
percent to 262,942 tons in August from July, the General
Administration of Customs said yesterday. Nickel slid 0.6
percent and tin declined 0.3 percent.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined 1.1 percent to
$103.59 a barrel, the lowest since Aug. 8. Oil tumbled 1.6
percent Sept. 20, bringing its retreat in the week to 3.3
percent, as Libya’s oil production expanded and President Bashar al-Assad said Syria will make information about its chemical
weapons available.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.3 percent, poised
for an 8 percent third-quarter rally, as  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
climbed 0.6 percent after losing almost 3 percent in the
previous two sessions.  India ’s Sensex slumped 1.8 percent today
after the Reserve Bank of India unexpectedly increased interest
rates last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  