-- Bears Retreating as Europe Shorts Sink to Seven-Year Low
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-09-23T16:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/bears-retreating-as-european-shorts-drop-80-billion-to-2006-low.html
The retreat by European bears is
turning into a rout as equity traders reduce bets against the
region’s stocks by about $80 billion to the lowest level in at
least seven years.  Borrowed shares of  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  companies, an
indication of wagers against equities, have fallen to 1.7
percent of the total outstanding from 3.2 percent two years ago
and 24 percent at the height of the financial crisis, according
to data from Markit, the London-based research firm. Bullish
bets on Europe have reached the most since 2007 in a Bank of
America Corp. survey of money managers who oversee $518 billion.  Investors are regaining confidence, squeezing pessimists
who say the economy remains sluggish outside of Germany and
point to record-low trading volume as a lack of conviction in
the Euro Stoxx’s 61 percent rally of the past two years. Besides
gains in stocks from Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA to
 Renault SA (RNO) , yields on Spanish and Italian bonds have declined to
a two-year low compared with German bunds and the euro has
strengthened 4.6 percent to $1.35 in the past six months.  “It’s called the pain of being wrong,” Anthony Lawler,
who oversees $6 billion invested in  hedge funds  at GAM Holding
AG in London, said in a phone interview on Sept. 19. “You’ve
had some data in Europe which act as an important signal of a
possible bottoming. There are still a lot of risks in Europe for
sure, but people believe that those risks are less likely to
occur than six or 12 months ago.”  Fed Stimulus  The Euro Stoxx 50 rose 2.1 percent last week as the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from cutting monetary stimulus.
That brought the advance since equity markets bottomed in March
2009 to 62 percent, trailing the 153 percent surge in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the 99 percent rally in the MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gains in European equities suggest the economy, while still
sluggish, is healing after the resolve of  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
helped to ease the region’s debt crisis and ended the euro
area’s longest-ever recession. Merkel won a third term in office
after her Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent of the
vote in yesterday’s election. Shares in the euro area are still
cheaper than those in the U.S. or Japan compared with projected
earnings, Bloomberg data show.  The Euro Stoxx 50 slipped 0.7 percent to 2,906.35 at the
close of trading today.  Emergency Aid  Traders had $165 billion of European equities on loan in
September 2011, as the region labored under the debt crisis that
forced five nations to accept 496 billion euros ($672 billion)
in emergency-aid pledges, Markit data show. Borrowing stock is
the first step in a short sale, after which speculators sell the
securities in the hope of replacing them at a lower price.  Two years later, after Draghi pledged to do whatever is
needed to save the euro, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index has climbed
37 percent while loaned shares have fallen 12 percent to $145
billion, indicating more than $80 billion of short positions
have been closed or allowed to expire, the data show.  “If shares are going up and short-sellers were skeptical,
you would see more borrowing and more betting against that
rise,” Karl Loomes, a London-based analyst at SunGard Astec
Analytics, a  securities-lending  data and research company, said
in a Sept. 20 phone interview. “Given that share prices have
risen and borrowing has remained stable or decreased, it does
imply there is a lot more optimism in the market.”  Short Interest  Markit’s data shows the percentage of shares on loan as of
Sept. 13 is hovering just above the 1.5 percent reached Aug. 23.
That was the lowest ever in data going back seven years and
compares with an average of 5.1 percent over that period.  Mutual funds that buy European equities have attracted
$13.1 billion in the past six weeks, according to data from
 Societe Generale  SA and EPFR Global Inc., a research company in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. That compares with outflows of $4
billion for funds that buy American stocks.  Investors would need to send about $100 billion to European
shares to restore the amount withdrawn since 2007, according to
estimates from Paris-based Societe Generale based on data
through the end of August.  The Euro Stoxx 50 has  returned  61 percent including
dividends after sliding to a two-year low on Sept. 12, 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares rallied as Draghi, who
became the head of the ECB in November 2011, pledged to keep
 interest rates  low and  euro-area manufacturing  returned to
growth following a two-year contraction.  ‘Stopped Deteriorating’  “There are a lot of reasons why you don’t want to be
underweight Europe,” said Robin Thorn, who helps oversee $70
billion as head of equities at PineBridge Investments LLC in New
York. “Things have stopped deteriorating. That doesn’t mean
that things are great, but they have stopped getting worse.”  Europe’s debt crisis helped keep both bulls and bears out
of the market, according to Stuart Jarvis, who helps manage
securities lending at Citigroup Inc. in London. An average of
$14.9 billion worth of stock has traded daily during 2012 and
2013 in Germany, the U.K. and France, the least ever, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2004. The  number  of
Euro Stoxx 50 shares changing hands has dropped 18 percent this
year to 710 million a day, the data show.  “There has been a lack of allocation to Europe,” Jarvis
said in a phone interview on Sept. 19. “In order to put money
to work, investors needed a greater degree of certainty. People
just didn’t like the overall environment in Europe, be it the
regulatory angle or the macro uncertainty.”  Short Bans  Countries from  Spain (GSPG10YR)  to Belgium and Italy prohibited short
selling during market retreats in recent years. While regulators
have lifted the restrictions, traders are still required to
report positions that exceed preset levels.  The U.S. and Asia are better investments because European
economies are expanding too slowly, according to Julian Lewis at
Cavendish Asset Management Ltd.  Euro-zone  unemployment held at a
record 12.1 percent in July and European car sales have slipped
to the lowest since records began in 1990, signs that the
recovery lacks momentum after the bloc exited a record-long
recession in the second quarter.  While yields in Spain and Italy have fallen by more than 3
percentage points from their highs to 4.30 percent and 4.29
percent, respectively, they are still at least 24 basis points
above the average rate in 2006, before the financial crisis.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the nations’ debt
over benchmark German bunds has fallen to less than 2.4
percentage points, the lowest in two years, Bloomberg data show.
Draghi said on Sept. 16 that the improvement in the euro area
isn’t fully reflected in the cost of credit.  Little Growth  “Although it looks now as if the euro zone is not going to
collapse, we see little signs of growth,” Lewis, who helps
oversee $800 million in London, said in a phone interview on
Sept. 18. “Despite the recovery in Europe, we don’t see as much
upside there as we see in  emerging markets  and the U.S.”  Europe’s economy helps make the ECB’s commitment to loose
monetary policy more credible for investors, who have been
skeptical of pledges of long-term easing from the Fed and the
 Bank of England ,  Pierre Lapointe , the Montreal-based head of
global strategy and research at Pavilion Global Markets Ltd.,
wrote in a Sept. 17 report. The key interest rate in the euro
area is 0.5 percent, compared with 0-0.25 percent in the U.S.
and 0.1 percent in Japan.  “The European Central Bank could step in if needed,” said
Nicolaas Marais, who helps oversee $327 billion as head of
multi-asset investments and portfolio solutions at Schroders Plc
in London. “There are some signs of economic stabilization and
portfolio rebalancing from the U.S. and emerging markets to
Europe. All in all, it’s too much for shorts to bet against.”  Investor Allocation  ECB support may be helping attract investors. Thirty-six
percent of respondents in a survey this month by Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America said they hold more euro-area equities than are represented in global benchmarks, the
highest level since May 2007, when the subprime-debt crisis
began. A year ago, they reported the smallest allocations to the
region relative to the rest of the world, the survey showed.  “In today’s prolonged bull market, it has been hard for
short sellers to bet against a rising tide,” said Will Duff Gordon, the research director at Markit in London. “The muted
borrowed demand today is the new reality.”  Borrowed stock in  BBVA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, has
fallen to 0.23 percent of the Bilbao-based company’s outstanding
shares, from 2.41 percent two years ago, Markit data show. The
stock surged 41 percent in the period.  Renault Borrow  Loans of shares on Paris-based Renault, France’s second-largest carmaker, account for 0.92 percent, down from 2.25
percent in 2011 as the shares more than doubled, the data show.
Stock on loan in  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering
company, has declined to 0.78 percent of shares outstanding from
3.2 percent two years ago, Markit data show. Shares of Munich-based Siemens climbed 33 percent in that time.  Euro-region stocks are cheaper than equities in the U.S.
and Asia. After an 11 percent gain in 2013, the Euro Stoxx 50
trades at 13.1 times projected earnings, according to Bloomberg
data. The  S&P 500  is valued at 15.5 times estimated profit and
Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  trades at 15.1 times income after Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe vowed to end two decades of deflation.  Valuations in Europe will climb over the next 12 to 18
months amid rising appetite for risk, Anna Esposito, an equity
strategist at Citigroup in London, wrote in a Sept. 16 report.
She forecast that the Stoxx 600 will rise to 370 by the end of
2014, 18 percent above last week’s close.  For Julio Sobremazas, the Madrid-based head of global
equities at BBVA, the closing of short bets on European shares
is a positive sign for the market.  “What you have seen is all those underweight positions,
and there were many, being closed and moving to neutral,”
Sobremazas said in an interview. “We now need to see people
committing money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  