-- Braves and Cardinals Secure MLB Playoff Spots While Yankees Lose
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-23T04:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/braves-and-cardinals-clinch-mlb-playoff-spots-as-nationals-lose.html
The  Atlanta Braves ,  St. Louis
Cardinals  and Oakland Athletics clinched Major League Baseball
playoff berths, while the  New York  Yankees’ postseason chances
took another hit with a 2-1 loss to the  San Francisco Giants .  The Braves and Cardinals both were guaranteed playoff spots
yesterday when the Washington Nationals lost to the Miami
Marlins 4-2 in the opening game of a double-header. The
Nationals won the second game 5-4, leaving them 84-72 with six
regular-games remaining, and can record no more than 90 wins.  The Braves clinched the National League East division title
for the first time since 2005 with the Nationals’ loss and then
beat the Chicago Cubs 5-2 to improve to 92-63. Andrelton Simmons
hit two home runs in the Braves’ victory.  “This wouldn’t be as special if we didn’t go out and take
care of our business,” Justin Upton of the Braves told
reporters yesterday. “That was our goal from the minute we
stepped in here this morning, to take care of it ourselves.”  The Cardinals lost to the Milwaukee Brewers 6-4 yesterday,
yet lead the NL Central by two games at 91-65 and are assured of
at least a wild-card playoff berth.  The  Oakland Athletics  won their second straight  American
League  West title yesterday even though they had baseball’s
fourth-lowest opening-day payroll at an estimated $65 million.
The A’s (93-63) beat the Minnesota Twins 11-7 as Coco Crisp,
Daric Barton and Jed Lowrie all hit home runs.  The Braves, Cardinals and Athletics bring to five the
number of teams that have clinched spots in the MLB playoffs.
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  previously won the NL West, while the
 Boston Red Sox  won the AL East.  Yankees Slip  The Yankees slipped four games back in the race for the
second of two wild card berths in the American League with
yesterday’s loss, which came after the team held a 50-minute
pregame ceremony to honor Mariano Rivera. The Yankees retired
the No. 42 jersey of MLB’s all-time saves leader, who said
during spring training that this would be his final season.  The Giants snapped a 1-1 tie in the top of the eighth
inning on Tony Abreu’s run-scoring double off reliever  David Robertson , who took over after starting pitcher  Andy Pettitte 
went seven innings in his final regular-season start at Yankee
Stadium. Pettitte is also retiring after this season.  “This was a big loss,” Pettitte said. “We’ve got to try
to pull off a miracle here.”  The Tampa Bay Rays beat the Baltimore Orioles 3-1 for their
third straight win and hold the first of the AL’s two wild card
berths at 86-69. The  Cleveland Indians  completed a four-game
sweep of the  Houston Astros  with a 9-2 win that gives them a 1
1/2-game lead over Texas for the second AL wild card.  Winning Slam  The Rangers lost to the Kansas City Royals 4-0 on Justin Maxwell’s grand slam in the bottom of the 10th inning, dropping
to 84-71 overall. The Royals now are 3 1/2 games behind the
Indians with an 82-73 record.  The Yankees are 82-74 and are getting closer to missing the
playoffs for the second time in 19 years following their sixth
loss in the past 10 games. New York has six games remaining,
with three at home against Tampa Bay and then three on the road
against the Astros.  “We’re still alive, but this one really hurts,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said. “It’s tough.”  The Orioles are 4 1/2 games behind the Indians for the
second wild card berth after yesterday’s loss to the Rays. The
wild cards go to the two non division-winners in each league
with the best records.  The  Cincinnati Reds  routed Pittsburgh 11-3 yesterday to
pull even with the Pirates for the NL wild-card lead. Both teams
are 89-67 and have a magic number of two, meaning they need any
combination of their wins, or losses by the Nationals totaling
two to clinch a playoff berth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  