-- Brooklyn Brewery Targets Stockholm Amid Hipster Bromance
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-09-23T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/brooklyn-brewery-targets-stockholm-amid-hipster-bromance.html
When visitors get carded during
weekend tours at the  Brooklyn  Brewery in  New York , the company
says the most common form of identification isn’t a local
driver’s license. It’s a Swedish passport.  Soon, Swedes won’t have to travel so far. Sweden, already
the craft beer’s biggest market outside the Big Apple thanks to
a Nordic affinity to all things Kings County, will be home to
Brooklyn Brewery’s first overseas plant. In January, the company
will start producing ale and open a restaurant in an old light-bulb factory in Stockholm.  The beermaker, founded by a former journalist and a banker
who wanted to bring good lagers back to New York in the 80s,
claims to export more beer than any other American craft brewer.
While it could just keep doing that, the new plant gives the
company a priceless asset: street cred.  In an age where local is best and everything from the meat
at Chipotle to the wheat in Russian Standard vodka has a story,
craft beer has grown into a $12 billion industry in the U.S.,
with sales doubling in the past six years, according to
researcher Mintel. That’s “the big oxymoron of the proposition
of craft,” said Spiros Malandrakis, an analyst at Euromonitor
International.  Much of the appeal of craft beers is “the localization and
the small scale,” he said. So as Brooklyn becomes more global -
- it now sells in 20 countries -- it risks being seen as the
next  Bud Light . “The more successful you become,” Malandrakis
said, “the less you can claim to be the underdog.”  Oldest Trademark  On the shores of the  Baltic Sea , Brooklyn is seeking to
avoid that fate. Brooklyn has teamed up with the Swedish unit of
 Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) , D. Carnegie & Co. and a few private investors to
create “The New Carnegie Brewery,” with an annual capacity of
1 million liters. Carnegie Porter, available since 1836 and now
made by Carlsberg, was originally brewed by Carnegie and is
Sweden’s oldest trademark still in use.  Carlsberg shares were little changed at 575.50 kroner at
the close of trading in Copenhagen. They’ve gained 3.9 percent
this year.  The brewery and pub will cost 25 million kronor ($3.9
million). Brooklyn beers sold in  Sweden  will still be made in
the U.S., while the new brewery will develop recipes in
collaboration with its New York owner.  “We intend to have some fun exploring the great things
Sweden has to offer,” said Eric Ottaway, general manager of
Brooklyn Brewery. “It’s an exciting and dynamic market with
soaring interest in craft beers.”  3,290 Beers  While craft beers represent just over 1 percent of the
global market, they account for around 4 percent of the beer
consumed in Sweden, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The
country is fertile ground for craft beers. The state liquor
store chain, Systembolaget, which controls all beer sales via
its monopoly, last year had 3,290 types of beer for sale in its
422 shops.  Sweden is the second-biggest export destination for
American craft beer, after  Canada , according to the Brewer’s
Association, a U.S. industry group. Brooklyn’s lager has a 39
percent share at Systembolaget of the most expensive brews,
those costing more than 17 kronor for a 12-ounce bottle.  Eager to boost the bonafides of New Carnegie is its head
brewer, Anders Wendler, a fan of Brooklyn’s Radius unfiltered
beer and Sweden’s homebrewing champion.  The company hasn’t yet decided how evident the Brooklyn
affiliation will be, but “we are our own brand, our own
brewery,” said Wendler.  Waterfront Brewery  He will work with Garrett Oliver, Brooklyn’s brewmaster
since 1994, to create as many as four new beers. “We’re
certainly not just going to copy recipes,” Wendler said while
sitting in the sun outside the waterfront brewery. “We will
work together and come up with our own ideas.”  Brooklyn Brewery first started selling beer in Sweden in
2006 when Carlsberg imported the brand. So how did Sweden, a
country the size of  California  with a population of 9 million,
become Brooklyn’s biggest export market?  Part of the reason for its success, according to Brooklyn,
is its partnership with Carlsberg, the market leader in Sweden.
Carlsberg and the New York brewer have stoked interest with an
annual event called Brooklyn, Sweden. In its second year, the
festival of Brooklyn bands, food, film and art had more than
5,000 visitors last month.  The Brooklyn brews are a “tasty alternative to common,
boring beers,” said 31-year-old ad executive Oscar Trollheden,
while quaffing a pint in Stockholm. “Swedes love N.Y. and think
Brooklyn is a cool place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in  Stockholm  at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  