-- Hong Kong Maintains Storm Signal as Usagi Reaches China
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-09-22T21:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/china-hong-kong-brace-for-typhoon-usagi-as-flights-cut.html
Hong Kong maintained its third-highest storm signal, with the city braced for floods and
hundreds of flights canceled, after Usagi made landfall as a
severe typhoon in southern China.  The  Hong Kong Observatory  repeated the No. 8 Storm Signal
at 4 a.m. local time, meaning winds of at least 63 kilometers
(39 miles) an hour are expected, while downgrading Usagi to a
tropical cyclone as it moves gradually away from the city.  Thousands of people were evacuated by the Chinese
government from coastal areas in Fujian province as storms
knocked out  power lines , while travelers were stranded around
the region with more than 440 flights affected at Hong Kong
airport. Banks and the  Hong Kong stock market  will be closed in
the morning should Signal 8 remain in force past 9 a.m.  “It’s probably the worst weekend ever,” Jessica Coelho, a
Hong Kong-based human resources executive who was stranded in
 Singapore , said by telephone yesterday. “It’s a nightmare
trying to get back. Everyone is trying to get on a plane home.”  The storm, rated the world’s strongest typhoon this year,
was about 120 kilometers northwest of Hong Kong and moving west-northwest at about 22 kilometers an hour, the weather bureau
 said  at 4 a.m. today. The city recorded maximum sustained winds
of 73 kilometers an hour.  Trading Delays  According to  Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. (388)  rules,
premarket trading will be canceled today should Signal 8 remain
in force between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., with morning trading to
begin at least two hours after the warning is lowered. There
will be no morning session if the alert is dropped after 9 a.m.
and no trading for the day if it’s still up after noon.  Usagi made landfall in Shanwei city in  China ’s southern
province of Guangdong at 7:40 p.m. local time yesterday, the
provincial meteorological office said in a  statement . It was
expected to move northwest at a speed of about 20 kilometers an
hour, and its strength will gradually weaken before it leaves
Guangdong today as a tropical storm, it said. At least three
people were killed by a fallen tree and broken window glass in
the province last night, Xinhua News said.  Intercity rail services between Guangzhou, the capital of
Guangdong, Zhuhai and Shenzhen have stopped, according to the
official microblog of operator Guangzhou Railway (Group) Corp.
Some bullet train services were canceled yesterday, with others
also scrapped today, it said.  In  Fujian province , Usagi-related storms knocked out three
power lines early yesterday, cutting off electricity to about
170,000 households before it was restored to all but 25,000 by
noon, Xinhua said.  Taiwan Battered  Thousands of people were evacuated from low-lying coastal
areas in the province, Xinhua reported. The flood-control
headquarters ordered reinforced patrols so that emergency
repairs could be carried out to prevent embankment breaches.  Usagi dumped as much as 70 centimeters (28 inches) of rain
in  Taiwan ’s east on Sept. 21, left 12 people injured and
disrupted more than 100 flights, the Central Emergency Operation
Center said.  While passing Taiwan, it had sustained wind speeds of 205
kilometers per hour, making it a super typhoon, according to a
tracking map on the Hong Kong Observatory website.  In the  Philippines , flooding forced 242 people in the north
of the country to flee their homes for temporary shelters on
Sept. 18, the country’s disaster agency said.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and its Hong Kong Dragon
Airlines Ltd. unit stopped some flights yesterday.  Air China
Ltd. (753)  canceled 148 flights as of yesterday as airports in Xiamen,
Shantou, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Zhuhai, Hong Kong and Macau were
affected. It may adjust more flights depending on weather
conditions.  Temporary Shelters           “Rain bands of Usagi are now affecting Hong Kong and have
brought over 70 millimeters of rainfall over parts of the
territory,” the city’s observatory said in its latest bulletin.  The government opened temporary shelters, with 274 people
seeking refuge, while it received 69 reports of fallen trees. As
of 3 a.m., 13 people had sought emergency medical treatment at
the city’s hospitals, with six of them discharged, the Hospital
Authority said.  Grocery shelves were almost empty yesterday at a Tuen Mun
ParknShop store in  Hong Kong , with only a few packs of instant
noodles left and most vegetables sold out.  “The supermarket is so packed,” Fanny Wong, 54, a
housewife who bought six packs of instant noodles, two cans of
luncheon meat and some eggs, said at the store in the district’s
Pierhead Garden. “People are just stocking up everything, from
instant noodles, bread to ingredients for hotpot such as
mushrooms, pak choi and other vegetables. It took me about half
an hour to check out.”  Hong Kong, situated off China’s southern coast, gets on
average about six tropical cyclones annually, according to the
weather bureau. Usagi is the most powerful storm to threaten
Hong Kong since Severe Typhoon Utor in August.  A severe typhoon, one grade lower than a super typhoon, is
equivalent to a Category 2 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson
scale, meaning “extremely dangerous winds will cause extensive
damage,” according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center
 website .  “I came to Hong Kong for work last week and spent my
weekend here,” Jay Johnson, a U.S.-based businessman, said
yesterday. “It was a lovely stay but now it’s such a headache
getting out. I need to be in Munich for a business meeting on
Monday, but now I may need to cancel it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  