-- Bo’s Life Term Is Political Death as Xi Marshals Power
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-23T07:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/china-s-bo-sentenced-to-life-in-jail-as-party-purges-former-star.html
Ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai
was sentenced to life in prison for corruption, bringing an end
to a crisis that roiled  China ’s Communist Party as the country’s
leaders prepare to lay out an economic reform agenda.  A court in eastern China found Bo, 64, guilty of taking
20.4 million  yuan  ($3.3 million) in bribes, embezzling 5 million
yuan and abusing his power following a trial that exposed graft
at the highest levels in the communist state. Bo’s assets, most
notably a French villa, will be seized by the state, the Jinan
Intermediate People’s Court said on its microblog yesterday.  The party, led by President Xi Jinping, may have pushed for
the life sentence to extinguish the threat Bo and his populist
policies posed to its control, said Kerry Brown, executive
director of the University of Sydney’s China Studies Center. It
was the harshest punishment of a former Politburo member since
Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s widow got the death sentence -- a
punishment later commuted to life in prison -- in 1981.  “They will be glad that this is dead and buried, but I
don’t think anyone was fooled, and certainly it didn’t seem like
many in China were fooled by the fact that this was a political
trial, not really a criminal trial,” Brown said by phone. “His
stain on Chinese politics will not be an easy one to erase.”  The verdict precedes a party conclave in November where Xi
and Premier  Li Keqiang  may push for economic reforms and seek to
bolster their grip on power. The plenum is expected to discuss
deepening reforms and achieving stable  economic development , the
official Xinhua News Agency reported last month. In that report,
Xinhua said China’s Politburo called on the party to “be brave
enough to break down ideological barriers and vested
interests.”  Breaking Precedent  Bo’s trial, which ended Aug. 26, broke with precedent as
the party let the court release edited transcripts of Bo’s
defense. Bo proclaimed his innocence during the trial, calling
the bribery charges something “even the lousiest TV drama
scriptwriter wouldn’t create.”  A photograph released by the Jinan court showed a smiling
Bo being led away in handcuffs by two police guards clad in blue
uniforms and clutching his forearms. Bo didn’t say if he would
appeal the verdict, court spokesman Liu Yanjie said at a
briefing in Jinan yesterday.  “The evidence is reliable and sufficient, and he is found
guilty as charged,” Liu said.  Controlled Narrative  The party sought to control the narrative throughout,
portraying the turmoil of Bo’s ouster and charges as proof of
its respect for the rule of law. The decision to release the
transcripts was hailed as a sign of the party’s transparency.
Following the verdict yesterday, the state-run  China Central
Television  aired a special broadcast on the trial.  It featured footage from Bo and his wife Gu Kailai, whose
role in the November, 2011 murder of British businessman Neil
Heywood set off a chain of events culminating in the attempted
defection of Bo’s police chief in February 2012 and Bo’s removal
from his job as Chongqing Communist Party secretary the
following month.  State media portrayed the case as evidence of leaders’
seriousness about cracking down on graft that Xi has said
threatens the Communists’ six-decade hold on power. Party
leaders have promised to target both “tigers and flies,” or
cadres up and down the power ladder, who are guilty of graft.  Judicial Justice  Bo’s trial displayed “the spirit of the rule of law and
judicial justice,” the party’s flagship People’s Daily
newspaper said in a front page editorial today. “It shows the
party and country’s firm attitude and resolve to clean up
corruption according to the law.”  Even as the party touts its success against corruption,
authorities have arrested people such as legal scholar Xu
Zhiyong, who sought asset disclosure by top officials, and
reined in online commentators whose millions of followers on
China’s microblog service threaten to weaken the party’s control
over information.  Prosecutors’ claims and Bo’s testimony during his trial
offered a rare glimpse into the inner conflicts of one of
China’s leading families. Bo’s father,  Bo Yibo , was one of the
revolutionaries who brought the Communists into power in 1949.  Bo’s sentence is more severe than those handed down to
other former Politburo members. Ex-Beijing Mayor Chen Xitong,
who died in June, was sentenced to 16 years in 1998 while former
Shanghai Mayor  Chen Liangyu  got an 18-year sentence in 2008. If
Bo appeals, he may get a lighter jail term, perhaps 20 years,
said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a political science professor at  Hong
Kong  Baptist University.  Appeal Judgment  Bo has 10 days after he receives the judgment to appeal to
the Shandong High People’s Court. The Jinan court said the 5
million yuan Bo embezzled will be returned to the city of
Dalian, where he was mayor.  The court found there was not sufficient evidence to prove
allegations that Bo approved of 1.34 million yuan in flight
tickets that businessman Xu Ming paid for Gu and her son with
Bo, Bo Guagua, court spokesman Liu said.  In the month since Bo’s trial, Xi’s anti-corruption
campaign has focused on people tied to  Zhou Yongkang , until last
year head of China’s security services. Zhou praised Bo’s
achievements as the party boss of Chongqing municipality just
days before Bo was ousted from the job.  Discipline Violations  Two days after the South China Morning Post reported Aug.
30 that Zhou was the target of a party corruption probe,  Jiang Jiemin , then the head of the agency overseeing state-owned
companies, was accused of “serious disciplinary violations,”
language that often precedes formal corruption charges. Jiang
and Zhou were top oil executives who served together at an
oilfield in eastern China from 1989-90, according to their
official  biographies .  In the days before the accusations against Jiang, four
executives at China National Petroleum Corp. were removed from
their posts as part of investigations by the party’s graft
watchdog. Jiang was chairman of CNPC until earlier this year and
Zhou led the company in the 1990s as general manager.  Bo, a former commerce minister, governor and mayor, was
removed from the Politburo after his police chief Wang Lijun
fled to a U.S. consulate with evidence that Gu was involved in
Heywood’s murder.  Gu was given a suspended death sentence last year for
murdering Heywood, while Wang was sentenced to 15 years behind
bars for charges including attempted defection and taking
bribes. The abuse of power charge against Bo was connected to
the allegation that he tried to cover up his wife’s involvement
in Heywood’s murder.  Made Mistakes  Bo insisted during his trial that while he made mistakes in
his career, he didn’t commit any crimes, according to
transcripts released by the court in Jinan.  He sought to discredit those who testified against him,
calling his wife crazy, comparing a former businessman in Dalian
to a wild biting dog and saying Wang had lied and was in love
with Bo’s wife.  In a letter to his family, Bo wrote that his name will be
cleared one day, the  South China Morning Post  reported Sept. 19.
Like his father, who was jailed and then rehabilitated, Bo said
he would “wait quietly in prison,” the SCMP quoted the letter
as saying. “My father was jailed many times. I will follow in
his footsteps.”  Chongqing Policies  Bo’s policies in Chongqing, where he was party secretary
from 2007 until March 2012, including a crackdown on organized
crime, an emphasis on social spending and a revival of early
Communist-era songs and slogans, drew praise from other leaders,
including Xi.  It took Heywood’s murder and Wang’s attempted defection to
bring down Bo, who may otherwise have had a major role in the
new leadership, said Dali Yang, a professor of political science
at the  University of Chicago .  “Had the homicide case not occurred, obviously he would
not have come to this,” Yang said.“Today he could be wielding
enormous power, in fact he himself might be overseeing the
entire political and legal apparatus.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  