-- Consumer Spending Probably Rose in August: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-09-22T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/consumer-spending-probably-rose-in-august-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending probably rose in
August for a fourth consecutive month as demand for autos
reached an almost six-year high, economists said before reports
this week.  Purchases increased 0.3 percent after a 0.1 percent advance
in July, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 64 economists before Commerce Department data Sept. 27. Other
reports may show a pickup in orders for  big-ticket  items other
than transportation equipment and an increase in new-home sales.  A falling jobless rate may be making Americans feel more
secure in their jobs, while rising real-estate values and record
stock prices give households the means to spend. Automakers,
including  Ford Motor Co. (F) , are reaping the benefits of pent-up
demand and easier access to credit that is helping sustain the
economic expansion.  “People are a little more encouraged about the job market,
which is getting gradually less bleak,” said Scott Brown, chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg,
 Florida . “It’s a general trend of improvement we’re seeing in
the economy.”  The Commerce Department’s spending figures this week will
also show  personal income  rose 0.4 percent in August, the
biggest gain since February, after a 0.1 percent gain a month
earlier, the survey showed. Faster job gains would help drive
wage increases needed to give household purchases a biggest
lift.  Business Investment  Businesses, too, are increasing their spending and giving a
boost to manufacturing. Excluding the volatile transportation
category, orders for  durable goods  rose 1 percent in August
after falling 0.8 percent the prior month, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed before a Sept. 25 report
from the Commerce Department.  The auto industry is at the forefront of the manufacturing
rebound, with Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Toyota Motor Corp.
reporting U.S. sales gains in August that exceeded analysts’
estimates. Sales of cars and light trucks rose 15 percent at GM,
23 percent at Toyota and 12 percent at Ford, the companies
reported.  Federal Reserve policy makers sounded a cautionary note on
the economy last week when they unexpectedly chose to continue
their record monthly stimulus.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said after a two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee. “The committee has concern that rapid tightening of
financial conditions in recent months would have the effect of
slowing growth.”  Payroll Count  Employers created 169,000 jobs last month, fewer than
economists projected, and increases in the prior two months were
revised down, Labor Department figures showed this month. The
unemployment rate fell as workers left the labor force.  The record-low mortgage rates resulting from the Fed’s
policy boosted demand for houses and property values. The
S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home prices in 20 cities rose 12.4
percent in July from the same month in 2012, the biggest gain
since February 2006, according to the Bloomberg survey median
ahead of the group’s report on Sept. 24.  Borrowing costs began climbing in June amid speculation the
Fed was on the verge of trimming stimulus. The rate on a 30-year
fixed mortgage averaged 4.58 percent in the week ended Aug. 22,
compared with 3.35 percent as recently as early May. The jump
slowed the real-estate rebound, with housing starts and sales of
new houses lagging behind economists’ forecasts.  Home Sales  Another report this week may show the market is starting to
adjust to the jump in financing costs. Purchases of  new houses 
climbed to a 420,000 annual rate in August after plunging in
July by the most in three years, economists project a Commerce
Department report on Sept. 25 will show. Even with the gain, the
purchase pace would fall short of the average 448,000 rate in
the first six months of the year.  Other reports this week may show the rebound in  consumer
confidence  has stalled as interest rates rise and concern mounts
the federal government will be forced to shut down if officials
fail to reach a compromise on increasing the debt ceiling,
according to economists surveyed.  Stocks fell at the end of last week as concerns grew about
the timing of Fed stimulus cuts and political wrangling over
government spending. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7
percent to close the week at 1,709.91, falling for a second day
after reaching a record on Sept. 18.  Also this week, a Commerce Department report on Sept. 26
will show the economy grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, revised up from a prior estimate of 2.5 percent,
the Bloomberg survey showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  