-- Hedge Funds Reduced Bullish Gold Bets Before Rally: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-09-23T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/hedge-funds-reduced-bullish-gold-bets-before-rally-commodities.html
Hedge funds  cut bullish gold bets,
reducing long contracts to the lowest since June, before prices
rose the most in a month as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly
decided not to taper stimulus.  The net-long position held by speculators fell 17 percent
to 70,113  futures and options  in the week ended Sept. 17, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Long wagers fell
6.8 percent to 109,217, the fewest since June 25, and short bets
rose 21 percent. Net-bullish  holdings  across 18 U.S.-traded
commodities dropped for a third week as investors turned bearish
on copper and added to wagers on declining corn prices.  Bullion is heading for the first annual decline since 2000
after some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value
amid evidence of faster economic growth. The Fed said Sept. 18
it needs to see more signs of sustained  labor-market  gains
before reducing its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases. The
move surprised analysts who had forecast a $5 billion cut and
bolstered demand for gold as a hedge against inflation. Futures
surged 4.7 percent the next day, the most since March 2009.  “A lot of people got caught offside with the Fed’s lack of
action,” said Michael Mullaney, the Boston-based chief
investment officer for Fiduciary Trust Co., which manages $10.7
billion of assets. “Precious metals had been falling like a
stone. The Fed factor has been taken off the table for now,
which will be bullish for gold.”  Inflation Expectations  Futures climbed 1.8 percent to $1,332.50 an ounce on the
Comex in  New York  last week, the biggest gain since Aug. 16, and
fell 0.4 percent to settle at $1,327 today. Inflation
 expectations  as measured by the break-even rate for five-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities jumped 5.9 percent last
week, the most since July 5. Sixteen analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expect gold to rise this week, with five bearish and
five neutral. It was the most-bullish survey in three weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
dropped 1.8 percent last week. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities advanced 2 percent and the Bloomberg  Dollar Index , a
gauge against 10 major trading partners, slid 1 percent. The
Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index increased 0.8 percent.  Gold more than doubled from 2008 to an all-time high of
$1,923.70 in September 2011 as the Fed cut  interest rates  to a
record and bought debt, pumping more than  $2 trillion  into the
financial system. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
the decision on cutting asset purchases depends on economic
data, and there is no set timetable for tapering.  Bernanke Comments  Bullion gained 13 percent since reaching a 34-month low on
June 28, less than two weeks after Bernanke said policy makers
may slow bond buying this year and end the program in 2014. Gold
rebounded partly as the Fed chief said tapering will depend on
economic performance, including during testimony to Congress
July 17. Prices climbed 7.3 percent that month and 6.3 percent
in August, the biggest two-month increase since August 2011.  The Fed’s decision last week and a debate among U.S.
lawmakers about whether to raise the nation’s $16.7 trillion
debt ceiling “leaves risks to  gold prices  as skewed to the
upside in the near term,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
report Sept. 18. The bank restated that bullion will resume a
drop into 2014. Citigroup Inc. expects the price to average
$1,250 next year from $1,405 in 2013, while Morgan Stanley said
today it is maintaining a “fairly pessimistic outlook” on the
metal because of prospects that easing may end.  ‘Borderline Decision’  The U.S. central bank may trim bond buying in October after
last week’s “borderline decision” not to taper, Fed Bank of
St. Louis President  James Bullard  said Sept. 20. Bullard, a
voter on policy this year who has backed record stimulus, spoke
in a Bloomberg Television interview. Gold tumbled 2.7 percent
that day, the most in 11 weeks.  Investor holdings of  gold  through exchange-traded products
fell 26 percent this year, erasing $59.6 billion from the value
of the funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Paulson , the
billionaire hedge fund manager and biggest investor in the  SPDR
Gold Trust (GLD) , the largest bullion ETP, cut his stake by 53 percent
last quarter, a government filing showed. This year’s price
slump forced Newcrest Mining Ltd. and other  producers  to
announce at least $26 billion in writedowns.  The Fed’s latest move “doesn’t change the longer-term
picture,” said  Jack Ablin , the Chicago-based chief investment
officer of BMO Private Bank, which oversees about $66 billion of
assets. “Anyone who believes that the Fed can’t keep doing this
forever should also believe that gold can’t keep running at this
pace forever. Unless fundamentals catch up, we’re due for a
pullback in a lot of assets, and in gold in particular.”  Gold Inflows  Money managers added $850 million to gold funds in the week
ended Sept. 18, the most since October, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.
Inflows for commodity funds were $1.2 billion, the most since
November, EPFR said.  Gold rebounded last week as the Bloomberg Dollar Index
tumbled to a seven-month low on Sept. 19, boosting the appeal of
the metal as a protection against currency debasement.  Japan ’s
gold imports more than tripled to 14.2 metric tons in the seven
months through July 31 from a year earlier as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe worked to battle deflation.  Clive Capital LLP, the $1 billion commodity hedge-fund firm
founded by  Chris Levett , plans to close after posting more than
two years of investment losses, according to a letter to clients
obtained by Bloomberg News Sept. 20. Assets managed by commodity
hedge funds have fallen 5 percent since the end of 2012 to $75
billion, according to Evestment, an Atlanta-based data provider.
The S&P GSCI dropped 2 percent this year.  Crude Oil  Net-long positions in  crude oil  slid 3.1 percent to 280,959
contracts, the lowest since July 2, the CFTC data show. West
Texas Intermediate tumbled 3.3 percent last week, the most since
June, as  Libya ’s production rose and the threat of military
strikes against  Syria  receded.  Money managers are holding a net-short position in copper
of 3,807 contracts. That compares with a net-long holding of
2,007 a week earlier and is the first overall bearish outlook
since Aug. 6. Bullish silver wagers slumped 16 percent to 13,992
in the first two-week decline since May.  A  measure  of net-long positions across 11 agricultural
products slumped 9.8 percent to 270,641 futures and options, the
biggest decline since investors were net-short Aug. 6. The S&P’s
Agriculture Index of eight commodities dropped 1.4 percent last
week, the most since late July.  Global Production  Money managers expanded their net-short position in corn to
104,211 contracts, from 64,686 a week earlier. The net-bearish
wheat holding reached 50,882 from 47,008, the most negative
outlook since April 2012. Investors have bet on lower prices
since December on signs of expanding global production.  The S&P GSCI gauge surged 92 percent from the end of 2008
through June 2011 as the Fed’s unprecedented money printing
helped revive economies and demand for metals, grains and
energy. Work began on fewer U.S. homes than expected in August,
Commerce Department data showed Sept. 18. Chinese Premier  Li
Keqiang  said Sept. 11 the foundation for recovery isn’t solid.
 China  is the biggest consumer of soybeans, copper, cotton and
pork, while the U.S. is the top user of crude and corn.  “What the market has come to appreciate is why the Fed
decided not to taper: They’re concerned about the pace of growth
here,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps oversee $3.5 billion as
co-chief investment officer of Lisle, Illinois-based Oakbrook
Investments LLC. “I would view that as a negative for
commodities. We haven’t totally turned the corner yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  