-- Suu Kyi Warns No Guarantee Myanmar Won’t Return to Military Rule
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/there-is-no-guarantee-myanmar-won-t-backslide-suu-kyi-says-1-.html
There is no surety that Myanmar
won’t return to military rule, opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi said, even as she called for “responsible investment” to
accelerate the country’s economic development.  “I cannot guarantee that there will not be backslides,”
Suu Kyi said at  Singapore Management University  yesterday. There
is a “need to change the constitution, which provides the
military with a privileged space in national politics,” she
said, describing it as the first step toward ensuring the
military does not interfere with a civilian government.  Myanmar’s shift to democracy after five decades of military
rule has drawn interest from companies including Google Inc.,
Coca-Cola Co. and Unilever Plc, while  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  last
September became the first payments network to issue a license
to a bank in the country. Chinese and Japanese companies are
also investing in the nation, which borders  India ,  China  and
 Thailand .  Still, the country needs to improve its rule of law and
democratic reforms must not wait for 2015, when general
elections are scheduled to be held, Suu Kyi said on Sept. 21
during her visit to  Singapore . She said in June that she wants
to run for president, even as she is ineligible to become head
of state under the current constitution.  “If you are going to try to revive the economy, you need
capital,” Suu Kyi said Sept. 21, when asked if investors should
wait for more political stability before committing resources to
the country. “I wouldn’t advise you to draw out. I would like
you to continue your investments. But make them as responsible
as possible.”  Stable Transition  Myanmar must question whether its transition to democracy
is stable and strong enough, Suu Kyi said yesterday. She cannot
run for president because the constitution says the president
can’t have a child who is the citizen of a foreign country, and
her two sons are British nationals.  The country’s parliament has said it plans to review the
2008 military-drafted constitution, with a commission to
recommend changes. Suu Kyi has strengthened ties with the
military since joining parliament, while President Thein Sein’s
shift toward democracy has prompted countries such as the U.S.
to ease sanctions.  Suu Kyi yesterday asked young people in the country to
contribute more to society. She also said she does not blame
citizens who want to detach themselves from Myanmar and make a
life for themselves abroad.  “I want the young people to help in transition,” she said
in a separate speech organized by the Myanmar Club in Singapore.
“Don’t wait for the situation inside the country to improve,”
she told hundreds of nationals who gave her a standing ovation
when she appeared on stage.  Ethnic Groups  It is the government’s responsibility to diminish the fear
of attack by ethnic groups through the enforcement of just laws,
Suu Kyi said yesterday. Sectarian violence erupted last June
between ethnic Rakhine Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya in Rakhine
state, and many of Myanmar’s 64 million people view the 800,000
Rohingya as illegal migrants from what is now  Bangladesh .  The government must also protect its people and the country
from “rapacious” multinationals or individuals through rule of
law, transparency and accountability, she said. The  Singapore
Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry  said in a statement it
held a meeting with Suu Kyi about the business and investment
environment in Myanmar.  The country needs clean courts, more efficient  law
enforcement  and an independent judiciary, which is “one of the
first requirements for the rule of law,” Suu Kyi separately
said Sept. 21. A firmer rule of law will include changes to the
constitution, she said, without giving details.  The investment scene in the Southeast Asian nation “is not
as bright as people had hoped it would be” and investors “are
not sure that their investment will be safe and secure because
there isn’t a rule of law,” Suu Kyi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  