-- European LNG Market Needs U.S. for Spot Cargoes, Eneco Says
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-09-23T11:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/european-lng-market-needs-u-s-for-spot-cargoes-eneco-says.html
Liquefied natural gas traders in
northwest  Europe  won’t buy many short-term cargoes of the fuel
until U.S. export projects boost supply and end the deferral of
cargoes to  Asia , according to Eneco Holding NV’s trading unit.  At least six U.S. terminals need to start operating by 2018
to 2020 to increase shipments to Europe, according to Frens Geuzinge, head of gas structuring and origination at Eneco
Energy Trade. The Rotterdam-based company hasn’t bought a spot
cargo this year after contracting one in 2012, he said.  Price differences  between Asia and Europe widened in the
past two years as demand soared in  Japan  following the shutdown
of nuclear reactors after the March 2011 Fukushima disaster,
reducing imports to Europe and encouraging reloading of tankers
for exports from  storage tanks . The U.S. has approved exports of
LNG to countries with which it doesn’t have a free trade
agreement from four terminals and 18 applications are pending as
a shale gas boom boosts domestic gas output. The first plant,
Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Sabine Pass, may start producing LNG in
2015, according to a regulatory filing Aug. 2.  “It will be very difficult to bring in spot cargoes into
northwest Europe as long as the worldwide LNG market is tight,”
Geuzinge said by e-mail Sept. 20. “After some U.S. LNG projects
will be developed and producing, the northwest European market
will become more relaxed.”  Eneco, which has an LNG team of five people, has a position
at the Gate terminal in Rotterdam to import 1 billion cubic
meters of gas per year until October 2015. While having a supply
contract with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for half of that volume
until then, the company also concluded several option contracts
for the remaining capacity, as well as trying to source spot
cargoes, Geuzinge said.  Asian Premium  Asia has paid on average $3.47 per million British thermal
units more than Europe in the past year, according to
assessments by World Gas Intelligence of cargoes for delivery in
four to eight weeks. Prices in Asia rose to a record $19.40 in
February, when the European contract cost $14.70, the WGI data
show. The premium was at $4.05, the highest level in six weeks,
as of Sept. 16, according to the data.  “Accepting LNG at pricing conditions above the traditional
benchmarks will be difficult for us,” Geuzinge said.  Since the opening of Gate in September 2011, Eneco has
berthed two ships under the Shell contract, in January 2012 and
April 2013, and one spot cargo in July 2012, he said. Gate
received two tankers in January 2012, the Gemmata and LNG
Jupiter, according to port and ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Dutch port received one cargo in April 2013 on
board the Al Khuwair and two vessels in July 2012, LNG  Port
Harcourt  and Arctic Princess, the data show.  European Volumes  Spot and short-term trades accounted for 25 percent of the
global LNG market last year, according to the  International
Group  of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers, a Paris-based lobby
group. While Europe received 12 percent of global spot cargoes
in 2012, down from 20 percent a year earlier, it accounted for
most of the 75 reloads, up from 44 in 2011, the data  show .  Eneco is also using Gate for reloads and plans to develop a
small-scale LNG business in northwest Europe, which “inevitably
will develop,” Geuzinge said. In 2015, a new sulfur-emission
regulation will come into force for the  North Sea  and the  Baltic
Sea , and the use of environmentally cleaner LNG is expected to
grow in transportation, according to Gate.  While much of the North American supplies, linked to  Henry
Hub  benchmark prices, will head to the Pacific Basin to benefit
from higher demand, some volumes will end up in Europe, said
John Hattenberger, chief executive officer of Global NatGas
Advisors LLC in Houston, who has worked in LNG and natural gas
for 36 years including as the former head of Gazprom Marketing &
Trading Ltd.’s U.S. unit.  Market Liquidity  “I think the major impact from North American exports will
be a huge increase in market liquidity: more ships, flexible
delivery, Henry Hub indexed pricing, and a lot more players in
the LNG trading space,” he said last month.  The Energy Department this month granted Dominion Resources
Inc. approval to export LNG from an existing terminal in
 Maryland , after allowing Lake Charles Exports LLC last month to
ship the fuel from its terminal in  Louisiana . The U.S. had
previously approved LNG exports from the Sabine Pass terminal in
 Cameron Parish , Louisiana, and the Freeport LNG Terminal in
Quintana Island,  Texas .  North America  will probably export 50 million metric tons
in 2020, 80 percent of which on the  spot market , according to
Thierry Bros, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris. That
would help boost the spot market to 110 million tons, or 32
percent of total LNG supply, he said.  “We should get a little bit more LNG in Europe in 2020,”
Bros said Sept. 20 by e-mail. “In our model we have 50 billion
cubic meters of LNG in 2018 versus a record low of 42 billion
cubic meters in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  