-- Euro Approaches Seven-Month High After Merkel Win; Aussie Gains
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-09-23T07:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/euro-gains-against-dollar-after-merkel-seen-winning-election.html
The euro approached a seven-month
high versus the dollar after Germany’s voters put  Angela Merkel 
on course for the biggest election win since  Helmut Kohl ’s 1990
post-reunification victory.  The U.S. currency fell against the yen as markets assess
when the  Federal Reserve  will reduce the pace of its bond
purchases. Federal Open Market Committee voting member William
C. Dudley is scheduled to speak today following comments from
Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  indicating an October
move is possible. Australia’s dollar rose after a gauge of
Chinese manufacturing was stronger than analysts had forecast.  “This is a vote in favor of Merkel rather than a vote in
favor of big changes,” said Steven Englander, Citigroup Inc.’s
global head of G-10 currency strategy in New York. “It’s most
likely Merkel will govern in a grand coalition with the  Social
Democrats , so that’s a slight euro positive because the
government would be somewhat more friendly to the peripheral
nations in the currency bloc.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3539 at 8:27 a.m. in London
after rising to $1.3569 on Sept. 19, the highest since Feb. 7.
It slipped 0.3 percent to 134 yen. The dollar weakened 0.4
percent to 98.98 yen.  The euro has strengthened 2.6 percent this year against the
greenback and 17 percent versus the yen. Japanese markets are
closed today for a national holiday.  Lacking Majority  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, slipped 0.2 percent to 1,011.56,
after tumbling 1 percent last week.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc took 41.5 percent of the
vote in yesterday’s election, versus 25.7 percent for the Social
Democrats of  Peer Steinbrueck , according to results from all 299
districts. That leaves her short of a majority and party leaders
are due to meet today to discuss coalition talks.  Merkel’s choice is limited to a re-run of her first-term
“grand coalition” with her traditional SPD rivals or the
first-ever national alliance with the Greens. Neither party
rushed to endorse a coalition.  A repeat of the grand coalition “is much as markets had
expected going into the election, so the euro has rallied only
modestly,”  Darren Gibbs , the chief economist at Deutsche Bank
AG in Auckland, wrote in a note to clients today.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will speak in
the European Parliament in Brussels today.  The euro climbed 3.6 percent this quarter versus the
dollar, poised for its biggest advance since the first three
months of 2011.  Euro Longs  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a gain in the euro compared with
those on a drop, or  net longs , climbed to 31,907 in the week
ended Sept. 17, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
That’s the most since Aug. 27, when bullish bets climbed to a
two-year high. Bets on a slide in the yen declined to 88,794
over the same period from 95,066 in the period through Sept. 10,
according to the figures.  A  composite index  based on a survey of  purchasing managers 
in euro-area services and manufacturing industries rose to 51.8
in September from 51.5 in August, London-based Markit Economics
is forecast to say today according to a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The dollar declined for a second day versus the yen before
Fed Bank of New York President Dudley, Atlanta Fed President
 Dennis Lockhart  and Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  are
scheduled to speak today. The central bank last week
unexpectedly refrained from reducing its $85 billion in monthly
asset purchases, saying it needs to see more signs of sustained
labor market gains.  Fed Uncertainty  “Dollar-yen, for quite some time now, has been mainly
driven by the Federal Reserve’s taper expectations,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
 Hong Kong . “There’s a lot of uncertainty as to where we stand
with tapering.”  RBC predicts the dollar will fall to 92 yen by year-end.  Bullard, a voter on policy this year, said Sept. 20 that a
“small tapering” was possible in October. The central bank
will be able to weigh the September jobs report and revisions of
prior months as well as updated housing reports at its Oct.
29-30 meeting, he said.  Australia’s dollar advanced after a report showed
manufacturing expansion in  China , the nation’s biggest trading
partner. The preliminary reading for a Chinese manufacturing
Purchasing Managers’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 51.2 this month from 50.1 in August. The
Bloomberg survey median was for 50.9.  The Aussie gained 0.3 percent to 94.219 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 