-- Flake’s Conservative Quest for Senate Comity
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-09-22T15:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/flake-s-conservative-quest-for-senate-comity.html
Senator Jeff Flake of  Arizona  likes
President  Barack Obama , voted to give him the authority to
strike  Syria , supported the comprehensive immigration
legislation favored by the White House, and works comfortably
with members of the opposing party.  The six-term House Republican, who is now serving his first
term in the Senate, also is a rock-ribbed conservative,
especially on economic and fiscal issues. He has been a darling
of the Club for Growth; before going to Congress, he ran the
Goldwater Institute in his home state.  As a conservative who mixes conviction and civility, he is
a member of a vanishing breed. He is an antidote to the Tea
Party-driven congressional Republicans who are threatening to
shut down the government or risk a U.S. default by refusing to
increase the  debt ceiling  -- and don’t withhold their venom
toward Obama. (Michigan Representative Kerry Bentivolio, for
example, delights his constituents with his relish for a
presidential impeachment. His animosity runs so deep that he
said he  “couldn’t stand”  to be in the same room with Obama.)  On most social questions, Flake is squarely on the right.
He opposes abortion rights, and, unlike Arizona’s senior
senator,  John McCain , he refused to break with orthodoxy and
support a mild background check for gun buyers. He is a Mormon -
- a graduate of  Brigham Young University  and former missionary
in  Africa  -- and opposes same-sex marriage. But he isn’t a
demagogue; in the House, he voted to repeal the military’s
“don’t ask, don’t tell” restriction and to allow gays to serve
openly in the armed forces.  ‘Better Atmosphere’  Even though he has been attacked from the political right
for defying the majority in his party with his Syria and
immigration votes, he has no regrets.  “Syria was more about the presidency than the president,”
he said in an interview last week outside the Senate chamber.
“You’ve got to look beyond the immediate. America benefits from
having a strong commander in chief.”  He was a member of the bipartisan Senate Gang of Eight,
which crafted a comprehensive  immigration-reform measure  this
year. Six years ago, he backed another effort to change
immigration policies. “There’s a much better atmosphere today
on immigration than there was in 2007,” he said.  As a U.S. representative, Flake’s successful libertarian-minded campaign to ban earmarks -- the small spending projects
that members were long allowed to direct to their districts --so
annoyed party leaders that he was denied a seat on the House
Appropriations Committee.  Flake acknowledged that ending earmarks also took away a
tool lawmakers used to forge compromises though political horse-trading. Nonetheless, he insists that the practice perpetuated
an “obscene” system. “Members of Congress used earmarks to
contract out their campaign financing,” he said. “It was the
currency of corruption.”  He is consistently anti-spending, anti-tax and anti- deficit . A decade ago, he was one of the few  House Republicans 
to oppose President  George W. Bush ’s expanded prescription-drug
benefit for senior citizens because the measure wasn’t paid for.
He has favored replacing the income tax with a national  sales
tax .  On the economy, Obama “has been a disaster,” he said. Yet
the athletic and deeply tanned Arizonan concedes that the
president “has a good jump shot,” which he observed when he
was invited to play in one of the president’s pickup basketball
games.  Unlike some of his colleagues, he doesn’t personalize his
philosophical differences with Obama. “I’ve never been able to
work up the hatred that some Republicans have for the
president,” Flake said. “As a person, I like him; he’s a good
family man.”  Sensible Stance  The fiscal conservative believes Tea Party-inspired plans
to shut down the government or to oppose an increase in the debt
ceiling and risk default unless Obamacare is killed are crazy.
“It’s a mistake,” said Flake. He, too, is a critic of the
 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , but he says the
hard-line Republican approach “won’t work, and Congress is held
in pretty low regard already.”  This sensible stance has drawn the ire of a few old allies.
The Senate Conservatives Fund, a political action committee, is
running ads against Flake and other Republicans who refuse to
hold the government hostage to repealing the health-care law.  The PAC gushed over Flake during his Senate run last year,
and its chairman, former Republican Senator  Jim DeMint , endorsed
him: “When it comes to fighting wasteful spending and parochial
politics, nobody has done more to advance the cause of freedom
than Jeff Flake. Nobody.”  Today, Flake shrugs off the criticism as well as the more
vicious attacks on his Syria vote and his immigration stance,
but he regrets the more acrimonious political climate. “The
last five years or so, this has become a lot more intense,” he
said. “It’s the shirts versus the skins; you can’t work with
the other side on anything.”  He said he would continue to seek common ground with the
other side: “There are a lot of talented, straight-shooting
Democrats here.” Specifically, he cites his work with West
Virginia Senator  Joe Manchin  on regulatory matters, with
Colorado Senator Michael Bennet on immigration, and with a
fellow freshman, Martin Heinrich of  New Mexico , on questions
related to public land.  Most of his closer Republican colleagues share his fiscal
conservatism:  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma ,  Pat Toomey  of  Pennsylvania 
and  Florida ’s Marco Rubio, with whom he also worked on
immigration. He also has high regard for -- and often defers to
-- McCain, even though his Arizona colleague doesn’t share all
his conservative views.  The breakdown in comity and increased political
polarization, he said, doesn’t just stymie liberals; it’s
harmful to conservative causes, too.  “As an advocate of limited government, I’m often not
opposed to gridlock,” he said. But the lack of any regular
order in the Senate “inhibits oversight and other
responsibilities.”  The result often is destructive and mean-spirited politics:
“When you engage in vitriol,” he said, “it always comes back
to haunt you.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in  Washington  at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 