-- Germans Embrace Merkel With Mandate Forged in Europe Crisis
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-09-23T09:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/germans-embrace-merkel-with-mandate-forged-in-europe-s-crisis.html
After eight years, Germans are
embracing  Angela Merkel  as never before.  Merkel, the first female German chancellor and the first
from the formerly communist east, won over more of the
electorate than in either of her two previous victories. She
became the first German incumbent to increase their share since
Helmut Schmidt’s re-election in 1980, a result that not even
 Helmut Kohl  could claim in the wake of reunification.  “She conveys reliability, stability, consistency,” said
Daniel Hamilton, head of the Center for Transatlantic Studies in
 Washington , who has met Merkel several times. She evokes
“emotion among German people that’s reassuring” and conveys a
message of “no experiments” at a time when most other European
economies look more troubled than  Germany ’s.  Merkel’s mandate illustrates her success in pulling along a
German public opposed to aiding weaker euro-area nations with a
self-styled “step-by-step” response to the debt crisis that
infuriated allies. Merkel led her Christian Democrats to 41.5
percent of the vote, according to  official results  released
early today, the party bloc’s biggest share in 23 years.  The vote confirmed polls showing Germans trust her
leadership, backing her austerity-first response to the debt
crisis and crediting her for economic gains. In the campaign,
Merkel touted  unemployment  that fell to a two-decade low on her
watch, progress toward a balanced budget and the euro’s
advantages for Germany’s export-driven economy.  Needs Ally  Merkel, 59, will need an ally to govern as projections
suggest she fell short of a majority in the lower house of
parliament, the Bundestag. Securing a third-term coalition would
allow her to beat  Margaret Thatcher ’s 11 years in power in the
U.K. and  Tony Blair ’s 10. Kohl made it through 16 years, making
him the longest-serving post-World War II German leader.  Neither Thatcher nor Blair completed their third terms.
Even Kohl overcame a party revolt before unification gave him a
second political life.  “A third term will be the hardest for Merkel,” Ulrich Sarcinelli, a political scientist at the University of Koblenz-Landau, said by phone. “Questions will arise about who becomes
her heir-apparent and what her Christian Democratic Union stands
for as a party. As soon as her approval ratings decline, she
will also come under pressure within her party.”  ‘Unpretentious’  Merkel’s personal strengths with voters include her
“totally unpretentious” style and that she “analyzes
problems” rather than seeking out “the grand design,”
Christine Lieberknecht, a  Christian Democratic Union  party ally
who is state premier of Thuringia, said in an interview. “She
speaks with people eye-to-eye and they appreciate that. Yet at
the same time, she’s the most powerful woman in the world.”  Merkel, a Lutheran pastor’s daughter who excelled in
school, was working as a researcher in a state physics lab when
East Germany opened its border to the West on Nov. 9, 1989. Soon
after, she walked into the office of a pro-democracy group to
help set up personal computers. Within months, she was deputy
spokeswoman for East Germany’s first and last freely elected
government, where she came to the attention of CDU envoys. When
East and  West Germany  merged and Kohl won the first post-unity
election, he gave her a cabinet post.  Male Dominated  A political outsider, Merkel honed her ambition to succeed
as an eastern woman in a party dominated by West German men. In
one of her boldest moments, she broke with Kohl over a party
financing scandal in 2000. When Thatcher died in April, Merkel
eulogized her as an advocate of freedom for the former Soviet
bloc and an example for women striving for elected office.  Merkel, whose second husband is a fellow scientist, allowed
other personal glimpses during the campaign. At an event in May
sponsored by “Brigitte,” a women’s magazine, she talked about
unwinding “when I stir the pot on the stove” and how “nice
eyes” make men attractive.  Still missing is a Kohl-like vision for Germany and  Europe .
While Merkel has suggested she may try to reclaim national
powers for Germany from the European Union level, she hasn’t
spelled out a plan. It’s a point that was criticized by  Peer Steinbrueck , her Social Democratic challenger and first-term
finance minister.  He said Merkel simply refuses to spend political capital.  ‘On the Line’  “Was there ever a time when Merkel said she won’t just
wait and observe and instead says: ‘I’m putting my
chancellorship on the line,’” Steinbrueck said.  Those moments may come during a third Merkel term. Merkel
and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  acknowledged during the
campaign that  Greece  may need a third bailout as early as next
year, while declining to speculate on an amount. “When I know
what something costs, then I will say it,” she said during a
round table interview with other top candidates after polls
closed yesterday.  Germany’s energy overhaul is another political and economic
risk as subsidies for wind and solar power jack up electricity
prices for homes and industry. The energy blueprint came after
the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011 prompted Merkel to
reverse course and back a nuclear-free Germany. That aligned her
with most voters.  Merkel says changing Germany’s renewable-energy law will be
her first priority in a third term. That still leaves the task
of modernizing the  power grid , a project she calls a matter of
national pride, ingenuity and profit.  Unfinished Business  Also unfinished is the debt crisis and plans for a European
banking union, where Germany has balked at calls by the European
Commission and  European Central Bank  to set up a centralized
system for winding down banks.  Bild, Germany’s most-read newspaper, reported in April that
Merkel had told confidants that 10 years is the most a
chancellor can stand, signaling she wouldn’t serve out her term
if re-elected. She denied the report and repeated in a ZDF
television panel interview last night that she plans to serve a
full four-year term until 2017.  Numerous heirs-apparent, such as former Environment
Minister Norbert Roettgen and  Roland Koch , the former state
premier of Hesse state who left politics to become chief
executive officer of builder  Bilfinger SE (GBF) , have dropped out
during Merkel’s 13 years as CDU head, felled by lost power
struggles or scandal.  One possible successor is Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen, a mother of seven who lived in the U.S. during the 1990s
and irked Merkel by saying euro countries should put up gold as
collateral for bailouts. Her father, Ernst Albrecht, was premier
of Lower Saxony state. Others include Defense Minister Thomas de Maiziere, Merkel’s former chief of staff.  Big Decisions  After eight years in power, Merkel’s legacy includes her
decision, hatched over months and announced almost off-hand in a
radio interview, to stamp out talk of a Greek exit from the euro
and avoid a breakup of the 17-nation currency. She abolished the
military draft, expanded day care and, taking up a classic
Social Democratic theme, pushed through minimum-wage rules for
temporary and construction workers.  While Die Welt newspaper calls her the “Iron Chancellor,”
Merkel is no Thatcher, differing from the “ Iron Lady ” in her
mistrust of financial markets, her pick-and-choose approach to
ties with the U.S. and preference for pragmatism over ideology.  “Merkel’s weak point is the energy overhaul,” Sarcinelli
said. “That could become the toughest test of a third term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  