-- Miliband Distances Himself From U.K. Labour Infighting Memoir
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-22T10:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/miliband-distances-himself-from-u-k-labour-infighting-memoir.html
Ed Miliband  sought to distance
himself from allegations he was aware of infighting at the heart
of his  Labour Party  when former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  was
in power, as the movement began its annual conference.  “ Power Trip: A Decade of Policy, Plots and Spin ,” a
memoir by Damian McBride, a former aide to Brown, is being
serialized in the Daily Mail newspaper. It tells of McBride’s
attempts to neutralize criticism of Brown within the party by
passing on to the media stories about ministers including
alcohol abuse and extramarital affairs.  Miliband, an ally of Brown, served as energy secretary in
his government until the party was ousted from power in 2010.
The Independent on Sunday newspaper today cited an unidentified
party source as saying that Miliband, who succeeded Brown as
Labour leader, may have been copied in to e-mails that were at
the center of the 2009 smear campaign.  “People who know me would say I am someone who was never
engaged in the factionalism and never engaged in the briefing,”
Miliband told BBC television’s “Andrew Marr Show” today in
Brighton, the conference venue on  England ’s south coast.
“That’s not my style of politics; it’s never been my style of
politics. I find it reprehensible and not something I would
engage in.”  McBride was forced to resign as a special adviser to Brown
in 2009 after newspaper reports showed e-mails that discussed
using Web sites supporting Labour to publish false claims about
lawmakers from the then opposition Conservatives.  ‘I Complained’  “It’s a matter of public record: I was concerned about the
activities of Damian McBride and, indeed, I complained to Gordon
Brown about it,” Miliband said. Asked if he had urged Brown to
fire McBride, the Labour leader said: “I did, yes.”  Labour is meeting in Brighton with opinion polls showing a
narrowing of its lead as Britain’s economy has returned to
growth. One YouGov Plc survey last week showed Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservatives running neck-and-neck with the
opposition party. Some Labour lawmakers broke ranks last month
to criticize Miliband’s leadership style.  Miliband dismissed as “nonsense” accusations by a
Conservative Treasury minister, Sajid Javid, that there’s a 27.9
billion pound ($45 billion) “black hole” in his party’s
spending plans for after the next general election in 2015.
Javid released an analysis by Treasury officials that he said
showed Labour spending promises would require more than 1,000
pounds of extra borrowing per household in 2015.  ‘Absolutely Clear’  “We have said in 2015-16 that Labour won’t be borrowing
more for day-to-day spending,” Miliband said. “We have been
absolutely clear about that. The next Labour government will be
facing different circumstances from the last.”  Miliband’s comments do not rule out further spending on
capital projects.  He also said his party was examining making the so-called
mansion tax one of its election campaign pledges. That would be
a levy on houses valued at more than 2 million pounds, a policy
favored by the U.K.’s third party, the Liberal Democrats, who
are now in coalition with Cameron.  While the Liberal Democrats used their conference last week
to leave the way open to a possible coalition with Labour after
2015, Miliband refused to be drawn on any possible coalition
negotiations, dubbing them a “poker game” in which the public
has no interest.  On Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , Miliband said: “I
really hate what he is doing with this government,” calling him
an “accomplice” to austerity measures favored by the Tories.  Announcing a series of new policies, Miliband said he would
require big companies employing workers from outside the
European Union to train more apprentices. The Sun on Sunday
newspaper reported that Miliband will also publish plans to stop
energy companies putting up bills when their profits are rising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  