-- India’s Rural Silent Revolution Spurs Spending
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-09-23T07:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/india-s-rural-silent-revolution-spurs-spending-in-boon-for-singh.html
Kamal Chand takes a break from
watering his wheat field to sit under a banyan tree and flick
through advertisements for motorbikes. Rising welfare payments
have turned the Indian farmer’s dream of owning one into reality.  “The government has really helped us,” said Chand, 35,
eyeing a picture of a  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  bike. Higher guaranteed
crop prices, wages from a government jobs program and grants
have allowed him to renovate his home in the village of Challi
in Rajasthan state, buy his wife gold ornaments and acquire his
first Nokia Oyj mobile phone. He still has $600 for the bike.  Since gaining power in 2004, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
has poured $77 billion into helping the 833 million people in
 India ’s  countryside , helping to double rural consumer spending.
Facing an election within eight months, the prospect of votes
from farmers seeking more handouts offers Singh’s coalition the
potential payback of another term, even as a slowing economy and
rupee slide erode support for his Congress Party in the cities.  “Congress will drive home the message that rural quality
of life has improved,” said Mohan Guruswamy, chairman of the
Centre for Policy Alternatives in New Delhi and a former Finance
Ministry adviser. “It’s their calling card for the election.”  Farm wages adjusted for inflation  rose  almost 7 percent on
average annually in the five years through March 2012, from 1
percent in the previous decade, according to India’s Planning
Commission. Rural  consumer spending  surged 19 percent a year to
$69 billion from 2009 through 2012, exceeding the $55 billion in
cities and large towns. Singh won parliament’s approval last
month for $20 billion a year to sell subsidized food to the poor.  Jobs, Houses  The government has  at least  12 programs aimed at India’s
villages -- including state-sponsored jobs, a housing plan named
after former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, road-building, mid-day meals for schoolchildren and money for farm modernization.  In a country where the electorate is fractured into
hundreds of groups, often based on caste, religion or region,
these programs offer Congress what may be the best bet for a
third straight five-year term in elections that must be held by
May. India has six national  parties  and more than 1,000 smaller
parties, according to the Election Commission. The nation’s last
single-party government was elected in 1984.  Nearly 90 percent of the 543 lawmakers in India’s
parliament represent rural or semi-urban constituencies,
according to the New Delhi-based Centre for the Study of
Developing Studies. Of those 486 seats, Congress and its allies
won 228 in 2009 federal elections after  promising  farmers access
to bank loans at lower  interest rates  and higher compensation
for land sold for setting up factories. The coalition led by the
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  got 140.  Voter Preferences  In Indian cities, 67 percent of voters say Singh’s alliance
has lost credibility in the face of corruption and elevated
inflation, according to a poll by CNN-IBN television in May.
Only 31 percent said the Congress party-led administration
represented the best option for running India.  India’s new central bank chief,  Raghuram Rajan , stepped up
the campaign to contain the cost of living with an unexpected
increase in the benchmark interest rate three days ago. The move,
weeks after the former International Monetary Fund chief
economist took office, raised the risk of tension with Singh’s
administration in the run-up to the election.  “Even though rapid price increases are detrimental to the
government’s chances of re-election at the national poll due by
May 2014, higher interest rates will do little to reverse
inflation in the short term even as they cast a further pall
over prospects for consumption and investment,” analysts at New
York-based Eurasia Group including Anjalika Bardalai wrote in a
note last week.  Chand’s Village  At the same time, a flood of government cash and a rise in
agricultural output has given Chand and other inhabitants of
India’s nearly 600,000  villages  money to spend on goods other
than basic necessities, making them a target for consumer firms
such as Hindustan Unilever Ltd.,  Procter & Gamble Co . and
homegrown goods makers like ITC Ltd. and Dabur India Ltd. Food-grain production has risen by a third in the past  nine  years.  Chand’s village of Challi, in Udaipur district, is among
the most backward villages in Rajasthan, a state with some of
the worst malnutrition and poverty in India. Most of its 200
people belong to the Bhil tribe, which is on almost the lowest
rung on the country’s traditional social hierarchy.  Yet, the village has at least three houses with satellite
dishes beaming in Hindi television sitcoms, and about 10 homes
with telephone lines. Rising local incomes prompted Panna Lal,
25, to open Challi’s only grocery store in May.  Good Life  Sitting behind a counter with large transparent glass jars
containing toffees and biscuits, Lal says his biggest struggle
is keeping pace with the variety of requests from his customers.
His inventory of soaps, biscuits, cooking oil and detergents is
running out faster than he expected.  “People in villages have developed an aspiration for the
good life,” said Shailendra Tiwari, who runs welfare programs
in the village and surrounding areas for Sewa Mandir, a
nonprofit organization. “It’s a revolution that is spreading
silently.”  Nearly 42 percent of India’s rural households owned
televisions in the fiscal year through March 2010, compared with
26 percent in 2004-2005, according to government data. Sales of
motorbikes and scooters doubled in the same period. The S&P BSE
FMCG Index of 10 consumer companies including Hindustan Unilever
and Dabur has risen eight-fold since the Congress-led coalition
took power in 2004, twice the benchmark Sensex index’s gain.  Rahul’s Strategy  Rahul Gandhi , scion of the country’s foremost political
dynasty and the Congress Party’s chief election strategist,
focused on the government’s programs for the poor in recent
election rallies in Rajasthan.  “When we talk of programs like the right to food and
medical insurance for poor, the opposition asks where will the
money come from,” Gandhi said to loud cheers from crowd in the
district of Baran last week. “They don’t care about the poor.”  The expenditure since 2004 under Singh and Congress
President  Sonia Gandhi , Rahul’s mother, has saddled India with
one of  Asia ’s widest budget deficits and contributed to
 consumer-price  inflation running above 7 percent for the past 20
months. Price pressures have left the  Reserve Bank  of India with
little scope to lower borrowing costs even amid growth at a
decade-low 5 percent in the fiscal year through March.  “It is a bad growth mix,” said  Chetan Ahya , an economist
at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong . “To take a large chunk of
existing income of somebody and transfer it to poor people
without taking any output is by nature very inflationary.”  The  deficit  and an exodus of funds from  emerging markets 
pushed the rupee to a record low against the dollar last month.
The currency has lost about 12 percent this year. It fell 0.5
percent to 62.6050 a dollar as of 1:16 p.m. in Mumbai.  Mass Support  “It is in the Congress Party’s advantage to wait until
next year for elections because things are so bad right now in
the economy,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies. “They would want the benefits
of cheap food grains to help them win some mass support.”  Low-cost food is expected to come from the program to
subsidize grain for the two-thirds of India’s 1.2 billion people
who live on less than $2 a day. The government has to continue
with some subsidies as they are desirable and acceptable in
India, where a large section of the population is poor, Economic
Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in  New Delhi  today.  While Congress argues that subsidies are needed to
alleviate some of Asia’s worst poverty, the main opposition
Bharatiya Janata Party says the current system is corrupt and
 wastes  billions of rupees of taxpayers’ money. Even after
decades of public spending programs for the poor, India still
ranked below  Papua New Guinea  in gross national income per
capita last year, according to the  World Bank .  Opposition Campaign  The BJP’s campaign is also likely to underscore the
inflation that has resulted from rural spending, said Satish
Misra, a political analyst at the Observer Research Foundation
in New Delhi.  “Congress has a tough battle ahead,” said Misra.  Still, it’s important for governments to continue with
welfare programs for the poor to improve their  living conditions 
and achieve balanced growth, said Laveesh Bhandari, a director
of Indicus Analytics, an economics research company in New Delhi.  “The schemes have to be definitely smarter than the ones
that are being implemented now to avoid duplication and waste of
funds,” Bhandari said.  Cheap food may shore up the ruling coalition’s support in
poor states like  Uttar Pradesh  and Bihar, which send about a
fifth of the total lawmakers to India’s  parliament . It may also
help Singh in key swing states such as Rajasthan and  Madhya
Pradesh  where the battle with the BJP may decide the election.  The low-cost grain program, which began last month, shows
the government needs to keep the handouts flowing if it wants to
retain the support of voters who’ve grown used to state aid.  “I have not fully made up my mind,” said Chand,
examining the brick work at the house he is building in Challi
under a government program to provide permanent dwellings to the
poor. “I am inclined to vote for the Congress. It will depend
on what they have to offer in the elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  