-- Infighting Memoir Overshadows U.K. Labour Party Conference
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-23T08:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/infighting-memoir-overshadows-miliband-s-u-k-labour-conference.html
A memoir by an aide to former U.K.
Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  that details infighting at the heart
of the previous Labour government overshadowed the start of the
annual convention of the party now led by  Ed Miliband .  “Power Trip: A Decade of Policy, Plots and Spin” by
Damian McBride is being serialized in the Daily Mail newspaper.
It tells of McBride’s attempts to neutralize criticism of Brown
within the party by passing on to the media stories about
ministers including alcohol abuse and extramarital affairs.  Miliband, an ally of Brown, served as energy secretary in
his government until the party was ousted from power in 2010.
The Independent on Sunday newspaper yesterday cited an
unidentified party source as saying that Miliband, who succeeded
Brown as Labour leader, may have been copied on e-mails that
were at the center of the 2009 smear campaign.  “It is extremely embarrassing for the party that the
memoirs are being published at the time of the party
conference,” Mark Wickham-Jones, a professor of politics at
Bristol University, said in a telephone interview. “While the
serialization will have a short shelf life and dates from five
years ago, there is an open question over whether Miliband has
made a start building new relationships and instilling new
rules.”  Miliband sought yesterday to distance himself from the
allegations, which are also being published at a time when
Labour’s poll lead over Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives is narrowing amid a strengthening economy.  ‘Reprehensible’ Politics  “People who know me would say I am someone who was never
engaged in the factionalism and never engaged in the briefing,”
Miliband told BBC television’s “Andrew Marr Show” yesterday in
Brighton, the conference venue on England’s south coast.
“That’s not my style of politics; it’s never been my style of
politics. I find it reprehensible.”  Continuing the serialization in today’s Daily Mail
newspaper McBride says he and Miliband had a “real
friendship”. McBride claims the relationship with Miliband only
soured when the current Labour leader believed McBride had
briefed journalists about his role in the decision not to call a
general election in 2007, just after Brown took power from  Tony Blair .  McBride was forced to resign as a special adviser to Brown
in 2009 after newspaper reports showed e-mails that discussed
using websites supporting Labour to publish false claims about
lawmakers from the then opposition Conservatives.  Neck-and-Neck  “It’s a matter of public record: I was concerned about the
activities of Damian McBride and, indeed, I complained to Gordon
Brown about it,” Miliband said. Asked if he had urged Brown to
fire McBride, the Labour leader said: “I did, yes.”  One  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey last week showed the Tories running
neck-and-neck with the opposition party. Some Labour lawmakers
broke ranks last month to criticize Miliband’s leadership style.  Labour Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls , touring television
studios today to publicize a new policy on free childcare for
working parents, was repeatedly questioned about his
relationship with McBride and denied he was involved in any
briefing against colleagues.  “People know that Ed Miliband and I have been doing things
in a very different way for some years now compared to those
Blair-Brown days,” he told Francine Lacqua in an interview with
Bloomberg Television from Brighton. “There was awful personal
smearing briefing which we both condemned absolutely, but there
was a wider antagonism, rows about policy, factionalism, which
went on over the last 15 years, and that has changed, we’re not
going back to those days. Those were bad times and they’re
gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton,  England , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  