-- Nova Hurls Second Career Shutout as Yankees Beat Giants 6-0
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/nova-hurls-second-career-shutout-as-yankees-beat-giants-6-0.html
Ivan Nova pitched his second
complete game shutout last night as the  New York  Yankees beat
the San Francisco Giants 6-0 in a Major League Baseball game at
Yankee Stadium.  Nova allowed six hits, struck out seven  and walked one in
notching his ninth win against five losses this season. He threw
108 pitches, including 73 strikes, in his third complete game
this season.  In the race for the two American League play-off spots that
go to non-division winners, the Tampa Bay Rays (85-69) and
Cleveland Indians (85-70) hold the berths with the Texas Rangers
(84-70) a half-game back followed by the Kansas City Royals,
Yankees and Baltimore Orioles.  The Rays defeated the Orioles 5-1; the Indians topped the
Houston Astros 4-0; and the Rangers beat the Royals 3-1 as the
MLB regular season nears an end Sept. 29.  “Every time you go out there, you hope to have a good
game,” said Nova, who recorded his second career shutout. “If
you have a complete game, it’s a great feeling, especially for
the time that we are in.”  Mark Reynolds scored on Ichiro Suzuki’s sacrifice fly,
Brendan Ryan reached home on Alex Rodriguez’s ground-out and
Robinson Cano hit a run-scoring single in the Yankees’ three-run
third inning.  Eduardo Nunez  hit a two-run homer in the fourth inning and
Alfonso Soriano added a solo home run in the sixth.  The Yankees can sweep the Giants with a victory today.  “If we play like we played last night and today, then we
can win the rest of our games,” Soriano said yesterday.  Ryan Vogelsong (3-6) gave up five runs on five hits with
one strikeout in five innings for the loss.  In the National League, the Pittsburgh Pirates (89-66) and
Cincinnati Reds (88-67) are in the top two wild-card spots with
the Washington Nationals (83-71) 4 ½ games back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  