-- Obama Urges ’Common Sense’ Gun Control After Shootings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-09-22T23:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/obama-urges-common-sense-gun-control-after-shootings.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Americans during a memorial service for the 12 victims of the
Washington Navy Yard shooting to demand “common sense” gun
control measures.  “It ought to obsess us,” Obama said. “It ought to lead
to some sort of transformation.”  Obama didn’t mention specific changes. It was the fifth
time in Obama’s five years at the White House that he’s acted as
the nation’s consoler after a lone gunman committed mass murder.  As in each of those prior memorials -- Fort Hood,  Texas ;
Tucson,  Arizona ; Aurora,  Colorado ; and Newtown, Connecticut --
Obama told stories about the people killed in the Sept. 16
shooting, about one mile from the U.S. Capitol. He also tried to
focus the emotion of the moment into action for stricter gun
laws, saying tears and prayers aren’t enough.  “Do we care enough to sustain the passion and the pressure
to make our communities safer and our country safer?” Obama
said during a speech to about 4,000 gathered at the facility.
“Do we care enough to do everything we can to spare other
families the pain that is felt here today?”  Congress hasn’t approved a significant gun-control bill
since the assault-weapon ban expired in 2004. After 20 children
and six adults were shot dead at Sandy Hook Elementary in
 Connecticut , Obama responded with a proposal to reinstate the
assault-weapon ban and to mandate background checks for all gun
buyers. A stripped-down version of the package failed to advance
through the Senate, controlled by his fellow Democrats.  Navy Yard Shooting  Obama’s remarks today came less than a week after,
authorities say, former Navy contractor Aaron Alexis entered the
Naval Sea Systems Command with a concealed shotgun.  Alexis began shooting people on the fourth floor, then on
the third floor and then he went to the lobby, where he shot a
security guard and took the guard’s Beretta semi-automatic
pistol, FBI Director James Comey said last week. After Alexis
ran out of ammunition for the shotgun, he began shooting with
the pistol, the director said.  It didn’t appear Alexis targeted a specific person,
according to Comey.  U.S. investigators haven’t said what motivated Alexis, a
34-year-old who held a security clearance and valid pass to
enter the building. He had an arrest record, a troubled military
career and history of mental illness.  The shooting has sparked investigations around the federal
government, as officials try to pinpoint how red flags were
missed before the shootings, as well as probes from U.S.
lawmakers into the procedures for background checks to obtain
security clearances.  Hearing Voices  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  said Alexis twice
requested emergency treatment for insomnia in the month before
the shooting. That was just a few weeks after he had summoned
police to his Rhode Island hotel room complaining that he was
hearing voices and being stalked by unseen harassers --
prompting a concerned officer to alert the local naval station.  There’s no evidence any of the incidents set off alarms.
The Navy has found no sign that the police officer’s warning was
communicated up the chain of command, a Navy official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity about a continuing
investigation. The VA said Alexis told its doctors he wasn’t
having thoughts about harming himself or others.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  