-- Obama Says He Won’t Negotiate on Raising Debt Ceiling
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k   a n d   J a m i e   C o u g h l i n
-- 2013-09-22T02:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/obama-says-he-won-t-negotiate-on-raising-debt-ceiling.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
refuse to negotiate with congressional Republicans over raising
the nation’s debt ceiling or give in to their attempts to strip
funding from his signature health-care law.  “Let me say as clearly as I can: it is not going to
happen,”  Obama said at the Congressional Black Caucus
Foundation’s annual awards dinner. “We will not negotiate over
whether or not America should keep its word or meet its
obligations.”  House Republicans are proposing to suspend the U.S.
borrowing limit for one year tied to deficit reduction measures.
They also plan to add to the measure a one-year delay of Obama’s
health-care law.  Obama also said the work of those who fought for civil
rights won’t be complete until everyone in the U.S. has the
opportunity to work their way into the middle class.  The president cited his proposals to cut college costs,
expand funding for pre-kindergarten education and raise the
minimum wage. He also said the new health care law, his
signature legislative victory, will help those struggling with
medical costs to get insurance.  The 43rd annual dinner is the culmination of a four-day
conference by the foundation. The theme was the “Spirit of
1963” to mark the 50th anniversary of the March on  Washington 
at which Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his “I Have a Dream”
address, which helped galvanize the civil rights movement of the
1960s.  The foundation also honored former President Bill Clinton,
Democratic Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland  and Elaine Jones, the former president of the NAACP Legal Defense and
Educational Fund.  Members of the caucus were critical of the president’s
record on appointment of minorities to his cabinet at the start
of his second term and they have pressed him to address issues
such as unemployment in the black community.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Coughlin in Washington at 
 jcoughlin17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  