-- Holcim Turns Toxic Toys Into Cement as Waste Helps Profit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-09-23T08:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/holcim-turns-toxic-baby-dolls-into-cement-as-waste-boosts-profit.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  Chief Executive Officer
Bernard Fontana is turning waste into profit at the world’s
largest maker of cement by burning toxic baby dolls, contraband
cigarettes and old sunglasses.  Fontana, who last year became the first outsider to run
Jona, Switzerland-based Holcim in its 101-year history, is
ramping up the use of waste materials, instead of coal, to heat
cement kilns from  India  to Vietnam and cut costs. The expansion
into waste management is generating revenues as companies such
as cigarette makers pay to burn copycat and expired goods, said
Aidan Lynam, an area manager for Holcim in  South Asia .  “They watch to make sure every last cigarette goes into
our kiln,” he said, referring to manufacturers in  Vietnam  that
pay to cremate contraband at Holcim plants. “It disappears like
a grain of sand in the Sahara,” he said, adding that at extreme
temperatures, cigarettes become part of the cement.  Following more than $10 billion of acquisitions in the
decade through 2011, Fontana began a cost-cutting program last
year to boost operating profit by 1.5 billion Swiss francs ($1.6
billion) and adjust for declining demand amid the  European debt
crisis . Burning waste may make some cement plants in  Asia  as
energy efficient as in  Europe , helping Holcim to free up cash
and compete with rivals  Lafarge SA (LG)  and Cemex SAB.  ‘Massive Saving’  “Short term, it’s a massive saving; over time it will slow
down,” said Ian Osburn, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald  in
 London , adding that energy is about one third of the cost of
making cement. “Holcim clearly have been leaders for this and
early thinkers, but all the cement manufacturers move quickly to
copy each other.”  Alternative fuels contribute about 20 percent of energy
used at European cements plants, said Philippe Fonta of the
WBCSD cement sustainability initiative, consisting of
manufacturers representing about 30 percent of world production.
Alternative fuels represent less than 1 percent in markets such
as India, he said.  “There’s huge potential, particularly with the use of
municipal solid waste in fast-growing emerging countries,” he
said. Countries such as India could boost the use of alternative
fuels to 25 percent over the next decades, he said.  Cement makers worldwide are seeking to reduce energy costs
as they’re cutting expenditures after a slump in demand
following the debt crisis and expensive acquisitions.  Industry Woes  Cemex (CX) , the biggest cement maker in the Americas, has posted
net losses for 15 consecutive quarters as the U.S. construction
market slumped after its $14.2 billion acquisition in 2007 of
Rinker Group Ltd. In September 2012, Cemex agreed a debt
restructuring with creditors to extend the maturity of bank
loans by three years.  France ’s Lafarge, which acquired Orascom Cement for 10.2
billion euros ($13.6 billion) in 2008, is seeking to reduce
borrowings to below 10 billion euros this year to regain an
investment grade rating. It has announced 1.7 billion euros of
asset sales since the start of 2012.  Holcim, which paid $4.1 billion for Aggregate Industries in
2005, avoided a drop to junk status. Before today, Holcim has
dropped 38 percent in the last six years in Zurich, valuing the
company at 22 billion francs, while Lafarge declined 45 percent
in Paris and Cemex slumped 48 percent in Mexico City. Today,
Holcim gained 0.4 percent.  BSE Cattle  Holcim’s Untervaz plant in a Swiss valley above the river
Rhine is an model for what the cement maker wants to achieve at
its emerging market operations. The plant, founded in 1957 by
Max Schmidheiny, whose descendant Thomas Schmidheiny is Holcim’s
largest shareholder, already uses up to 40 percent alternative
fuels to fire up the kilns.  At one point fuel included diseased cattle during the
height of the European bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE)
crisis. Now the plant burns mainly tyre chips and plastics as
substitutes for coal or petcoke, said site manager Markus Hepberger, while proudly displaying his latest-model caterpillar
truck for transporting rock and a 15 million-franc waste heat
recovery system installed by  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   Holcim’s Wadi plant in India can produce six times as much
cement as the average Swiss plant in a year, and has a
correspondingly large energy bill, Lynam said. Holcim wants to
bring Asian plants, especially in India, up to the same level of
efficiency as those in Europe, as many factories, acquired
through acquisitions, still have uneven levels of knowledge, he
said.  No Escape  Fontana “laid down the gauntlet” to plant managers,
adding urgency to cost-saving efforts in energy, the biggest
cost in cement operations, Lynam said. Asian energy savings,
which contribute “extremely strongly” to the expected 300
million franc total energy savings from the so-called Leadership
Journey program, may exceed targets, he said.  Holcim’s thermal substitution rate, or the percentage of
alternative fuels used instead of traditional fuels like coal
and petcoke,  increased  to 12.8 percent last year, up from 12.5
percent in 2011. The substitution rate increased by 2 percentage
points in the six months through June compared with a year
ealier, Fontana said on a call Aug. 15.  Plants make cement by feeding a mix of limestone and clay
into a kiln where temperatures can reach as high as 2,000-degrees (3,600 Fahrenheit), turning it into clinker. Clinker is
then cooled, ground and mixed with gypsum to yield cement.  Burning conditions inside the kiln will break down waste
like expired drugs and pesticides without leaving residues,
unlike incinerators which burn at lower temperatures. That makes
Holcim’s furnaces perfect for the so-called co-processing of
unwanted stock such as defect baby dolls, which were burned
because of lead contamination, Lynam said.  To be sure, there are some things Lynam won’t burn, such as
 Agent Orange , a herbicide used by the U.S. army as a chemical
weapon in Vietnam.  “We just don’t want to go there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  