-- Hong Kong Drops Storm Signal as Stock Market to Open
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-23T03:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/hong-kong-maintains-storm-signal-as-usagi-reaches-china.html
Hong Kong dropped its storm warning
signal with the stock market and banks set to resume operations,
as Tropical Cyclone Usagi weakened after killing least 25 people
in  China .  Usagi, rated the world’s strongest storm this year, was
downgraded to a tropical depression and was about 280 kilometers
(174 miles) northwest of Hong Kong, the city’s observatory said
at 10:30 a.m. The stock market will resume trading at 1 p.m.
after the suspension this morning, said  Hong Kong Exchanges and
Clearing Ltd.   Thousands were evacuated from China’s coastal areas as the
storm damaged more than 7,100 homes in  Guangdong province , while
travelers celebrating the Chinese Mid-autumn Festival were
delayed across the region with flights canceled. Winds in Hong
Kong continued to subside, with workers making their way back
into offices.  “Everyone was really prepared, and just getting on with
business,” said Josh Ludlow, who moved to Hong Kong this month
to work at a  law firm  in the central business district.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said it will continue with its
20th investors forum, while the Hong Kong Investment Funds
Association rescheduled its conference. Public transportation
and banks in the former British colony are resuming services.  Guangdong Disruption  “Tropical Storm Usagi has weakened into a tropical
depression,” the observatory said.  At least 25 people were killed in Guangdong province, and
3.56 million residents were affected by the storm, the Ministry
of Civil Affairs said on  its website , citing the provincial
agency. Usagi had led to 3.24 billion  yuan  ($529 million) of
losses in Guangdong province, it said.  In  Fujian province , Usagi knocked out three  power lines 
early yesterday, cutting off electricity to about 170,000
households before it was restored to all but 25,000 by noon, the
official Xinhua News Agency said. The province issued a yellow
typhoon warning, the next-to-lowest on the country’s four-level
scale, at 4 a.m. today before the  China Meteorological
Administration  downgraded it at 6 a.m. to blue, the lowest
level.  Usagi dumped as much as 70 centimeters (28 inches) of rain
in Taiwan’s east on Sept. 21, left 12 people injured and
disrupted more than 100 flights, the Central Emergency Operation
Center said.  Flights Delayed  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , Hong Kong’s biggest carrier,
said it will resume operations from mid-day after suspending
some services yesterday.  Air China Ltd. (753)  canceled 148 flights as
of yesterday as airports in Xiamen, Shantou, Shenzhen,
Guangzhou, Zhuhai, Hong Kong and Macau were affected.  “The flight was scary,” said Maricel Cezar, a 38-year-old
nurse visiting Hong Kong from  Brisbane , Australia, with her
family. “We’re going to try and make the most of our day” and
go sightseeing, she said.  The government opened temporary shelters, with 281 people
seeking refuge. As of 9:30 a.m., 17 people had sought emergency
medical treatment at the city’s hospitals, with nine of them
discharged, the Hospital Authority said.  Hong Kong, situated off China’s southern coast, gets on
average about six tropical cyclones annually, according to the
weather bureau. Usagi is the most powerful storm to threaten
 Hong Kong  since Severe Typhoon Utor in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  