-- Hong Kong Bank Sales Seen Near 2008 Valuations: Real M&A
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-09-23T14:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/hong-kong-bank-sales-seen-near-2008-valuations-real-m-a.html
Some of Hong Kong’s last family-owned banks may finally be willing to sell as potential takeover
valuations approach levels last seen before the height of the
financial crisis.  Before today,  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302)  surged 42 percent after
saying last week shareholders are in talks to sell, while  Chong
Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  rose 55 percent since disclosing last month
approaches from suitors. Having recovered all their market value
lost since the crisis, the banks are now offering buyers entry
into an international hub for trade in China’s currency.  Wing Hang, more  profitable  than Chong Hing, may fetch as
much as 3 times its book value, said Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
and BNP Paribas SA. That equates to a price tag of $7.9 billion,
68 percent more than the lender’s market value last week. No
corporate bank takeover in the developed world has obtained such
a multiple in more than five years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “This is scarcity premium -- there are only a few mid-sized Hong Kong banks available,” Frank Yuen, an analyst in the
city at BNP, said in a phone interview. “Buyers are eyeing the
banking license in Hong Kong. They are looking for growth
opportunities in the offshore yuan business and cross-border
trade flows.”  Today, Wing Hang  fell  0.4 percent to HK$118.40, while Chong
Hing  dropped  3.9 percent to HK$33.45. The benchmark  Hang Seng
index (HSI)  lost 0.6 percent.  Cherry Yung, a spokeswoman at Wing Hang, and Edith Chan, a
spokeswoman for Chong Hing, declined to comment on potential
takeover valuations.  Takeover Speculation  Wing Hang, founded in 1937 as a moneychanger in Guangzhou,
and Chong Hing,  founded  in 1948, are among the four remaining
family-owned banks in Hong Kong. Both generate most of their
income from traditional services such as loans, mortgages and
credit cards, their latest annual  reports  show.  Wing Hang had a market value last week of HK$36.6 billion
($4.7 billion), while Chong Hing was valued at $2 billion.  Takeover speculation has mounted since November, when Chong
Hing named its first chief executive officer from outside the
Liu family, which controls about 60 percent of the lender. Chong
Hing’s share price has since more than doubled. In March, the
bank said it was open to bids.  “This opened the floodgates,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho, said in an e-mail. “The Liu family may
have done a great favor to the banking sector by deciding it’s
time to sell.”  Yuan Center  Hong Kong’s banks are attracting suitors as the city’s role
as the largest offshore  yuan  center draws companies seeking
financing. Outstanding yuan-denominated loans in Hong Kong
surged to 113 billion yuan in July from 1.8 billion yuan in
2010, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said.  The “offshore yuan business offers good growth opportunity
to Hong Kong banks,” Kathy Xu, a Hong Kong-based investment
manager at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc , said in a phone
interview. Aberdeen oversees about $318 billion of assets
worldwide.  Wing Hang said Sept. 16 that shareholders including the
family of Chairman Patrick Fung were in talks for a sale that
would trigger a mandatory buyout offer.  The Oriental Daily reported that China Life Insurance Co.
was a possible bidder. Wing Hang may appeal to Beijing-based
 China Life (2628) , the nation’s largest insurer, because it offers
access to the offshore yuan market, as well as trade finance and
bond sales, said Antos at Mizuho.  Overseas Expansion  “China has been encouraging companies in the country to
expand overseas,” Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based chief investment
officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “As Chinese financial institutions have grown large
enough for overseas expansion, it’s normal to see them getting a
Hong Kong bank as a stepping stone.”  A call to China Life’s press office was unanswered last
week during a holiday in Hong Kong.  A Chinese insurer could target Wing Hang’s customers and,
indirectly, tap mainland  China ’s banking market, Edmond Law, an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd., said in a phone
interview.  According to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., China Life would
gain little from a takeover of a small Hong Kong bank. There are
few cost savings, and the scope to sell insurance to bank
customers is “far from convincing,” Bernstein analysts, led by
Linda Sun-Mattison in Hong Kong, wrote in a Sept. 18 report.  Price Gap  All the same, takeover interest from outside the banking
industry has raised the probability of the lenders fetching
prices that meet the demands of the controlling families, said
Yuen, the analyst at BNP.  “Buyers in the past were usually banks and were not
willing to pay a high price,” he said. “The emergence of a
non-bank buyer bridges the price gap.”  Wing Hang, which has more branches in Macau and China than
Chong Hing, should command a higher valuation than its rival,
Grace Wu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets,
wrote in a Sept. 17 report.  Based on the average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, Wing Hang may sell for 2.5 times its book value.
Mizuho estimated the bank would sell for 2 to 3 times book,
while BNP put the multiple at 2.5 to 3. Wu at Daiwa estimated it
would sell at the upper end of a range of 2.5 to 3.3 times.  Before Lehman  The last time an acquisition of a bank in the developed
world was announced at close to that level was before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That year, China
Merchants Bank Co. beat out  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  to buy Wing Lung Bank Ltd., valuing the family-run
Hong Kong bank at about 3 times book value.  ANZ Bank CEO Michael Smith has described the price paid for
Wing Lung as “crazy.” It’s difficult to see anyone paying such
a multiple for a Hong Kong bank in the post-crisis era, said
Law, the UOB analyst.  Since March 2009 when equity markets bottomed, the median
book value multiple for bank purchases of more than $1 billion
in developed markets has been 1.1, excluding government
takeovers, the data show. Wing Hong traded last week at 1.8
times.  Only a bank generating a return on equity of 20 percent
could demand a price-book multiple of 3, said Ismael Pili, head
of Asia bank research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong. In
2012, Wing Hang’s  return on equity  -- a measure of how well it
reinvests earnings -- was less than half of the 20 percent it
reported in 2007.  Yue Xiu  After inviting bids in March, Chong Hing on Aug. 7 said
potential buyers had approached the bank. Last week, Chong Hing
said it’s still in discussions with interested parties including
 Yue Xiu Group , the trading arm of the Guangzhou city government.  Yue Xiu is the frontrunner for the Liu family’s controlling
stake in Chong Hing, the Oriental Daily reported Sept. 16. The
bank might help Yue Xiu obtain financing for business
development, said UOB’s Law.  Yue Xiu’s press office didn’t answer a call for comment.  Chong Hing may sell for 2.2 times its book value, according
to the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
that ranged from 2 to 3. Last week the bank traded for 2 times
 book value .  Faced with tighter capital constraints and rising
compliance costs, Hong Kong’s banking families may have decided
there’s limited room for growth, said Wan at Pride Investments,
which oversees about $300 million of assets.  “If the price is right, why not exit?‘‘ said Yuen, the
analyst at BNP. ‘‘As there are limited banks for sale, buyers
may think that they can either buy or never have it.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  