-- Mortgage Mojo at 1-Year High Amid Record-Low Rate: Poland Credit
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-09-23T13:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/mortgage-mojo-at-1-year-high-amid-record-low-rate-poland-credit.html
Polish  home loans  are growing at
the fastest pace in a year, a sign of burgeoning  consumer
confidence  amid speculation mortgage rates have hit bottom.  Loans to buy homes rose 4.7 percent in July from a year
earlier, according to the latest Polish central bank data. This
compares with a 0.7 percent increase in mortgages in the 17-nation euro region, European Central Bank  data  show. The average
rate on a new home loan in zloty fell to a record 5.1 percent in
the month, compared with 3.2 percent in the euro area.  Evidence is mounting that 2.25 percentage points of
interest-rate cuts since November, to a record low 2.5 percent
on July 3, is feeding the recovery in Poland, the European
Union’s biggest eastern economy. Consumers are responding by
taking out mortgages as central bank Governor Marek Belka said
on the day the policy council last cut rates that borrowing
costs would stay unchanged for the “foreseeable future.”  “Consumers feel more secure and are willing to take on
long-term liabilities,” Piotr Bartkiewicz, an economist at BRE
Bank SA in Warsaw, said by phone on Sept. 19. “This is part of
the economic revival process. Someone’s spending is revenue for
someone else.”  Lower Costs  Falling apartment prices, cheaper loans and looser lending
rules helped the home loan market expand to 330.7 billion zloty
($106 billion) in July, central bank data show. Mortgages in
 Poland  are mainly floating-rate loans maturing in 25 years or
more, according to the Polish Banking Association.  Average apartment prices in major Polish cities fell last
month from a year earlier, with the decline ranging from 1.8
percent to 5.6 percent, according to data on Warsaw-based
financial-services broker Open Finance SA’s website. In Warsaw,
Poland’s biggest property market, the decline was 2.9 percent.
An apartment in the Polish capital cost on average 1,822 euros
($2,461) per square meter last year, compared with 3,270 euros
in Berlin and 9,419 euros in  London , according to the latest
data from research company Reas Residential Advisors.  “With costs at very low levels the market is up on its
feet again,” Marcin Jablczynski, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in Warsaw, said by phone on Sept. 19.  The rate on a new Polish mortgage fell from as much as 7.1
percent last year. This compares with an average rate on a 30-year U.S. home loan of 3.75 percent, according to Bankrate Inc.  Accelerating Economy  The Polish financial regulator’s decision to loosen
restrictions on how big a loan a household can take relative to
its monthly income also “helped revive the home market,”
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told lawmakers last week.  Rising home loans will help Poland’s $490 billion economy,
where domestic demand accounts for about 60 percent of output,
continue recovery after growth hit the slowest pace in four
years in the first quarter. Gross domestic product in the second
quarter rose 0.8 percent from a year earlier after a 0.5 percent
increase in the previous three months.  Poland recorded a fourth consecutive monthly  trade surplus 
in July as foreign demand for Polish products picked up while
annual retail sales growth was the biggest since last August.  Still, mortgage growth may be short-lived once new rules
come into effect next year. Banks will no longer be allowed to
award loans amounting to 100 percent of a property value and
homebuyers will need to make a down payment of at least 10
percent. The regulator also demands banks give home loans with
maturity of no more than 35 years and limit non-zloty mortgages
to customers with income in foreign currency.  Rate Increase  “It’s probably too early to announce the start of a
boom,” Dariusz Gorski, an analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK SA in
Warsaw, said by phone on Sept. 20. “Unemployment remains high,
economic growth isn’t very quick and people need more signals to
feel safe and secure.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s dollar
bonds rather than Treasuries was unchanged at 129 basis points
at 3:17 p.m. in Warsaw, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. The spread between Polish 10-year zloty notes and
German bunds increased two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 242. The zloty weakened 0.2 percent to 4.2239 against
the euro, paring its quarterly advance to 2.4 percent, the
biggest appreciation among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg following the Korean won.  Poles are buying apartments before the central bank starts
tightening policy. Policy makers will probably start rising
rates in the fourth quarter of 2014, Bank of America Corp. said
in a note on Sept. 20. Forward-rate agreements, derivatives used
to speculate on borrowing costs, indicate a quarter point
increase by June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The  property market  in Poland is reviving as apartments
are the cheapest in years, cost of credit dropped and some
people may be afraid of stricter rules next year,” Michal
Wydra, an analyst at the Polish Banking Association, said by
phone on Sept. 19. “We need to see figures for September and
October to say whether the rebound is sustainable but
preliminary data suggest the trend will be continued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  