-- Moscow Exchange Seeks Japan Cooperation: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-09-22T20:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/moscow-exchange-seeks-japan-cooperation-russia-overnight.html
The Moscow Exchange is in talks to
give investors in  Japan  and Poland easier and cheaper ways to
trade Russian securities, an attempt to lure business home and
reduce the stock trading that takes place overseas.  Russia’s National Settlement Depository, known as the NSD,
is discussing setting up a direct settlement link that will
bypass intermediaries to cut the time and cost of transactions,
according to Eddie Astanin, the head of the Moscow-based
organization’s management board.  The arrangement would be “an extra way to channel
liquidity into the Russian stock market from foreign
investors,” Astanin said in a telephone interview on Sept. 20
from Moscow. “This is being done as part of the development of
the Moscow Exchange.”  The exchange wants to reduce the number of Russian equities
traded abroad to between 20 percent and 25 percent of the total
by 2015, from about 40 percent currently. RTS futures trading in
New York fell 0.4 percent on Sept. 20 while the Bloomberg
Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian companies in
the U.S. lost 1.5 percent to pare a third weekly gain.  Seeking to boost trading of its companies in Moscow,  Russia 
mandated this month that equity transactions settle in two days
rather than on the same day. The country’s stocks will also
become available through Euroclear Bank SA’s international
platform in 2014. NSD already struck an agreement with the
Austrian Central Securities Depository, operated by
Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG, last week that gives investors
direct access to stocks and other securities in Russia.  Both Ways  Poland’s national depository for securities, KDPW, has made
some inquiries among local branches of European banks and is now
looking to provide a link that will allow investors to hold
Russian OFZs on its account with Russia’s NSD, said Michael
Lukac, KDPW’s head of international client relations.  “We believe we have a particular business opportunity
here,” Lukac said by phone from Warsaw. “We presume that we
will be able to offer lower” fees to Polish investors for
keeping Russian government OFZ bonds on their account with the
NSD rather than Russian banks, he added.  Astanin said that NSD and the Japan Securities Depository
Center Inc. are beginning to work out details for a link to
provide access to Russian securities. If Russian clients show
interest in Japan, the link can work both ways, he added.  By opening these connections, “we create various channels
of access to the Russian market,” Astanin said. “We get an
extra investor base.”  Fund Repatriation  The Moscow bourse wants to repatriate part of the fund flow
from international markets back home, cutting the number of
Russian equities traded abroad to between 20 percent and 25
percent of the total by 2015, from about 40 percent currently,
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Afanasiev said in a June
interview.  The bourse raised 15 billion rubles ($472 million) in
February in the biggest initial public offering on Russia’s
bourse since 2007. Euroclear Bank SA, operator of the world’s
largest bond-settlement system, began settlement of Russian
government bonds, letting foreign investors bypass local
brokers.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge advanced 3.1 percent to 98.20
in the week. American depositary receipts of OAO Sberbank, the
country’s biggest lender, jumped 8.1 percent, the steepest surge
in four months.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 2.5 percent to 1,476.73
last week, while the dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  climbed 4.8
percent to 1,462.92.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  rose 2.6 percent to $28.89.
The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
futures, climbed 2.3 percent to 24, while futures on the RTS
gauge slipped to 145,700 in U.S. hours.  The ruble dropped 0.7 percent to 31.8530 against the
dollar, the biggest retreat since in three months. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements, showed the ruble at 32.2988 per dollar in
three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  