-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Fed Refrains, DC Shooter, Summers Exits
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-09-22T05:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/most-read-on-bloomberg-fed-refrains-dc-shooter-summers-exits.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Fed Refrains From Taper as It Seeks Signs of Sustained Growth  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- The Federal Reserve unexpectedly
refrained from reducing the $85 billion pace of monthly bond
buying, saying it needs more evidence of lasting improvement in
the economy and warning that an increase in  interest rates 
threatened to curb the expansion.  2. Texas Man Seen Behind Washington Shooting That Left 13 Dead  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- A 34-year-old Navy veteran from
 Texas  was identified by the FBI as the suspected gunman in
shootings at the Washington Navy Yard that left at least 12
others dead.  3. Summers’s Withdrawal Said to Put Yellen as Fed Front-Runner  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is
the leading candidate to replace Ben S. Bernanke following the
withdrawal of  Lawrence Summers  from consideration, a person
familiar with the process said.  4. Gross’s Trade Sours as Bonds Lose Faith in Fed Guidance  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bond investors are losing
confidence in the Federal Reserve’s pledge to keep benchmark
interest rates at about zero into 2015 as the  U.S. economy 
accelerates.  5. Berkshire Billionaire Found With More Shares Than Bill Gates  Sept. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Stewart Horejsi’s business was in a
funk. It was 1980, and Brown Welding Supply LLC, his family’s
third-generation distributor of hydrogen and oxygen tanks, was
battling competitors that were intent on expanding into the
corner of  Kansas  he controlled.  6. Fall in Home Loans Pushing Fed Away From Taper in Mortgages  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) --  Federal Reserve  policy makers,
while considering today whether to taper $85 billion in monthly
bond buying, confront a drop in demand for home loans that
argues against a cut to their mortgage bond purchases.  7. Sold for Sex at Puberty Village Girls’ Fate in Wealthier
India  Sept. 19 (Bloomberg) -- Like many Indian girls, Suchitra
was taught her future profession by her mother. In her village,
there was only one path. Even before she’d reached puberty,
Suchitra had learned different sexual positions and other ways
to please a customer.  8.  Ex-JPMorgan Traders Indicted in $6.2 Billion Derivative Loss  Sept. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Two former JPMorgan Chase & Co.
traders were indicted for engaging in a  securities fraud  to hide
trading losses that eventually surpassed $6.2 billion on wrong-way derivatives bets last year.  9. Less Tapering Becomes Tighter Credit No Matter What Fed Says  Sept. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  sent bond yields a percentage point higher just by
talking about adding stimulus at a slower pace. The rout serves
as a warning to monetary policy makers that their exit from
record accommodation won’t be easy to control.  10. Jefferies Profit Tumbles 83% on Plunge in Bond-Trading
Revenue  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Jefferies Group LLC, the investment
bank owned by Leucadia National Corp., said profit plunged 83
percent in the fiscal third quarter as trading revenue fell to
the lowest since the depths of the financial crisis.  COLUMNS  1. Meet the New IPhones, Same as the Old IPhones:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Ever since the launch of the first
iPhone in 2007, Apple has introduced one new model a year.  2. Summers Felled by Obama, Community Organizer:  Margaret
Carlson   Sept. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Community organizers like President
 Barack Obama  make great husbands.  3. Putin Was Right About American Exceptionalism: Ronald
Inglehart  Sept. 19 (Bloomberg) -- As part of the debate over
intervention in  Syria , the question of whether the U.S. is an
exceptional country has once again bubbled up.  4. Summers Did the Right Thing, Now It’s Obama’s Turn: Jonathan
Weil  Sept. 16 (Bloomberg) --  L’affaire de Larry Summers is
over. And thank goodness. The grand circus of leaks, posturing
and trial balloons was no way to select the next leader of the
Federal Reserve. Summers deserves credit for withdrawing his
name from consideration.  5. Skimpy Bikinis Are the Least of Indonesia’s Woes: William
Pesek  Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Indonesians are taking to the
streets to demand the government heed their complaints. Are they
livid about corruption? No. Fed up with poverty? Not really.
Angry over political gridlock? Not so much. It’s those damn
bikinis.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Bernanke Says Asset Purchases Aren’t on ‘Preset Course’  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke speaks about the central bank’s asset purchases,
interest rates and U.S. economic conditions.  2. Minerd Says Fed Decision Better for Bonds Than Stocks  Sept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Minerd, chief investment
officer at Guggenheim Partners LLC, Nathan Sheets, global head
of international economics at Citigroup Inc.,  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , president of American Action Forum, and  Michael Hanson ,
senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp., talk about the
Federal Reserve’s decision to refrain from reducing its asset
purchases.  3. Bentley’s Flying Spur Coddles the Rich Up to 200 MPH   Sept. 19 (Bloomberg) -- The 2014 Bentley Flying Spur luxury
sedan is seen in a promotional video from Bentley Motors Ltd.  4. Ellison’s Dream Is Scariest America’s Cup Racing Yacht Yet  Sept. 9 (Bloomberg) -- As the America’s Cup defender,  Larry
Ellison ’s team Oracle got to set the rules and choose the type
of boat for this year’s races.  Bloomberg’s Cory Johnson gives
you an in-depth look at this year’s boat.  5. Warren Buffett Says Fed Greatest Hedge Fund in History  Sept. 19 (Bloomberg) --  Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
talks about Federal Reserve policy, the U.S. economy and his
investment strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in  New York  at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  