-- Suicide Bombers Kill 79 at Pakistan Church During Sermon
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y ,   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-09-23T13:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/pakistan-suicide-bombs-kill-60-during-church-service-in-peshawar.html
Two  suicide bombers  killed 81
people in an attack during a Christian church service in
northwestern Pakistan, sparking protests across the country and
jeopardizing prospects for peace talks with militants.  The attackers detonated explosives inside All Saints’
Church in Peshawar near the  Afghanistan  border while as many as
600 worshipers listened to a sermon, Zaheer ul Islam, the city’s
deputy commissioner, told state-run Pakistan TV. The death toll
rose today to 81, Mohammad Arif, deputy superintendent of
casualties at Lady Reading Hospital, said by phone.  The blasts, among the deadliest of roughly 85 bomb and
suicide attacks in Pakistan this year, come two weeks after
political leaders agreed to initiate dialogue with militants in
the region, including the Taliban. Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s
three-month-old government has advocated talks with the groups
to stem the violence and revive the country’s economy.  “We will go after those who committed this tragedy,”
Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, who said 34 women and
seven children died in the attack, told lawmakers today in the
National Assembly. “We will bring them to justice.”  Militants Emboldened  The government regrets that it’s “unable to move forward”
in its peace initiative in this environment, Sharif told
reporters during a stop in  London  as he traveled to attend the
 United Nations General Assembly  in  New York . His comments were
carried live by Geo network.  Sharif earlier condemned the attacks, expressed solidarity
with the Christian community and pledged to provide medical and
emergency assistance to the victims. Muslims account for more
than 96 percent of the country’s 193 million people, with
Christians, Hindus and other minorities accounting for the rest,
according to the  CIA World Factbook .  “It seems to be a well-planned and coordinated attack to
weaken the government’s resolve to fight terrorists at a time
when it’s considering negotiations with Taliban groups,” Rashid
Ahmed Khan, a professor of international relations at the
University of Sargodha in Punjab province, said by phone.
“These attacks have put Sharif in a very tough spot. His offer
of talks has emboldened these groups.”  Sunday school children and choir members were among the
dead, according to the  Peshawar  Diocese’s  website . All Saints’
Church is part of the Church of Pakistan, which was formed in
1970 following a union between Lutherans, Scottish
Presbyterians, Methodists and the Anglicans, the website said.
All Christian schools in the country were closed today to mourn
the death of believers.  ‘Not Humans’  Religious books and shoes littered the church’s blood-stained floor while shrapnel left holes in the walls, local
television footage showed. Men and women cried and shouted as
volunteers carried the wounded from the splintered church
building to hospitals, while relatives placed coffins with the
dead in the middle of roads in Peshawar to protest the bombings.  One of the bombers was dressed in a police uniform,
Sahibzada Anees, Peshawar’s police commissioner, told Pakistan
TV. The attackers each carried six kilograms (13 pounds) of
explosives, Geo TV reported, citing Shafqat Malik, inspector
general of the bomb disposal squad.  “Those who did this were not humans,”  Imran Khan , whose
party runs Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, told reporters outside
the hospital in Peshawar. “I don’t think we should give up
efforts to find those groups who want to talk. We need to know
who wants to talk.”  The bombing is the second major attack since Sharif’s
government decided to initiate talks with militants on Sept. 9.
Two Pakistan army officers, including a major-general, were
killed last week in a roadside blast in northwestern Pakistan.  Dialogue Threatened  “Dialogue with militants cannot take place in such a
situation,” Hasan Askari Rizvi, a Lahore-based independent
security analyst who formerly taught at  Columbia University  in
New York, said by phone. “They are responding to the
government’s offer of dialogue with the bullet. They are viewing
the offer as a sign of the government’s weakness.”  While no one has yet claimed responsibility for the church
bombing, pro-Taliban Pakistani militants have been blamed for a
campaign of suicide bombings.  Pakistan ’s Taliban is a loose
group of militant and sectarian organizations that oppose the
country’s security ties with the U.S., including drone attacks
in the region, and want to impose their own interpretation of
Islamic law.  Taliban Attacks  Although the U.S. has reduced the number of drone strikes
since 2011, it continues to target militants and al Qaeda
operatives taking refuge in Pakistani tribal regions on the
border. A suspected drone attack on a house yesterday in a
Pakistan area bordering Afghanistan killed six people, Geo TV
reported, citing unidentified officials.  As many 1,222 people, including 425 police and security
officials and 797 civilians, have been killed in 858 terrorist
attacks across Pakistan from Jan. 1 to Aug. 31, according to
statistics presented to parliament by the  Interior Ministry  this
month. That included 25 suicide attacks and 60 bomb blasts.  Authorities failed to provide adequate security for the
church and bear some responsibility, according to Paul Bhatti,
chairman of the All Pakistan Minorities Alliance, which
represents Christians, Hindus, Sikhs and other faiths.
Protesters in cities such as Karachi and Lahore burned tires and
chanted slogans criticizing the government’s inability to
protect the church.  “Militants are trying to foment religious and sectarian
hatred in Pakistan,” Bhatti said by phone. “They are trying to
create chaos in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  