-- Cruz Urges Fresh Obamacare Defunding Fight as Shutdown Looms
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-09-22T15:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/pelosi-says-republicans-seek-shutdown-with-health-care-defunding.html
Texas Senator  Ted Cruz  urged the
Republican-led House to wage another round in the fight over
defunding President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law as the threat
of a government shutdown builds in Congress.  House Speaker  John Boehner  should begin passing individual
bills funding “one department at a time,” starting with the
military, if the Democratic-led Senate blocks a stopgap
government funding bill that also chokes off funds to the health
law, said Cruz.  Cruz is leading the congressional Republican fight to
defund the Affordable Care Act, and he said he expects Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, to strip a bill
the Republican-led House passed on Sept. 20 of the health-care
language.  “I believe we should stand our ground,” said Cruz on the
“Fox News Sunday” program. “The House is the only body where
Republicans have the majority, so the House has to lead on
this,” said Cruz.  Reid has said the House bill is “dead” in the Senate, and
he will have the votes to remove the health-care language from
the bill before sending it back to the House. No Democrats and
only about one-third of the 46 Republicans in the Senate support
the House effort.  Defeat Ahead  Even many Republicans are saying that Cruz and his
supporters are headed for defeat since Democrats who control the
Senate will never vote to end the health law, and even if they
did, the president would veto it.  “Tactics and strategies ought to be based on what the real
world is, and we do not have the political power to do this,”
Oklahoma Senator  Tom Coburn , a Republican, said on CBS’s “Face
the Nation” program. In the end,  House Republicans  will have to
surrender, he said.  “The exercise is fine,” he said. “We’re not about to
shut the government down,” said Coburn.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said the real goal of
many Republicans seeking to defund the law is to shut down the
federal government.  “The Republicans put legislation on the floor that was
intended to shut down government,” said Pelosi, a California
Democrat. “They know that it has no prospect of prevailing,”
she said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program. “I call them
legislative arsonists,” said Pelosi.  Funding Government  Most federal operations would come to a halt when the
fiscal year ends Sept. 30 if the Obama administration and
lawmakers can’t agree on a stopgap funding bill.  Once the bill is sent back to the House, Republican leaders
could revise it and send it back to the Senate as time runs out,
raising the risk of a shutdown.  Another senator pushing the defunding effort, Republican
 Mike Lee  of  Utah , said he doesn’t think the fight will lead to a
federal shutdown on Oct. 1.  “We all know that the government’s going to be funded,”
Lee said today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “The
question is whether it will be funded with Obamacare or
without.”  Ultimately, the decision will probably fall to Boehner, of
 Ohio , who will have to choose whether to take Cruz’s advice and
continue the defunding fight or allow the Senate-passed bill to
advance for a vote on the House floor, where it would probably
have enough votes to pass with strong Democratic support.  Pelosi said she doesn’t consider Boehner to be among the
“arsonists” seeking to shutter the government.  “I don’t paint them all with the same brush, and I
certainly don’t paint the speaker with that brush,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  