-- Philippines Is Ready for Fed Taper With Tools to Curb Outflows
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-09-23T03:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/philippines-is-ready-for-fed-taper-with-tools-to-curb-outflows.html
The  Philippines  is prepared for a
possible tapering of the Federal Reserve’s record stimulus with
policy measures to deal with capital outflows, central bank
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said.  “We can ride out any turbulence, as we have policy tools
in our hand that we can deploy anytime,” Guinigundo said in a
briefing in Manila Sept. 21. The measures include boosting
dollar and peso liquidity, careful surveillance of risk, use of
forward guidance, tapping currency-swap agreements, and possible
tightening of monetary policy, he said.  Emerging-market nations should prepare for an eventual
reduction in U.S. stimulus as higher borrowing costs will come,
World Bank Managing Director Sri Mulyani Indrawati said last
week. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent for a seventh meeting this
month after  inflation  eased to a four-year low.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 43.14 per dollar as of 11:34
a.m., according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The Philippine benchmark
 stock index  gained 0.5 percent.  Speculation over the future of the Fed’s quantitative
easing has whipsawed global assets since May, when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first signaled cuts may start in 2013. Liquidity and
credit growth in the Philippines are rising in tandem with the
economy, and policy makers don’t see bubbles in the property
market, Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said on Sept. 21.  Philippine  gross domestic product  rose 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, matching  China ’s pace.
Rising demand for real estate in the country is for consumption
and not for speculative or investment purposes, Amador said,
adding that the central bank regularly consults with property
companies and banks to prevent bubble risks.  Legislative Changes  The central bank is seeking an increase of 150 billion
pesos ($3.5 billion) in its capital from the current 50 billion
pesos authorized in its charter, Deputy Governor Vicente Aquino
said Sept. 21. The central bank has proposed legislative changes
to its charter including exemption from taxes and the authority
to issue debt to better manage liquidity, he said.  “Additional capital and the ability to issues its own debt
would boost confidence in the central bank’s ability to manage
macroeconomic stability and will send a signal to the market
that the BSP can curb extreme volatility,” said Michael Wan, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “This
should be an urgent priority for lawmakers.”  President Benigno Aquino is raising spending to a record
this year and seeking more than $17 billion of investment in
roads and airports. Fitch Ratings and Standard and Poor’s this
year awarded the Philippines its first investment-grade scores,
while Moody’s Investors Service, which ranks the nation a level
below, has said it is reviewing its rating for an upgrade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  