-- Real Madrid Scraps $1 Billion U.A.E. Soccer Resort Plan
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-09-22T13:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/real-madrid-scraps-1-billion-u-a-e-soccer-resort-plan.html
Real  Madrid  canceled a planned
soccer-themed resort in the United Arab Emirate of Ras Al
Khaimah after the project’s organizer defaulted on payments, the
club said.  The licensing accord with RAK Marjan Island Football, the
Luxembourg-based organizer of the project, was scrapped after it
defaulted on payments and “didn’t provide guarantees,” Real
said in its financial report distributed in Madrid today.  Louis-Armand de Rouge, chief executive officer of RAK
Marjan Island Football, didn’t return calls made by  Bloomberg
News .  The world’s richest  soccer club  said last year it was
lending its name to a resort that includes a 10,000-seat
stadium, a marina, homes, a shopping mall, a football training
academy and a 450-room five-star hotel. The development was set
to be completed by 2015 on the 40-hectare (99-acre) artificial
Marjan Island. The resort was announced in a highly-publicized
ceremony attended by Ras Al Khaimah ruler Sheikh Saud bin Saqr
Al Qassimi and French soccer star  Zinedine Zidane .  RAK Marjan Island Football assumed all the financial risks
of the project, Real Madrid said in its report. The soccer club,
which agreed to a 22-year license, said it will search for
alternative projects in the U.A.E., without giving more details.  Real Madrid posted a net income of 36.9 million euros ($50
million) for the year through June 2013. That’s 52 percent more
than the year earlier period after prize money from competitions
and exhibition games climbed, according to the annual report.
Sales rose to 520.9 million euros, a 1.3 percent increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  