-- Treasury Wine CEO to Leave After A$160 Million Writedown
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-23T07:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/treasury-wine-ceo-quits-after-a-160-million-writedown.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) , the
world’s second-largest publicly traded wine maker, fell to its
lowest level in more than a year after saying Chief Executive
Officer David Dearie was leaving the company immediately.  Treasury “needs a leader with a stronger operational focus
to deliver the company’s growth ambitions” after A$160 million
($150 million) of writedowns on out-of-date inventory, Chairman
Paul Rayner said in a regulatory statement today. The shares
 fell 6.3 percent  to close at A$4.45 in Sydney, their lowest
level since Aug. 16, 2012 and the  worst performer  in the S&P/ASX
200 consumer staples index.  Dearie had tried to increase profit margins on labels
including Penfolds and Beringer by improving branding at a time
when years of oversupply in the global wine industry appeared to
be ebbing, giving an opportunity to raise prices. That didn’t
stop writedowns announced July 15 to destroy and discount
bottles and pay out onerous grape-buying contracts.  “You can do what you want with Penfolds, but unless they
can get the story straight on the commercial wines there’s just
no way to make money,”  Dan Hurren , an analyst at UBS AG in
Sydney, said by phone. “Wine isn’t just about brands, it’s
about managing costs through the entire range of products.”  Dearie’s departure follows Chief Financial Officer  Mark
Fleming , who quit about six weeks before the company announced
the U.S. writedown. Warwick Every-Burns, a director of the
Melbourne-based company, will become interim CEO.  Business Split  The company held an an excess of low-valued bulk wine
because of lower sales in the U.S., which will reduce earnings
by as much as A$30 million in the year ending June 2014, it said
in July.  “The losses we had in the U.S. were significant and quite
disappointing,” Rayner said in an investor call after the
announcement today. “Having someone with a better balance of
skills, or the right balance of skills, will hopefully put us in
a better place.”  Shares of the Melbourne-based company have fallen 31
percent since a peak on May 17, while the S&P/ASX 200 index has
gained 1.4 percent in the same period.  Dearie, a former managing director of Jack Daniels owner
 Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/B) ’s Asian distribution business, joined Fosters
Group Ltd.’s wine division in 2009 before it was spun off as
Treasury Wine in 2011. Fosters was itself bought for A$10.5
billion by  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  later that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  