-- Redgrave’s Old-Time Romance, Sheridan Smith Shines
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-09-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/redgrave-s-old-time-romance-sheridan-smith-shines.html
James Earl Jones and  Vanessa Redgrave  are playing the frolicsome young lovers Benedick and
Beatrice -- at the ages of 82 and 76 respectively.  Anyone familiar with the work of these veterans might watch
them with fond glow in “Much Ado About Nothing,” at  London ’s
Old Vic theater.  Newcomers, on the other hand, might wonder what the fuss is
about. They struggle to move about, have problems with vocal
projection, and look ill at ease.  Earl Jones often stumbles over his lines and frequently
needs to rest his aged frame on a conveniently-placed chair too.
Can this really be the dashing Benedick who has just returned
from war covered in glory? The necessary erotic tension with his
on-off sparring partner Beatrice is in dangerously short supply.  Then there are the logical problems. Hero is played by
sparky young Beth Cooke, whose CV announces her playing age as
18. You have to wonder how she ended up with a 76-year-old first
cousin, and why this old lady should be her bedfellow.  Director  Mark Rylance  sets the action in  England  in 1944.
Beatrice’s family is from the landed gentry, and Benedick is a
member of a black American air force regiment stationed nearby.
It’s a neat idea, designed to provide an environment in which
the actors can use their own accents.  That’s where the neatness ends. The direction otherwise is
mostly vague, with little detail given to the characters’
relationships or status. The vagueness also extends to the
minimalist wooden set, which centers on an ugly square arch.  The show is brought alive by occasional flashes of
greatness from the leads. Redgrave blows a raspberry in scorn at
Jones. Jones bursts out laughing, slapping his knees at the
folly of love. It might be enough to tempt their fans to see
them in action. Rating: **.  Midsummer Night  There’s more Shakespeare at the Noel Coward Theatre where
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”, the latest production in the
Michael Grandage Season is now playing.  Grandage sets the action in the 1960s, and presents the
fairies and sprites of the forest as a semi-naked community of
toned young hippies. The young lovers, fleeing the uptight
restrictions of Athenian city life, find their lives turned
upside down by Oberon’s mind-altering drugs.  After an engaging start, something stalls in the engine of
the production. There are no magic transformations, the simple
set offers few surprises, and the comic scenes with Bottom
(David Walliams channeling Kenneth Williams) feel desperately
leaden.  The female actors show how it should be done. Sheridan
Smith is an authoritative and quizzical Titania, and Susannah
Fielding and Katherine Kingsley get plenty of laughs as Hermia
and Helena. What oomph there is, is due to them. Rating: ***.  Reworked Lulu  “American Lulu” at the Young Vic is a radical reworking
of Alban Berg’s opera “Lulu.” Composer Olga Neuwirth updates
the action to the era of the civil rights movement in America,
and re-writes the character of Lulu’s lover Geschwitz (here
called Eleanor) as a black jazz singer. She creates a libretto
for the third act to present a showdown between two women.  Some of the brutal expressionist energy of Berg’s opera
survives in the strangely fragmented scenes and caustic humor.  Much gets lost too. The final scenes become preachy, the
civil rights background doesn’t add anything, and Neuwirth’s
music sounds less sophisticated than Berg’s.  If it’s not a work which requires audience involvement in a
conventional sense (all those bitty scenes) it still needs to
draw spectators in. Director John Fulljames doesn’t offer much
to help, and plenty of people walked out when I saw it.  They missed a sensational performance from soprano Angel
Blue in the title role. Her voice is warm and supple, her acting
nuanced and humorous. Jazz singer Jacqui Dankworth is an
energetic Eleanor too.  It makes me want to go back to the original again, which is
no bad thing. Rating: **½.  “Much Ado About Nothing” is at the Old Vic.
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628. “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” is at the Noel Coward Theatre.
 http://www.michaelgrandagecompany.com  or +44-844-482-5141.
“American Lulu” is at the Young Vic.  http://www.youngvic.org 
or +44-20-7922-2922  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Robert
Heller  on rock and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 