-- Rod Stewart Mixes Pub Rock With Disco Before U.S. Tour
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-09-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/rod-stewart-mixes-pub-rock-with-disco-before-u-s-tour.html
Rod Stewart is set to make  Caesar’s
Palace  the best London pub.  He will start his Las Vegas residency on Nov. 6.  A razzle-dazzle star with a rough and ready common touch
and a set list of old favorites, he has just converted London’s
cavernous O2 Arena into what feels like the greatest of nights
out in the local boozer.  Stewart arrives onstage dressed in black offset with a
cerise jacket and tie, crisply yellow socks and immaculately
polished shoes.  Later he changes into reasonably tight white jeans and a
shirt swirling with various shades of blue that perhaps only
veteran pop stars who collect sports cars and have bedded a
runway’s worth of models can get away with.  Stewart is still the plumber’s son from North  London .  “You can beat an egg, you can beat a carpet, but you can’t
beat a Friday night,” he announces to the audience, before
asking, wholly unnecessarily, “Have you been drinking?”  Stewart’s blue-collar approach makes Bruce Springsteen look
like Radiohead. There’s nothing arch or analytical. He simply
matches emotional candor and clear-headed pathos.  Or, as he would more likely put it, he takes everyday
feelings and nails them on the head.  “She Makes Me Happy,” from Stewart’s  new album  “Time,” is
as joyful as the title suggests.  Teen Romance  “Brighton Beach,” another new song, reminisces about an
ill-fated teenage romance. It’s dedicated to Sarah, Stewart’s
first daughter who, according to the eminently readable (and
frequently hilarious) “Rod:  the Autobiography,”  was probably
conceived there when Stewart was about 18.  Another family indulgence proves to be a dud. Stewart
brings on his daughter, Ruby, to sing two songs. Technically
proficient, she entirely lacks charisma.  Some moments are remarkably unreconstructed. A group of
female musicians are dressed in ridiculously tiny leopard print
dresses to drum out vaguely tribal rhythms. It makes Stewart
seem like a ( Ray Harryhausen -animated) dinosaur.  There are no surprises and yet lots of fun. Stewart plays
his influences: rock ’n’ roll (a frisky cover of Chuck Berry’s
“Sweet Little Rock ’n’ Roller,” which he’s been doing for years)
and classic soul (Sam Cooke’s “Having a Party.”) He sings “Hot
Legs” while kicking signed soccer balls into the crowd.  “Sailing” is imbued with an unexpected swell of poignancy.
“Do Ya Think I’m Sexy” is, entirely as expected, shamelessly
corny. Played for all its worth, it is also a lot more palatable
(and much more fun) than its modern-day equivalent, Robin
Thicke’s noxious “Blurred Lines.”  The lad’s still a rock ’n’ roll superstar.  Rating: ****.  Rod Stewart tours the U.K. through Oct. 5, moving to the
U.S. on Oct. 17. His Caesar’s Place shows run Nov. 6 through
Nov. 24 before continuing a North American tour including New
York on Dec. 9. Information:  http://www.rodstewart.com   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Warwick
Thompson  on U.K. theater and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 