-- Rohani Takes His Charm to UN Used to Iranian Hectoring
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-09-23T15:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/rohani-takes-his-charm-to-un-used-to-iranian-hectoring.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani,
who swept to power with a vow to improve relations with the
world, has a pulpit to do so this week with his first speech to
the United Nations.  Rohani, 64, will address the UN General Assembly less than
two months after replacing Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. His comments
come as sanctions against the country fuel joblessness and
inflation, and as  Israel  and the U.S. threaten military force to
end what they say is an attempt to build atomic weapons.  Before departing from Tehran’s airport earlier today,
Rohani said he will aim “to show the true face of Iranians to
the world,” the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported.  The new president will tomorrow blend a softer tone with
gestures to hasten a return to dialogue, possibly offering to
allow more open inspection of nuclear sites, said Ali Ansari,
director of the Institute of Iranian Studies at St. Andrew’s
University in  Scotland .  With opponents at home likely to pounce on any delay in
delivering tangible results, Rohani needs to act quickly “to
push back against the inevitable pressure from conservatives as
well as to the expectations of the public,” said Trita Parsi,
author of “A Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with
 Iran .”  Memorable Appearance  A Carnegie Endowment for International Peace report
estimated in April that sanctions had cost Iran more than  $100
billion  in lost foreign investment and oil revenue. Inflation
has almost doubled in two years to 39 percent last month,
official figures show.  “The likelihood that he will do something bold in the
address is there,” Parsi, who is also president of the National
Iranian-American Council in Washington, said. “It would be a
huge missed opportunity for Rohani with all of these
expectations to come to New York and give a speech that no one
can remember.”  The Iranian rial appreciated to 29,350 per U.S. dollar
today in unregulated trading from 30,700 on Sept. 18, according
to figures compiled by Daily Rates for Gold Coins & Foreign
Currencies, a Facebook page used by traders and companies in
Iran and abroad. The currency has strengthened about 23 percent
since June 13, the day before the presidential vote.  Nuclear Program  Rohani may leave his mark with more than a speech. Although
there is no indication of a meeting scheduled between Rohani and
President  Barack Obama , when asked about the likelihood of it,
White House spokesman Jay Carney said Sept. 19 “it’s
possible.”  Amir Mohebian, a political analyst who says he’s advised
presidents including Mohammad Khatami and Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, said in an interview that the Iranian leadership had
received a letter from Obama offering to lift sanctions if Iran
ends “ambiguities” over its nuclear program. The message had
been welcomed in Tehran, Mohebian said.  With Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei the key decision
maker on key affairs of state, Rohani’s power to alter the
nuclear policy and end the sanctions on his own is limited.
Success may depend on his ability to leverage connections with
Iran’s powerful non-elected bodies and ultimately with Khamenei,
whom he first met four decades ago during the early days of
Islamist opposition to the Shah.  ‘Heroic Flexibility’  Khamenei last week called for “heroic flexibility” in
negotiations, in a sign that Rohani may have his support as he
seeks to improve relations with the U.S. The two men met ahead
of Rohani’s departure with the Supreme Leader wishing him
“success,” according to Khamenei’s official website.  Rohani’s trip comes on the heels of statements from Iranian
officials in past weeks aimed at promoting what appears to be
Iran’s political relaxation.  His government’s use of social media has included both the
president and his foreign minister wishing Jews a happy Jewish
New Year on Twitter. Last week, a dozen political prisoners were
freed, half of them linked to mass street protests that followed
the disputed 2009 re-election of Ahmadinejad.  Speaking today, judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejei said Khamenei has pardoned some 80 individuals guilty of
political or “security” crimes, though he didn’t specify
whether those freed last week were included in the count, the
state-run Fars news agency reported.  In a Sept. 20 article in the  Washington  Post, Rohani wrote
that global politics is no longer a “zero-sum game,” and urged
leaders to “respond genuinely” to his efforts to engage in
“constructive dialogue.”  ‘Serious Negotiation’  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is due to
speak at the UN on Sept. 30 and meet with Obama at the White
House that day, has already portrayed Rohani’s moderate tone as
cover to continue efforts to develop a nuclear bomb.  “We shouldn’t blindly accept the deceitful words of the
Iranian president,” Netanyahu’s office said Sept. 19 in a
statement. “The Iranians are using spin in the media in order
to continue to spin their centrifuges.”  Expectations are high among Iranians who voted for Rohani
that he’ll improve relations with the world and bring relief to
the economy.  Though interactions and meetings between the U.S. and
Iranian presidents or their foreign ministers would carry a
symbolic weight after decades of frozen ties, they are “not
crucial,” said Mehrzad Boroujerdi, director of the Middle
Eastern studies program at  Syracuse University  in the U.S.  “What’s important, and perhaps the right course of action,
is for them to agree to start serious negotiations,” Boroujerdi
said.  Low Bar  Following her meeting at the UN today with Iranian Foreign
Minister Javad Zarif, EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton,
who represents the UN Security Council powers plus  Germany  in
nuclear talks, said negotiations are scheduled for next month in
October. Zarif is also set to meet foreign ministers of  China ,
 France ,  Russia , the U.K., the U.S. and Germany while in New
York, Ashton told reporters.  Ashton said the two discussed the way forward on the
nuclear conflict and said she had been “struck” by Zarif’s
“energy and determination.”  “Ahmadinejad set the bar very low,” said Ansari,
referring to speeches in which the former president used the UN
podium to call for the downfall of Israel and “American
imperialism,” and question the Holocaust. “It won’t be
difficult for Rohani to come and make a speech that will be seen
as markedly different from what Ahmadinejad used to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  