-- Russia Rejects U.S.-Europe Plan to Enforce Syria UN Measure
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-09-22T16:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/russia-rejects-u-s-europe-plan-to-enforce-syrian-un-resolution.html
Russia  rejected a U.S. and European
plan to include enforcement in a United Nations Security Council
resolution on Syrian chemical weapons disarmament, Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.  Western actions are “irresponsible and unprofessional,”
Lavrov said in an interview with Russia’s Channel One published
on the Foreign Ministry’s website today. They want to “drive
through a resolution based on force” and that blames President
Bashar al-Assad for everything, he said.  The U.S., U.K. and France have accused Syrian government
forces of carrying out an Aug. 21 chemical attack that killed
1,400 people, including more than 400 children. Assad has blamed
rebel groups for the attack.  The U.S., France and the U.K. want a resolution this week
that provides enforcement to the terms of the Geneva accord
between the U.S. and Russia. Efforts to agree on a resolution
have encountered headwinds from Russia, Assad’s strongest ally,
which opposes any measure with a threat of force. The Security
Council is set to negotiate a resolution this week, as world
leaders travel to New York for the opening of the UN General
Assembly.  The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
said Sept. 20 it had “received an initial disclosure from the
Syrian government of its chemical weapons program.” The Sept.
14 U.S.-Russian agreement, which averted an American military
strike on Assad’s government, called for an itemization of
 Syria ’s poison gas stocks by yesterday.  ‘Initial Disclosure’  Ben Rhodes, White House deputy national security adviser,
said Sept. 20 that it was “a positive step” for Syria to
submit the list within the period outlined in the agreement,
which calls for the Arab country to turn over its chemical
weapons to international control for eventual destruction.  “There needs to be consequences for noncompliance,”
Rhodes told reporters on a conference call. “We would want to
see the strongest enforcement possible.”  The executive council of the chemical weapons organization
in The Hague, which would oversee Syria’s disarmament, said
Sept. 20 it postponed a meeting on Syria and is aiming for a new
date in the middle of this week.  Russia has had close ties with Syria since Assad’s father,
Hafez al-Assad, took power in a coup in 1970. Russia has been a
major arms provider to the regime and maintains its only
military base outside the former Soviet Union at Syria’s
Mediterranean port of Tartus.  “Our American partners are trying to blackmail us,”
Lavrov said. The U.S. is saying that “unless Russia accepts to
adopt this resolution under Chapter 7, we will stop the work of
the OPCW in The Hague,” he said refering to the UN charter’s
chapter, which lays out provisions that have been used to
justify armed intervetions since the Korean War.  Discussion  “This is absolutely contrary to what we agreed with John Kerry -- first the decision of the OPCW and only then a
resolution in the UN Security Council to support it, but not
under Chapter 7,” Lavrov said.  The Russian foreign minister spoke by phone today with
Secretary of State Kerry at the request of the U.S. to discuss
the implementation of the chemical disarmament plan for Syria,
according to the website of the Foreign Ministry in Moscow.  The U.S. and  France  hadn’t presented any evidence to Russia
that Syrian government forces carried out the Aug. 21 chemical
attack, Lavrov said in the interview. “All information they
have released so far to back up their claim hasn’t been
convincing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  