-- Russia Opens North Korean Rail Link for ‘Iron Silk Road’
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-09-22T15:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/russia-opens-north-korean-rail-link-for-iron-silk-road-.html
Russia and North Korea opened a
cross-border freight railway intended to speed cargo shipments
between Asia and  Europe  in the event that the rival Koreas
connect their train networks.  The top executives of both countries’ state train operators
inaugurated a route today that links the North Korean port city
of Rajin with the Russian border town of Khasan.  Initially, the 54-kilometer (33-mile) line will transport
Russian coal to markets in the Asia-Pacific region, OAO Russian
Railways Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin  said at the
ceremony in Rajin. The second phase of the project will involve
the construction of a container-handling facility and
potentially an  oil terminal  at the North Korean site, he said.  “Our common objective is for this link and port to be a
pilot scheme for the restoration of a single transport system in
North and  South Korea  that would link the peninsula to countries
that gravitate to this region, to Europe via Russia,” Yakunin
said. The CEO said he hopes the plan will help promote peace
between the two Koreas, which remain technically at war
following the conflict 1950-53 that divided the countries.  The route is part of a larger project, dubbed the Iron Silk
Road, that would connect  Russia ’s Trans-Siberian Railway to
South Korea via the North for an overland route cutting
transportation costs to Europe. Success depends on improved ties
between South Korea and its isolated Communist neighbor.  Reunions Scrapped  North Korea canceled plans today for reunions this week of
families separated by the division of the peninsula, and accused
South Korean leaders of “throwing obstacles” in the way of
reconciliation.  The North also put off talks on resuming tours by South
Koreans to its Mount Geumgang resort after recent weeks of
improved relations between the two sides. Kim Jong Un’s regime
accused the South of seeking confrontation, and threatened
“strong and decisive” retaliation against any military
provocation.  The Khasan-Rajin rail link will carry 100,000 freight
containers a year, the North’s official Korean Central News
Agency reported in April 2012.  The freight terminal at Rajin will be able to handle 4
million tons a year of coal, Yakunin said today, including
shipments for  OAO Mechel , Russia’s biggest supplier of the
material for steelmakers.  The new rail connection “will promote the joint economic
and transport development of the two countries and welfare of
their peoples,” North Korean Railways Minister Chon Kil-su
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Rajin,  North Korea , via   eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  