-- Russia Pension Funds May Cede $16 Billion to VEB in 2014-15
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a   a n d   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-09-23T09:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/russian-pension-funds-may-cede-16-billion-to-veb-in-2014-2015.html
Russia ’s non-state pension funds
may miss out on 500 billion rubles ($16 billion) of new money in
the next two years while the government seeks to clean up the
system, eroding demand for some corporate ruble bonds, according
to the Finance Ministry.  The ministry proposes barring non-state funds from getting
new contributions starting in 2014 until they re-register as
open joint-stock companies and are accepted into a new insurance
program, to boost transparency and accountability, Deputy
Finance Minister Alexey Moiseev said in a phone interview. The
process may take two years, during which money earmarked for
them will be channeled to state development bank VEB, he said.  About one-third of Russia’s total 2.6 trillion rubles of
funded retirement money is invested in stocks and bonds by non-state pension funds. VEB, which invests for people who haven’t
selected a manager, focuses on government, mortgage and
guaranteed infrastructure-related debt, earning a yield of 9.2
percent last year. Inflation ran at 6.6 percent.  “The measure will lower the demand for domestic corporate
bonds,” Dmitry Dudkin, head of fixed income research at UralSib
Capital, said by e-mail. “This will further widen the chasm
between the state-related instruments and risks of private
companies.”  By the end of September, the ministry will submit its
proposals on non-state pension funds to the State Duma, the
lower house of parliament, Moiseev said by phone on Sept. 20.  Pension Protection  The two-year period “is important to bring order to the
regulation of the non-state pension funds system, to make sure
only dependable and conscientious participants get access to the
market,” Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told Bloomberg by
phone. “It’s also important to set a strict prudential
supervision on the financial market so that pension savings are
protected.”  The temporary transfer of new pension savings to VEB is
“justified,” the Interfax news service cited the bank’s
chairman, Vladimir Dmitriev, as saying Sept. 21. Government and
regulators have “consensus” on the matter, he said.  Money already managed by pension funds will stay with them
through the reform period, Moiseev said. As soon as any of the
more than 90 existing non-state pension funds re-registers and
is accepted into the insurance program, it will receive funds
back from VEB, he said.  “Market participants will lose about a quarter of their
income, and people will underearn, because VEB’s return is one
of the lowest on the market,” said Vadim Soskov, chief
executive officer of Kapital Asset Management, which manages
about 145 billion rubles, including pension money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  