-- Henrik Stenson Claims PGA Tour’s $10 Million Playoff Bonus
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/stenson-wins-tour-championship-and-pga-tour-s-10-million-bonus.html
Henrik Stenson of  Sweden  captured
the U.S. PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup title and its $10 million bonus
with a three-stroke victory at golf’s Tour Championship.  Stenson shot a 2-under-par 68 yesterday to finish with a
four-round total of 13-under 267 at East Lake Golf Club in
Atlanta, holding off challenges from the oldest and youngest
players in the 30-man field:  Steve Stricker  and Jordan Spieth.
Stricker, 46, and Spieth, 20, tied at 10-under par.  Stenson, 37, is the first European player to win the FedEx
Cup title in its seven-year history.  “To hang in there the way I did, I’m really satisfied,”
Stenson said yesterday after receiving the trophy from PGA Tour
Commissioner Tim Finchem. “It’s been a great week and obviously
a great playoffs for me.”  Stenson had been ranked No. 2 behind Tiger Woods in the
season-long FedEx Cup point standings entering the Tour
Championship, where any of the top five could have earned the
$10 million bonus with a victory in the last of four playoff
events. Stenson also won the Deutsche Bank Championship -- the
second playoff tournament -- on Sept. 2 for his first PGA Tour
title since 2009.  While Stenson had a tie for 43rd and a tie for 33rd in the
other two playoff events, he’s been among the sport’s most
successful and consistent players over the past three months. He
tied for third at the Scottish Open in July before a runner-up
finish at the British Open. He also finished third at last
month’s  PGA Championship  and tied for second at the World Golf
Championships-Bridgestone Invitational.  Consistent Stenson  “From the British Open on, he’s basically put it
together,” Woods said of Stenson. “He’s played so
consistently, while at a high level. He’s hit it great, made his
share of putts. He’s just been so consistent.”  In addition to the $10 million playoff bonus, Stenson
received $1.44 million for winning the 30-player Tour
Championship.  “It’s just been a great summer, way beyond what I could
imagine,” said Stenson, who had fallen to 230th in the world
after climbing as high as fourth in 2009, when he won the
 Players Championship . “The play that I performed here since
mid-July has been incredible. It’s obviously the work that I’d
done before. It wasn’t like you wake up in the middle of July
and you start playing fantastic. I put the work in.”  Spieth shot a final-round 64 to tie for second place. He
finished seventh in the FedEx Cup standings, the best finish by
a PGA Tour rookie. The previous best FedEx Cup performance by a
rookie was 20th place by Keegan Bradley in 2011, Marc Leishman
in 2009 and Brandt Snedeker in 2007.  Runner-Up  “The beginning of the year, my goal was just to get on
Tour next season,” said Spieth, who won the John Deere Classic
in a playoff in July and had seven other top-10 finishes this
season. “I just had to readjust goals a couple different times
and definitely exceeded any expectations I could have imagined
starting the year.”  Stricker was third in the final  FedEx Cup standings  behind
Stenson and Woods after closing with a 65 that included an eagle
on the par-5 15th hole that got him to 10-under par.  Webb Simpson  shot a 63 to finish fourth at 9 under, one
shot better than  Dustin Johnson .  Justin Rose  finished at 7-under
par, while  Zach Johnson  and Billy Horschel were 6 under.  Woods tied for 22nd place at the Tour Championship at even-par. The No. 1 player in the Official World Golf Ranking, Woods
had rounds of 69 and 67 on the weekend after shooting a 3-over
73 in the first round and following it up with a 71.  Snedeker won the FedEx Cup title last year, following
victories by fellow Americans  Bill Haas ,  Jim Furyk  and Woods the
previous three years.  Vijay Singh  of  Fiji  won in 2008 after
Woods claimed the inaugural title in 2007.  Stenson joined Singh as the only players to win the Tour
Championship and Deutsche Bank Championship in the same season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  