-- Swiss Vote to Maintain 165-Year-Old Military Draft
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-09-23T15:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/switzerland-votes-to-maintain-165-year-old-military-draft.html
(Corrects job title of Ivo Furrer and Peter Wuffli’s
status in third paragraph in story published Sept. 22.)  Swiss voters rejected a third
proposal in two decades to end the draft in a referendum, opting
to keep the military tradition which critics say costs an annual
4 billion francs ($4.4 billion) in lost work days.  The initiative to replace  Switzerland ’s 165-year-old
militia service with volunteers was supported by just 26.8
percent of voters today, Swiss television channel SRF  said  on
its website. About 73.2 percent voted against the proposal. A
poll by  gfs.bern  signaled that outcome as probable.  The neutral Swiss have been unwilling to alter the shape of
the conscripted army, which dates back to 1848 and is compulsory
for physically fit men from age 19. The military has schooled
generations of business executives, with former UBS AG Chief
Executive Officer Peter Wuffli,  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) ’s CEO for
Switzerland Ivo Furrer and  Josef Ackermann , former CEO of
Deutsche Bank AG, among those who served.  “The initiative clearly failed,”  Group for a Switzerland
Without an Army , a lobby which has been trying to abolish the
military since 1982, said in a statement.  “We didn’t manage to persuade Swiss voters that
pointlessly forcing men to do military service should belong to
the past,” it said. Swiss voters rejected attempts to abolish
draft laws in 1989 and 2001.  Young men must complete 300 days in the army, or opt for
civilian community service on ethical grounds, which lasts about
150 days longer. Women are able to join the armed forces on a
voluntary basis.  Neighboring Germany,  Italy  and  France  have all abolished
the draft, as has the U.S. Austrian voters rejected an abolition
in a nationwide referendum earlier this year.  “The SVP is pleased by this clear vote from the people for
a secure Switzerland,” the  Swiss People’s Party  (SVP) said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  