-- Syria: Facts & Figures in Arab Uprisings’ Most Violent Conflict
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-09-22T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/syria-facts-figures-in-arab-uprisings-most-violent-conflict.html
Syria ’s conflict began with
peaceful anti-government protests in March 2011, part of a wave
of popular opposition to authoritarian regimes across the Arab
world. It evolved into a sectarian war after President Bashar al-Assad’s troops fired on demonstrators.  On the battlefield, the fighting pits the mainly Sunni
opposition against the backers of Assad, whose Alawite faith is
an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  The U.S. blamed Assad’s government for a Aug. 21 sarin gas
attack that it said killed more than 1,400 people, including 400
children. An effort by the Obama administration to marshal
global support for military strikes to punish the Syrian regime
has been suspended after Assad agreed to a U.S.-Russian plan to
eradicate his stockpiles of chemical munitions.  Assad’s forces are stretched after more than two years of
fighting, while the rebel fighters have failed to unite their
ranks. Various strains of al-Qaeda and other radical militants
have joined the war, raising international concerns about an
Islamist state should Assad be deposed, and Western weapons
falling under their control.  * The Players  Bashar al-Assad: He inherited the Syrian presidency in July 2000
after the death of his father, Hafez al-Assad, who ruled the
country for three decades. Assad was getting advanced training
as an ophthalmologist in  London  in 1994 when his elder brother
and father’s first choice for president, Basel, died in a car
crash. Assad returned home to be groomed to lead Syria. He was
born on Sept. 11, 1965 and graduated from medical school at
Damascus University in 1988. Assad’s promises of new freedoms
and pay increases failed to halt the protests of 2011, as his
security forces tried to crush dissent.  Ahmad Tomeh: Syria’s opposition National Coalition elected Tomeh
as prime minister this month and tasked him with forming a
transitional government. The 48-year-old is thought to be have
been a consensus candidate accepted by secular members in the
coalition and moderate Islamist groups fighting to oust Assad.
He replaced Ghassan Hitto, a Syrian American businessman. Tomeh
is from the country’s oil producing east.  Ghassan Hitto: Hitto stepped down as opposition prime minister
in July. He was given the responsibility of administering areas
inside Syria held by the rebels. He pledged to enforce laws and
provide logistical support for opposition forces. The
communications executive was born in Damascus and has a
bachelor’s degree from  Indiana ’s  Purdue University  and an MBA
from Indiana Wesleyan University.  Ahmad al-Jarba: He became the opposition coalition’s new
president in July. As a leader of the Shammar tribe, one of the
largest in the region and from which the mother of  King Abdullah 
of Saudi Arabia also hailed, Al-Jarba is viewed as someone the
leadership in  Riyadh  can work with. Al-Jarba was born in 1969 in
the north-eastern Syrian city of Qameshli.  George Sabra: He was elected in April as the acting president of
the coalition, and held the post until July. He’s still head of
the Syrian National Council after being appointed in November
2012. During his role leading the opposition bloc he stirred
controversy by refusing to rule out talks with Assad’s
government. He speaks about Syria without any religious or
sectarian bias and supports the formation of a secular
government after the ouster of Assad.  General Salim Idris: He became the head of the rebel Free Syrian
Army’s Supreme Military Command in December. The East Germany-trained electronics professor was a general in the Syrian army
when he defected in July 2012. He has been vocal in trying to
persuade the U.S. to intervene militarily against Assad after
the use of chemicals weapons in August. Idris has tried to
convince the U.S. that the FSA isn’t an Islamist or radical
group as portrayed by the Assad government.  * The Political Groups  Syrian government: Assad’s family has ruled the country for 40
years, and has been backed by the Alawite community and other
minorities. Assad’s father left behind an authoritarian
government that’s been led by the socialist Baath Party since
1963. Under Hafez al-Assad, Syria allied itself with Shiite
Muslim-led  Iran . Lebanon’s Shiite-Muslim Hezbollah has aligned
with the Syrian government and fought with them to take the
strategic city of al-Qusair in June.  Syrian National Coalition: The  National Coalition  is an umbrella
group of opposition blocs whose main goal is toppling Assad’s
government. The group has sought international recognition and
the formation of a transitional government, according to its
website. It has pledged to guarantee the “rights, interests and
the participation of all components of Syria.” The coalition
was formed in November 2012 after talks in Qatar, leading the
 Arab League  to recognize it as the sole representative of the
Syrian people. The Istanbul-based coalition has a president, a
prime minister and about 114 members.  Syrian National Council: The  council  of opposition groups has
its main offices in Istanbul and Cairo, and was formed in 2011.
It falls under the umbrella of the Syrian National Coalition.
The group seeks a civil and democratic state in Syria after the
toppling of Assad. Its charter lists human rights, press
freedom, independence, democracy and political pluralism as its
guiding principles. The chairman is Syrian Christian George Sabra.  * Combatants  Free Syrian Army: As Syrian government forces started to crack
down on peaceful protesters in 2011, members of the army started
to defect. The FSA includes former regime soldiers and civilian
volunteers. The  FSA  is aligned to the Syrian National Coalition.
Fighters from the rebel group are financed and armed in part by
some Gulf Arab countries, including  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar. They
have struggled to hold territory. They have also battled
Islamists, who see the Syrian conflict as a religious war.  Militant Groups: They number around 100,000 fighters, with about
1,000 different factions, according to  IHS Janes , a defense
consultancy. It estimates that there are about 10,000 jihadists
-- who include foreign fighters -- fighting for factions linked
to al-Qaeda. Another 30,000 to 35,000 are Islamists who share
much of the outlook of the jihadists, but are focused purely on
the Syrian war rather than a wider international struggle, Janes
said.  Assad’s Forces: Assad’s forces have fallen to about half of
their notional strength of 220,000 men a year ago, according to
a report by the International Institute for Strategic Studies in
London. More than 15,000 soldiers have died during the two years
of fighting. Syrian forces have become more reliant on heavy
weaponry including attack aircraft, helicopter gunships,
artillery and tanks as the conflict has drawn out.  * International Participants  The war has pitted the U.S. and its Sunni-Muslim Gulf allies,
who want to see Assad removed from power, against  Russia  and
Shiite-Muslim Iran. Russia, which maintains its last naval base
in the  Middle East  in Syria, brokered a contentious agreement
with the U.S. as a way of heading off American airstrikes
against Assad after chemicals weapons were used on Aug. 21
outside of Damascus. Saudi Arabia wants “effective” steps
taken to end the Syrian conflict, and international support for
the opposition that allows them to more effectively fight
government forces.  * Human Toll  The  United Nations  estimated in July that more than  100,000
people  have been killed in the conflict in Syria. About 2
million Syrians have registered as refugees or are pending
registration, with an average of almost 5,000 people fleeing
into neighboring countries each day, the office of the UN High
Commission on Refugees  said  Sept. 3. At the end of August, there
were 110,000 refugees in  Egypt , 168,000 in  Iraq , 515,000 in
 Jordan , 716,000 in Lebanon and 460,000 in  Turkey , it said.
Inside Syria, a further 4.25 million people are displaced,
according to data from the UN’s Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  