-- U.K. Homebuilding Approvals Jump as Mortgage Market Revives
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-09-23T07:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/u-k-homebuilding-approvals-rise-49-as-mortgage-market-revives.html
Homes approved for construction in
the U.K. rose 49 percent in the second quarter as government
assistance boosted mortgage lending and building permits became
easier to get.  Approvals climbed to 37,000 from the same period a year
earlier, the Home Builders Federation said in a statement today.
The total for the 12 months through June reached 156,608, a 34
percent increase from the lowest year-long period, which ended
in September 2011.  The gain “reflects house builders’ increasing confidence
in the market and also the positive principles of the new
planning system,” Stewart Baseley, executive chairman of the
industry group, said in the statement. “With Help to Buy
forging ahead strongly and developers looking to increase
output, we need to see the increase sustained.”  U.K. house prices climbed for the seventh month in August
and will probably continue to increase through the rest of the
year, according to a report by Halifax, the mortgage unit of
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Home values increased 0.4 percent from
the previous month to an average 170,231 pounds ($272,676),
Halifax said. Prices gained 6.2 percent from a year earlier.  Lower Costs  The Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme has helped
lower mortgage costs while Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s Help to Buy program allows a home purchase with a
deposit of as little as 5 percent of the property’s value. U.K.
lawmakers also made it easier last year for home builders to
appeal when boroughs voted against approval of housing projects.  Approval rates remain substantially below the 220,000 a
year needed to meet the demands of a growing U.K. population,
the HBF said. “Onerous” conditions set by local authorities on
planning approvals continue to delay construction, the group
said.  Buyers have reserved 12,500 homes for purchase through Help
to Buy in the five months since the program was introduced in
March, the HBF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  