-- U.K. Labour Asks OBR to Audit Plans in Search for Credibility
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-22T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/u-k-labour-asks-obr-to-audit-plans-in-search-for-credibility.html
Ed Balls , the Treasury spokesman
for the U.K. opposition  Labour Party , asked the government’s
Office for Budget Responsibility to audit his spending plans to
ward off criticisms they’re unaffordable.  Balls, who will address his party’s annual conference in
the south-coast resort of Brighton at about noon local time
today, will tell delegates that they need to demonstrate
credibility before the 2015 election.  “In tough times, it’s even more important that all our
policies and commitments are properly costed and funded,” Balls
will say, according to extracts released by his office. “The
British people rightly want to know that the sums add up.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  described as “nonsense”
yesterday accusations by the governing  Conservative Party  that
he’s already committed to an extra 27.9 billion pounds ($45
billion) of spending in his first year in office should Labour
win power in 2015. The Tories argue a Labour government would
have to raise taxes and borrowing, pushing  interest rates  up.  The start of the conference has been overshadowed by the
publication of a memoir by Damian McBride, who worked alongside
Miliband and Balls in the Treasury under  Gordon Brown  when
Labour was last in power. The book, “Power Trip,” details how
McBride worked on Brown’s behalf to undermine Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  and punish political opponents, often by spreading
misinformation.  Balls will warn Labour that if the party wins in 2015, it
will have to accept some of the spending reductions made by the
current coalition government.  ‘Less Money’  “We won’t be able to reverse all the spending cuts and tax
rises the Tories have pushed through. And we will have to govern
with less money around,” he’ll say. “The next Labour
government will have to make cuts too. Because while jobs and
growth are vital to getting the deficit down -- something this
government has never understood -- they cannot magic the whole
deficit away at a stroke.”  Robert Chote , the chairman of the OBR, said it was for
Parliament to decide whether auditing opposition spending plans
is within its remit. “We would need to ensure that we had
adequate internal resources to do the job, as well as guaranteed
access to the necessary data and analytical expertise, ” he
said in an e-mailed statement.  In an effort to reduce immigration and deal with
unemployment, Miliband yesterday proposed requiring companies to
take on a “local” apprentice for each person they hired from
outside the European Union. The Conservatives pointed out that
under EU law such apprenticeships would have to be offered to
any European citizen. The Institute of Directors described it as
a “daft policy” that would make it harder for businesses to
hire people.  In a taste of the battles to come, Balls’s deputy, Rachel Reeves, was challenged about the cost of another new policy,
requiring schools to offer child care from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.  “This is something that we don’t think will cost any
money,” she told the  BBC . “This is a policy that doesn’t
involve additional money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  