-- Hunger Seen Worsening by Oxfam as Climate Change Heats Up World
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/hunger-seen-worsening-by-oxfam-as-climate-change-heats-up-world.html
World hunger is expected to worsen
as climate change hurts crop production and disrupts incomes,
with food-price spikes due to extreme weather set to increase,
charity Oxfam said.  The number of people at risk of hunger may climb by 10
percent to 20 percent by 2050 as a result of climate change,
with daily per-capita calorie availability falling across the
world, Oxfam wrote in an e-mailed report today.  The world risks “cataclysmic changes” caused by extreme
heat waves, rising sea levels and depleted food stocks, as
average temperatures are headed for a 4 degree Celsius (7.2
degrees Fahrenheit) jump by 2100, the World Bank reported in
November.  “The changing climate is already jeopardizing gains in the
fight against hunger, and it looks set to worsen,” Oxfam said.
“A hot world is a hungry world.”  The Oxfam report comes before the publication of a report
by the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
in  Stockholm  later this week.  More extreme and unpredictable weather due to global
warming may result in crop losses as well as damage or destroy
distribution and transport systems, with severe consequences for
food supply and availability, according to the report.  “If the remainder of the 21st century unfolds like its
first decade, we will soon experience climate extremes well
outside the boundaries of human experience, ever since
agriculture was first developed,” Oxfam said.  Emission Cuts  Avoiding dangerous climate change requires a “dramatic
shift” in political ambition, the charity said. Ensuring the
long-term prospect of hunger eradication means lowering
emissions fast, with “deep cuts” needed by 2020, Oxfam said.  The world food system can’t cope with unmitigated climate
change, which could lead to a permanent increase in yield
variability, “excessive” food-price fluctuations and a
permanent disruption to livelihoods, Oxfam said.  Low-income countries in tropical and subtropical regions
will probably face “sharp” changes in annual rainfall and
climate conditions that will put them at risk of greater food
insecurity, particularly in  Africa  and Southeast Asia, the
report said. Crop yields there may fall by 10 percent to 20
percent by 2050 due to climate change, Oxfam wrote.  Farmers  “These creeping, insidious changes in the seasons, such as
longer, hotter dry periods, shorter growing periods and
unpredictable rainfall patterns are bewildering farmers,” the
group wrote.  An increase of 4 degrees Celsius in world temperatures
would reduce the length of the growing period in some parts of
Africa by as much as 20 percent by 2090, the charity said.  Lacking “urgent and aggressive action” on climate change,
the average price of staple foods may double in the next 20
years compared with 2010 levels, Oxfam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  