-- Warner Bros.’s ‘Prisoners’ Finishes Atop Box-Office Rankings
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-23T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/warner-bros-s-prisoners-finishes-atop-box-office-rankings.html
“Prisoners,” the suspense
thriller starring Hugh Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal, was the top-grossing movie at U.S. and Canadian theaters in its debut with
$21.4 million in sales for Warner Bros.  “Insidious: Chapter 2” fell to second place with $14.5
million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in a statement.
Ron Howard’s “Rush” opened in limited release.  The R-rated “Prisoners,” featuring Jackman as a father
reacting to his daughter’s kidnapping, generated strong reviews
and film-festival buzz in Toronto and Telluride,  Colorado . With
kids back in school and the awards season approaching, Hollywood
studios are bringing out films for more mature audiences.  “It’s a very good opening, especially for this time of
year, when the box office is weaker,” said Gitesh Pandya, chief
executive officer of Boxofficeguru.com, in a telephone
interview. “September is the weakest month of the year so for a
movie to break $20 million, it’s not too common.  “The movie is skewed toward adults and they typically
listen to reviews more than teenagers,” he said. “Plus it has
huge stars and solid marketing.”  “Prisoners” was projected to generate $20 million in
domestic sales, the estimate of researcher Boxoffice.com.
Jackman’s character turns vigilante after police, lacking
evidence, let the chief suspect in his daughter’s disappearance
go. Gyllenhaal plays the detective keeping tabs on Jackman while
investigating the case.  Racing Legend  Jackman gives the best performance of his career, Los
Angeles Times film critic Betsy Sharkey wrote in a review.  “Exciting, terrifying, worrisome stuff saturates every
second,” she wrote. “Holding you captive, keeping you guessing
until the bitter end.”  “Rush,” from Universal Pictures, stars Chris Hemsworth as
the late Formula 1 racing legend James Hunt and focuses on the
1976 world championship which Hunt won in a nail-biting contest
with rival Niki Lauda. Director Howard, who won the Oscar for
2001’s “A Beautiful Mind,” conveys the intensity of the racing
and the contrasting personalities of the British playboy Hunt
and the studious Austrian Lauda.  “Rush,” which brought in $200,000 in ticket sales, opened
in five theaters and goes into wide release this coming weekend.
It received generally favorable reviews. The movie “distills
the thrill of racing into a clash of personalities, one nail-biting face-off, a catastrophic accident and a wild comeback,”
 wrote  Manohla Dargis in the New York Times.  ‘Enough Said’  Also making its debut was the romantic comedy “Enough
Said,” starring James Gandolfini, in one of his last major
movie roles, and Julia Louis-Dreyfus. They play divorced parents
Albert and Eva who hit it off at a party.  “Louis-Dreyfus is endearingly funny as a mess of
insecurities, and the late, great Gandolfini was never more
supremely tender,” wrote Bloomberg News critic Craig Seligman.  “Enough Said,” from Twentieth Century Fox, brought in
$240,000 in ticket sales in four cinemas.  “Insidious,” made for $5 million, has taken in $60.9
million in two weeks. The horror film, drawing from classics
“Poltergeist,” “The Exorcist” and “The Shining,” was
projected to bring in $13.5 million this past weekend for
 FilmDistrict Distribution LLC , according to Boxoffice.com.  “The Family,” a mobster comedy with Robert de Niro, fell
to third from second with $7 million. The movie from Relativity
Media LLC also stars Michelle Pfeiffer, and was directed by Luc
Besson.  Revenue Up  In fourth place was “Instructions Not Included,” bringing
in $5.7 million and starring Eugenio Derbez and Karla Souza.
 Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Battle of the Year” was fifth with $5 million in
receipts in its debut. The 3-D movie follows an international
dance competition and features rapper Chris Brown.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose less than 1
percent to $75.5 million from the year-earlier period,
Hollywood.com said. Attendance year-to-date is down 2 percent,
while revenue is up 1 percent to $8.02 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie  box-office  figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales for Sept. 20 and Sept. 21 and
estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in San Francisco at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  