-- Why Met Won’t Bow to Protest of Anti-Gay Law: Peter Gelb
-- B y   P e t e r   G e l b
-- 2013-09-22T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/why-met-won-t-bow-to-protest-of-anti-gay-law-peter-gelb.html
With activists preparing to picket
the Met’s season-opening production of Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene
Onegin” tonight, I think it is important that the public
understands why the Met is not dedicating its performance to the
oppressed gay citizens of  Russia , even though we’re being
pressured to do so.  The activists argue that since Tchaikovsky was gay and our
performance features several Russian artists who have been
associated with  Vladimir Putin , the Met must turn our
performance into a public rebuke of Russia and, by association,
the Russian performers on our stage.  While I’m confident that many members of our company join
me in personally deploring the tyranny of Russia’s new anti-gay
laws, we’re also opposed to the laws of the 76 countries that go
even further than Russia in the outright criminalization of
homosexuality.  We stand against the significant human rights abuses that
take place every day in many countries. But as an arts
institution, the Met is not the appropriate vehicle for waging
nightly battles against the social injustices of the world.  Over the course of our nine-month season, artists from
dozens of different countries -- some with poor human rights
records -- will be performing at the Met. If we were to devote
tonight’s performance to Russian injustice, how could we
possibly stop there?  Artistic Message  Throughout its distinguished 129-year history, the Met has
never dedicated a single performance to a political or social
cause, no matter how important or just. Our messaging has always
been through art.  However, we’re engaged when it comes to social advocacy
inside the Met. Through the choice of our LGBT (lesbian, gay,
bisexual, and transgender) rainbow of artists and staff, the Met
has long been at the forefront of championing sexual and social
equality within our company.  We leave it to our artists to integrate their own ideas
about society and politics into the work they create for our
stage.  We respect the right of activists to picket our opening
night and we realize that we’ve provided them with a platform to
further raise awareness about serious human rights issues
abroad.  As they watch our performance on the giant screen on the
facade of the opera house, we hope that they will be moved by
Tchaikovsky’s soaring melodies and telling drama.  Although Russia may officially be in denial about
Tchaikovsky’s sexuality, we’re not. The Met is proud to present
Russia’s great gay composer. That is a message, in itself.  ( Peter Gelb  is the general manager of the  Metropolitan
Opera , whose 129th season opens today with Tchaikovsky’s
“Eugene Onegin.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Martin Gayford 
on art,  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater and  Robert Heller  on
rock music.  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Gelb at  generalmanager@metopera.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 