-- WTI Fluctuates as China Expansion Counters Syria Impasse
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-09-23T12:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-22/wti-falls-for-third-day-as-russia-rejects-syrian-strike-option.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
fluctuated as signs that manufacturing in China expanded the
most since March countered easing concern  Syria ’s conflict will
spread and disrupt oil supplies.  Futures were little changed after a 1.6 percent slide on
Sept. 20 capped a second weekly loss. A preliminary Chinese
manufacturing index rose to a six-month high, while a separate
measure of European industrial activity today showed services
expanded more than forecast while manufacturing was below
expectations. Russia rejected a U.S. and European plan to
include the threat of force in a United Nations Security Council
agreement on disarming Syria’s chemical weapons.  “There are no real drivers to oil this week and certainly
the upside should remain fairly limited,” said Michael Hewson,
a London-based market analyst at CMC Markets Plc, who forecasts
Brent to drop to $106 a barrel by the end of the week. “The
European data was mixed and the oil price looks too high due to
a Syria premium, which is starting to melt away.”  WTI for November delivery was at $104.70 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down 5
cents, as of 1:02 p.m. London time. The October contract, which
expired on Sept. 20, closed at $104.67, the lowest settlement
since Aug. 21. The volume of all futures traded was about 25
percent less than the 100-day average. Prices have gained 8.8
percent this quarter and 12 percent so far this year.  Brent for November settlement fell 21 cents to $109.01 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $4.30 to WTI, compared
with $4.47 on Sept. 20.  China Manufacturing  The preliminary September reading of 51.2 for China’s
Purchasing Managers’ Index, released today by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics, beat the 50.9 median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It was at 50.1 in August.
Separately, an official gauge for the euro region showed
manufacturing growth at 51.1, less than the forecast of 51.7.  China  accounted for about 11 percent of global oil
consumption last year, compared with 14 percent for the European
Union and 21 percent for the U.S., according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The U.S.,  France  and the U.K. want a UN resolution this
week that provides enforcement of the terms of the Sept. 14
Geneva accord between the U.S. and Russia to rid Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime of chemical weapons. The
three Western nations have accused government forces of a sarin
gas attack on Aug. 21 that killed 1,400 people near Damascus.  ‘Irresponsible, Unprofessional’  The U.S.-European plan to include threats of force in any
resolution is “irresponsible and unprofessional,” according to
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.  The countries want to “drive through a resolution based on
force” and that blames al-Assad for everything, he said in an
interview with  Russia ’s Channel One, which was published on the
Foreign Ministry’s website yesterday.  Oil rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict and disrupt
Middle East shipments. Syria borders  Iraq  and is near  Iran ,
which together control almost a fifth of the production capacity
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg
estimates show.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds and other large speculators cut bullish wagers
on WTI by 9,099 futures and options contracts combined, or 3.1
percent, to 280,959, in the week ended Sept. 17, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it in weekly
Commitments of Traders report on Sept. 21. The ICE exchange will
release similar data for Brent at midday London time.  In Libya, oil production climbed to more than 600,000
barrels a day and all fields in the west of the country are
producing, Sliman Qajam, the deputy head of the parliament’s
energy committee, said yesterday in a phone interview in
Tripoli. Supply from the OPEC member has rebounded from as low
as 150,000 barrels earlier this month, compared with a 2013 high
of 1.4 million in April, according to the IEA’s monthly report
on Sept. 12. Five of the nation’s nine export terminals were
operating as of Sept. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  