-- African Force Deploys in Disputed Northern Malian Town of Kidal
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y
-- 2013-06-26T14:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/african-force-deploys-in-disputed-northern-malian-town-of-kidal.html
Soldiers of an African intervention
force in  Mali  are deploying in the disputed northern town of
Kidal before a presidential election next month.  A company of almost 200 troops from  Benin  arrived over the
weekend to secure the remote desert town previously held by
ethnic Touareg rebels, Colonel Adoum Ramadane Baroua, chief of
the African-led International Support Mission to Mali, said in
an interview in Gao, 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) north of the
capital, Bamako.  Mali, which vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest
gold producer, has been riven with conflict for more than a year
after Touareg insurgents with the National Movement for the
Liberation of Azawad, known by its French acronym MNLA, joined
forces with al-Qaeda-linked groups to gain control of the north.  Even after  France  dispatched jet fighters to push back the
Islamists in January, the MNLA was able to retain a stronghold
in Kidal. It says the Malian army discriminates against the
Touareg people. Mali’s military denies the allegations.  The situation in northern Mali is “much better than it was
in late February,” Admiral Edouard Guillaud, chief of staff of
the French army, told reporters during a visit to Gao yesterday.
“Children are going back to school, little shops are reopening,
we’re doing repairs, like fixing water pumps. Of course, there
are still more improvements to be made.”  A preliminary peace deal signed on June 18 provides for an
immediate cease-fire between the government and the MNLA. The
rebel fighters won’t disarm until a final agreement has been
reached following presidential elections scheduled for July 28,
according to the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois Rihouay in Bamako via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  