-- Air Arabia Studies Fleet Expansion to Fuel Budget Carrier Growth
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-06-26T08:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/air-arabia-studies-fleet-expansion-to-fuel-budget-carrier-growth.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  is studying the
purchase of additional narrow-body aircraft as the airline seeks
a larger slice of the budget travel market in the Middle East,
Chief Executive Officer Adel Abdullah Ali said.  The company is looking at the Airbus A320neo, the  Boeing
Co. (BA)  737 Max as well as  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s C-Series, Ali said in
an interview. A decision on a purchase is unlikely to come
before next year, and the Sharjah, United Arab Emirates-based
airline has no plans for an announcement in time for the Dubai
Air Show in November, he said.  “Each has a unique selling proposition,” Ali said of the
three aircraft. “It’s still early stages, there’s a lot of work
to be done. It will eventually bounce to commercial decisions,
which one is financially better for us.”  The discount carrier is pursuing growth plans to support
surging traffic, with passenger growth jumping 18 percent to 1.4
million in the first quarter. Air Arabia operates an all-Airbus
fleet consisting of 31 A320s, with an order for 44 more. The
airline now serves more than 80 destinations across the  Middle
East , North Africa,  Asia  and  Europe .  Ali said he’s “happy” with passenger development in the
second quarter, with numbers “looking right” so far. Air
Arabia fills more than 80 percent of aircraft seats on average
during the year, and there are no plans to add a business-class
product to rival a similar offering by FlyDubai, Ali said.  “In the low cost business, you have to be very focused,
and moving away from it will generate additional cost, so we
focus on what we have today,” Ali said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  