-- Taiwan Cuts Capital Gains Tax on Share Sales, Ends Threshold
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-26T10:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/taiwan-cuts-capital-gains-tax-on-share-sales-ends-threshold-2-.html
Taiwan lawmakers voted to roll back
provisions of a capital gains tax on certain stock sales and
removed an index price threshold that depressed shares and
dragged down market trading volume.  The tax on capital gains from transactions of more than
NT$1 billion was reduced to 0.1 percent from 2.25 percent under
the original law. Lawmakers also removed a 8,500-point close
threshold for the  Taiex index  before the tax could go into
effect. Legislative  Yuan  President Wang Jin-pyng announced the
passage of revisions in a special legislative session yesterday.
The benchmark Taiex index rose 1.6 percent to 7,784.80 at the
close. the biggest advance since April 19.  The new rules come after stock-trading volume declined by
as much as 30 percent in the first four months of the year,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. President Ma Ying-jeou’s
administration and legislators argued over about 10 versions of
the tax last year, prompting then-Finance Minister Christina Liu
to step down. The Taiex lost 13 percent during the period.  “This would create motivation for local investors to enter
the market, since the capital gains tax was always seen as a
negative for stocks,” said Parker Wu, a fund manager at the
Agriculture Bank of  Taiwan , who helps oversee the equivalent of
$98 million.  Taiwanese residents invested more capital overseas in the
last two quarters of 2012 compared with the previous period,
Credit Suisse analyst Christiaan Tuntono wrote in a May 20
report, citing the island’s central bank. The government’s
transaction tax revenue fell by 24 percent in the first four
months of the year, according to Tuntono.  Past Attempt   Before passing the levy last year, Taiwan had exempted
securities transactions from capital-gains taxes since 1990,
according to the stock exchange’s website. Stocks fell for 19
consecutive days, tumbling 33 percent in a month, when the plan
for the tax was first discussed in 1988, Schive Chi said last
year when he was the chairman of Taiwan Stock Exchange Corp.  The Taiex index  retreated  0.5 percent this year through
yesterday, erasing gains on concern the Federal Reserve will
scale back monetary stimulus as the economy recovers. The
benchmark index trades at 13.4 times 12-month projected profit,
the lowest since June last year, compared with the MSCI Emerging
Market index’s 9.4 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The revisions may not be sufficient to serve as a catalyst
for the market with the focus on liquidity and and the timing of
the Fed’s scaledown of quantitative easing, UBS AG said in a
report dated today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  