-- Taiwan Cuts Capital Gains Tax on Shares Sales, Rid Threshold
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-06-26T02:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/taiwan-cuts-capital-gains-tax-on-shares-sales-rid-threshold-1-.html
Taiwan lawmakers voted to roll back
provisions of a capital gains tax on stock sales of more than
NT$1 billion ($33 million) and removed an index price threshold
that depressed shares.  Tax on capital gains from transactions of more than NT$1
billion was reduced to 0.1 percent from 2.25 percent under the
original law. Lawmakers also removed a 8,500-point close
threshold for the  Taiex index  before the tax could go into
effect. Legislative  Yuan  President Wang Jin-pyng announced the
passage of revisions in a special legislative session yesterday.
The benchmark Taiex index rose 1.1 percent to 7,746.52 at 10:18
a.m. local time, poised for the biggest advance since May 8.  The new rules come after stock trading volume declined by
as much as 30 percent in the first four months of the year,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. President Ma Ying-jeou’s
administration and legislators argued over about 10 versions of
the tax last year, prompting then-Finance Minister Christina Liu
to step down. The Taiex lost 13 percent during the period.  “This would create motivation for local investors to enter
the market, since the capital gains tax was always seen as a
negative for the stocks,” said Parker Wu, a fund manager at the
Agriculture Bank of  Taiwan , who helps oversee the equivalent of
$98 million.  Taiwanese residents invested more capital overseas in the
last two quarters of 2012 compared with the quarter earlier,
Credit Suisse analyst Christiaan Tuntono wrote in a May 20
report, citing the island’s central bank. The government’s
transaction tax revenue fell by 24 percent in the first four
months of the year, according to Tuntono.  Past Attempt  Before passing the levy last year, Taiwan had since 1990
exempted securities transactions from capital-gains taxes,
according to the stock exchange’s website. Stocks fell for 19
consecutive days, tumbling 33 percent in a month, when the plan
for the tax was first discussed in 1988, Schive Chi said last
year when he was the chairman of Taiwan Stock Exchange Corp.  The Taiex index  retreated  0.5 percent this year, erasing
earlier gains on concern the Federal Reserve will scale back
monetary stimulus as the economy recovers. The benchmark index
trades at 13.2 times 12-month projected profit, the lowest since
June last year, compared with the MSCI Emerging Market index’s
9.2 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  