-- Akzo to Divest Paint Shops in Germany in Retreat From Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-06-26T06:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/akzo-to-divest-paint-shops-in-germany-in-retreat-from-retail.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ,  Europe ’s largest
paint company, plans to sell its decorative paint shops in
Germany to help improve returns and competitiveness.  The 72 stores will be sold to independent wholesale
distributors, the Amsterdam-based maker of the Sikkens, Herbol
and Dulux brands said in a statement today.  “We are changing the marketing strategy of our German
decorative paints business to focus on our key organizational
strengths of marketing and distributing,” said Ruud Joosten,
head of the decorative paints division. “This is part of our
ongoing efforts to strengthen both our organizational efficiency
and our profitability in Germany.”  Akzo Nobel said a review of its eight offices in Germany
will follow. Five years after the $18 billion purchase of
Imperial Chemical Industries, Chief Executive Officer Ton Buechner is tackling the complexity of a sprawling company with
assets spanning coatings, chemicals and specialty ingredients
used in cosmetics.  The company will choose the most efficient distribution
channels instead of having the expense of operating stores
itself. In December, Akzo Nobel sold the 138-year-old Glidden
brand to U.S. competitor PPG Industries Inc. for $1.05 billion.
The deal transferred about 600 of Akzo Nobel’s own paint stores,
giving PPG a retail base of about 1,000 shops.  The sale of the paint stores coincides with the planned
sale of a building-adhesives business with annual sales of about
200 million euros ($261 million).  Germany  generates about 1.3
billion euros in annual revenue for Akzo Nobel.  The Dutch company operates 17 factories in Germany, where
it has 3,900 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  