-- Alcatel Sells Convertible Bonds in Reorganization of Debt
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-06-26T08:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/alcatel-begins-550-million-euro-sale-of-convertible-bonds.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  started a sale of
convertible bonds and bought back old debt as part of the French
telecommunications network-equipment maker’s strategy of
reducing financing costs.  Alcatel-Lucent is selling 550 million euros ($719 million)
of  bonds  that can be converted into or exchanged for shares on
July 1, 2018, with the figure rising to as much as 630 million
euros should an over-allotment option be exercised before the
start of July. The bonds have an interest rate of 4.25 percent
to 5 percent, the Paris-based manufacturer said today in a
statement.  Credit-default swaps  for Alcatel-Lucent tumbled as much as
6.1 percent, the most in five months, to 657 basis points and
were down 2.2 percent at 9 a.m. in  London . The swaps fell last
week to the lowest level since August 2011 after the
manufacturer announced a cost-reduction strategy, which will
include unspecified “adjustments” to its global workforce of
72,000 employees.  “This is very much in line with their plan of re-profiling
near-term debt, which they discussed last week when they
unveiled their shift plan,” said Robert H. Jaeger, an analyst
Societe Generale SA in London. “They will remain opportunistic
with regard to further refinancing opportunities.”  Credit Ratings  Chief Executive Officer Michel Combes outlined a three-year
plan a week ago to sell more than 1 billion euros of assets and
cut spending to restore profit after seven years of
restructuring and two changes in CEO failed to revive earnings.
Alcatel-Lucent has  credit ratings  of B3 at Moody’s Investors
Service and B- at  Standard & Poor’s , both six steps below
investment grade.  Each bond in the new sale can be converted into one new or
existing Alcatel-Lucent share, and they can be exchanged for
stock when the shares rise 30 percent to 37 percent from the
current price, the manufacturer said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Alcatel-Lucent  shares  fell as much as 4.8 percent to 1.29
euro and were trading down 3.5 percent at 10:03 a.m. in Paris,
the fifth consecutive day of declines. That pared the stock’s
gain this year to 30 percent, valuing the company at 3.04
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  