-- Amazon.com, 7-Eleven Sue Visa and MasterCard Over Fees
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-26T22:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/amazon-com-7-eleven-sue-visa-and-mastercard-over-fees.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and 7-Eleven Inc.
sued  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over card fees after
rejecting a multibillion-dollar settlement in an antitrust case.  The retailers and about 30 others filed a lawsuit in
federal court in Manhattan against the card companies and
several major banks. The companies are among more than 7,000
that have dropped out of the $7.25 billion accord over the fees,
which are borne by merchants when customers use credit cards.  “Once Visa and MasterCard acquired substantial market
power over merchants, they maintained it by forcing merchants to
pay even higher interchange fees to continue to fund these
price-fixing schemes,” the retailers said in the complaint
filed today.  The settlement, under consideration by a federal judge in
 Brooklyn , New York, would put to rest about eight years of
litigation in the nationwide suit. Dozens of retailers have said
they’re opposed to the accord because it would give Visa and
MasterCard too much freedom to raise rates in the future.  “These same tired arguments were already raised repeatedly
over the course of the litigation,” Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman
for the Electronic Payments Coalition, which represents card
companies and banks, said in a statement. “Had these arguments
had any merit or strength, they would have been included in the
final settlement.”  Other Retailers  Other retailers that dropped out of the settlement have
also filed their own lawsuits, including   CVS Pharmacy Inc. (CVS)  and
a group led by  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)   Visa sued Wal-Mart Stores Inc. this month over concerns
that the world’s largest retailer would also file a separate
swipe-fee complaint. The payment network said in a complaint
that it wanted to prevent “the continuation of endless,
wasteful litigation.”  The case is 7-Eleven Inc. v. Visa Inc., 13-cv-4442, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  