-- Anglo CEO Sees Significant Cuts to Industry Gold Production
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-26T06:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/anglo-ceo-sees-significant-cuts-to-industry-gold-production.html
Gold production will see significant
cuts in response to the tumble in the metal’s price, according
to  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani , who
previously ran Africa’s largest producer.  “I don’t see the gold price staying low for a protracted
period of time because the drop in production that will occur
will be quite significant and will surprise everybody,”
Cutifani said today in an interview in Canberra. He left his
position leading Johannesburg-based  Anglogold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  in
April, when he took up his post at London-headquartered mining
company Anglo American.  Gold producers from Toronto to Melbourne are reducing
production, costs and staff as bullion heads for its biggest
annual decline since 1981. After reaching a peak of $1,921.15 an
ounce in September 2011, the metal fell into a bear market in
April and is now trading at $1,244 an ounce.  Australia’s largest gold producer  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  said
this month it would probably write down the value of its assets
by as much as A$6 billion ($5.5 billion) in response to falling
prices, as well as cutting spending and about 400 jobs. Canada’s
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the metal,
said this week it will cut about 100 office jobs due to gold’s
slump.  “It’s going to be a terrible quarter for the industry,”
said Cutifani, who said he holds gold in his own investment
portfolio. “The industry is going to have to adjust very
quickly.”  Credit Suisse Group AG expects gold prices at $1,150 in 12
months, while Bank of America Merrill Lynch has said the metal
may drop to $1,200 in coming weeks.  “I don’t know whether it will be in six months, a year,
three years,” Cutifani said. “The position will flip back and
gold will reassert itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in  Melbourne  at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  