-- Anglo Could Buck Trend on Spending If It Sees Value
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-27T23:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/anglo-prepared-to-buck-trend-on-spending-if-it-sees-value.html
(Corrects last paragraph to show that the comments relate
to  Australia  in story originally published June 26.)  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is prepared to be
“opportunistic” in pursuing acquisitions even as falling
commodity prices force the mining industry to cut spending, said
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani .  The mining industry’s focus on costs in response to weak
markets leaves it “in danger of fixing on a mantra that will be
potentially damaging long term,” Cutifani, who took the CEO job
in April, said in an interview in Canberra.  “We will keep ourselves open to possibilities, but the one
word that will drive decisions we make will be value,” he said.
“If you look at Glencore, they bought assets at the bottom of
the cycle and have done well.”  Cutifani’s predecessor Cynthia Carroll quit in October
after Anglo lost about $14 billion in value during her tenure
and suffered cost blowouts and delays at an $8.8 billion iron-ore project in  Brazil . After leaving his post as Chief Executive
Officer of  Anglogold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s largest gold
producer, to join Anglo, Cutifani pledged to scrutinize every
aspect of the business.  Cutifani, 55, will announce the outcome of that business
review next month, in an exercise that has focused on
performance, allocation of capital and the importance of South
Africa to the company’s portfolio, he said.  Even as the London-based miner of commodities including
coal, copper and diamonds won’t rule out potential acquisitions,
Cutifani said he is also questioning whether the company should
remain a major diversified producer.  Diversified Producer  “You start with the proposition, is there value in being a
major diversified?” Cutifani said. “And you have to test it
both ways.”  “When you ask that question it’s amazing what areas you
look at, what roads you go down in terms of how you create
value,” he said.  Anglo posted a $1.5 billion full-year loss for 2012 after a
$4.6 billion writedown at its biggest project and amid falling
commodity prices and strikes in South  Africa . Anglo is forecast
to post earnings of $2.6 billion for fiscal 2013, according to
the mean of 14  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  In a speech earlier in the day to an industry forum in
Canberra, Cutifani said the outlook is grim for mining in
Australia as companies adapt to lower prices and weakening
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  