-- Manon Serves $14 Marshmallow Cosmos, $39 Steak: Dining
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/manon-serves-14-marshmallow-cosmos-39-steak-dining.html
Dinner at Manon, the new nightlife
hang and restaurant in  Manhattan ’s Meatpacking District, is an
onerous undertaking.  Early for our table, we swing by the bar for a drink. The
cocktail menu doesn’t actually list ingredients, so right off
the bat we’re on our own with drinks called “Love to Turn You
On” and descriptions like “light and soothing.”  When we get the bartender’s attention (he’s busy chatting
up a waitress), we ask for something shaken. He brings something
stirred. It’s called “Marshmallow Clouds” ($14) and is touted
as a libation for those who enjoy Cosmopolitans. That makes
sense, since Manon could be a set from “ Sex and the City .”  I go over to the host to ask about our table. He says it’s
ready and sends me back to the bar to close the tab. Thanks. By
the time I return, the elevator shuttling guests to the third-floor dining room has departed. Cooling my heels, I take a sip
of my Marshmallow Clouds. It tastes like rum cut with Gatorade.  The host regales us with an anecdote about how his mom
still smokes pot. Which is fine but we still have to eat here.  Still Newbie  Andrey Dellos, the Russian restaurateur who opened (and
closed) the poorly-reviewed  Brasserie Pushkin  in Midtown last
year, is still getting the swing of the  New York  dining scene.  The tri-level Manon, replete with balconies (for ogling
diners below) and cushy chairs is the first of two restaurants
he’s opened this year. Betony, in the old Pushkin space, is a
pleasant enough work-in-progress. Manon, during a series of
meals over the last two months, shows less promise.  Fluke with sea urchin ($14) smells like maritime effluent
on a warm summer evening. Tender pork ribs lack depth of flavor.
A salt-cod fritter is underseasoned while, oddly, the
accompanying filet of cod ($27) is inedibly saline.  Then all of a sudden you’re digging into perfect beef
tartare ($15), lightly charred to bring out the aromas of the
Creekstone meat. Misses aside, chef Tae Strain generally sends
out straightforward American fare that gets the job done.  Kumquat and citrus spike the oils of raw Hamachi. A bit of
feta enlivens a fine salad of red quinoa and Japanese eggplant.
Pastas -- tortellini filled with sweet corn ($13), tagliatelli
in shellfish butter ($16) -- are excellent.  $39 Steak  The most expensive dish is a $39 strip steak, and while it
lacked any minerality or dry-aged flavor, it was reasonably
tender for such a muscular cut. Bland chicken breast ($25) is
partially redeemed by its flavorful skin and a fried egg.  Then things get weird again.  Rather than offer a beverage list, a waiter asks if he can
“get you another Riesling.” Maybe not with my steak?  One of Manon’s central problems is that the staff isn’t
familiar with the basic steps of service that make things easier
for the diner and that make the staff seem invisible rather than
intrusive.  A salad ordered as an appetizer mysteriously appears as a
side dish during the main course. My companion asks for water,
one glass is served. What about me? Oysters arrive vaguely warm,
without cocktail forks, so you end up with a mouthful of rock
salt covering the bottom of the bivalves. Wild mushrooms are
fine, if only the servers (or the menu) told us what kind they
were.  Skip dessert and finish with “In the Shade” -- a floral
beverage that might be a martini; the menu doesn’t say --
boasting a clean jasmine perfume. It’s a heck of a lot better
than that offending marshmallow drink, which was still sitting,
virtually untouched, at our table after the check was paid.  Rating: 1/2 star.  The Bloomberg Questions:  Price: All dishes at $39 or under.  Sound Level: Around 80 at the bar, with thumping club
music; quieter upstairs in the dining room.  Date Place: Not if you expect a second date.  Inside Tip: Decent enough dorade for $29  Special Feature: Respectable carrot cake.  Back on my own dime? No.  Manon is at 407 W. 14th St. Information: +1-212-596-7255;
 http://manon-ny.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Don’t talk, just eat.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on Jeffery
Archer;  Scott Reyburn  on London art auction.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 