-- Mantega Says Brazil Will Cut Spending to Meet Fiscal Goal
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-06-26T15:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/mantega-says-brazil-will-cut-spending-to-meet-fiscal-goal.html
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
 Brazil  will trim spending to meet this year’s fiscal target, as
the government faces increased pressure to take measures to slow
inflation.  Officials will cut costs to meet a primary surplus goal of
2.3 percent of gross domestic product, Mantega said today at a
public hearing in Brazil’s lower house of Congress. Brazil’s
main public accounts are under control, and the country will be
able to achieve a balanced budget in the future, Mantega said.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration this week
proposed plans to improve government services while maintaining
fiscal austerity in the world’s second largest emerging market.
Policy makers are seeking to quell the biggest street protests
in decades while preventing spending from further fueling
consumer inflation that is already faster than the upper limit
of the central bank’s target range. Police are bracing for fresh
protests today, as demonstrators across the country denounce
corruption and call for improved health care and public
education.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 9.88 percent at 11:57 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.8 percent to 2.1957 per  U.S. dollar .  Brazil’s inflation through mid-June reached 6.67 percent,
breaching the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central bank’s
target range. Central bankers in May accelerated the pace of
benchmark interest rate increases, raising borrowing costs by 50
basis points to 8 percent after a 25 basis-point increase in
April.  First-quarter economic  growth  unexpectedly slowed to 0.55
percent, falling short of analysts’ forecasts for the fifth
straight quarter.  Latin America ’s largest economy will expand
3.1 percent this year, according to central bank estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  