-- Apollo Slides After Profit Falls on Sagging Enrollment
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-06-26T21:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/apollo-slides-after-profit-falls-on-sagging-enrollment.html
Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , owner of the
University of Phoenix and the biggest U.S. for-profit college,
fell the most in eight months after saying that net income and
new enrollment tumbled in its fiscal third quarter.  Apollo dropped 10 percent to $17.39 at the close in  New
York , the most since October 2012. The Phoenix-based company,
which released earnings results yesterday after U.S. markets
closed, has declined 17 percent this year.  The education company cushioned the impact of a decline in
new student signups by cutting costs through a restructuring
program and debt reduction. Efforts to raise Apollo’s profile
among potential students through a rebranding effort and
partnerships with employers to place graduates in jobs haven’t
changed registration trends, said Jarrel Price, an analyst at
Height Analytics in  Washington .  “We need to get a clarity about the true causes of the
continued deterioration in new student enrollment,” Price, who
doesn’t rate the shares, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “These results may be a further indication that
rebranding takes time.”  Net income  for the period ended May 31 fell to $80 million,
or 71 cents a share, from $134 million, or $1.13, a year
earlier, Apollo said yesterday in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit was $1.05 a share, beating the 86-cent average of
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  New students signing up for classes in the quarter slumped
24 percent from a year earlier to 38,900, Apollo said.  Decline ‘Difficult’  The drop in enrollment at the University of Phoenix is
“difficult to accept,” Chief Executive Officer Greg Cappelli
said on a conference call following the earnings results.
“We’re focused on truly engaging students, creating an
environment that addresses their needs and delivering better
outcomes” for graduation and on the job front, he said.  Declining enrollment has come amid increased scrutiny over
the past few years by Congress, state attorneys general and the
U.S. Education Department over for-profit colleges’ marketing
practices. The schools’ students also have a higher rate of
government student-loan defaults than those at non-profit
colleges.  Total costs fell 9.5 percent to $814.8 million from a year
earlier. Apollo’s cost cutting included a 32 percent drop from
the year-earlier quarter in admissions advisory expenses.  Apollo will lose its spot in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index later this week, S&P said in a statement June 20. Apollo
will join the S&P Midcap 400 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  