-- Argentina Asks U.S. Supreme Court to Review Default Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-26T23:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/argentina-asks-u-s-supreme-court-to-review-default-case.html
Argentina  urged the U.S.  Supreme
Court  to review a lower-court ruling against it in a case over
the nation’s defaulted debt.  The South American nation claims a federal appeals court in
 New York  was wrong when it ruled in October that investors in
restructured Argentine debt can’t be paid unless holders of the
nation’s defaulted bonds, led by billionaire  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management Corp. and its NML Capital Ltd. unit, are also
paid.  Argentina filed a petition June 24 asking the Supreme Court
to take the case, arguing that the lower-court ruling
“represents an unprecedented intrusion into the activities of a
foreign state within its own territory that raises significant
foreign relations concerns for the  United States .”  Argentina argues the appeals court failed to properly apply
the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, which limits suits against
foreign governments. With part of the case still pending in the
appeals court, it’s unlikely the Supreme Court will grant
Argentina’s petition before the lower court rules, a decision
that could come at any time.  “I don’t think it has any impact on the eagerly awaited
Second Circuit decision,” said Henry Weisburg, an international
litigator at Shearman & Sterling LLP, referring to the appeals
court in New York.  Argentina’s Petition  Weisburg said he doesn’t think Argentina’s petition will
have any effect on how the appeals court will rule in the case
or, if it decides against Argentina, whether it will delay the
effect of its ruling while the Supreme Court decides whether to
hear the appeal. Weisburg said he thinks the Supreme Court is
unlikely to take the case.  Argentina has said that forcing it to pay the defaulted
bondholders immediately would expose it to $43 billion in
additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for New York-based Elliott
Management, declined to comment on Argentina’s Supreme Court
petition.  In the October ruling, the appeals court directed the judge
overseeing the case to clarify how he planned to calculate the
required payments to defaulted bondholders and how his orders
barring payments to restructured debt-holders would apply to
third parties, including banks.  In response, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said that
Argentina must pay defaulted bondholders the entire amount
they’re owed whenever the nation makes a required payment to
holders of the restructured debt. Griesa also said the order
barring third parties from helping Argentina avoid payment
covers  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , indenture trustee for the
restructured bonds, and others.  A three-judge panel of the appeals court heard arguments on
those rulings in February. The panel didn’t say when it will
rule.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  