-- Maria Sharapova Upset at Wimbledon by Qualifier Larcher de Brito
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-26T17:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/maria-sharapova-upset-at-wimbledon-by-qualifier-larcher-de-brito.html
Maria Sharapova  was beaten in the
second round of Wimbledon by a qualifier ranked 128 places below
her.  Michelle Larcher de Brito of Portugal defeated the 2004
champion 6-3, 6-4, on Court 2 at the All England Club in London.
It was the earliest loss at the grass-court tennis tournament
for Sharapova since 2009. Larcher de Brito, ranked 131st on the
women’s WTA tour, had never got past the second round at
Wimbledon before today.  “It was unbelievable, it’s probably the best win of my
career,” Larcher de Brito said in a televised interview. “I
just tried to stay calm.”  Sharapova had shouted “how many times” after she fell on
the grass at the end of the first set. The Russian fell again at
3-2 in the second set, and spoke to the umpire after that.  Earlier today, former world No. 1  Caroline Wozniacki  rolled
her ankle on the same court in her loss against Petra Cetkovska
of the Czech Republic. Seven players have today retired or
withdrawn from their matches because of injury.  When asked if she’d overheard Sharapova telling the umpire
the court was “dangerous,” Larcher de Brito said, “These
courts can be slippery and dangerous. There was a lot of grass
that’s been cut that hadn’t been swept off. It was a tough court
to play on.”  Sharapova, the third seed, had made the final of the  French
Open  earlier this month, where she lost to  Serena Williams  of
the U.S., the defending champion at Wimbledon.  Crying  Sharapova, 26, became a global star, and subsequently the
world’s best-paid female athlete, after beating Williams at
Wimbledon when she was 17 years old. Her victory at  Roland
Garros  last year made her only the sixth woman since tennis
turned professional in 1968 to complete the career Grand Slam
of having won all four majors at least once.  The six-foot-two (1.88-meter) Siberian-born player, who
moved to the U.S. at the age of seven, also won the 2006 U.S.
Open and the 2008 Australian Open.  In other completed second-round matches, German qualifier
 Dustin Brown  upset 2002 men’s champion  Lleyton Hewitt  of
Australia 6-4, 6-4, 6-7 (3-7), 6-2.  “I cried like a little girl,” Brown said in a news
conference. “Just happy and emotional and everything. I have a
lot of friends here, my coach is here, my girlfriend is here.
Just been a very long way. Just happy that I actually got
through the match.”  Other Matches  Cetkovska, a qualifier from the Czech Republic, beat
Denmark’s Wozniacki, the ninth seed, 6-2, 6-2, while Canada’s
Eugenie Bouchard overcame No. 12 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, 6-3, 6-3. On the men’s side, Spain’s Nicolas Almagro and  Fernando Verdasco  beat Frenchmen Guillaume Rufin and Julien Benneteau,
respectively.  Women’s second-seed  Victoria Azarenka , men’s No. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and 10th-seeded Marin Cilic were among those who
quit the tournament. Steve Darcis, who upset two-time champion
 Rafael Nadal  in the first round, and Yarovslava Shvedova also
withdrew, while  John Isner  and Radek Stepanek retired during
matches because of injuries. After 2 1/2 days of the tournament,
nine players have left with illness or injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  