-- Marriage Wins, Scalia Loses
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-26T20:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/marriage-wins-scalia-loses.html
It didn’t take long for the U.S.
Supreme Court’s historic decision affirming same-sex marriage to
be dismissed as “legalistic argle-bargle.” It’s right there on
page 22 of Justice  Antonin Scalia ’s dissent, which shows that
the debate is far from over.  Leave it to others -- such as President  Barack Obama , the
hundreds gathered outside the court, the millions of same-sex
couples who will now have marriage rights, and the majority of
Americans who support the right of gay people to marry -- to
celebrate the court’s decisions today. Celebrate they should: By
invalidating a federal law that denied benefits to same-sex
spouses and allowing same-sex marriage to proceed in  California ,
the court took a momentous  step forward  for the cause of civil
rights and equal treatment under the law.  Scalia is having none of it. The court’s  5-4 decision  in
the case striking down the federal Defense of Marriage Act,
written by Justice  Anthony Kennedy , reduced Scalia to fits of
italicized rage.  The first half of his remarkable 26-page dissent is a
sarcastic yet principled complaint that the court shouldn’t have
taken the case of U.S. v. Windsor in the first place. Both the
U.S. (in the form of the  Justice Department ) and Windsor (Edith
Windsor, a married lesbian who won her suit against the U.S.
over a tax she wouldn’t have had to pay if her spouse had been a
man) “agree that the court below got it right; and they agreed
in the court below that the court below that one got it right,”
Scalia writes. “What, then, are we doing here?”  Moral Judgment  He’s just warming up. Once Scalia wades into the merits of
the case, besides making sophisticated legal arguments about
argle-bargle (if you don’t have your copy of the OED handy:
“disputatious argument, bandying of words, wrangling”), he
mostly disputes the majority’s characterization of his view. He
and his fellow opponents of same-sex marriage are not “unhinged
members of a wild-eyed lynch mob.” They are not “enemies of the
human race.” He resents having to listen to “a lecture on how
superior the majority’s moral judgment” is.  Thus does Scalia capture two strains of the argument made
by opponents of same-sex marriage: One, why are you forcing this
issue on me? And two, why do you assume that I am a bigot?  On the first count, he may have a point, albeit a
legalistic one. And at least he is consistent: He joined the
court’s  other decision  today about same-sex marriage, in which
it declined to rule on the constitutionality of California’s
Proposition 8, which bans same-sex marriage. A federal judge had
already overruled the ban, so in effect same-sex marriages will
be allowed to proceed in California.  Outside the realm of the law, it’s pretty hard to make the
case that same-sex marriage has forced its way onto the public
agenda. It has been  gaining public support , especially among the
young, for more than half a decade.  Scalia’s larger worry, if that is the correct term, is that
the court’s rulings will result in “a judicial distortion of our
society’s debate over marriage.” It’s a cousin to  the argument 
Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  made last year about Roe v. Wade:
that the 1973 decision legalizing abortion “moved too far, too
fast,” short-circuiting the political process.  The more likely peril for the future of the marriage debate
is the one Scalia’s dissent so vividly illustrates: that it will
be reduced to name-calling and motive-questioning.  Dignity Matters  Same-sex marriage is more than just a legal or political
issue. As Kennedy’s decision is at some pains to explain, it is
also a matter of dignity -- he uses  his favorite word  nine times
-- and, not to put too fine a point on it, morality. One of
Congress’s purposes with the Defense of Marriage Act, he writes,
was to express a “moral disapproval of homosexuality.”  Not every public-policy debate can be reduced to questions
of morality. But some can, and the one about same-sex marriage
comes close. Scalia’s dissent gets it exactly wrong: If
anything, Kennedy’s opinion doesn’t go far enough. If gay people
deserve the right to marry, why should that right be restricted
to only 12 states plus the  District of Columbia ?  The answer, of course, is that the politics of civil rights
are messy, and progress isn’t always linear. The same applies to
judicial logic. As the debate about marriage proceeds, all sides
would do well to remember that.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 