-- Bird Returns as Pacers’ President; Raptors’ Colangelo Steps Down
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/larry-bird-to-return-as-pacers-president-after-taking-year-off.html
Larry Bird  is returning as the
 Indiana Pacers ’ president of basketball operations after taking
a year off, saying he’s been re-energized.  Also yesterday, Bryan Colangelo stepped down as president
of the  Toronto Raptors , a month after he was stripped of
his duties overseeing the National Basketball Association team’s
basketball operations.  Bird, 56, agreed to a multiyear contract with the Pacers to
replace  Donnie Walsh , who will remain as a consultant for the
club. Kevin Pritchard is still the team’s general manager.  Bird left the Pacers a year ago today, following a season
in which he won the NBA’s Executive of the Year award. At the
time, the Hall of Fame player said he was concerned about a
number of undisclosed health issues.  “The year off gave me a chance to reflect, to rest, to
take care of some health issues and it recharged me,” Bird said
in a statement. “Donnie and Kevin did a great job and I will
lean on both heavily as we move forward toward the goal of
competing for a championship.”  Bird, who won three NBA titles playing for the  Boston
Celtics , coached the Pacers from 1997 to 2000 and joined the
team’s front office in 2003, overseeing personnel and coaching
decisions. He took full control of basketball operations in 2008
when Walsh left to join the  New York Knicks .  Bird helped reshape a team that in 2011 made the playoffs
for the first time since 2006. After reaching the Eastern
Conference semifinals in 2011-12 -- Bird’s last season -- the
Pacers this past year made the conference finals before losing
in seven games to the eventual NBA champion  Miami Heat .  ‘Very Happy’  “We are all very happy to have Larry back,” Pacers owner
Herb Simon said. “When he left, Donnie and I both told him the
door would be open for him to come back when he’s ready. Larry
had a huge impact on this team and where it is now, so it’s
fitting that he comes back at this time.”  Bird will officially return to his position on July 1.  “I met with Larry when he wanted to leave last year and I
said I would do this until he was ready to come back,” said
Walsh, who was the Pacers’ president from 1988 to 2008 and
returned to the organization when Bird stepped down. “Well,
he’s ready and I couldn’t be happier. I had a great year last
year with this team. It is a great group of guys who have the
potential for some great things.”  The Raptors said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that
Colangelo, 48, a two-time NBA Executive of the Year who joined
Toronto in February 2006 as both president and general manager,
will become a consultant for the team and Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd.  Colangelo’s Move  Colangelo’s move out of the general manager job came at the
direction of  Tim Leiweke , who in April became president and
chief executive officer of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment,
which owns the Raptors.  “Having had a better chance to reflect on things for the
past several weeks, I have concluded that stepping away from my
position is the best course of action for the organization and
everyone involved,” Colangelo said in the team release.  Masai Ujiri, the reigning NBA Executive of the Year, on May
31 returned to the Raptors as general manager after three
seasons with the  Denver Nuggets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  