-- Harry Parker, Harvard Crew Coach With Eight Titles, Dies at 77
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-26T16:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/harry-parker-harvard-crew-coach-with-eight-titles-dies-at-77.html
Harry Parker, who coached the
Harvard University men’s heavyweight crew team to 22 undefeated
seasons and eight official national titles since 1963, has died.
He was 77.  He died yesterday, the school said on its  website . The
cause was myelodysplastic syndrome, a blood disorder once known
as “preleukemia” in which blood-forming cells in the bone
marrow are damaged. Parker was diagnosed in 2011.  Since taking over the Crimson program in 1963, Parker’s
teams won eight official national titles, 24 Eastern Association
of Rowing Colleges Sprints varsity titles and held a 44-7 record
in the Harvard-Yale Regatta, according to the school’s athletics
department. Parker coached 18 athletes to Academic All-Ivy
recognition over the past 20 years.  “He has touched the lives and has influenced countless
Harvard oarsmen over the years,” Harvard Athletic Director Bob Scalise said on the school’s athletics page. “His love of the
sport, dedication to the success of his students and devotion to
Harvard are evident in all Harry has done. His legacy and impact
on our program over the last five decades will remain. We will
miss him as a coach, role model, leader and a friend.”  Parker began rowing as an undergraduate at the  University
of Pennsylvania  in the mid-1950s. He won a gold medal in single
sculling at the Pan American games in 1959, and placed fifth in
the single at the 1960  Summer Olympics  in  Rome , according to the
 release . He coached men’s and women’s U.S. Olympic teams from
1964 to 1984 in addition to his Harvard duties.  Parker is survived by his wife, Kathy Keeler; sons George
and David, both Harvard graduates; a daughter Abigail; and five
grandchildren.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  