-- Asians in Thriving Enclaves Keep Distance From Whites
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/asians-in-thriving-enclaves-keep-distance-from-whites.html
Asians, the fastest-growing,
highest-earning and best-educated race in the U.S., are almost
as segregated from the nation’s white majority as they were two
decades ago, according to  a study released today .  Specific Asian ancestries -- including two of the largest,
Chinese and Indians -- are as isolated from the white population
as Hispanics, according to the study by two Brown University
sociologists. At the same time, Asians generally live in
neighborhoods that are comparable -- and in some ways “markedly
better” -- than those of whites, the study said.  “The Asian pattern is separate but equal (or even more
than equal), raising questions about the prospect or value of
their residential assimilation in the future,” wrote John Logan, who co-authored the report.  The number of Asians in the U.S. surged 43.3 percent during
the last decade, about four times faster than white  population
growth , to more than 17 million. Their ranks have more than
doubled since 1990. Median  household income  has risen 2.3
percent to $70,815 for Asians since 2000 while white Americans
have suffered a 1.1 percent drop.  When viewed as a single race, Asians are less segregated
than Hispanics or blacks. When Asians are divided into major
ancestries, “they’re more segregated than we thought they
were,” Logan wrote.  Cultural values and the fact that a majority of Asians are
immigrants are the likeliest reasons for their segregation, he
said. While most immigrant groups assimilate over time, Logan
said Japanese are the only Asian ancestral group that isn’t as
segregated as the broader racial category.  Independent Enclaves  “There may be no motivation for spatial assimilation of
these immigrant groups, that the current residential enclaves
fully meet their needs in a way that could become self-reinforcing,” the authors wrote.  The bulk of the nation’s Asian population consists of six
ancestries with 1 million or more people each: Chinese, Indian,
Korean, Japanese, Filipino and Vietnamese. All except Japanese
are made up of a majority of immigrants.  While Asians are the nation’s third-largest minority group,
they’re concentrated heavily in three states. California
accounts for 5.6 million of them, almost one-third of the
nation’s Asian population.  New York  has 1.6 million, and  Texas 
claims 1.1 million.  Among U.S. metropolitan areas, New York and  Los Angeles 
have the greatest numbers of Asians. New York’s Asian population
consists primarily of Chinese and Indians; Los Angeles has a
larger percentage of Filipinos, Japanese and Koreans. Texas
leads the nation in its share of Vietnamese.  Segregated New York  Segregation for Asians in Los Angeles and New York was
higher than the national average. Logan described the
segregation of Vietnamese and whites in Los Angeles as
“startlingly high” and said the population in New York was
even more segregated. Among Asians in the nation’s largest city,
Chinese were most likely to live in segregated neighborhoods.  In suburban neighborhoods where the number of Asians has
swelled during the last two decades, only Vietnamese incomes
failed to keep pace with white household earnings, falling about
$300 short of the $65,460 median. Meanwhile, Indian households
earned a median of $77,032.  All Asian ancestries except Vietnamese and Filipinos
reported college education levels higher than the 32.9 percent
rate for whites. Forty-four percent of Indians and 43.9 percent
of Koreans had college degrees, the study found.  More ‘Ethnoburbs’  The creation of Asian enclaves has been more pronounced in
suburbs than inner cities. Slightly more than half of all Asians
lived in suburbs in 2010, an increase from the 42.2 percent two
decades earlier among similar groups that prompted  Arizona  State
University geographer  Wei Li  to coin the phrase “ethnoburb.”  Indians were most likely to live in suburbs, with 56.5
percent opting for life outside a central city, while 44.5
percent of Chinese lived in suburbs.  Susan Brown, a University of California-Irvine sociologist,
said that eventually Asians will probably become better
assimilated with other ethnic groups.  “There’s every reason to think that over time and
generations, the Chinese, Indians and other Asian groups will
start to move out of enclaves,” Brown said in an e-mail. “It
just won’t happen quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in New York at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark McQuillan  in  Washington  at 202-   mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 