-- Asian Stocks Rise on U.S. Data, Easing China Cash-Crunch
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-26T10:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-data-as-yen-boost-exporters.html
Asian  stocks  rose for the first time
in three days after better-than-estimated U.S. data bolstered
the outlook for the world’s largest economy and China’s central
bank sought to ease cash crunch concerns.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a supplier of building
materials that gets about 70 percent of sales from the U.S.,
climbed 4.6 percent in Sydney. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the world’s biggest lender, jumped 6.8 percent in
Hong Kong after the nation’s central bank injected liquidity to
stabilize money-market rates.  Woori Finance  Holdings Co. gained
5.4 percent in  Seoul  after the government announced plans to
separate the nation’s largest financial group by assets into
three parts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.9 percent to 126.17 as
of 7:14 p.m. in  Tokyo , with almost two shares rising for each
that fell on the measure. The gauge dropped 13 percent through
yesterday from this year’s high on May 20 after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said policy markers may start dialing
down stimulus if the U.S. economy shows sustained improvement,
and as money-market rates in China surged to records.  “More growth means equities have a very good fundamental
reason to continue rallying as we look through the noise,”
Michael Kurtz, Hong Kong-based head of global equity strategy at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said on Bloomberg Television. “China
stocks are starting to look substantially undervalued. Investors
with a medium to long-term perspective should be taking this as
an opportunity to go shopping.”  Regional Gauges  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.6 percent and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index increased 1.8 percent. Singapore’s
Straits Times Index rose 0.5 percent. The  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  jumped 5.7 percent, heading for its biggest
advance since November 2008. South Korea’s Kospi index rose 0.2
percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex index rose 1.6 percent after lawmakers voted
to roll back provisions of capital gains tax on stock sales of
more than NT$1 billion ($33 million).  Japan ’s Topix index fell 0.9 percent and the benchmark
Nikkei 255 Stock Average dropped 1 percent. Shares erased
earlier gains as the Japanese yen reversed losses.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 2.4 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies, also known
as the H-share index, gained 3.3 percent, the most since
January.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.4 percent as
concern about the impact of a cash crunch on the broader economy
lingered even after the central bank pledged to ensure stability
in the money markets.  Liquidity Injection  The cost of locking in  China ’s interest rates fell the most
since 2008 after the central bank pledged to tackle the nation’s
worst cash crunch in at least a decade. The People’s Bank of
China has provided liquidity to some financial institutions to
stabilize money-market rates and will use short-term liquidity
operations and existing lending-facility tools to ensure steady
markets, according to a statement posted on its website
yesterday.  China’s benchmark Shanghai index dropped almost 20 percent
through yesterday from its February high amid concern the cash
crunch will curb growth in the world’s second-largest economy.
The gauge traded at 8 times estimated 12-month earnings, the
 lowest level  on a weekly basis since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 2006. That compares with 6.3 times for the H-share
index, which tracks shares of mainland companies listed in Hong
Kong.  Shares on the Asia-Pacific gauge traded at 12.1 times
average estimated earnings yesterday compared with 14.4 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Economy  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4
percent today. The S&P 500 added 1 percent yesterday after
government data showed bookings for U.S. durable goods rose 3.6
percent in May, while separate reports on house prices, new-home
sales and  consumer confidence  topped economists’ estimates.  “The whole story over the last few weeks has been a better
U.S. economy than people expected,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman
and chief executive officer of Marketfield Asset Management LLC,
where he helps manage the MainStay Marketfield fund that beat 96
percent of its peers in the past five years, told Bloomberg TV.
“That is ultimately going to be good for the equity market.”  Exporters advanced. James Hardie climbed 4.6 percent to
A$9.33 in Sydney. Panasonic Corp., Japan’s second-biggest
television maker, increased 3.1 percent 741 yen.  Techtronic
Industries Co. (669) , the maker of Ryobi power tools that gets 73
percent of sales from North America, rose 3 percent to HK$17.92
in Hong Kong.  Hon Hai Jumps  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s biggest
contract manufacturer of electronics, jumped 4 percent to NT$73
in Taipei. The company will increase full-year profit this year,
Chairman Terry Gou said at the company’s annual shareholders’
meeting where a N$1.5 cash dividend per share was approved.  PT Kalbe Farma (KLBF) , Southeast Asia’s biggest drug maker, surged
11 percent to 1,320 rupiah in Jakarta. HSBC Holdings Plc raised
its rating to overweight from neutral, saying the company will
benefit from increasing healthcare spending by the Indonesian
government.  Chinese lenders gained. ICBC, as the nation’s biggest bank
is known, jumped 6.8 percent to HK$4.70 in Hong Kong. China
Construction Bank Corp. increased 6.5 percent to HK$5.41.
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. rose 4.3 percent to HK$3.14.  Woori Finance gained 5.4 percent to 10,400 won in Seoul.
The company’s lenders Kwangju Bank and Kyongnam Bank will be put
up for sale on July 15, the Financial Services Commission said
in e-mailed statement. Bidding for Woori’s brokerage, asset
management and savings bank businesses will begin in August,
while Woori Bank, along with the credit card and other units
will be sold next year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  