-- Lawyer Fees, Linklaters, Simpson Thacher: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/lawyer-fees-linklaters-simpson-thacher-business-of-law.html
Legal fees rose 10 percent from 2010
to 2012 and increased 4.8 percent last year, according to a
survey by Tymetrix and CEB, which looked at billing information
from more than 4,800 law firms and 99,000 lawyers.  Finance and securities rates increased the most last year
at 5.8 percent while general corporate, intellectual property,
and mergers and acquisitions had increases of 4 percent and 5
percent on average, according to the survey.  The largest law firms and those in the most-expensive U.S.
cities had the greatest increases. Large law firms increased
their rates by 5.6 percent, on average two times the rate of
firms with fewer than 100 lawyers, according to the survey.  In  New York  City,  Washington ,  Boston ,  Dallas ,  Los Angeles 
and Houston, increases were between 5 percent and 6 percent last
year.  In New York, 2,709 partners had a mean billing rate of
$755.68 in 2012, an increase over 2011’s rate of $737.17.
Associates in the same period had a mean rate of $491.92,
compared to $465.85 in the prior year.  Partners at firms with more than 1,000 lawyers increased
their 2012 mean rate to $727.02 from $715.68 in 2011.  The survey, which was based on more than $9.5 billion in
law firm billings, was by Tymetrix, which provides legal
management software services and CEB, a member-based advisory
company. They couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Law Firms News  Linklaters Appoints New York-Based Global Head of Tax  Gordon Warnke is replacing Henk Vanhulle as Linklaters
LLP’s global practice head of tax. Vanhulle was appointed
managing partner of the firm’s Belgian offices.  Based in New York, Warnke’s primary areas of practice
include the federal income taxation of domestic and
international mergers, acquisitions, spinoffs and other
divestitures, as well as the taxation of financial products, co-investment vehicles and investments by non-U.S. governmental
entities, the firm said in a statement.  “Together with our expanded Washington, D.C., tax team and
the other members of our global tax team, we will continue to
broaden our capability and leverage the strength of our network
on cross-border advisory and transactional matters,” Gordon
Warnke said in the statement.  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Deals  KKR Agrees to Acquire PRA International From Genstar Capital  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,
the private-equity firm run by billionaires  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , in its agreement to buy U.S. clinical-research
company PRA International from Genstar Capital LLC. Latham &
Watkins LLP advised PRA and Genstar in the transaction.  Simpson Thacher’s corporate partner Sean Rodgers is leading
the team. Additional partners include Sean Rodgers, mergers and
acquisitions; James Cross, credit; Joe Tringali, antitrust;
Andrea Wahlquist, executive compensation and employee benefits;
Lori Lesser, IP; and Steve Todrys, tax.  Latham’s corporate team was led by partner Scott Haber in
 San Francisco  and partner Luke Bergstrom in Silicon Valley.
Advice was provided on tax matters by partner Kirt Switzer and
on employee benefit and compensation matters by counsel  Scott Thompson  in San Francisco.  The deal is expected to close in the third quarter, North
Carolina-based PRA said in an e-mailed statement. The purchase
price was $1.3 billion, according to a person briefed on the
matter who asked not to be identified because the terms haven’t
been disclosed publicly.  Genstar, a San Francisco-based private equity firm, bought
PRA, which helps pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
develop  prescription drugs , for $790 million in December 2007.
New York-based KKR has invested more than $9 billion in health
care globally since 1995, including its acquisition with Bain
Capital LLC and Merrill Lynch & Co. of HCA Inc. in 2006 for $32
billion.  For more, click here.  Government Lawyers  President Obama Plans Announced FTC Commissioner Nominee  Senior Justice Department counsel Terrell McSweeny will be
nominated by President  Barack Obama  to become commissioner of
the Federal Trade Commission. If confirmed by the Senate, she
will fill the spot left by former FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz ,
who joined Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP last week.  McSweeny currently is chief counsel for competition policy
and intergovernmental relations in the Justice Department
Antitrust Division.  McSweeny has worked for Vice President  Joe Biden  as his
issues director during the general election campaign and as his
deputy chief of staff and policy director in the  U.S. Senate .  She was an associate at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP .  Moves  Funds Lawyer Kai Schneider Joins Clifford Chance in Singapore  Clifford Chance LLP announced that Latham & Watkins LLP’s
funds practice head for the Middle East and Africa, Kai
Schneider, is joining its global funds practice. He will be
based in Singapore and will head the office’s funds and
investment management practice.  Schneider has more than 10 years of specialist work in the
funds sector, with experience on the formation of and investment
in private investment funds.  “We are thrilled Kai is joining us. He brings a wealth of
international experience in funds work and formidable leadership
skills which will strengthen our market leading team and serve
the evolving needs of our clients extremely well,”  global head 
of funds and investment management, Mark Shipman said.  Schneider has experience advising clients on complex cross
border acquisitions and strategic alliances. He advises sponsors
on accessing the U.S. market as well as on regional licensing
and securities laws.  Clifford Chance  has more than 150 lawyers in the global
funds and investment management group in London, the U.S., Asia-Pacific and continental Europe. The firm has 35 offices in 25
countries with about 3,400 legal advisers.  Former CFTC Deputy General Counsel Joins Norton Rose Fulbright  Terry Arbit, former deputy general counsel with the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, joined Norton Rose
Fulbright LLP’s U.S. member firm in the Washington office.  Arbit focuses his practice on commodities, futures and
derivatives issues, including regulatory, compliance and
litigation matters.  At the CFTC, he worked on the derivatives reform
legislation enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Act and its
implementation by the CFTC, the firm said in a statement.  “Terry’s 17 years of experience at the CFTC and his
knowledge of financial reform will be a tremendous asset to our
clients,” Thomas Hughes, head of business law for  Norton Rose 
said in a statement.  Norton Rose Fulbright has almost 3,800 lawyers in more than
50 cities in Europe, the Americas, Asia, Australia, Africa and
the Middle East.  Five Commercial Litigators Join Ballard Spahr’s Denver Office  Ballard Spahr LLP added a team of five commercial
litigators in Denver, including two partners, one of counsel,
and two senior associates. The group was previously at
Featherstone Petrie DeSisto LLP in Denver.  The team is led by partner Andrew J. “Drew” Petrie, who
has more than 30 years of experience in complex commercial
litigation, particularly in creditor’s rights cases, including
banking, real estate, structured finance, leasing, and UCC
transactions and the representation of creditors in bankruptcy
proceedings.  Sarah B. Wallace also joins as a partner. She focuses her
practice on commercial litigation and appeals, including trade
secret, breach of contract, insurance coverage, and employment
litigation.  Ballard Spahr’s litigation department is the largest in the
firm with more than 200 lawyers. With the new hires, the firm
has about 60 litigators in its western offices.  Ballard Spahr has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.  Justice Department Official Joins McDermott in Silicon Valley  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced that A. Marisa Chun
has joined the firm as a partner in the trial practice group in
Silicon Valley. She was previously at the U.S. Justice
Department, where she was deputy associate attorney general in
Washington.  In her previous role, she advised the associate attorney
general on civil and criminal matters, including overseeing
matters involving intellectual property, health-care fraud,
antitrust, telecommunications and financial fraud issues, the
firm said in a statement.  Chun concurrently served as a special assistant U.S.
attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2011 to 2013
and for the District of Maryland in 2012.  McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers at offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  K&L Gates Boosts Corporate Practice in Charlotte Office  The Charlotte, North Carolina, office of K&L Gates LLP
hired Kevin A. Christmas as a partner in its corporate/mergers
and acquisitions practice. He was previously with  Reed Smith
LLP .   Christmas advises clients on domestic and international
mergers and acquisitions, capital raising activities, and
restructuring transactions, the firm said.  K&L Gates has lawyers in 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,
Australia, Europe, the Middle East and South America.  Video  Microsoft Makes Minority-Owned Firm Its Premier Provider  Emery Harlan, chairman of Gonzalez Saggio & Harlan LLP,
talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his firm being
named a premier provider for legal and corporate affairs by
Microsoft Corp. The minority-owned firm is the smallest provider
among a handful of law firms selected by the software giant for
its current group of outside counsel.  Harlan, in this “Rainmakers” episode, describes his
firm’s selection into the elite group as a “Jackie Robinson
moment” for the legal profession.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 