-- Baht Falls as Global Funds Cut Asset Holdings on Fed Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-06-26T02:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/baht-falls-as-global-funds-cut-asset-holdings-on-fed-outlook.html
Thailand ’s baht fell, poised for its
worst quarter in almost 13 years, as foreign investors cut
holdings of the nation’s assets on lingering concern the  Federal
Reserve  will rein in monetary stimulus.  The Bank of Thailand has seen outflows start to subside,
but can’t be complacent as the trend is expected to continue,
Deputy Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said yesterday. Customs
data today may show exports fell 4.2 percent last month after
growing 2.9 percent in April, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey before a release due at 2 p.m. local time.  “Fund outflows are still weighing on the baht,” said
Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank
Pcl. “The big focus is still on the U.S. data and the market
will play on that. Investors are also trying to price in the
weak export sector for Thailand.”  The baht dropped 0.6 percent, the biggest loss since June
20, to 31.13 per dollar as of 9:44 a.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 6 percent this
quarter, the worst performance since September 2000.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, climbed 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 8 percent.  Global funds sold $650 million more Thai bonds than they
bought this month through yesterday and pulled a net $1.6
billion from stocks, official data show.  A week after the Fed said it may pare stimulus should the
economy improve in line with predictions, U.S. data showed
durable goods orders climbed in May and  house prices , new-home
sales and  consumer confidence  beat economists’ estimates.  Thailand’s bonds fell before a government sale of debt due
in 2027 today. The yield on the 3.625 percent notes maturing in
June 2023 rose one basis point to 3.94 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  