-- Banks Must Disclose Debt Reliance From 2015 in Basel Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-26T13:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/banks-reliance-on-debt-to-be-revealed-from-2015-in-basel-plan.html
Bank investors will be able to
assess which lenders are over-reliant on debt starting in 2015,
under plans from global regulators to curb financial firms’
addiction to borrowing to fuel their activities.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  proposed
revamping standards for a binding limit, or leverage ratio, on
bank debt to ensure that the rule would be applied consistently
by lenders across the world, Stefan Ingves, the Basel group’s
chairman, said in an e-mailed  statement .  “Investors and other stakeholders will have a comparable
measure of bank leverage, regardless of domestic accounting
standards,” Ingves said.  Global regulators included a provisional version of the
leverage limit in an overhaul of  banking  rules in the wake of
the 2008 financial crisis. The rule differs from other  capital
requirements  set by the Basel committee because it gives banks
no scope to take into account the riskiness of their investments
when working out the reserves they need.  While the leverage ratio won’t be binding until 2018,
lenders would be obliged to start publishing how well they
measure up to it by the start of 2015.  Work on the rule will be a priority for regulators over the
coming year,  Mark Carney , chairman of the Financial Stability
Board, told reporters yesterday.  “It’s a very effective and important complement to a risk-based capital system,” said Carney, the next Bank of England
governor. The need for such a backstop “is one of the biggest
lessons from the crisis.”  ‘Blunt Instument’  Under the Basel plan, banks would have to hold Tier 1
capital equivalent to 3 percent of their assets, effectively
capping a lender’s debt at no more than 33 times those capital
reserves.  The leverage ratio “is in fact a fairly blunt
instrument,”  Thomas Huertas , a partner at Ernst & Young LLP,
and former vice chairman of the European Banking Authority, said
in an e-mail.  The draft technical standards published today set out the
scope of assets covered by the rule. Under the Basel plan,
activities on and off their balance sheets would be captured.
Regulators also set out rules for how banks should take into
account repurchase agreements, derivatives trades, and other
activities that aren’t easily quantifiable.  The announcement “refines some definitions, but does not
alter the fundamental approach,” Huertas said.  Supervisors are split over the usefulness of leverage
ratios.  Double Ratio  Andy Haldane, the  Bank of England ’s executive director for
financial stability, and board members of the U.S. Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. have advocated the ratios as a way to
tame excessive risk-taking by banks, saying that the simplicity
of the rule makes it hard for lenders to circumvent.  Other regulators, such as Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger, have warned that this simplicity could be a
disadvantage, as safer and riskier assets are treated alike, so
potentially encouraging risk taking.  U.S. regulators are considering setting a leverage ratio at
6 percent for some of the country’s largest banks -- twice the
Basel level, according to four people with knowledge of the
talks.  The Basel group said it would seek views on the draft rules
until Sept. 20, and also carry out an impact study on the
measures.  “An internationally comparable leverage ratio is anything
but simple to design,” Wayne Byres, the Basel Committee’s
secretary general, said in a speech in  Portugal  last year.
“Believe me, it is not easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  