-- Barack Obama’s Visit Finds South Africa at Crossroads
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-06-27T12:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/barack-obama-s-visit-finds-south-africa-at-crossroads.html
Barack Obama  is making his first
trip to South Africa as U.S. president at a time when the
nation’s mood is a far cry from the democratic triumph of its
emergence from white-minority rule almost 20 years ago.  Since multiracial elections brought Nelson Mandela to power
in 1994, progress has been mixed. While discriminatory laws have
been scrapped and millions of people have received housing,
water and electricity, unemployment is 25 percent, shanty towns
are wracked by protests and unrest at mines has claimed more
than 50 lives since the start of last year. President  Jacob Zuma 
is also dogged by corruption scandals and his ruling  African
National Congress  gripped by infighting.  “South Africa is really at a crossroads in its political
life,” Mzukisi Qobo, a politics lecturer at the University of
 Pretoria , said in a June 24 interview. “There is a loss of
innocence about our place in the world and who we are as a
people. We no longer take it for granted that things are just
going to go smoothly because we are the country of Nelson
Mandela.”  Post-apartheid euphoria has ebbed along with Mandela’s
health. The 94-year-old, who served a single five-year term, was
admitted to a Pretoria hospital on June 8 with a lung infection.
The presidency says his condition is now critical. Zuma canceled
a trip to neighboring  Mozambique  after visiting Mandela in the
hospital late yesterday, his office said in an e-mailed
statement.  Robben Island  Obama, who visited  South Africa  in 2006 when he was an
Illinois senator, will travel to Pretoria, Johannesburg and  Cape
Town  on the second leg of a three-nation African tour, which
began yesterday in  Senegal  and ends in Tanzania. He’s scheduled
to meet Zuma and Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu, give a
public lecture and visit Robben Island, where Mandela spent 18
of his 27 years in prison for trying to topple the apartheid
state.  Obama described Mandela as a “personal hero,” who
demonstrated what is possible in the world.  “I don’t think I’m unique in this regard,” Obama told
reporters in Dakar. “He’s a hero for the world. His legacy is
one that will linger on for the ages.”  Zuma has played up democratic South Africa’s achievements
ahead of the visit: the  economy  has expanded 83 percent since
1994; per-capita income has risen 40 percent after accounting
for  inflation ; total employment has risen by 3.5 million; and
welfare grants now reach about 16 million people, up from 2.5
million.  “South Africa is a much better place than it was before
1994, and the last five years have pushed that change forward,”
Zuma told reporters in Johannesburg June 24. “The achievements
of the country and the ANC government do not obtain the
necessary exposure.”  Record Protests  Still, as many as 10 million people lack formal housing and
2.3 million households don’t have proper toilets. Half of all
children who start school drop out before completing the 12-year
curriculum.  Disenchantment with the ANC-led government is rising. There
were a record 173 protests by poor, black township residents
over a lack of housing and basic services last year, according
to Johannesburg-based research group Municipal IQ.  “The transformation of South Africa from apartheid to a
growing democracy is a big deal, but South Africa has some
unfinished business,” U.S. civil rights activist Reverend  Jesse Jackson  said in a June 21 telephone interview.  Zuma has been personally tainted by a series of scandals,
including fathering an illegitimate child with a friend’s
daughter and a government decision to spend more than $20
million upgrading security for his rural homestead.  Income Inequalities  He drew criticism after an Indian family, who employ one of
his four wives and count themselves as his friends, secured
permission to land a plane carrying wedding guests at an air
force base near Pretoria. Zuma laid the blame for the incident
on state officials, while denying any personal involvement.  The government has also made little progress in narrowing
apartheid-era income inequalities. A 2011 census shows black
citizens, who account for 79 percent of the population of 53
million, on average earn a sixth of what whites do, and 1.9
million households have no income.  “We have made great advances in areas of human rights,
civil liberties and welfare payments, but have left our economy
little changed,”  Zwelinzima Vavi , leader of the 2.2 million-member Congress of South African Trade Unions, an ANC ally, said
in a June 24 speech in the northern town of Polokwane. “A
small, ultra-rich, still mainly white and male elite owns and
controls all the most powerful industrial and financial
companies.”  Protesters Killed  The Geneva-based  World Economic Forum  ranks South Africa’s
labor relations as the worst of 144 countries. Recent mine
violence peaked when police killed 34 protesters at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana platinum mine in August last year.  The unrest shaved 0.5 percentage point off gross domestic
product last year and a further 0.3 percentage point this year,
according to the National Treasury, compounding the difficulties
the government faces in seeking to expand the economy in the
face of a global slowdown. The Treasury forecasts 2.6 percent
growth this year, less than half the 7 percent the government is
targeting to cut the  unemployment  rate to 14 percent by 2020.  Concern about social stability and the government’s ability
to rein in its  budget deficit  contributed to Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings downgrading South
African debt since September. The rand has also taken a
hammering, declining 15 percent against the dollar since the
start of the year, the worst performer of 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg.  Zuma’s Failings  Just how badly Zuma’s and the government’s failings have
hurt the ANC will be tested in the nation’s fifth post-apartheid
national elections next year. The party has won more than 60
percent support in every poll since 1994, and secured 66 percent
backing in the last national vote in 2009, when Zuma took power.  “The ANC seems to have reached the end of its political
life with respect to the kind of ideas that are required to take
the country to the next level,” said Qobo, the politics
lecturer. “The party has lost the kind of moral authority and
intellectual stature that was associated with the era of  Nelson
Mandela .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  