-- Bard Used Mesh Plastic Found Unfit for Humans by Supplier
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-06-26T15:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/bard-used-mesh-plastic-found-unfit-for-humans-by-supplier.html
CR Bard Inc. (BCR)  sold vaginal-mesh
devices made of a plastic that its manufacturer warned wasn’t
suitable for human implantation, according to unsealed court
records.  Managers at Bard’s  Davol  unit used a resin-based plastic
made by a Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. unit to produce hernia-repair mesh after the material’s supplier officially registered
a warning that it shouldn’t be permanently implanted in people,
according to e-mails and documents in a lawsuit over Bard’s
implants. Plaintiffs suing Bard contend the same mesh was used
in some of Davol’s vaginal-mesh products.  In 2004 and 2007 e-mails filed in federal court in  West
Virginia , a Davol executive warned colleagues not to tell
Chevron Phillips or other resin makers that the company was
using the material in medical devices placed in humans.  Suppliers such as  Chevron Phillips  “will likely not be
interested in a medical application due to product-liability
concerns,”  Roger Darois , the Davol executive, now a Bard vice
president, said in a March 2004 e-mail. “It is likely they do
not know of our implant application. Please do not mention
Davol’s name in any discussion with these manufacturers.”  Lawyers for thousands of women who blame Bard’s Avaulta
line of implants for their injuries said the files show Davol
officials knew the resin-based mesh wasn’t proper for human
implantation and tried to cover up their use of the material.  Bard Statement  In a statement yesterday, Bard didn’t respond to a question
about its desire to keep the information from suppliers. Company
officials declined to elaborate on the statement.  Bard, based in  Murray Hill ,  New Jersey , faces a July 8
trial in Charleston, West Virginia, over claims its mesh device
harmed Donna Cisson, 54.  “During the upcoming trial, Bard will provide all the
relevant evidence for the jury to consider and render a
decision, which will demonstrate that Bard acted appropriately
in its acquisition of polypropylene resin,” Scott Lowry, a Bard
vice president, said in yesterday’s e-mailed statement.  “We believe that the Avaulta polypropylene mesh implant is
a safe and effective treatment for pelvic organ prolapse when
used in accordance with its instructions,” Lowry said. “To
this day, after more than 50 years of use, polypropylene remains
one of the most widely implanted and best materials for mesh
products in medical applications in the human body.”  Lowry didn’t comment on the e-mails filed in federal court.  Judge’s ruling  U.S. District Judge Joseph Goodwin ruled June 4 that the e-mails regarding the resin-based mesh raised “a genuine issue of
material fact about whether Bard was aware its conduct was
practically certain to cause injuries.”  Lawyers for Cisson, who lives in  Georgia , will use the e-mails in next month’s trial over whether the Avaulta design was
defective and Bard failed to warn of the risks. Cisson claims
the device caused her pain, bleeding and bladder spasms that
required follow-up surgeries.  She can seek punitive damages if jurors hold Bard liable
for compensatory damages and find the company’s conduct
justifies the additional award, the court ruled.  Goodwin is overseeing 20,000 lawsuits against Bard,  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ) ,  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP) ’s American Medical
Systems,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , Coloplast Corp. and Cook
Medical Inc. alleging injuries from vaginal mesh implants. The
companies have denied wrongdoing in court filings.  Cisson’s case will be the first against any of those
companies to go to trial before Goodwin, who is coordinating the
pretrial exchange of information.  Bellwether Trials  Three more “bellwether trials” involving Bard’s vaginal
inserts are scheduled before Goodwin after Cisson’s case. The
trials will be used to gauge the validity of the two sides’
conflicting claims.  The women who sued contend erosion of the inserts, designed
to shore up weakened pelvic muscles and treat urinary
incontinence, can cause organ damage and bleeding and make
sexual intercourse painful. They said the meshes, threaded in
place through vaginal incisions, degrade and shrink over time.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  officials estimate that
300,000 women had pelvic organ prolapse surgery in 2010 and mesh
was used in a third of the procedures. Agency data showed more
than 250,000 incontinence surgeries for women that year, about
80 percent involving vaginal-mesh implants, the FDA said.  The agency last year ordered Bard, J&J and other mesh
makers to make three-year studies of rates of organ damage,
infection and painful sex linked to the devices after women’s
groups called for their removal from the market.  Sales Halted  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, said last year it
would stop selling four lines of vaginal-mesh implants after
complaints and lawsuits about the devices. The company acted for
reasons unrelated to safety concerns, it said at the time.  A jury in  Atlantic City , New Jersey, decided in February
that J&J and its Ethicon unit must pay more than $11 million in
damages to a woman who blamed the company’s  Gynecare Prolift 
implant for her injuries.  A California state court jury last year awarded $3.6
million to a woman who blamed Bard’s Avaulta Plus implant for
injuring her. It was the first such case to be tried in any
court. The Avaulta inserts, sold in the U.S. since 2005, were
pulled off the market last year.  A  Bard official  said in a January 2012 internal e-mail
that, in response to the FDA ordering safety studies on vaginal-mesh devices, the company planned to pull Avaulta devices off
the market that year.  ‘Business Decision’  The company “is simply making a business decision not to
invest in clinical trials on this product,” Brenda Hammans, a
vice president, said in the e-mail.  In Cisson’s case, the Georgia woman alleged the Avaulta
device, inserted in May 2009, caused pelvic and rectal pain,
bleeding and bladder spasms and required surgeries to remove.  Goodwin unsealed Bard documents and witness depositions
about how its vaginal-mesh products were designed, tested and
marketed. Cisson’s lawyers fault Bard for not testing the mesh
on people before selling it. Plaintiffs’ lawyers obtained e-mails in the pretrial exchange of information with the company.  Medical companies have  used  polypropylene for years to make
items such as sutures, catheters and artificial-heart components
because the material is considered to be “biocompatible” and
won’t be rejected by the human body.  Safety Document  Cisson’s lawyers said in court papers that Phillips Sumika,
a Woodlands, Texas-based unit of Chevron Phillips Chemical,
filed a required safety data document, called a “ Material
Safety Data Sheet ,” with the U.S.  Occupational Safety and
Health Administration  about the Marlex polypropylene used in
some Bard hernia and vaginal implants.  On the 2007 document’s front page, Phillips Sumika put a
“Medical Application Caution” about the product. Chevron
Phillips is a petrochemical venture involving U.S. oil producer
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and refiner  Phillips 66. (PSX)   “Do not use this Phillips Sumika Polypropylene Co.
material in medical applications involving permanent
implantation in the human body or permanent contact with
internal body fluids or tissues,” according to the disclosure
unsealed in Cisson’s case.  “Do not use this Phillips Sumika Polypropylene Co.
material in medical applications involving brief or temporary
implantation in the human body or contact with internal body
fluids or tissues unless the material has been provided directly
from Phillips Sumika Polypropylene Co. under an agreement that
expressly acknowledges the contemplated use,” according to the
warning.  Chemical Reactions  The caution stated that the resin-based plastic “may react
with oxygen and strong oxidizing agents, such as chlorates,
nitrates and peroxides.” Cisson’s lawyers said human bodies can
produce such oxidizing agents and the reaction can cause the
mesh to erode.  Despite the warning, officials of Cranston, Rhode Island-based Davol purchased Phillips Sumika’s resin-based plastic from
other companies that bought it in their own names, according to
Cisson’s lawyers. Davol used the material as the base for
hernia-repair and vaginal-mesh devices, the attorneys said in
court papers.  Darois, the Davol executive, told colleagues in a Nov. 27,
2007, e-mail that a  Jarden Corp. (JAH)  unit involved in the mesh
manufacturing process refused to continue working on the
material once it learned Phillips Sumika barred its use in
medical devices.  Data Sheet  Managers at the Jarden unit “obtained a copy of Phillips
MSDS data sheet which specifically discloses that this resin
should not be used for medical implants,” Darois said in the e-mail, referring to the material safety data sheet.  That prompted the company to renege “on a prior verbal
commitment to supply one last run” of material used in the
mesh, he said. Jarden’s  Shakespeare Co.  subsidiary, based in
Columbia,  South Carolina , makes materials used in fishing line
and other products containing polypropylene.  In another e-mail the same day, Jim Brann, now Bard’s
director of business development, told Darois and other company
officials that Shakespeare’s managers refused to continue
working on the Phillips Sumika plastic even after Davol
executives agreed to cover any resulting legal costs or damages.  The Jarden unit’s officials “responded that under no
circumstance, even with indemnity from us” would they produce
another shipment of the mesh material, Brann said.  Alecia Pulman, a spokesman for Rye, New York-based Jarden,
didn’t immediately return a call and an e-mail seeking comment
on the refusal to continue working with Bard’s mesh. Jarden is
the maker of Crock-Pot Slow cookers and Mr. Coffee machines.  Business Professor  Erik Gordon , a  University of Michigan  business professor,
said the Avaulta case shows an abuse of the 510(k) process.  “The alleged conduct is unconscionable,” Gordon said in
an e-mail. “How can anyone ever trust a company that knowingly
disregards safety warnings from its own supplier and covers up
its conduct?”  The judge also unsealed Bard officials’ and medical
experts’ pretrial testimony on the lack of human testing of the
mesh before the company began selling it in the U.S. in 2005.  The mesh was cleared through the FDA’s 510(k) system, which
allows medical devices to reach the market without human testing
if regulators decide they’re similar to products already for
sale. JNJ, Bard and other competitors already had vaginal-mesh
inserts on the market when the Avaulta Plus insert Cisson
received was approved in 2007, according to court filings.  Dozens Cleared  “The FDA cleared Bard’s mesh devices after scrutiny of
Bard’s submission, including substantial biocompatibility
testing, just as the FDA had already cleared dozens of other
companies’ mesh products made of polypropylene,” Lowry, the
Bard spokesman, said in the company’s statement.  Jim Ross , a Salinas, California-based gynecologist who
worked as a Bard consultant on the vaginal implants, testified
in a deposition that he suggested clinical trials of the
devices, to no avail.  “I felt at least a pilot study would have been good to
do,” he said.  Ross said he and Bard officials concluded the vaginal-mesh
technology was developing so quickly that a multiyear clinical
trial wouldn’t be worthwhile.  “We were able to determine that it was going to cost
several million dollars and there was no way that we could do
it, collect the evidence, write it up and get it in publication
for probably three to four years minimum,” Ross said. “The
field was moving so rapidly” that the results would be outdated
by that time, he said.  Clinical Trials  Melissa Johnson , a Bard manager involved in the marketing
of vaginal-mesh implants, testified that doctors and company
salespeople asked for clinical-trial results showing Avaulta was
superior to competing implants.  “There wasn’t anything published that I was at liberty to
provide,” she said.  Robert Orr, a Bard manager who helped oversee product
research, said in a deposition that a company study of vaginal
mesh in sheep didn’t yield needed data on its use in women.  “I would say it gives you an indication of how the body
will incorporate it and the type of response that you will
achieve,” Orr testified, referring to a clinical trial. “Does
it totally simulate the clinical response? No, it’s not the
whole product.”  The Bard consolidated cases are In re C.R. Bard Inc. Pelvic
Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 2:10-md-02187, and
Cisson’s case is Cisson v. C.R. Bard Inc., 2:11-cv-00195, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 