-- Belfast Answers Obama With Petrol Bombs After Plea to Raze Walls
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-06-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/belfast-answers-obama-with-petrol-bombs-after-plea-to-raze-walls.html
Hours after  Barack Obama  stood in
Belfast last week praising efforts to bring down the city’s  40-foot barricades , a few hundred yards away Jim Callaghan was
stamping out a gasoline bomb tossed near his home in western
 Europe ’s last divided city.  “I heard the thud and saw the flames,” said Callaghan, a
49-year-old Catholic from east Belfast, whose house in the Short
Strand estate looks out onto a concrete and steel structure
known as a peace line. “My granddaughter was playing outside.
She was in hysterics. She stank of petrol.”  U.S. President Obama and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Northern Ireland’s hosting of the Group of Eight
summit on June 17-18 showed how far the region has come since a
1998 agreement largely ended decades of  conflict  that claimed
3,500 lives. For people like Callaghan living in communities
such as the Short Strand, little has changed.  Cameron pledged this month to provide extra aid to Northern
Ireland to help get rid of more than 80 structures that divide
Belfast’s Protestant and Catholic areas and remain the most
vivid legacy of the conflict. Cameron wants to bolster a  peace
process  being tested by an economic decline and the efforts of
dissident republicans to restart violence.  “People don’t know what it’s like to live without walls,”
said  Jonny Byrne , a lecturer in criminology at the University of
Ulster. “People have lost lives. The walls have protected
families. Nothing is impossible, but the vision of what it would
look like without the walls needs to be spelt out.”  Union Jack  On the other side of the wall from Callaghan is Kerry
 Irvine , a 31-year-old Protestant mother-of-one from the
Protestant Cluan Place. She has a message for Obama and Cameron:
“You don’t live here and you don’t know what it’s like.”  “They should make them higher,” said Irvine, who has a
“Proud to be British” poster on her living room window and the
Union Jack flag flying from her house. “I’d move if they
brought them down. Just the other day I was putting the bin out
and a petrol bomb landed at my feet.”  Northern Ireland ’s conflict, known locally as the Troubles,
stretched from 1969 until the mid-1990s and was fought over
whether the region should remain part of the U.K. or unite with
the  Republic of Ireland . Catholics mainly supported unification,
with most Protestants preferring to remain part of Britain.  The British army built the first peace line in the early
1970s as sectarian killings increased amid escalating violence.  Tensions Persist  While bombings, kneecappings and shootings largely ended
in 1998 with the  Good Friday Agreement , tensions between the two
communities persist. In the 12-month period ended March 2012,
1,344 sectarian incidents took place, according to the Police
Service of Northern Ireland.  As well as keep the two sides apart, the walls have become
a tourist attraction, along with the murals of the conflict
dotted around the city.  “The murals and the peace lines are the most popular
requests from tourists in Belfast,” said Benn Allen, manager of
Allen’s Tours in the city. “The peace lines describe everything
they’ve seen on the news for the past 40 years about Belfast.
Say Belfast to them and they think bombs and trouble.”  Last month  Peter Robinson  and  Martin McGuinness , leaders of
Northern Ireland’s executive, which was revived in 2007 as part
of efforts to unite politicians behind the peace process, said
they wanted the peace walls torn down within the next 10 years.  Removing them might help the province’s image as it seeks
investment. The economy has never fully recovered from conflict
or industrial decline that resulted in the closure in 2000 of
shipyards, where the Titanic Liner was built.  Belfast Speech  In his Belfast speech, Obama said June 17 that the region’s
peace process gave hope to conflict zones across the world. He
praised the efforts of Sylvia Gordon, a  community worker  in
Belfast, and her colleagues, who helped open up a peace line in
a north Belfast park.  “They knew it was going to be hard, but they tried
anyway,” Obama said. “And together they all decided to build a
gate to open that wall and now people can walk freely through
the park.”  Elsewhere in the city, divisions remain. Murals venerating
dead fighters adorn walls in Short Strand, a community of about
1,200 people, while the Irish national flag hangs from lampposts
and shops using Gaelic, the Irish language, in their signs.  In Cluan Place, where Irvine lives, almost every house has
a  Union Jack  flying outside and posters declaring they are
“Proud to be British” on their front windows. At the edge of
the street, stockpiles of wooden pallets are stacked in
preparation for a bonfire on July 11 to celebrate a 17th-century
victory over Catholics.  No Change  “I don’t think things will ever change,” Irvine said.
“It’s the way it has been for years. I don’t want the walls to
come down, I’d be afraid.”  Jim Callaghan, her Catholic neighbor on the other side of
the wall, also is pessimistic about the future.  “There’ll be more trouble here over the summer with the
marching season,” said Callaghan, adding that it’s lucky his
granddaughter survived last week’s petrol bomb attack.  “If the wind had been blowing the other way, she would
have been set on fire,” said Callaghan, pointing to the scorch-mark left by the bomb when it landed outside his living room
window. “If Cameron is so keen on taking the peace lines down,
why doesn’t he come and live here, or why doesn’t he take down
his own gates outside Downing Street?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  