-- Billionaire Ofer’s Israel Corp. Plans to Split Businesses
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-06-26T14:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/billionaire-ofer-s-israel-corp-plans-to-split-businesses-2-.html
Israel Corp. (ILCO)  plans to create a new
unit that will own all of its businesses apart from  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  and  Oil Refineries Ltd (ORL)  as the holding company
controlled by billionaire Idan Ofer seeks to attract investors.  The Tel Aviv-based company may list shares of the new
business on a local or foreign stock exchange, Israel Corp. said
in a statement today. Obtaining approval for the unit, whose
holdings will include Israel Corp.’s stakes in  Tower
Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , IC Power and Qoros Auto Co., may take six to
12 months, it said.  “It’s an interesting move,” Noam Pincu, an analyst at
Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said today by phone.
“It will make it easier for investors as they will be able to
invest in the segment they prefer and increase the value of its
separate units.”  Shares of Israel Corp. rallied 8.4 percent at the close in
Tel Aviv, the biggest gain since July 2009, on bets the
reorganization will give investors greater flexibility in
choosing which industries they would like to put their money in.
The stock had tumbled  17 percent  this year through yesterday,
underperforming the benchmark TA-25 Index’s 0.9 percent advance
in the same period.  Two Flavors  The move would create two “flavors of holding
organizations,” Amir Elstein, chairman of Israel Corp., said
today in a phone interview. The first one, with Israel Chemicals
and Oil Refineries, would “create clarity and focus” for
investors, he said. The new, second unit will enable Israel
Corp. to “grow new companies, navigate them” and provide them
with the opportunity to attract strategic players, he added.  If the reorganization is approved, Israel Corp.
shareholders will get shares in the new unit, the company said.
Israel Corp. added it would refrain from making new investments
and may consider separating Oil Refineries and Israel Chemicals
in the future.  Other Israeli holding companies have taken steps to make
their businesses more appealing to investors.  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) ,
which owns stakes in the country’s two biggest natural gas
fields via units, said in May it plans to focus on the oil and
gas business by selling its non-energy assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  