-- Billionaire Brothers to Profit in Recast on Rupee: India Credit
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-06-26T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/billionaire-brothers-to-profit-in-recast-on-rupee-india-credit.html
Billionaire brothers Shashikant and
Ravikant Ruia are profiting from the Indian rupee’s worst plunge
since 1991 as they recast $4.3 billion in Essar Group debt.  The plan to replace as much as 70 percent of 370 billion
rupees ($6.1 billion) of liabilities at  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL)  and Essar
Steel India Ltd. with dollar borrowings by March 2014 would cut
interest expenses by about 7 percentage points, according to V.
Ashok, the group’s chief financial officer. The rupee’s 10.6
percent tumble this quarter means Essar needs to borrow fewer
dollars to repay rupee obligations, increasing cost savings to
more than $300 million a year, he said.  “This is the perfect time to do the debt conversion,”
Mumbai-based Ashok said in an interview yesterday. “Currency
weakness is an advantage for us. The dollar liability will be
much less right now with the rupee being so weak. We are looking
at dollar loans, not bonds.”  The recast started as Essar Steel, which failed to pay
overseas bondholders in 1999 in the first foreign-debt default
by an Indian company, said June 20 that it raised $1 billion in
loans this month. The average  yield  on Indian dollar notes was
5.33 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc data show, compared with 8.80
percent on five-year AAA rupee corporate securities.  Repaying local-currency loans, which typically require
collateral, with unsecured dollar liabilities would free up
assets pledged to domestic banks by the companies, increasing
room for more borrowings, according to SJS Markets Ltd.  ‘Elbow Room’  “The current scenario certainly opens up the possibility
to raise less dollar debt than a year ago for the same amount of
rupee debt,” Hemant Dharnidharka, the Bangalore-based head of
credit research at SJS Markets, said in an interview yesterday.
“The refinancing not only repays the Indian lenders, it also
unencumbers the company’s assets. This leaves elbow room for
management to raise more debt later if needed.”  The rupee slid 7 percent this month alone, Asia’s worst
performer. It weakened 1.7 percent yesterday to 60.73 a dollar
and touched an all-time low of 60.765. The currency’s one-month
implied volatility surged 337 basis points since May 31 to 12.6
percent, signaling a greater potential for losses. Traders quote
the gauge, a measure of expected swings in exchange rates, as
part of options prices.  Borrowing Abroad  Essar Oil and Essar Steel earn most of their income abroad
and that means their foreign-currency debt isn’t vulnerable to
exchange-rate fluctuations, said Ashok. The reorganization of
borrowings would increase the average maturity of the firm’s
liabilities to as much as seven years from less than four years
now, he said.  Essar Ports Ltd. (ESRS)  also may consider switching to
dollar obligations in the future, according to Ashok.  “Most of Essar Oil’s expenses are in rupees and revenue in
dollars,”  Alok Deshpande , Mumbai-based energy analyst with
Elara Securities Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “So they
are in a good spot with rupee depreciation operationally too.”  The Essar group is also in talks with lenders from  China 
for raising funds, Ashok said, without giving details.  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , controlled by billionaire Anil Ambani, said
last year it would borrow $1.18 billion from Chinese banks to
meet a convertible debt repayment.  “We are at the drawing-board stage with various options
for foreign-currency loans,” said Ashok. “Chinese banks are
very interested in Indian assets, so we are looking at that as
well. The group strategy in the two largest companies, Essar Oil
and Essar Steel, is to dollarize their balance sheets since
their revenues are dollar-linked or dollar-denominated.”  Rate Gap  Indian companies raised $18.8 billion from foreign-currency
bonds and loans this year, up from $9.5 billion a year ago, as
borrowing costs at home remained relatively higher. The Reserve
Bank of  India ’s 7.25 percent  repurchase  rate is the highest
among Asia’s biggest economies even after Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut it three times this year. Similar rates are at 3
percent in China and 6 percent in  Indonesia. (IDBIRATE)   Ten-year (GIND10YR)  sovereign debt in India pays 7.58 percent,
compared with 2.56 percent in the U.S. and 3.49 percent in China.
The yield on the 7.16 percent government debt due May 2023
surged eight basis points in Mumbai yesterday, offering an  extra 
504 basis points over Treasuries.  ‘Looking Up’  Bond risk for Indian companies has dropped in the past year.
The average cost of five-year credit-default swaps insuring
against non-payment by seven local issuers declined 90 basis
points to 310, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets.  The convertible bonds of  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , which holds a
15.5 percent stake in Essar Oil, have gained this year amid
optimism the debt recast will help improve the group’s finances.
The 4.25 percent notes due 2016 of the Indian refiner and power
producer advanced 15 percent since Dec. 31, reducing the yield
by 379 basis points to 12.11 percent, Barclays Plc prices show.  “Things are looking up again for Essar Oil,” Elara’s
Deshpande said. “There is the obvious saving on interest costs
with this exercise. Its parent company, Essar Energy, is listed
in  London  and that too should give the group easier access to
foreign funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  