-- Qatar’s Emir Tamim Forms Cabinet Lead by Bin Nasser
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-06-26T17:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/bin-nasser-to-be-named-qatar-s-prime-minister-al-jazeera-says.html
Qatar’s Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser
bin Khalifa  Al Thani , minister of state for internal affairs,
was named prime minister as the new Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani formed a cabinet, state-run Qatar News Agency said.  The new premier will replace Hamad Bin Jassim Al Thani,
who’s led Qatar’s government since 2007 as both premier and
foreign minister. The announcement came after Sheikh Tamim gave
his first televised address to the nation a day after his father
Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani abdicated after 18 years in
power.  Ali Shareef Al Emadi, the chief executive officer of Qatar
National Bank SAQ since 2005, was made finance minister,
according to QNA. He replaces Yousef Hussain Kamal. Khalid bin
Mohammad Al Attiyah, minister of state for international
cooperation, was made foreign minister, while Mohamed bin Saleh
Al Sada retained his post as energy minister. The cabinet also
included a woman, with Hessa Al Jaber becoming communication
minister. Ahmed Bin Jassim Bin Mohammed Al Thani was named
minister of business and trade.  Abdullah bin Nasser, who was also made interior minister,
was educated in the U.K. and at Beirut University, according to
his  official biography . He served as commander of Qatar’s
internal security forces and chairs the country’s anti-terrorism
committee. He visited  Washington  earlier this month, meeting
Senators  John McCain ,  Dianne Feinstein  and Congressman Michael McCaul, according to a  press release  on the Ministry of Interior
website. He is married with five children, according to his
biography.  Richest Country  The new prime minister will assume leadership of a country
of 1.9 million people that is also the world’s biggest liquefied
gas producer and richest country per capita, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Qatar also plans to invest $200
billion before hosting soccer’s 2022  World Cup , even as economic
growth is slowing and gas exports are leveling off.  With his security services background, Abdullah bin Nasser
will add a new dimension to the premier’s position.  “The appointment of the new prime minister, who possesses
a strong domestic portfolio, certainly shows that the new emir
is keen to focus on domestic issues and to develop the country
internally,” Michael Stephens, a researcher at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in Doha, said in a phone interview.  Hamad Bin Jassim was chairman of Qatar Holding LLC, the
foreign investment arm of the country’s sovereign wealth fund,
at a time when the fund bought stakes in Volkswagen AG and  J
Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)  The emirate’s money helped to support  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  during the 2008 financial crises and bought  London ’s Harrods
department store in 2010.  Investment Role  Bin Jassim often played a hands-on role in investments. In
a late-night negotiating session at London’s Claridge’s Hotel
last September, the prime minister helped to pushed Glencore
International Plc’s then-Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg
to raise the offer for Swiss miner  Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , in what became a
$29 billion acquisition.  He also pushed a foreign policy that involved backing
Syria’s armed rebels in their fight to overthrow President
Bashar al-Assad, sending warplanes to  Libya  to help NATO in its
mission against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces, and lending Egypt’s
Islamist post- Hosni Mubarak  government $8 billion.  “People are quite happy that Tamim and the prime minister
are going to focus more on the domestic needs of the country,”
Stephens said.  Qatar plans to build a new $35 billion rail and metro
network as well as stadiums, roads and a new port. Economic
growth slowed to 6.2 percent last year from 17 percent in 2010,
according to a  report  in May by Qatar National Bank SAQ. Gas
exports leveled off after the last of 14 liquefaction plants was
completed in 2011, raising the country’s capacity to make the
fuel to 77 million tons.  The QE Index of companies listed on the  Qatar Exchange  rose
0.9 percent today, the first increase since June 17. The index
recorded the second-biggest gain in the Middle East today after
Egypt’s EGX 30, which rose 2.4 percent. Qatar’s exchange was
closed yesterday after a national holiday was declared.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  