-- BofA, Citi Sued by University of California Over Libor
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/bofa-citi-sued-by-university-of-california-over-libor.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  are among more than a dozen banks sued by the Regents of the
University of California over claims they manipulated the
London Interbank Offered Rate.  The university system filed an antitrust complaint in
federal court in  San Francisco . It accuses the banks of fraud,
deceit and unjust enrichment, among other claims, and it seeks
unspecified damages for either paying inflated interest rates or
receiving deflated interest rates on its Libor-linked
investments.  “The defendant Libor banks in this case engaged in illegal
and improper conduct and engaged in a criminal conspiracy that
caused harm to public entities and hundreds of millions of
people around the world,” the University of California said in
yesterday’s complaint.  Global regulators have fined  UBS AG (UBSN) , Barclays and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  about $2.5 billion in the past year
for distorting Libor and similar benchmarks. At least a dozen
firms remain under investigation around the world. This month,
Singapore’s monetary authority censured 20 banks for attempting
to fix interest rate levels and ordered them to set aside as
much as $9.6 billion.  Banks already face dozens of lawsuits by U.S. homeowners
and other plaintiffs seeking to hold them responsible for
alleged manipulation of the rate used as a borrowing-cost
benchmark. A class-action lawsuit filed in Manhattan in October
by homeowners alleges a conspiracy among financial institutions
drove up the cost of  mortgage loans .  Dismissed Complaints  In April, a federal judge in Manhattan dismissed
consolidated antitrust complaints by plaintiffs alleging they
were harmed by the rigging of Libor. Bank of America and
Barclays were among the defendants alleged to have conspired to
depress Libor by understating their borrowing costs, thereby
lowering their interest expenses on products tied to the rates.  While potential damages were estimated to be in the
billions of dollars, U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald
ruled the cases must be dismissed because of the inability of
litigants that included brokerage  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , pension
funds and other bondholders to show they were harmed.  Eight California counties and public entities sued the
banks in January, alleging they lost millions of dollars because
they were cheated out of higher payments on investments such as
 interest-rate swaps  and corporate bonds tied to Libor. That
complaint was filed by the same Burlingame, California-based law
firm, Cotchett Pitre & McCarthy LLP, that brought yesterday’s
suit.  Key Metric  Libor is a key metric for setting  interest rates  for
trillions of dollars in financial instruments. It fixes the
rates under which banks lend money to one another for as little
as a day and as long as a year. Rates for 10 different
currencies including the U.S. dollar, Japanese yen and British
pound are computed daily after canvassing banks that comprise
membership panels for each type of money.  Michael O’Looney, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman
for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, and
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , another defendant, also declined to comment.  Representatives of two other defendants,  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi  and Norinchukin Bank, had no immediate comment.  Peter King , a spokesman for the university system, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment after regular
business hours.  The case is Regents of the University of California v.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , 13-2921, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  