-- Bombardier Delays CSeries Debut to July Instead of June
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-06-26T20:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/bombardier-delays-cseries-debut-to-july-instead-of-june.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  delayed the maiden
flight of its CSeries jet again, pushing the plane’s first
takeoff into July only days after saying the company’s largest-ever model would meet a June deadline.  The new goal is for a debut by the end of next month,
Montreal-based Bombardier said today in a statement. The extra
time will allow for additional software upgrades “for improved
system maturity and functionality,” the company said.  Bombardier’s move adds to the struggles of its first full-size airliner, a challenger to the Boeing Co.-Airbus SAS duopoly
on narrow-body planes. The company set the June target in
November, scrapping plans for a December flight, and Bombardier
Aerospace President  Guy Hachey  had reaffirmed that schedule as
recently as June 16 in an interview at the Paris Air Show.  “This is a bit of disappointment, given what they said
even recently,” Chris Murray, a PI Financial Corp. analyst,
said in a telephone interview from Toronto. Bombardier’s chief
challenge is now meeting its mid-2014 timetable for getting the
CSeries in commercial service, he said.  That goal remains in place, a Bombardier spokesman, Marc Duchesne, said today by e-mail. Vice President Rob Dewar, the
general manager of the CSeries, told Bloomberg News June 7 that
a mid-2014 entry into service was a “challenging target.”  Bombardier’s widely traded  Class B shares  slid 2.1 percent
to C$4.57 at the close in Toronto. The drop cut their gain this
year to 22 percent.  Size Shift  The CSeries will seat about 110 to 160 passengers, a step
up in size from Bombardier’s signature regional jets and
turboprops. Bombardier, which also builds trains and business
jets, is counting on new products such as the CSeries to help
meet a goal of almost doubling revenue by the end of the decade.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin told investors at a
March 21 briefing that the CSeries alone will probably
contribute $5 billion to $8 billion in additional annual sales.  Airlines and lessors have been slow to embrace the plane.
Bombardier has booked 177 orders so far, short of a goal of 300
by the 2014 target for entering commercial service. The CSeries
won no new commitments at last week’s Paris expo, the industry’s
biggest annual showcase for new products.  Today’s announcement “doesn’t help confidence,” Murray
said. “These are challenging programs. Are further delays
possible? Definitely, but at this point I’ve got limited
expectations for production deliveries in 2014 anyway.”  ‘Show Me’  The CSeries will cost about 15 percent less to operate and
burn about 20 percent less fuel than peers, Bombardier has said.
The plane will feature composite materials and the new geared
turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt &
Whitney. It will also be the first Bombardier jet to fully adopt
a so-called fly-by-wire system, which translates pilots’
commands into electronic impulses that activate flight controls.  Bombardier’s Duchesne said today’s delay isn’t linked to
the fly-by-wire system, which Hachey had identified last year as
a challenge to meeting the original timeline for a 2012 maiden
flight. Duchesne declined to provide the exact reasons for the
postponement.  “Many airlines are adopting a ‘show me’ approach prior to
placing orders for the CSeries,” Benoit Poirier, an analyst at
Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal , said today in a note to
clients. He rates Bombardier as buy, as does Murray.  Qatar Airways CEO Akbar Al Baker told reporters at the
 Paris Air Show  on June 17 that he still has “interest in
CSeries, but we want it to fly.”  The carrier is seeking confirmation of “the outstanding
performance that was promised during the time we negotiated with
them,” Al Baker said. “Once all this is resolved and that the
aircraft is well in its flight test, we will then look into it.
We are talking to Bombardier about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  