-- Brazilian Real Rises for Fourth Day as Capital Controls Removed
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-26T21:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/brazilian-real-rises-for-fourth-day-as-capital-controls-removed.html
The real climbed for a fourth day,
the longest winning streak since January, as the central bank
said it will eliminate reserve requirements on short dollar
positions held by local banks to support the local currency.  The real appreciated 1.2 percent to 2.1867 per U.S. dollar
in Sao Paulo, the best performance among 16 major dollar
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The currency pared its rout
in the past month to 6.2 percent. Swap rates on contracts
maturing in January dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 8.93 percent today, paring their quarterly increase to
116 basis points.  The currency extended its gain after a U.S. report showed
the economy expanded less than previously calculated in the
first quarter, encouraging speculation the Federal Reserve will
sustain a stimulus program that has buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  Brazil ’s removal of the reserve requirements
announced yesterday comes after it removed taxes on currency
derivatives and foreigners’ purchases of bonds.  “This measure signals that the market will be more
balanced,” Daniel Cunha, the chief economist at XP
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Rio de Janeiro.
“The environment improved compared with last week, but there’s
still a high level of uncertainty.”  The Treasury said it will hold an unscheduled auction of
floating-rate government bonds maturing in 2018 tomorrow and
canceled a planned auction of zero-coupon bonds, according to an
e-mailed statement.  Budget Target  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said today at a legislative
hearing that the government will meet its goal of a primary
budget surplus, which excludes interest payments, of 2.3 percent
of gross domestic product. The government reported yesterday
that it posted a primary budget surplus of 6 billion reais in
May, higher than the 3.8 billion reais median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Police fired tear gas today at crowds demonstrating near
the stadium where Brazil’s national soccer team faced Uruguay in
the Confederations Cup, the second clash in five days in Belo
Horizonte, the country’s third-largest urban area.  President Dilma Rousseff called on June 24 for a plebiscite
on political reform and pledged another 50 billion reais for
urban transportation after meeting with leaders of the protest
group Passe Livre.  Swap rates fluctuated today as a rebounding real eased
speculation that the central bank will sustain the pace of
increases in borrowing costs to curb inflation. The currency
tumbled to a four-year low of 2.2575 on June 20, boosting import
prices.  Monetary Policy  The central bank raised its  target lending rate  by 50 basis
points on May 29 to 8 percent, surprising 38 of 57 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected a second straight
increase of 25 basis points.  Annual inflation accelerated to 6.67 percent in the month
through mid-June, the national statistics agency reported June
21. That is higher than the 6.50 percent upper level of the
central bank’s target range.  While unwinding capital controls may boost the real in the
short term, the move doesn’t address “core headwinds” of high
household leverage, a deteriorating fiscal position, an
uncompetitive manufacturing cost structure and greater
participation by the government in the economy,  Eduardo Suarez ,
a Latin America currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia, said
in an e-mailed research report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  