-- Brazil’s Raw-Sugar Premium Gains on Buying Before ICE Delivery
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-26T11:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/brazil-s-raw-sugar-premium-gains-on-buying-before-ice-delivery.html
Buyers of raw sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s top producer, are paying a bigger premium for the
sweetener as traders step up buying before the July contract
expires in  New York , according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Brazilian sugar for loading next month at the port of
Santos, the country’s biggest, traded last week at a premium of
0.2 cent a pound to the price of the July futures on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, the Rolle, Switzerland-based broker said in a
report e-mailed yesterday. That compares with no premium or
discount on June 10, data from the broker showed.  About 600,000 metric tons of sugar traded in the past two
weeks,  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the company, wrote in the
report. The July contract in New York will expire in two days
and the exchange will announce the delivery on July 1.  “The July gain is more credited to some short covering,
low flat price, strong demand, rain in Brazil,” Beydoun said,
adding that the waiting line of ships building at the port of
Santos could also be a factor contributing to the increase.  Rain in Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing
region, has interrupted the harvest. A cold front will bring
heavy rain this week to Brazil’s cane-growing areas, slowing
fieldwork, forecaster Somar Meteorologia said on June 24. Ships
waiting at the port of Santos were scheduled to load 1.04
million tons of sugar, data from SA Commodities showed.  In  Thailand , the world’s second-biggest sugar exporter,
sugar for loading in June and July was at a premium of 1.5 cent
to 1.75 cent a pound above the exchange price, unchanged from a
week ago, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers. Millers there are
still holding back their sugar, the broker said.  Raw sugar fell 0.6 percent to 17.23 cents a pound by 7:01
a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  