-- Bumi Agrees to Recover Missing $173 Million From Former Director
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-26T17:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/bumi-agrees-to-recover-missing-173-million-from-former-director.html
Bumi Plc, the Indonesian coal
producer trying to recover $201 million in missing funds, said
it agreed to recover the majority of the money in a deal with
former company director Rosan Roeslani.  Roeslani, the former chief executive officer of Bumi’s PT
Berau Coal Energy unit, will transfer Berau assets and cash
valued at $173 million while Bumi will waive potential claims
against him over the missing funds, it said yesterday in a
statement. The agreement must be approved by shareholders.  Bumi has been at the center of a battle for control between
co-founders  Nathaniel Rothschild , scion of a centuries-old
British banking dynasty, and  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family since the
$3 billion deal that brought them together started to sour in
late 2011. Waning coal prices, board infighting and probes in
the U.K. and Indonesia have weighed on the stock, which plunged
69 percent in London last year.  The missing assets to be recovered from Roeslani include a
shareholding in a company that transports all coal produced by
Berau and another that owns the land it uses for its operations,
London-based Bumi said. The agreement with Roeslani states he
has made no admission of wrongdoing or liability, Bumi said.  Roeslani didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “It is not up to the company to decide whether or not he
can be exonerated,” Rothschild said in e-mailed comments to
 Bloomberg News . “The London regulators need to take action to
send a message to foreigners who believe listing in London is a
pushover.”  SFO Talks  CEO Nick von Schirnding told reporters yesterday at Bumi’s
annual general meeting in London that the company had held talks
with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office on the matter.  Bumi said last month that Roeslani received “substantially
more” in salary, bonuses and other benefits than had previously
been disclosed. He was paid $3.8 million in 2011, according to
Bumi’s annual report, published May 31. In last year’s annual
report, Roeslani was said to have received $700,638 in salary
and bonus for 2011.  Roeslani said the details in the May 31 report were
“baseless, one-sided, and appear to be motivated by the need to
deal with the ongoing Bumi shareholder dispute,” according to a
June 12 statement.  The creation of Bumi brought together Rothschild and the
Bakries, a family-owned palm oil-to-property empire founded in
Sumatra in 1942. Bumi and the Bakries announced a deal to unwind
their investment in October that involved the Bakries exchanging
their 23.8 percent of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  for 29.2 percent of PT Bumi
Resources in a cash-and-share-swap deal, leaving Bumi Plc in
control of Berau Coal.  $278 Million  According to the terms of the deal, the cash component
would be $278 million to buy PT Bumi stock at 680 rupiah a
share. The stock closed yesterday at 530 rupiah in Jakarta. A
shareholder vote on the agreement, previously scheduled for
yesterday’s AGM, was likely to be completed “before autumn,”
Von Schirnding said last month.  “While the mechanics of the separation are still being
worked on, I am confident we are nearing the end of this
process,” he said yesterday.  Bumi has previously sought assurances from the Bakries that
they will be able to fund the cash component of their offer.  Full Funding  The Bakrie Group said this week it had the full amount of
funds available to complete the deal and was waiting to hear
from the board of Bumi on “how they wish to proceed.” Chris Fong, a spokesman for the Bakries, didn’t respond to phone calls
and an e-mail yesterday.  Bumi said last week it remained in talks with the U.K.’s
Financial Conduct Authority to end a two-month suspension of its
 stock trading  in London. Talks with the regulator focused on
work to “enhance its internal systems and controls” at Berau
Coal, it said.  Bumi shares closed at 259.3 pence on April 19, the last day
they were traded.  Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd., which
advises institutional investors with combined assets of more
than 1.5 trillion pounds ($2.3 trillion), said last week it had
concerns that corporate governance at Bumi was inadequate and
recommended shareholders vote against Chairman Samin Tan.  Tan was re-elected as a director yesterday with 71 percent
of shareholders voting in his favor. All other directors seeking
re-election, excluding Richard Gozney, got between 70 and 72
percent of votes. Four resolutions failed including one giving
the board the authority to issue its own shares.  Stake Value  “The voting demonstrates that shareholders are not willing
to allow this board one ounce of flexibility,” said Rothschild,
the second-largest shareholder.  Tan’s PT Borneo Lumbung Energi and Metal invested $1
billion into Bumi more than a year ago in buying half of the 
Bakrie Group’s shareholding. He said yesterday the value of his 
23.8 stake in the group has dropped about $800 million.  Tan and the Bakries have been in talks to dissolve their
joint venture that holds the shares in Bumi since last year. The
dissolution of the venture should be completed “very soon,” he
said yesterday.  Tan said last year he was seeking to recoup “notional
losses” on the investment in the talks with the Bakries.
Yesterday he said there was no “side deal” with the Bakries
and there’s no so-called make-whole accord allowing him to
recover his entire investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  