-- Bumi Recovers $173 Million of Missing Funds From Former Director
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-26T12:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/bumi-recovers-173-million-of-missing-funds-from-former-director.html
Bumi Plc, the Indonesian coal
producer trying to recover $201 million in missing funds, said
it agreed to recover the majority of the money in a deal with
former company director Rosan Roeslani.  Roeslani, the former chief executive officer of Bumi’s PT
Berau Coal Energy unit, will transfer Berau assets and cash
valued at $173 million while Bumi will waive potential claims
against him over the missing funds, it said today in a
statement. The agreement must be approved by shareholders.  Bumi has been at the center of a battle for control between
co-founders  Nathaniel Rothschild , scion of a centuries-old
British banking dynasty, and  Indonesia ’s Bakrie family since the
$3 billion deal that brought them together started to sour in
late 2011. Waning coal prices, board infighting and probes in
the U.K. and Indonesia have weighed on the stock, which plunged
69 percent in London last year.  The missing assets to be recovered from Roeslani include a
shareholding in a company that transports all coal produced by
Berau and another that owns the land it uses for its operations,
London-based Bumi said today. The agreement with Roeslani states
he has made no admission of wrongdoing or liability, Bumi said.  Roeslani didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment today.  “It is not up to the company to decide whether or not he
can be exonerated,” Rothschild said in e-mailed comments to
 Bloomberg News . “The London regulators need to take action to
send a message to foreigners who believe listing in London is a
pushover.”  SFO Talks  Chief Executive Officer Nick von Schirnding told reporters
today at Bumi’s annual general meeting in London that the
company had held talks with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office on the
matter.  Bumi said last month that Roeslani received “substantially
more” in salary, bonuses and other benefits than had previously
been disclosed. He was paid $3.8 million in 2011, according to
Bumi’s annual report, published May 31. In last year’s annual
report Roeslani was said to have received $700,638 in salary and
bonus for 2011.  Roeslani said the details in the report were “baseless,
one-sided, and appear to be motivated by the need to deal with
the ongoing Bumi shareholder dispute,” according to a June 12
statement.  The creation of Bumi brought together Rothschild and the
Bakries, a family-owned palm oil-to-property empire founded in
Sumatra in 1942. Bumi and the Bakries announced a deal to unwind
their investment in October that involved the Bakries exchanging
their 23.8 percent of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  for 29.2 percent of PT Bumi
Resources in a cash-and-share-swap deal, leaving Bumi Plc in
control of Berau Coal.  $278 Million  According to the terms of the deal, the cash component
would be $278 million to buy PT Bumi stock at 680 rupiah a
share. The stock closed today at 530 rupiah in Jakarta. A
shareholder vote on the agreement, previously scheduled for
today’s AGM, is now likely to be completed “before autumn,”
Von Schirnding said last month.  “While the mechanics of the separation are still being
worked on, I am confident we are nearing the end of this
process,” he said today.  Bumi has previously sought assurances from the Bakries that
they will be able to fund the cash component of their offer, and
Von Schirnding said in May that he’ll be enforcing the terms of
the original October proposal.  Full Funding  The Bakrie Group said in a statement yesterday that it had
the full amount of funds available to complete the deal and was
waiting to hear from the board of Bumi on “how they wish to
proceed.” Chris Fong, a spokesman for the Bakries, didn’t
respond to phone calls and an e-mail today.  Bumi said last week it remained in talks with the U.K.’s
Financial Conduct Authority to end a two-month suspension of its
 stock trading  in London. Talks with the regulator focused on
work to “enhance its internal systems and controls” at Berau
Coal, it said.  Bumi shares closed at 259.3 pence on April 19, the last day
they were traded.  Pensions & Investment Research Consultants Ltd., which
advises institutional investors with combined assets of more
than 1.5 trillion pounds ($2.3 trillion), said last week it had
concerns that corporate governance at Bumi was inadequate and
recommended shareholders vote against ChairmanSamin Tan.  PIRC said June 18 it is unable to support the approval of
Bumi’s annual report and accounts “on the basis that the
auditors have qualified the accounts and a substantial sum of
money is not accounted for and proper records have not been
kept.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  