-- Canada’s Carriers Tumble as Verizon Threat Looms
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-26T20:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/canada-s-carriers-tumble-as-verizon-threat-looms.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) 
and  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s three biggest wireless carriers, all
tumbled in Toronto trading on concern that  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  is poised to enter the market.  Verizon, which co-owns the leading U.S. mobile-phone
service, has submitted an initial offer for Wind Mobile, a
Toronto-based wireless carrier, the Globe and Mail reported
today. Verizon held talks with the another of Canada’s recent
entrants to the market, Mobilicity, about potentially combining
the companies to build a fourth national carrier, the newspaper
said, citing people familiar with the plans.  The U.S. company’s interest in Wind coincides with action
taken by the Canadian government to block the country’s three
major carriers from taking control of new players in an effort
to spur competition. Wind, Mobilicity and Public Mobile have
struggled against BCE, Telus and Rogers, which together control
about 90 percent of Canada’s mobile-phone market.  “Verizon has several advantages it could use to become
successful in the marketplace, such as its advantage with U.S.
roaming, capital strength and, importantly, its handset-buying
power,” said  Maher Yaghi , an analyst with Desjardins Securities
in  Montreal . Investors in BCE, Telus and Rogers “need to
consider the potential downside if Verizon intends to build a
national network,” he said.  Yaghi has buy ratings on BCE and Telus and a hold rating on
Rogers.  Shares Tumble  Telus tumbled 8 percent to C$30.70 at the close in Toronto,
its biggest drop since April 2009. BCE  fell  4.1 percent to
C$41.57, its worst performance since May 2009. Rogers  fell  9.2
percent to C$41.67, the steepest drop since October 2008.  Verizon has a  market value  of about $145 billion, more than
double the combined value of Canada’s big three. Verizon’s bid
would value Wind at about C$700 million ($668 million), the
Globe and Mail said.  Wind is “one of many” options under consideration,  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for New York-based Verizon, said last
week. “We constantly evaluate a wide variety of business
opportunities,” he said at the time.  He declined to comment today on the C$700 million bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  