-- Canadian Dollar Rises as Stimulus Pledges Support Export Markets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-26T21:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/canadian-dollar-rises-as-bankers-pledge-to-maintain-stimulus.html
Canada’s dollar rose the first time
in nine days as Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said he expects the U.S. expansion to remain
“sluggish” for “a couple more years,” bolstering the case
for sustained stimulus.  Canada’s dollar rose earlier with those of fellow
commodities producers Australia and  New Zealand  after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank “will
stay accommodative for the foreseeable future” and  Bank of
England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the slowing of asset
purchases isn’t imminent, supporting export markets. The  Bank of
Canada  remains the only Group of Seven central bank with a bias
to raise  interest rates .  “When you get through all the rhetoric, the Fed does put
the data in the driver’s seat,” said David Tulk chief macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit by
phone from Toronto. “People may be looking at the Fed being a
bit more cautious in tapering, and looking at a  bond market  and
a  currency market  that might have moved a bit too far, a bit too
early.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, rose 0.4
percent to C$1.0470 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One
loonie buys 95.51 U.S. cents. The loonie touched C$1.0556 per
U.S. dollar June 24, the lowest level since October 2011.  Canada’s dollar is down 0.9 percent this month, 2.9 percent
this quarter and 5.3 percent this year.  Oil, Bonds  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.2
percent to $95.46 per barrel in  New York  after declining as much
as 1.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks
gained 1 percent.  Canada ’s 10-year benchmark government bonds rose, with
yields falling four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.50 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 35 cents to C$91.31.  The difference between two-year  bonds  in Canada and the
U.S. is 85 basis points, the narrowest in two weeks, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Lacker said today’s downward revision in U.S. growth
estimates was in line with his outlook of about 2.25 percent
growth next year. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.8
percent annualized rate from January through March, down from a
prior reading of 2.4 percent, the Commerce Department said
today.  The loonie has declined 2.5 percent against the greenback
since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the U.S.
central bank may begin paring back bond purchases this year.  Bernanke Overreaction  “We’ve had Fed officials and other officials from around
the world indicating the market overreacted to Bernanke’s
comments, and it’s not like the Fed is going to turn off the
taps tomorrow,”  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian
unit of HSBC Holding Plc., said by phone from Toronto. “Much of
this move in the Canadian dollar, the weakening move earlier
this weak, was not consistent with moves in key interest-rate
spreads.”  The yield on December 2013 bankers’ acceptances, a measure
of interest-rate expectations, fell to 1.36 percent from 1.38
percent yesterday. The yield has averaged 1.28 percent over the
past three months. So-called Bax contracts have settled an
average of about 0.20 percentage point above the central bank’s
target rate since 1992, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Bank of Canada, whose key interest rate of  1 percent  is
the highest among the Group of Seven nations, is the only
central bank among them with a leaning toward higher rates.
Governor Stephen Poloz reiterated that stance, initiated by
predecessor  Mark Carney , in his first public comments on June 6.  ‘Remain Accommodative’  “All of these central bankers have been trying to say,
‘Look here, the Fed isn’t talking about tightening policy, it’s
just talking about reducing the accommodation, and policy will
remain accommodative,’” Jane Foley, senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International, said by phone from  London . “Canada
dollar as a consequence is off its worst levels against the U.S.
dollar, it’s off its worst levels yesterday. That said, the
environment is clearly jittery.”  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell from the highest in almost a year last
week. The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell
to 1.7625, after reaching 1.8550 June 21, the highest since July
2012. Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to
sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart dropped to 8.78 percent, from
8.87 percent June 24, the highest point in a year. Implied
volatility, which traders quote and use to set option prices,
signals the expected pace of currency swings.  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.3 percent this week
against a basket of nine developed nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar
gained 2.1 percent, the  New Zealand dollar  increased 1.6 percent
and the greenback added 1.1 percent. Norway’s krone and  Sweden ’s
krona lead decliners, down 0.8 percent and 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  