-- Carbon Markets a Focus of Poland Climate Talks, Marcu Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-26T17:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/carbon-markets-to-be-a-focus-of-poland-climate-talks-marcu-says.html
This year’s climate talks in  Poland 
will attempt to establish a framework for rules governing
industry-based carbon markets and non-market programs after
2020, according to the Centre for European Policy Studies.  A single system covering various approaches would provide
flexibility to nations wary of giving control over their
domestic energy or greenhouse-gas markets to an international
process, said  Andrei Marcu , head of CEPS’s carbon market forum
in Brussels and adviser to Poland, which is hosting the United
Nations negotiations in Warsaw starting Nov. 11.  The rules would allow nations to run their own programs,
markets, regulations and taxes, and choose whether they want to
join the international market, he said yesterday by phone.
Otherwise, countries could use their emission reductions
domestically to show they are taking action to protect the
climate, he said.  President  Barack Obama  yesterday said his administration
would “redouble” efforts to help forge an international
climate-protection agreement that would govern emissions beyond
2020 and apply to all nations, not just those that have already
industrialized.  “We need an agreement that’s flexible, because different
nations have different needs,” Obama said in a speech in
 Washington . “And if we can come together and get this right, we
can define a sustainable future for your generation.”  Using EPA  Obama sought to limit U.S. emissions from existing and new
fossil-fuel power stations and create free trade in clean-energy
goods.  His resolve to regulate using the Environmental Protection
Agency may prompt the business community to lobby Congress to
consider adopting more cost-effective carbon markets, said
Anthony Hobley, president of the Climate Markets & Investments
Association in London.  Obama’s speech also may encourage the UN talks to become
more pragmatic during their next few negotiating sessions,
focusing on setting principles for domestic programs rather than
seeking to impose targets, Hobley said yesterday in a phone
interview. “We’ve been a little naive in what we expected
international law to do.”  Nations may join the Framework for Various Approaches
voluntarily should they decide they want to transfer their
emission reductions internationally, Marcu said. “These
guidelines will need to accommodate everything from  Japan ’s
bilateral programs,  Ecuador ’s Yasuni project and the linked
carbon markets of  Australia  and the European Union,” he said.  Foregoing Oil  The Yasuni ITT Trust Fund was established by Ecuador’s
government and the UN in August 2010 to receive and manage
contributions after the nation decided to forgo extracting about
846 million barrels of oil from the Yasuni National Park’s
Ishpingo Tambococha Tiputini oil fields, according to a  UN
website .  Emissions credits from the Clean Development Mechanism, the
biggest UN carbon market, have plunged 89 percent in the past
year on rising supply and because nations haven’t tightened
greenhouse-gas reduction targets.  Climate talks in November need to at least signal some
ground rules, or investors will continue to hesitate before
returning to the markets, Marcu said.  “We need to start to learn how to operate in this new
world and test new ideas,” he said.  The requirement for emission reductions is clear, Marcu
said. Even if carbon markets don’t currently provide enough
demand, the world can’t afford an eight-year gap in mitigation
efforts, he said.  Industries in nations or within a group of nations should
be rewarded with tradable carbon credits if they cut emissions
now, Marcu said. The November talks need to encourage industry-based, or sectoral, carbon markets, he said.  Investors may be more willing to spend on climate
protection if “they can produce for a future market rather than
a past market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  