-- China Starts Probe to Ensure Accuracy of Economic Data
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-06-26T05:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/china-starts-probe-to-ensure-accuracy-of-economic-data.html
China  said it will start an
investigation to ensure the accuracy of data filed by companies
as part of efforts to improve the reliability of statistics in
the world’s second-largest economy.  There is an urgent need to prevent fraud in data
submission, National Bureau of Statistics head  Ma Jiantang  was
cited by China Information News today as having said on June 24.
Those found submitting inaccurate information for major
statistics may be “severely punished,” the newspaper,
published by the bureau, reported without citing anyone.  China’s government is struggling to win the trust of
investors and economists for its data, with exports and imports
among the latest indicators to be scrutinized on concerns fake
invoices inflated numbers.  Li Keqiang , who became premier this
year, said in 2007 that gross domestic product figures were
“man-made” and “for reference only,” according to a
WikiLeaks cable published in 2010.  “The problem is pretty pervasive and rather systemic,”
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong . “I don’t expect a dramatic change in terms of
data quality. There will be improvement but it will take time.”  Ma, in an open  letter  posted on the bureau’s  website 
yesterday, asked companies to file data “truthfully and
completely.” Some local governments were found to have
intervened in companies’ filing process, and the bureau will
increase penalties on those who commit fraud in statistics
submission, the letter said.  Better Data  The statistics bureau has been improving data methodology
and collection to provide more reliable figures for policy
makers. In February 2012, it started using a unified system to
directly collect output,  retail sales  and investment data from
700,000 companies to boost accuracy and reduce manipulation by
local authorities.  An unprecedented run of better-than-forecast  export  growth
published by the General Administration of Customs earlier this
year spurred skepticism of the data at banks including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Export gains last month were at a 10-month low
and imports dropped after a crackdown on fake trade invoices
used to disguise money inflows.  The statistics bureau exposed inflated data on industrial
output in Henglan town in southern  Guangdong province , according
to a June 14 report by the state-run Xinhua News Agency. The
bureau said in March 2012 that officials in Hejin city in
northern Shanxi province gave companies “seriously untrue”
numbers to submit for 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  