-- China Tourists to Fuel Taiwan Retail Property Boom, Cushman Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-26T03:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/china-tourists-to-fuel-taiwan-retail-property-boom-cushman-says.html
Prime shop rents in Taipei may grow
as much as 15 percent in the next two years on expansion by
global retailers seeking to tap an increase in mainland Chinese
tourists, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Monthly shop rents on Zhongxiao East Road, the city’s
busiest shopping district, are currently about NT$20,000 ($665)
per ping, a standard measure in  Taiwan  that is the equivalent of
36 square feet (3.3 square meters), after average annual growth
of about 3.7 percent over the past decade, said Sigrid Zialcita,
managing director for Asia-Pacific Research at New York-based
broker Cushman & Wakefield.  The number of mainland tourists to Taiwan grew 23 percent
to 2 million last year from 1.63 million in 2010, after the
island in 2011 allowed individual travelers from the mainland
for the first time in more than six decades. President Ma Ying-jeou, who took office in May 2008, has focused on improving
cross-strait ties through economic links, abandoning his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance.  Cushman & Wakefield, the world’s biggest closely held
realtor by headcount, this month opened its first office in
Taipei. It plans to increase the number of staff there fivefold
to 100 from the current 20 in the next five years, Randall Hall,
chief executive officer for  Greater China , said in a June 21
interview in  Hong Kong .  “The opening up of mainland tourists is a good enough
reason for us” to be in Taiwan, Hall said.  “What’s exciting
about Taiwan is that its retail real estate offering is fairly
limited. There are a lot of opportunities for growth.”  Industrial Space  China  and Taiwan have been ruled separately since Chiang Kai-shek’s Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after
being defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communists in 1949.  An increase in Chinese tourists over the past decade helped
the Causeway Bay district in Hong Kong, a former British colony
returned to Chinese rule in 1997, to overtake  New York ’s Fifth
Avenue as the world’s most-expensive retail location, according
to a Cushman & Wakefield report in November.  Cushman & Wakefield will also look into business
opportunities generated by demand for industrial space in Taiwan
spurred by Ma’s initiatives to lure businesses to expand with
tax cuts and increased foreign-labor quotas, Hall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  