-- Citigroup Opens in Iraq to Tap $1 Trillion of Oil Spending
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-06-27T12:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/citigroup-targets-iraq-as-corbat-scales-back-in-emerging-markets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the U.S. lender
scaling back in some  emerging markets , said it’s seeking to
benefit from an estimated $1 trillion of infrastructure spending
in  Iraq  as the country rebuilds roads and bridges after the war.  The third-largest U.S. lender by assets this week received
approval to open a representative office in  Baghdad  and will
also consider more such offices and branches in the country,
Mayank Malik, chief executive officer for Jordan, Iraq,  Syria 
and the Palestinian territories, said in a phone interview.  Iraq is the New York-based bank’s first country opening for
six years and comes as Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat 
seeks to sell or scale back consumer operations in nations such
as Turkey, Pakistan and Uruguay, reversing an expansion strategy
into faster-growing economies by former CEO Vikram Pandit.  “Iraq is a giant that’s waking up and the opportunities
are immense,” Malik said from Amman, Jordan. “The most
significant opportunities are twofold -- oil revenue generation
and infrastructure creation. We estimate this to be $1 trillion
initiative over time.”  Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-largest proven oil
deposits, is boosting budget spending by 18 percent this year to
$118 billion. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the
economy will grow 9 percent this year, the fastest pace after
 Libya  of 18 countries in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  Iraq Business  Corbat, who replaced Pandit in October, announced last year
that the lender would sell or scale back consumer operations in
five nations including Turkey and Pakistan as part of a cost-cutting plan that will eliminate 11,000 jobs. In March, Corbat
told attendees at a  New York  conference he might exit businesses
in 21 more countries, which he didn’t identify.  Business in Iraq will come from international companies
looking to rebuild roads, telecommunication networks,
electricity and water infrastructure amid continuing violence in
the country, Malik said.  Iraq’s stock exchange drew investors in February when
mobile operator Asiacell Communications PJSC listed after a $1.3
billion share sale, in the Middle East’s biggest initial public
offering since 2008. The country’s two other mobile operators,
Zain Iraq and Korek Telecom, plan to sell shares in IPOs to
comply with their license requirements.  “The economic story of Iraq hasn’t changed,” Malik said.
“Iraq is the only country that has economic stability and
political instability.”  StanChart Entry  Foreign banks were barred from the country until after the
U.S.-led invasion that ousted the regime of  Saddam Hussein .
Today, 15 international banks operate there, competing with
seven state banks, 23 private lenders and nine banks operating
under Islamic rules, according to the central bank’s website.  Banks in the country are set for growth in earnings and
assets as a surge in lending in OPEC’s second-biggest producer
outpaces the region. Iraq’s rising oil exports and a drop in the
prime lending rate to 6 percent from 17 percent in 2008 are
feeding the expansion.  The five largest privately owned banks boosted their
combined net income by 207 percent from 2010 to 2012 and more
than doubled earnings per share, according to Singapore-based
Sansar Capital Management LLC, which runs a fund with $30
million invested in Iraqi equities. The country has one ATM for
every 100,000 residents, compared with a regional average that’s
32 times higher, according to Sansar’s report.  Standard Chartered  Plc has said it will open branches this
year in Baghdad and the city of Erbil, followed by a third
office next year in the oil hub of Basra.  HSBC Exit  As Citigroup and Standard Chartered enter the country,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said June 25 that it may
sell its 70 percent stake in Iraq’s Dar Es Salaam Investment
Bank following a strategic review. HSBC will explore options for
a sale and won’t subscribe to shares of the investment bank as
part of its proposed capital increase, it said. HSBC bought the
stake in 2005.  Iraq has seen an upsurge in violence since the U.S.
withdrew its last combat troops at the end of 2011, reflecting
tensions between  Sunni Muslims  and the country’s Shiite-led
government. Terrorists killed more than 1,000 civilians and
security forces in the country in May, surpassing the 712 killed
in April, which was the deadliest month since June 2008, the
United Nations mission to Iraq said in June.  “The political backdrop may cause some delay or
distraction, but the economic fundamentals of Iraq haven’t
changed,” Citigroup’s Malik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  