-- Clean Energy to Beat Gas in Power Mix by 2016, IEA Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-06-26T13:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/clean-energy-to-reach-25-by-2018-on-new-markets-costs.html
Renewable energy may supply more
electricity than nuclear reactors or natural gas by 2016,
spurred by declining costs and growing demand in emerging
markets, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Wind, solar, bioenergy and geothermal use may grow 40
percent in the next five years, double the 20 percent pace in
2011, the Paris-based organization said today in a report on the
industry. Excluding hydropower, cleaner sources of energy may
reach 8 percent of total world electricity generation capacity
by 2018, compared with 4 percent in 2011, the IEA said.  The findings are another indication that renewables
increasingly are rivaling fossil fuels on price without subsidy
as the cost of wind and solar technologies declines. The report
suggests ways that governments can do more to reduce the
pollution blamed for global warming.  “Renewable power sources are increasingly standing on
their own merits versus new fossil-fuel generation,” IEA
Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said in  New York  today.
“Many renewables no longer require high economic incentives.”  Emerging markets  will be the largest drivers of the growth
for renewables in the next few years, with China accounting for
40 percent, or about 310 gigawatts of new capacity. About 58
percent of total renewable generation in 2018 will come in
nations outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation &
Development, up from 54 percent in 2012, the IEA said.  Fossil Incentives  Van der Hoeven reiterated the IEA’s push for nations to end
fossil fuel subsidies, noting incentives for coal, oil and gas
in 2011 “globally were six times higher than renewables”
and that “carbon intensity of energy has barely budged in the
past 20 years.”  Growth will slow in industrial nations because of subsidy
reductions and uncertainty about the government’s support for
the technology, said Angus McCrone, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. The London-based researcher estimated investment
in renewables was $112 billion in 2012 in emerging-market
nations, compared with $132 billion for developed economies, the
smallest gap ever between the two.  “The places that really need the capacity the most are
 developing countries  and they also have the resources,” McCrone
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  