-- Co-Op Bond Investors Seek Legal Advice on Capital Restructure
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-06-26T16:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/co-op-bond-investors-seek-legal-advice-on-capital-restructure.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc bondholders
are forming groups to negotiate a better financial deal under a
debt restructuring designed to help the U.K. lender raise 1.5
billion pounds ($2.3 billion).  One group of investors hired Boston-based law firm  Brown
Rudnick  LLP, according to a person with knowledge of the plan
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.
Aurelius Capital Management LP, a New York-based hedge fund, has
formed a group with other bondholders and is considering hiring
a legal adviser, another person said.  The Co-Op bank will swap some debt for equity and trade on
the London Stock Exchange to plug a capital hole, it said last
week. It plans to raise 1 billion pounds by asking existing
bondholders to exchange subordinated debt for new equity and
senior debt, with 500 million pounds more gained through the
sale of insurance assets.  “The whole thing seems to completely turn the capital
hierarchy on end,” said Mark Taber, a private investor and
organizer for consumer bondholders whose website has had nearly
900 responses to his  campaign . The Co-Op needs to better explain
why bondholders must pay such a large slice of what’s needed by
the bank, he said.  A third bondholder committee comprising U.K. insurance
companies is being formed by the  Association of British
Insurers , according to the Financial Times, which reported the
story earlier. Officials at the ABI, Brown Rudnick, Aurelius and
Co-Op declined to comment.  Co-Op bank, which traces its roots to Britain’s 19th-century industrial north and has 4.7 million customers, last
week had its  credit rating  lowered four levels by Moody’s
Investors Service, a month after a six-step cut to junk.  Soured Loans  The bank’s capital has been depleted by soured consumer and
commercial real estate loans stemming from the purchase of
Britannia Building Society in 2009. Loan impairments more than
quadrupled to 468.7 million pounds in 2012, the company said in
March. The bank had a pretax loss of 673.7 million pounds in
2012 compared with a profit of 54.2 million pounds a year
earlier.  The lender needs to explain why the  Bank of England  now
expects it to have a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio above 9
percent by the end of 2013, rather than the earlier 7 percent
target set by global regulators, Taber said. Co-Op Bank’s core
Tier 1 capital ratio under the latest round of capital rules,
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and known as
Basel III, was 6.7 percent in January.  “Is it proportionate and right?” Taber said. “It goes
way beyond Basel III.”  Aurelius’s bond holder group is at an early stage and has
no firm negotiating plan yet, according to one of the people,
who asked not to be identified as the matter is private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  