-- Coal at Risk as Obama Seeks to Revive Emissions Progress
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-26T02:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/coal-at-risk-as-obama-seeks-to-revive-emissions-progress.html
In his first presidential term,
President  Barack Obama  presided over a sharp  decline  in U.S.
carbon pollution.  With the economy depressed, Americans drove less. Low
natural gas prices prompted utilities to shutter carbon-heavy
coal plants, and burn more gas for electricity. Solar and wind
installations soared.  This year, coal use and carbon emissions are up -- and
forecast to grow in the years ahead, putting in doubt Obama’s
2009 pledge to cut  greenhouse gases  17 percent by 2020. It’s
against that backdrop that he outlined yesterday a broad swath
of policies to curb the use of coal, improve the efficiency of
appliances and boost clean-energy investments.  “This plan begins with cutting carbon pollution by
changing the way we use energy -- using less dirty energy, using
more clean energy, wasting less energy throughout our economy,”
Obama said in a speech at  Georgetown University  in Washington.  Coal-related shares, such as  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and  Arch
Coal Inc. (ACI) , have fallen in recent days as word of Obama’s plans
leaked out. The Stowe Global Coal index of companies that
produce and sell coal, including Arch, fell to its lowest level
yesterday since the depths of the recent recession in March
2009. Some renewable energy companies, such as  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) ,
based in Tempe,  Arizona , rose.  The U.S. had been on a path to reaching Obama’s goal, with
emissions last year down more than 12 percent from the peak in
2007, the steepest drop since the oil crisis of the late 1970s.
Since 2006, no other country has cut its total carbon pollution
by as much as the U.S., according to Obama.  Steep Drop  The share of coal-fired electricity fell to 37 percent of
total generation last year, from 49 percent in 2007, while the
share of natural-gas generation hit 30 percent. Burning coal
produces twice the carbon-dioxide emissions as natural gas.  So far this year, coal’s share of energy production is up
to 40 percent, and natural gas is down to 26 percent as it price
has risen,  according  to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Emissions are now forecast to grow by 2.5
percent this year, and continue on a course of steady growth
through 2040.  It’s that projection that has environmentalists worried.
Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution have
led to a warming of the Earth’s temperature over the past 50
years, threatening to cause extreme forest fires, drought and
coastal flooding, according to the U.S. Global Change Research
Program.  Gore Blog  “We are already paying the price of carbon pollution,”
former vice president and global-warming activist  Al Gore  said
in a blog post. “It is clear that bold and comprehensive action
is needed now.”  To address the threat, Obama laid out a series of new steps
yesterday. He directed the Environmental Protection Agency to
cap carbon pollution from power plants. He said his
administration would negotiate efficiency measures for large
trucks, and pledged to cut energy use by appliances and federal
buildings. The Interior Department will boost clean-energy
installations on federal land, and government lenders will cut
support for overseas coal projects, he said. And he pledged to
expand efforts for nuclear-power generation.  The president also laid out a new standard for considering
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, which is now under
review by the State Department.  “Our national interest will be served only if this
pipeline does not significantly exacerbate the climate
problem,” he said, a statement cheered by environmental
advocates fighting the pipeline. “The net effects of climate
impact will be absolutely critical to determining whether this
project will go forward. It’s relevant.”  TransCanada Shares  As Obama was outlining his plans, TransCanada slid 2.5
percent in Toronto trading to a seven-month low of C$44.62
($42.41). The shares later rebounded to C$45.20, up 0.8 percent
from the previous day’s close.  Obama laid out a timeline for rules on  carbon emissions 
from power plants, a schedule that begins with a step back. The
EPA will first re-propose a rule it originally offered last year
that would preclude construction of new coal plants lacking
expensive carbon-capture technology.  Then, over the next three years, the EPA will propose and
implement rules for limiting carbon releases from existing
plants, which account for 40 percent of U.S. emissions.  “The important thing is to get a schedule for completing
this,” Dan Lashof, director of the climate program at the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an interview.  Southern Reacts  Any plan could hurt coal producers such as Peabody and
Arch, along with coal-reliant utilities such as  Southern Co. (SO) ,
American Electric Power Co. and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)   “Congress is best equipped to develop a national  energy
policy  that meets the needs of all sectors of our nation,
striking an appropriate balance to protect the environment and
ensure  energy security ,” Tim Leljedal, a spokesman for
Southern, one of the nation’s top coal-burners, said in an e-mail.  First Solar, the world’s largest maker of solar power-plants, and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  stand to gain from Obama’s pledge to
boost large-scale renewable installations on public land, said
 Sanjay Shrestha , a New York-based analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets.  First Solar  rose  7.8 percent to $44.48 at the close in New
York, the most in a month. SunPower, based in  San Jose ,
 California ,  climbed  5.7 percent to $18.91 yesterday.  “We’ve got to look after our children; we have to look
after our future; and we have to grow the economy and create
jobs,” Obama said. “We can do all of that as long as we don’t
fear the future; instead we seize it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  