-- Colruyt Soars as Gross Margin Pressure Abates: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-06-26T16:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/colruyt-soars-as-gross-margin-pressure-abates-brussels-mover.html
Colruyt NV (COLR) , Belgium’s biggest
discount food retailer, rose the most in a year in Brussels
trading after reporting earnings that  beat  analyst estimates
amid easing price competition and a tighter control on costs.  Colruyt gained 3.08 euros, or 8.3 percent, to 40.08 euros,
the largest advance since June 27 last year. Net income in the
12 months through March rose to 2.26 euros a share ($2.94) from
2.18 euros a year earlier. Analysts had projected profit of 2.25
euros a share, according to the average of 21  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Revenue growth outpacing sales gains at  Delhaize Group SA (DELB) 
and  Carrefour SA (CA)  in Belgium gives Halle, Belgium-based Colruyt
more clout in negotiations with suppliers and the food retailer
could pass on price increases to shoppers again in the six
months through March. Colruyt’s  gross margin  widened 15 basis
points, reversing a 67 basis-point contraction in the fiscal
first half. An increase in payroll expenses slowed to 6 percent
last year, in line with sales growth, and capital spending fell
17 percent, leaving  more cash  available for payouts.  “These are strong results given the market conditions with
a very price-conscious consumer,” Hans D’Haese, an analyst at
Bank Degroof in Brussels, wrote in an investor note. “Valuation
remains  relatively high , though, and the outlook blurred.”  The current fiscal year “is again expected to prove
challenging due to the general economic climate and a
persistently weak consumer climate,” Colruyt said in the
statement.  ‘More Benign’  Belgium ’s  consumer confidence  index averaged minus 19 in
the three months through June, well below the average reading of
minus 8.7 in the past 10 years. The Belgian economy will
stagnate this year after contracting 0.3 percent last year, the
central bank forecast on June 7.  While Delhaize Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Olivier Beckers said on May 8 that the competitive environment in
Belgium had become “more benign,” Delhaize also said June 13
that it gained 48 basis points of market share since April,
recouping a 43 basis-point loss in the January-March period.  Colruyt plans to raise its dividend 5.3 percent to 1 euro a
share, surpassing the 98 cents that was projected by Bloomberg
research and analysis. Its cash holdings had swollen to 503.9
million euros by the end of March, a 195.6 million-euro increase
from a year earlier, amid a decrease in  capital spending ,
reduced shares buybacks, lower inventories and an increase in
trade payables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  