-- Copper Heads for Biggest Monthly Drop Since May 2012
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-26T17:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/copper-heads-for-biggest-monthly-drop-since-may-2012.html
Copper futures fell, heading for the
biggest monthly drop in more than a year, amid concern that
policy makers will reduce monetary stimulus in the U.S., the
world’s second-biggest user of the metal.  The  Federal Reserve  said last week it may slow stimulus
this year if the economy continues to improve. U.S. durable-goods orders climbed, home sales advanced and  consumer
confidence  climbed, data showed yesterday. The dollar was poised
for the longest rally in 13 months against a basket of major
currencies, eroding the appeal of raw materials as alternative
investments. Aluminum, nickel, lead and zinc dropped in  London .  “The notion of reduced stimulus is putting pressure on
copper,” Matt Zeman, a strategist at Kingsview Financial in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “The big question is
how the economy will fare without the Fed’s help, and the
pressure will stay on as people scrutinize economic numbers.”  Copper futures for September delivery fell 1.2 percent to
settle at $3.0405 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
This month, the price has dropped 7.7 percent, the most since
May 2012.  Futures pared losses of as much as 1.8 percent today after
a report showing the  U.S. economy  expanded less than calculated
in the first quarter.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 0.9 percent to $6,735 a metric ton ($3.05 a pound).  This quarter, an LME  gauge  that includes copper, aluminum,
nickel, lead and zinc has tumbled 10 percent, the most since the
period ended Sept. 30, 2011.  Metals also fell amid concern that a cash squeeze in China,
the top user, will erode demand. The central bank said it will
use tools to safeguard stability in money markets, and tight
liquidity is set to ease.  Investors were disappointed that China didn’t cut  interest
rates  or take other measures relieve the cash pinch, Richard Fu,
director for Asian commodity trading at Newedge Group SA in
London, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  