-- Croatia Premier Touts Mild Keynesian Policy Amid EU Entry
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   B a l a z s   P e n z
-- 2013-06-27T14:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/croatia-premier-touts-mild-keynesian-policy-amid-eu-entry.html
Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has
shown that blindly following austerity prescriptions leads to
failure, said the premier of Croatia, the former Yugoslav
republic that joins the European Union on July 1.  “Austerity no, but a rational approach to the budget,”
Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic , 48, said yesterday in an
interview in his office in central Zagreb. “You can run some
constructive -- so to speak -- deficits, in a very mild,
constrained Keynesian way, but not too much.”  Croatia will become the EU’s 28th member next week as the
world’s largest trading bloc expands for the first time since
Bulgaria and  Romania  entered in 2007. The ex-communist nation is
seeking to end what threatens to be a five-year run without
 economic growth  as it joins a club radically altered by the
global financial crisis compared with when it started accession
talks in 2005.  Having gone without economic growth since 2008, the Balkan
country that emerged from the bloody breakup of  Yugoslavia  will
face immediate pressure to contain a widening  budget deficit .
The lack of expansion also curtails Milanovic’s room to narrow
the shortfall by cutting government jobs, which would further
depress domestic demand, he said.  ‘Under Pressure’  “We’re under pressure as the first government in Croatia’s
history to undertake some bold measures -- by Croatian standards
-- to downsize spending and explain to people there are no
entitlements for life,” said Milanovic, who’s been in office
since 2011. “I don’t believe in cuts, I believe in rational
restructuring. Massive layoffs also lead to a contraction in
consumption and that’s something you don’t need.”  The  budget deficit  will widen to 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product this year and to 5.6 percent in 2014 from 2.4
percent in 2012, the European Commission forecasts. The
government’s 2013 target is 3.4 percent. The economy will
contract 1 percent this year after a 2 percent decline in 2012,
according to the commission.  GDP will shrink 0.9 percent this year before growing 1.2
percent in 2014, according to central bank Governor Boris
Vujcic, who cut a December forecast for 2013 expansion of less
than 0.3 percent. Foreign direct investment is “particularly
important” as Croatia enters the EU and can help restart
economic growth, he told an economic conference in Vienna today.  Bob Dylan  Vujcic advocates euro adoption as soon as possible because
much of the economy is already based around the common currency,
making it difficult for the central bank to use the  exchange
rate  as a monetary-policy tool.  “I like to cite  Bob Dylan  here,” he said. “When you got
nothing, you got nothing to lose.”  The kuna traded 0.1 percent higher at 7.4543 per euro at
2:33 p.m. in Zagreb, its strongest since Oct. 2. It’s gained 1.9
percent this quarter, the fourth-best performance among about
170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the
government’s 2023 dollar bond fell to 5.954 percent from 6.030
percent yesterday.  The kuna exchange rate, blamed by some companies including
the exporter lobby group, Klub Izvoznika, for worsening their
competitiveness against European rivals, will “probably” stay
stable against the euro as there’s “no reason” for
appreciation after EU entry, Milanovic said.  While Milanovic said Croatia as a small open economy is
destined to eventually adopt the euro, he declined to give a
date for the changeover.  Euro Endgame  “It’s been said that our currency is too expensive, but
that is dubiously so,” Milanovic said. “If you are not
productive, not good, no currency fluctuation will help you. As
far as the euro is concerned, that should be the endgame.”
Setting a date “matters, but it’s not essential.”  Even without the euro, EU membership by itself may help
attract foreign direct investment by providing “psychological”
assurance that the country’s legal system offers enough
protection for businesses, according to Milanovic, who described
himself as a “social democrat, free marketer, libertarian.”  The government is also seeking to pass a new law on
strategic investments to help large-volume projects, he said.
That may also help lure buyers to state-owned companies such as
 Croatia Osiguranje d.d. , the nation’s largest insurer, and
 Hrvatska Postanska Banka d.d . The Cabinet wants to complete the
Osiguranje sale by year-end and has “good interest” in the
company, Milanovic said.  EU Funds  The nation is counting on as much as 10 billion euros ($13
billion) of EU funds through 2020 to help finance investment as
budget constraints prevent the government from stimulating
growth by public spending. The Cabinet plans to channel the
grants toward infrastructure and energy projects.  Croatia ’s ability to absorb those funds and to spend them
wisely will determine the country’s path after EU entry,
Milanovic said.  “There will be plenty of possibilities, a plethora of
possibilities, a new market, new chances,” Milanovic said.
“You might get them if you work hard, if you prepare well, but
you can also end up as a loser, as a net contributor, which
would be a curse, which would be the opposite of what we
intended. And I’m hell-bent on” success.  Milanovic said he intends to use some of those funds to
help diversify the economy further. The country of 4.2 million
people is focused on the services industry and tourism, which
take advantage of its 5,800 kilometers (3,600 miles) of coast
along the Adriatic, including more than 1,000 islands.  “Isn’t that enough?” Milanovic said when asked what the
country brings to the EU. “It brings rational people. A former
socialist country, which went through a very destructive war and
finally emerged as a stable democracy and market economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Balazs Penz in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  