-- Crown Estate Has Record Profit on $12.3 Billion Valuation
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-06-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/crown-estate-has-record-profit-on-12-3-billion-valuation.html
The  Crown Estate , the property
company that generates income for Queen Elizabeth II, reported
record annual earnings as the value of its real estate exceeded
8 billion pounds ($12.3 billion) for the first time.  Profit increased 5 percent to 252.6 million pounds for the
12 months ended March 31, the London-based company said in a
statement today. The value of the Crown Estate’s property assets
rose 7.2 percent to 8.1 billion pounds.  Crown Estate is focused on “moving the organization from a
more traditional landed estate into one of active asset
management,” Chief Executive Officer Alison Nimmo said by phone
yesterday. “One of a number of ways of doing that is through
joint ventures.”  The company completed the 100 million-pound redevelopment
of St. James’s Gateway this year in a joint venture with
Healthcare of Ontario Pension Plan. It was the second part of a
500 million-pound revival of the St. James’s area of  London ,
which vies with  Hong Kong  as the world’s most expensive office
market.  Crown Estate oversees real estate surrendered in 1760 by
the monarchy in exchange for annual payments. While the Crown
Estate is one of  Queen Elizabeth II ’s “hereditary
possessions,” she doesn’t own the company as private property.
The U.K. treasury collects its earnings and provides her with a
percentage.  The value of the company’s energy and infrastructure assets
rose 8.2 percent to 564 million pounds and delivered total
returns of 10.6 percent, according to the statement. The rural
and coastal portfolio increased in value by 3.2 percent to 1.4
billion pounds and delivered total returns of 13.3 percent.  As well as the Regent Street shops, the Crown Estate also
owns shopping centers, golf courses, Ascot racecourse, parks,
farms, and almost all the U.K.’s seabed, according to documents
posted on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 