-- Czech Central Bank Set to Debate Currency Role for Policy
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-06-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/czech-central-bank-set-to-debate-currency-role-for-policy.html
Czech central bankers are set to
prolong their debate on whether to ease monetary policy by
weakening the currency with  interest rates  at effectively zero
and inflation stuck below target.  The Ceska Narodni Banka will leave the  benchmark  interest
rate at what it calls a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent for a
fifth policy meeting today, according to all 21 analysts in a
Bloomberg  survey . It will announce the decision at 1 p.m. in
 Prague  and has scheduled a news conference for 2:30 p.m.  The bank is in uncharted territory after reducing rates
three times last year in reaction to a recession. The $217
billion  economy  shrank for six consecutive quarters through
March, its longest contraction on record. With households and
businesses curbing spending, the central bank began pondering in
2012 whether currency intervention is needed to help meet its 2
percent inflation target within 18 months.  “The initial state of the Czech economy, particularly
inflation being below the CNB’s forecast and the weaker outlook
for foreign demand, is likely to keep the CNB in a slightly
dovish mode,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Prague, said yesterday by e-mail.  After the bank exhausted room for interest-rate cuts, the
koruna assumed the central role in policy plans as its
depreciation helps boost competitiveness of exports and makes
imports more expensive, limiting deflation risks.  Downward Trajectory  The currency has lost 5.2 percent against the euro since
Sept. 17, the day before Governor Miroslav Singer first said
policy makers may sell the currency to meet their inflation
goal. It weakened 0.3 percent to 25.894 against the euro by 5:10
p.m. yesterday in Prague. The yield on the government’s 10-year
koruna bond fell 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
2.343 percent.  The seven-member board, which would need to approve the
first direct currency intervention in more than a decade, is
divided on how much action is needed.  “Now it seems much more likely that there will be a need
to intervene, compared with what it appeared to be at the
beginning of the year,” board member Lubomir Lizal said June 17
in an interview. The bank isn’t “behind the curve” on easing
monetary conditions as currency sales have a faster impact than
interest-rate cuts, he said.  Kamil Janacek, another board member, “so far” doesn’t see
reasons making an immediate intervention necessary, Reuters
reported June 13, citing an interview.  Three-Year Low  Consumer prices  grew 1.3 percent from a year earlier in
May, the slowest pace in almost three years as the cost of
natural gas fell and mobile-phone operators cut charges. That
compared with the central bank’s estimate of 1.6 percent.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 0.6 percent
in May, below the 1 percent to 3 percent target band, according
to the central bank.  While central banks across eastern  Europe  have been
trimming borrowing costs to help revive their economies,
indications that the U.S. Federal Reserve may wind down stimulus
have triggered a selloff in emerging-market assets and made some
policy makers warier to ease further.  Poland should avoid cutting rates in July as the risk of
weakening the zloty and sparking capital outflows outweighs any
economic benefit, central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak said June
21 in an interview. Hungarian policy makers pledged “increased
caution” after recent market turmoil even as they lowered their
main rate to a record low 4.25 percent June 25.  Household Rebound  The Czech  economy  contracted 2.2 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter. Even as the recession deepened,
the GDP data showed some signs of improvement as household
spending rebounded, according to Lizal.  While the need for further monetary policy easing is
probably higher than before the May 2 meeting, it’s not high
enough to make interventions the baseline forecast, according to
 Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague.  “The CNB will certainly discuss these, there may even be
voting on this as some doves, for instance Lizal, seemed to have
warmed up to this idea after the GDP and CPI data,” Lobotka
said in a June 24 note. “In the end, though, the outcome will
be as before -– we’re ready to intervene but not yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  