-- HD Supply Said to Join CDW in Cutting IPO Price Amid Stock Drop
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-26T16:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hd-supply-said-to-join-cdw-in-cutting-ipo-price-amid-stock-drop.html
HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS)  and CDW
Corp., which had sought a combined $1.97 billion in U.S. initial
public offerings this week, plan to sell stock for less after
markets tumbled, said people with knowledge of the matter.  HD Supply told prospective investors it’s offering shares
for $18 to $20, compared with an original range of $22 to $25,
said two people, who asked not to be named as the information
wasn’t public. CDW lowered its range to $17 to $18, compared
with an earlier range of $20 to $23, according to a regulatory
filing today. Both IPOs are scheduled to price today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The reductions for the companies, both controlled by
private-equity firms, coincide with a 3.9 percent  decline  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the past week through
yesterday. Until now, IPOs by many private-equity-backed
companies had priced at the top of proposed ranges this year,
bolstered by stocks at record highs last month.  “It feels like people have kind of taken a step back,”
 Tim Cunningham , who helps oversee $84 billion at Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s been a tough few weeks, sentiment
has turned down quite a bit and it’s definitely harder to bring
deals.”  CDW’s private-equity owners, Madison Dearborn Partners LLC
and Providence Equity Partners Inc., had planned to offer 4.65
million shares in the IPO and are no longer planning to do so,
filings show. CDW is still selling 23.3 million shares.  Original Terms  Representatives for Atlanta-based HD Supply and CDW, based
in Vernon Hills,  Illinois , didn’t return calls seeking comment.
Officials at Madison Dearborn and Providence declined to
comment.  CDW had originally planned to seek as much as $641.7
million selling 27.9 million shares on behalf of itself and
existing holders, regulatory filings show. Industrial-supplies
distributor HD Supply had sought as much as $1.33 billion
selling 53.2 million shares, filings show.  CDW’s IPO is being led by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays
Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., while HD Supply’s offering is
being managed by Bank of America Corp., Barclays, JPMorgan and
Credit Suisse Group AG.  HD Supply is owned by Carlyle Group LP, Bain Capital LLC
and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC. The company reduced its  price
range  after investors raised concerns over the company’s debt
level, one person familiar with the matter said. Buyers are
concerned that rising interest rates could drag down the growth
rate for HD Supply’s business, making it harder for the company
to repay debt, the person said.  HD Supply Debt  The midpoint of HD Supply’s original price range would have
generated $1.16 billion of net proceeds to the company, which it
planned to use to reduce long-term debt to $5.6 billion, filings
show. That level still would have exceeded a $4.3 billion
valuation for the company’s outstanding stock, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Private-equity-backed companies including  Quintiles
Transnational Holdings Inc. (Q)  and Pinnacle Foods Inc. priced their
IPOs at the top of proposed price ranges earlier this year. Both
stocks have risen since those initial public offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  