-- HD Supply Said to Join CDW in Paring IPO Amid Stock Declines
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-26T20:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hd-supply-said-to-reduce-price-on-ipo-after-stock-market-slump.html
HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS)  and CDW
Corp., which had sought a combined $1.97 billion in U.S. initial
public offerings this week, plan to sell stock for less after
markets tumbled, said people with knowledge of the matter.  HD Supply told prospective investors it’s offering shares
for $18 to $20, compared with an original range of $22 to $25,
said two people, who asked not to be named because the
information isn’t public. CDW lowered its range to $17 to $18
from an earlier range of $20 to $23, according to a regulatory
filing. Both IPOs are scheduled to price today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The companies scaled back their offerings after U.S. stocks
 declined  3.9 percent in the week through yesterday as investors
anticipated U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will
wind down stimulus measures. At least 81 companies have
completed U.S. IPOs this year, compared with 70 in the year-earlier period, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed to a record last month.  “It feels like people have kind of taken a step back,”
Tim Cunningham, who helps oversee $84 billion at Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. in Santa Fe, New Mexico, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s been a tough few weeks, sentiment
has turned down quite a bit and it’s definitely harder to bring
deals.”  Valuation Concern  HD Supply reduced its price range after investors raised
concerns over the company’s debt level, one of the people
familiar with the matter said. Buyers are concerned that rising
interest rates could drag down the growth rate for HD Supply’s
business, making it harder for the company to repay debt, the
person said.  The midpoint of HD Supply’s original price range would have
generated $1.16 billion of net proceeds to the company, which it
planned to use to reduce long-term debt to $5.6 billion, filings
show. That level still would have exceeded a $4.3 billion
valuation for the company’s outstanding stock, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  HD Supply’s current owners Carlyle Group LP, Bain Capital
LLC and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC bought the company from Home
Depot Inc. in the midst of the housing crash, at the tail end of
history’s biggest buyout boom. That acquisition, initially
valued at $10.3 billion including debt when it was announced in
June 2008, was scaled back to $8.5 billion by the time it was
completed two months later.  HD Supply Buyout  The onset of the worst housing slump since the Great
Depression almost derailed the HD Supply buyout as lenders
balked at financing the takeover amid tightening credit markets,
people familiar said at the time.  At $20 a share, the top of the new range, HD Supply’s
private-equity backers will just break even on their original
equity investment. Investors in the buyout paid an average of
$19.99 a share for their stake, company filings show.  The housing slump ate into profit at HD Supply, whose
adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization tumbled from $964 million in the year before the
buyout to $343 million in the fiscal year ended January 31,
2010. The earnings measure, adjusted to reflect costs of
extinguishing debt and stock-based compensation, has since
increased to $714 million in the 12 months through May 5,
filings show.  Debt Investment  Apart from their equity investments, Bain, Carlyle and
Clayton Dubilier & Rice amassed stakes in HD Supply’s bonds
during their ownership, when the company’s earnings ebbed.
The value of that debt has increased. In a 2011 letter to
investors that Bloomberg obtained, Carlyle marked the value of
its HD Supply debt investment at almost twice its cost.  Representatives for Atlanta-based HD Supply didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  CDW’s private-equity owners, Madison Dearborn Partners LLC
and Providence Equity Partners Inc., had planned to offer 4.65
million shares in the IPO and are no longer planning to do so,
filings show. CDW is still selling 23.3 million shares.  Representatives for CDW, based in Vernon Hills,  Illinois ,
didn’t return calls seeking comment. Officials at Madison
Dearborn and Providence declined to comment.  CDW had originally planned to seek as much as $641.7
million selling 27.9 million shares on behalf of itself and
existing holders, regulatory filings show. Industrial-supplies
distributor HD Supply had sought as much as $1.33 billion
selling 53.2 million shares, filings show.  2007 Buyout  CDW’s IPO is being led by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays
Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., while HD Supply’s offering is
being managed by Bank of America Corp., Barclays, JPMorgan and
Credit Suisse Group AG.  CDW was purchased in October 2007 in a transaction valuing
the company at $7.28 billion including debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The midpoint of the lowered price range values
the company at about $6.2 billion including debt, after a
reduction in borrowings using IPO proceeds, the data show.  Private-equity-backed companies including  Quintiles
Transnational Holdings Inc. (Q)  and Pinnacle Foods Inc. priced their
IPOs at the top of proposed price ranges earlier this year. Both
stocks have risen since their debuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  