-- Delta Fined for Bumping Fliers Before Seeking Volunteers
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-26T21:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/delta-fined-for-bumping-fliers-before-seeking-volunteers.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  bumped
passengers from oversold flights without compensating them or
seeking volunteers, U.S. regulators said in fining the airline
for the second time in four years over the issue.  The penalty was $750,000, the Department of Transportation
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Airline passengers deserve to be treated fairly,
especially if they are forced to miss a flight because an
airline oversold seats,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in the statement.  Anthony Black, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta, said
the violations cited by the Transportation Department “are an
isolated situation, which represent a tiny fraction of the
passengers that we handle.”  Delta’s fine today follows one of $375,000 in July 2009 for
similar infractions.  If an airline has sold more seats on a flight than are
available, U.S. rules require that it seek volunteers willing to
wait for another flight before removing, or “bumping,”
passengers. Passengers who are bumped are entitled to as much as
$1,300 in compensation.  Delta classified some passengers it bumped as having
willingly given up their seats, which undercut their right to
compensation, according to a consent order.  ‘Numerous Instances’  DOT investigators found “numerous instances” of
violations in a review of 310 customer complaints at Delta’s
headquarters, according to the order.  While the order doesn’t contain specifics, DOT is aware of
cases in which bumped passengers weren’t offered the cash
compensation required, Bill Mosley, a department spokesman, said
in an interview.  “The Enforcement Office views the violations uncovered
during its compliance review as indicative of a wide-spread
practice of noncompliance by Delta that warrants enforcement
action and must be rectified,” the agency said in the order.  Delta told the department the customer complaints that led
to the fine were sometimes ambiguous or incorrect. Any
violations “reflected an isolated violation of Delta policy and
training, not a systemic practice on Delta’s part,” Delta told
the agency, according to the order.  Delta had the fifth-lowest incidence of bumping passengers
out of 16 airlines that reported data during the first quarter
this year, according to the DOT. It ranked better than  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and AMR
Corp.’s American Airlines Inc..  Delta denied boarding to 1,277 people during that span, out
of a total of more than 24 million passengers, according to the
agency.  Tablet Computers  Delta will be allowed to spend as much as $425,000 of the
fine on improving how it complies with the regulations governing
bumped passengers.  The airline agreed to purchase tablet computers to allow
Delta gate agents to better keep track of passengers who were
denied boarding.  “We’ve invested a considerable amount in technology that
is designed to improve how we handle oversold flights,” Black
said.  The technology will help Delta rebook passengers while not
necessarily addressing the root cause of bumping, said George Hamlin, president of Fairfax, Virginia-based Hamlin
Transportation Consulting.  “If this persists they would need to address the level to
which they overbook,” Hamlin said in an interview. “Since many
travelers are using nonrefundable fares, I would think there is
less of a no-show problem now than there used to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  