-- Dimon Joins Goldman Sachs Praising Court on Gay Marriage
-- B y   E r i k a   W a d d e l l   a n d   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-06-26T17:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/dimon-joins-goldman-sachs-praising-supreme-court-on-gay-marriage.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. praised the U.S. Supreme Court after a ruling
today that struck down a federal law that denies benefits to
same-sex married couples.  “This is good for our company and clients, but more
importantly, it’s the right thing to do,” JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said in a statement from the New
York-based bank, the largest in the U.S. by assets. “The rights
of all people are important and must be protected.”  The court overturned by a 5-4 majority the U.S. Defense of
Marriage Act, rejecting many of the justifications for treating
same-sex and heterosexual couples differently. The court also
reinstated a judge’s order allowing gay marriages in  California ,
the nation’s largest state by population.  Some of the biggest financial firms have criticized
prohibitions of same-sex marriage, saying the measures could
make it harder to recruit staff. Insurer Chubb Corp., which
highlights the benefits it offers to domestic partners, said in
2011 that DOMA “imposes burdens” on businesses.  “Marriage equality lowers burdens and challenges imposed
on employers, and will lead to building successful businesses
and a strong American economy,” New York-based Goldman Sachs
said in an e-mailed statement. “We strongly support the Supreme
Court’s affirmation today of marriage equality.”  The ruling could simplify administrative duties for
employers in states like New York where gay marriage is legal,
said J.D. Piro, national practice leader for the health-and-benefits legal practice at  Aon Plc (AON) ’s Aon Hewitt consulting
business.  Joint Returns  “Now, according to the decision, you look at the state
law’s definition of what is a marriage, and who is a spouse, and
interpret the federal law that way,” Piro said in a phone
interview. “So in New York, for example, whereas previously you
had to file separate federal income tax returns but a joint New
York state income tax return, now you’d be able to file a joint
federal return.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable technology company,
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, also
welcomed the court’s decision.  “Apple strongly supports marriage equality,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for the Cupertino, California-based
company, said in an e-mail. “We consider it a civil rights
issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erika Waddell in New York at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  