-- Dish Withdraws Offer for Clearwire After Sprint Trumps Its Bid
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/dish-withdraws-offer-for-clearwire-after-sprint-trumps-its-bid.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the satellite-TV
company controlled by billionaire  Charlie Ergen , abandoned its
tender offer for  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , conceding a bidding war to
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Dish pulled the $4.40-a-share proposal after Clearwire
withdrew its support for the deal, according to a statement
yesterday. Clearwire’s board backed Sprint’s $5-a-share bid last
week and scheduled a vote on the offer for July 8.  The move ends a takeover fight that drove up bids for
Clearwire by almost 70 percent since late last year, from
Sprint’s Dec. 17 offer of $2.97. Dish, aiming to expand into the
wireless market, first counterbid in January, kicking off five
months of dueling offers.  “After Sprint made its $5 offer, it was able to grab the
significant shareholders and made it very difficult for Ergen to
get the control he desired,” Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG
LLC in  New York , said in an interview. “This probably sends the
message that another tender isn’t happening.”  Clearwire fell 1.8 percent to $5 in late trading after the
announcement. The shares had gained 76 percent this year through
yesterday’s close, buoyed by the bidding war.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment on his company’s next steps. Mike DiGioia, a
spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire, also
declined to comment.  Existing Ownership  With Dish out of the picture, Sprint stands to acquire the
approximately 50 percent of Clearwire that it doesn’t already
own. Sprint’s sweetened offer of $5 a share values the business
at about $14 billion.  Sprint secured the support of investors Mount Kellett
Capital Management LP, Glenview Capital Management LLC,
Chesapeake Partners Management Co. and Highside Capital
Management LP with its $5 per share offer. The shareholders
agreed to sell their stock to Sprint even if the transaction
didn’t close, hindering Dish’s ability to counter.  Dish’s decision to move away from Clearwire comes days
after the company’s abandonment of its $25.5 billion tender
offer for Sprint last week. The satellite provider may turn its
attention to  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  if it still intends to enter the
U.S. wireless industry, according to Stifel Financial Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  