-- Yen Weakens on Outlook for Fed to Maintain Stimulus; Pound Drops
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-27T21:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/dollar-index-holds-longest-winning-streak-in-a-year-on-economy.html
The yen fell against all 16 of its
major peers as Federal Reserve officials’ statements that the
economic recovery isn’t strong enough to start tapering bond-buying boosted speculation that  Japan ’s currency will be more
responsive to the country’s own stimulus efforts.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index pared a loss versus the
greenback after  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said
the central bank may prolong its asset-purchase program if the
economy’s performance fails to meet the Fed’s forecasts. The
euro gained earlier against the dollar as  economic confidence  in
the countries that share the currency improved more than
economists predicted. The pound dropped as disposable income
plunged in the  first quarter  by the most in 25 years.  “The rebound we’ve seen in risk sentiment has reduced
demand for yen safety,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst at
Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co.,
said by phone from  Washington . “The case for the Fed to dial
down on stimulus isn’t as air-tight as investors thought it was
a few days ago.”  The yen dropped 0.6 percent to 98.35 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time. It fell 0.8 percent to 128.23 per euro. The 17-nation currency added 0.2 percent to $1.3038 after falling
yesterday to the weakest since June 3.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which represents 10 major
currencies weighted by liquidity and trade flows, fell 0.1
percent to 1,036.05 after declining as much as 0.3 percent.  Market Rankings  The yen has gained 2.1 percent to the greenback this month,
while  Australia ’s dollar has declined 3.1 percent. This quarter,
the euro has led all major gainers with a 1.7 percent increase,
while the worst-performing Aussie has slipped 11 percent. The
greenback is the best-performing currency in 2013 and  South
Africa ’s rand has plunged 15 percent.  The rand gained for the first time in three days as
foreigners  purchased  more South African bonds than they sold,
according to data from the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange . The
currency increased 1.6 percent to 9.9443 per dollar.  India ’s rupee advanced the most in two weeks, rebounding
from a record low, after a report showed the nation’s current-account deficit narrowed last quarter. It appreciated 0.9
percent to 60.20 per dollar, after rising as much as 1 percent,
the biggest increase since June 12.  Sluggish Growth  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said earlier that Fed tapering may not be “around the
corner.”  “You’ve had a consistent discussion from many world
leaders that Fed tapering is not around the corner, and the Fed
wants to get that message out as well,” Douglas Borthwick, a
managing director and head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The last couple of
days have given position takers time for the dust to clear and
figure out that the yen will weaken going forward.”  The  Bank of Japan  is buying more than 7 trillion yen ($71
billion) of bonds a month with hopes of achieving an inflation
rate of 2 percent, which yen bears point to as underpinning more
weakness.  The euro rallied from a three-week low as the European
Commission in Brussels said an index of executive and consumer
sentiment rose to 91.3 from 89.5 in May. Economists had forecast
a reading of 90.4 for June, based on the median of 32 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Powerful’ Strengthening  The broad rally in the dollar will extend as the  U.S.
economy  continues to recover, according to BlackRock Inc.’s
 Peter Fisher .  “The dollar strengthening looks to be pretty powerful,”
Fisher, senior managing director of BlackRock’s Global Executive
Committee and a senior director at the BlackRock Investment
Institute, said in a television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “The U.S. economy
is recovering.”  The pound dropped to a three-week low versus the dollar as
data revisions showed U.K. gross domestic product shrank more
than previously estimated from its peak in 2008 to the depths of
the recession.  Real household disposable incomes fell 1.7 percent from the
previous three months, the most since 1987, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in  London  today.  Gross domestic product 
rose 0.3 percent in the first quarter of this year, matching a
previous estimate, the statistics office said.  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5259 after sliding to the
lowest level since June 3.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $27.5 billion, compared with $38.8 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $6 billion, the largest
share of trades at 22 percent. Dollar-yuan options were the
second most actively traded, at $5.5 billion, or 20 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 44 percent below the average
for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options trading was
16 percent above average.  Volatility in currencies surged since the Fed signaled last
week it may start reducing stimulus this year. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index , based on currency-option
premiums, reached 11.43 percent after rising to 11.96 percent on
June 24, the highest since January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  