-- ECB Policy Makers Say Accommodative Monetary Policy to Stay
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r ,   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-26T16:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/draghi-says-deficit-cuts-in-euro-area-should-be-growth-friendly.html
European Central Bank policy makers
including President  Mario Draghi  said they’ll maintain a loose
monetary stance for as long as needed, while urging euro area
governments to cut their deficits and boost investment.  The ECB’s monetary policy “will stay accommodative for the
foreseeable future,” Draghi said today in a speech at the
French National Assembly in Paris. “We have an open mind about
all other possible instruments that we may consider proper to
adopt.” An exit is “very distant,” he said at a press
conference.  Financial markets have tumbled amid concern monetary
stimulus will be withdrawn since U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that policy makers may start
slowing the pace of bond buying later this year and end it in
2014. Draghi’s position was reiterated in later speeches by ECB
Executive Board members Joerg Asmussen and  Yves Mersch , and
Governing Council member  Christian Noyer . Central bankers from
the  Bank of England  to the Fed yesterday said they are still a
long way off from tightening.  Global stocks rose for a second day today and bonds rallied
while commodities dropped. The euro slid for a sixth day,
declining as much as 0.7 percent to $1.2985, the weakest
intraday level since June 3. The currency was at $1.2999 at 6:11
p.m. in Frankfurt.  Expansionary Policy  “It is clearly too early to exit now,” Asmussen said at a
separate event in Paris. “Inflation expectations are very well
anchored. In this situation, our monetary policy is expansionary
and will remain expansionary for as long as needed.”  “The ECB’s Governing Council has stressed that  monetary
policy  will remain accommodative for as long as necessary,”
Noyer said at the same event. “In the period ahead, we will
monitor very closely all incoming information on economic and
monetary developments and stand ready to act if necessary.”  “We’ll continue with our accommodative monetary policy,
which means there will be no exit in the foreseeable future,”
Mersch said in the French capital. The ECB’s main contribution
now is “to remain predictable,” he said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  to
a record-low 0.5 percent in May after a six quarters of
 contraction  in the 17-nation currency bloc. At the same time,
euro-area members including France, Spain and  Italy  have been
granted more time by euro-area governments to bring their budget
deficits into line with the region’s rules. As they do so, they
should take care not to hinder their economies in the longer
term, Draghi said today.  Long-Term Growth  Countries should “ensure that fiscal consolidation, which
is necessary to contain debt levels, is made as growth-friendly
as possible,” he said. “Relying less on tax increases would
help sustain citizens’ disposable income. Prioritizing  capital
investment  over current spending would do more to lay the
foundations for future growth.”  Draghi said that the ECB’s primary mandate to ensure  price
stability  doesn’t prevent it from taking action to spur economic
growth.  “It never stood between working for growth,” he said.
“It’s never been an obstacle. The stance here is to go back to
the base scenario, persevere with the monetary policy stance
that we have, wait for this return of confidence to find its way
into the economy.”  Still, Draghi said governments must act to reduce
unemployment and maintain social models without creating an
unsustainable debt burden for future generations. The euro-area
jobless rate rose to a record 12.2 percent in April, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said May 31.  “It is important to acknowledge that there are limits to
what monetary policy can achieve,” Draghi said. “Monetary
policy cannot create real economic growth. If growth is stalling
because the economy is not producing enough or because firms
have lost competitiveness, this is beyond the power of the
central bank to fix.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  