-- Tear Gas Fired Outside Brazil Match as Protests Reignite
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s ,   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-06-26T23:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/tear-gas-fired-outside-brazil-match-as-protests-reignite.html
As protests turned violent near a
stadium where  Brazil ’s national team was playing arch-rival
Uruguay, legislators kept up a lawmaking spurt aimed at quelling
the biggest street demonstrations in two decades by stiffening
the legal penalty for corruption.  Images on Globo TV showed dark smoke from a car dealership
set on fire mixing with light-gray tear gas as police clashed
with protesters outside the Mineirao stadium in Belo Horizonte,
Brazil’s third-largest urban area, marring an initially peaceful
march Globo estimated at 50,000-strong. In both Brasilia at
least 4,000 gathered without violence.  Demonstrations that began three weeks ago against an
increase in bus fares have since given voice to discontent over
government corruption. Senate leader Renan Calheiros, after
suspending a recess to tackle a legislative agenda put forth by
President Dilma Rousseff, said today that the upper house of
Congress had passed a bill to toughen the punishment for
government corruption, putting the crime in the same category as
rape and murder.  “There are a lot of banners being waved in this movement,
but none higher than the fight against corruption,” Henrique
Ziller, a 54-year-old auditor for a body that supervises
government spending, said while protesting in Brasilia. “We
have money but it’s diverted. It goes to corruption.”  Oil Royalties  The lower house last night passed a bill earmarking oil
royalties for education and health, two other rallying cries for
protesters feeling pinched by rising consumer prices.  While 40 million people emerged from poverty over the past
decade,  accelerating inflation  and slow growth have pushed
Rousseff’s approval rating down eight percentage points since
March.  Brazil’s currency has weakened 6.2 percent this year,
helping lead the Ibovespa stock benchmark to a 28 percent slump
in dollar terms, the second-worst performance among 94 major
indexes.  Calheiros, himself a target in anti-corruption protests,
yesterday declared his support for Rousseff’s promise to crack
down on graft while improving health care and education.  The Senate’s bill making corruption a so-called heinous
crime, which now goes to the lower house, would double the jail
term for those convicted to a minimum of four years.  Late-Night  In a late-night session yesterday, the lower house also
voted 430-9 to scrap a proposal that protesters said would have
limited public prosecutors’ power to investigate corruption.
Signs at recent protests had called on Congress to strike down
the constitutional amendment No. 37, as it was known.  Other proposals spawned by the protests that are being
debated include a bill to eliminate bus fares for students and a
constitutional amendment ending the use of secret ballots in
disciplinary votes against fellow lawmakers.  Rousseff had to partially backtrack on her biggest
political gamble, a plebiscite to win support for rewriting part
of the constitution to restructure the political system, amid
claims by the opposition and jurists that such a move is illegal
and unnecessary.  Instead, the government will ask voters to endorse specific
actions based on government consultations with activists, unions
and political parties, Education Minister Aloizio Mercadante
said today. Those could include longstanding proposals to
toughen campaign financing laws and a move away from the current
voting system based on party lists toward a U.S.-styled one
based on electoral districts. The government will send the
request for a plebiscite to Congress by July 2, said Jose Ramos,
a presidential spokesman.  Setback  Rousseff also suffered a setback with the lower house’s
approval of a bill earmarking oil royalties for education, which
modified her goal of funneling 100 percent of that revenue to
schools. Instead, 75 percent will go to education and the
remainder to improving health care. The bill now goes to the
Senate.  “We need to include the people in the debate over
reforms,” Supreme Court Chief Justice Joaquim Barbosa, the
nation’s first black chief justice, said yesterday after a
meeting with Rousseff, in which he endorsed the president’s call
to make politicians more accountable. “Brazil is tired of
reforms by the elites.”  In a Datafolha poll among protesters in Sao Paulo, 30
percent of those interviewed said they would vote for Barbosa in
next year’s presidential election compared to 10 percent for
Rousseff. Barbosa said yesterday he was “flattered” by the
support though has no desire to run for the post.  Belo Horizonte  In Belo Horizonte, the capital of Minas Gerais state,
authorities declared a public holiday and deployed 5,000 extra
security personnel ahead of today’s game. The smell of tear gas
briefly wafted into the stadium during the match, where Brazil
scored a goal in the final minutes to beat Uruguay 2-1. Clashes
continued as night fell, with protesters wearing their shirts as
masks and setting fire to police barricades.  FIFA chief Sepp Blatter attended today’s match after
surprising Brazilian officials by leaving the country when
protests erupted early into the Cup. Blatter said the
demonstrations are “Brazil’s internal social problems, not
soccer’s,” Estado de S. Paulo newspaper reported. Today’s clash
was the second in five days, with tear gas also fired during the
Mexico-Japan match on June 22, when more than 10,000 marched.  ‘Demonstrations Cup’  Crowds of protesters have gathered outside stadiums since
the start 11 days ago of what they’ve taken to calling the
“Demonstrations Cup.” The largest protests came on June 20,
when more than 1 million took to the streets across Brazil, with
police firing rubber bullets and tear gas. Four people have
died.  Sport was also on the minds today of protesters in Brasilia
in the form of 594 soccer balls -- one for each lawmaker --
lined up in front of Congress to push for reforms.      Police
had expected 50,000 in Brasilia, where last week protesters
tried to set fire to the Foreign Ministry building. Instead, a
loose crowd of more than 1,000 gathered to kick the soccer balls
into fountains surrounding the Congress building. Vendors sold
popcorn and chocolate as scattered youths walked around with
trash bags picking up litter.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega, in his first public remarks
since last week’s unrest, downplayed the threat posed by the
protesters, whose demands for a better quality of life he said
are legitimate.  ‘Every Week’  “In Brasilia we’re used to street movements, every week
there’s thousands of demonstrators on one issue or another,” he
said in congressional testimony today. “I didn’t see anyone in
the street talking about the economy being out of control.”  Meanwhile, protesters are digging in for a long fight.  “We can’t stop now, we won’t stop,” said Carla Zambelli,
the 32-year-old founder of Nas Ruas, an anti-corruption group
planning a demonstration tomorrow in the northeastern city of
 Salvador . “The people showed that the main issues are
corruption and miserable public services. Either the politicians
stop stealing from us, or we’ll shut down Brazil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  