-- Technology Spending Showing First Signs of a Recovery, EMC Says
-- B y   S a m   C h a m b e r s
-- 2013-06-26T11:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/technology-spending-showing-first-signs-of-a-recovery-emc-says.html
EMC Corp. (EMC) , the company analysts rank
higher than any other technology stock in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, is seeing early signs of recovery in information
technology spending, Chief Financial Officer David Goulden said
during a visit to  London  this month.  The uptick isn’t concentrated in any one area, though
Goulden said EMC has seen interest in new applications built for
cloud technology, mobile devices or the storage and
interpretation of the increasing volume of data that companies
collect, otherwise known as big data.  “Progressive companies are looking at how they can
leverage these new platforms to change the way they do
business,” he said. “Although no one is declaring a complete
global recovery,” Goulden said, the “early signs of a pickup”
are positive after EMC reported two years of slowing sales
growth.  Shares of EMC, the world’s biggest maker of storage
computers, have underperformed this year as companies and
governments curb storage-computer purchases amid a weak economic
outlook. EMC, which expects the global IT industry to grow 3
percent a year through 2016, can boost sales at almost triple
that rate just by maintaining market share, Goulden said. That
assumes growth in big data, a segment that research firm  IDC
said  could grow 40 percent annually to 2015.  EMC is seeking to capitalize on demand for apps aimed at
big data through Pivotal, its joint venture with virtualization
software maker  VMware Inc. (VMW)  -- which is majority-owned by EMC --
and plans to invest about $400 million into it before taking it
public.  Cross Selling  “I’m confident Pivotal can open up cross-selling
opportunities for us and drive new areas of growth,” Goulden
said. Additional investors would be welcome, if they were a good
fit, he added.  There’s no firm timing for taking Pivotal public, Goulden
said -- uncertainty which may be putting off investors.  The venture “has a lot of promise, but it won’t deliver in
the short term,” Bill Choi, an analyst with Janney Montgomery
Scott, said in a phone interview. “We won’t even be able to
begin assessing its success until sometime next year and that’s
not in everyone’s investable time frame.”  EMC isn’t planning to do “anything big” in acquisitions
with its $5.5 billion debt sale, secured this month, Goulden
said. Historically EMC has preferred smaller targets that can be
quickly merged into existing operations, and Goulden said such
deals bulk up its smaller research and development budget -- 12
percent of revenue compared with a 14 percent average of other
S&P 500 tech companies last year.  R&D Spending  Goulden said EMC spends “around 10 percent of revenue on
acquisitions and think of that as additional R&D spend.” That
brings such investment to more than $4 billion a year, he said.  For acquisitions, EMC will look to the data-security
market, which accounted for just 4.3 percent of its  first-quarter revenue , to counter the growing threat posed by devices
like smartphones. IDC forecasts global sales of identity-protection products will surge to $6.43 billion by 2016, from
$4.51 billion last year.  The nature of security threats may mean this proves a
difficult task, Choi said.  “Security threats are ever changing and there isn’t one
solution that can address all concerns,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Chambers in London at 
 schambers7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  