-- Telefonica Mexico to Triple Its Share of Industry’s Revenue
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2013-06-26T17:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/telefonica-mexico-aims-to-triple-its-share-of-industry-s-revenue.html
Telefonica SA’s Mexican unit , the
nation’s second-largest phone company, wants to triple its share
of the industry’s wireless revenue, in part by selling more
smartphones and Wi-Fi services and targeting small businesses.  The company, which began operating in  Mexico  in 2001,
currently accounts for 12 percent of the wireless market’s
revenue, leaving plenty of room for growth, said Francisco Gil Diaz, president of Telefonica Mexico.  “That’s an extremely low share,” he said in an interview
yesterday in New York. “We have to increase that share to at
least 30 percent in the next few years.”  The move would escalate competition with America Movil SAB,
the phone company controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . America
Movil accounts for about 70 percent of mobile-phone subscribers,
leaving Telefonica Mexico with about 20 percent -- though
legislation passed this month that may rein in Slim’s dominance.
On a revenue basis, the disparity is even greater, putting
pressure on Telefonica to wring more money from customers.  One way to do that is by selling more smartphones, which
encourage customers to use more data by downloading apps,
surfing the Web and watching videos. Telefonica Mexico also is
bringing Wi-Fi services to buildings in big cities.  “We have to increase presence in revenue and that means
increasing our share of smartphones and data offerings,” Gil
Diaz said. “That’s where the market is going and that’s where
the revenue is.”  ‘Greatest Opportunity’  Telefonica Mexico, which at the end of March had 20.5
million landline, wireless and data subscribers, sees small and
mid-size businesses as “perhaps the greatest opportunity,” Gil
Diaz said.  The market has been “controlled by the incumbent,” he
said, alluding to  America Movil .  Since it began operations, Telefonica Mexico has invested
$13 billion to expand coverage of its wireless network in the
country, Latin America’s second-biggest economy, Gil Diaz said.  Mexico’s new telecommunications and media law, which was
signed on June 10, will bring additional opportunities, he said.
It strengthens regulation of phone and broadcasting industries
and encourages outside investment in the market to boost
competition.  The legislation is “truly a historic change that will
alter forever the way the telecom sector in Mexico functions,”
Gil Diaz said. “It will do better for the competitors and more
important for the consumers.”  Regulatory Shift  Still, the changes probably won’t prod Telefonica Mexico
into making any big acquisitions or asset sales, Gil Diaz said.
The company has all the infrastructure it needs to expand its
market share in Mexico, he said.  “As far as Mexico is concerned, we are not selling or
buying anything right now,” he said.  Latin America  represented  51 percent  of Telefonica’s 14.1
billion euros ($18.4 billion) in revenue in the first quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil  this year became
the  biggest  single market for Madrid-based Telefonica, the
parent company of Sao Paulo-based Telefonica Brasil SA.  “With higher growth rates and low penetration versus other
Latam countries, Mexican mobile industry has potential upside in
the following years,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts Nur Cristiani and Gabriel Lozano said in an April report about the
outlook for the nation’s main economic sectors.  Telefonica  shares  rose 2.8 percent to 9.94 euros today in
 Madrid , the biggest one-day increase since April 10, and have
declined 2.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in  New York  at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  