-- Emerging Markets FDI Inflows Top Advanced Nations for First Time
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-06-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/emerging-markets-fdi-inflows-top-advanced-nations-for-first-time.html
Foreign direct investment into
emerging economies surpassed that into developed markets for the
first time last year even as such inflows slowed globally, the
 United Nations  said.  Developing countries received 52 percent of investors’
funds in 2012, compared with 45 percent the year before, the
 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development  said in a
report today. Foreign direct investment globally fell 18 percent
to $1.35 trillion last year, and is forecast to be around the
same level in 2013, it said. The agency  defines  FDI as a lasting
interest in an enterprise in a foreign economy.  The shift to emerging nations reflected companies turning
their focus last year to faster-growing regions as advanced
countries struggled, with  Europe  and  Japan  suffering recessions.
At the same time, the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus
from later in 2013 is adding to the challenge of sustaining the
faster pace of expansion in developing economies.  “FDI flows to developing economies proved to be much more
resilient than flows to developed countries,” UNCTAD said in
its World Investment Report 2013. “Uncertainty created by the
continuing euro zone crisis, the prospect of political
transition in a number of major countries and a slowdown in the
commodities boom were among key factors contributing to subdued
FDI in 2012” for developed countries, it said.  Investments into advanced economies slid 32 percent to $561
billion, the lowest in almost a decade, while those into
emerging nations dropped 4 percent to $703 billion, according to
the report. Developed economies also invested less overseas as
outflows fell 23 percent to $909 billion, while those by
emerging countries rose 1 percent to $426 billion.  Investment Recovery  “Recovery to more vigorous investment levels will take
longer than expected, mostly because of global economy fragility
and political uncertainty,” UNCTAD said, adding total foreign
direct investment may reach $1.45 trillion this year and rise to
$1.6 trillion in 2014.  China  became the world’s third-largest investor last year
after the U.S. and Japan, climbing three steps from 2011, UNCTAD
said.  “Despite the global downturn, transnational corporations
from  developing countries  continued their expansion abroad,”
the report said. “The BRICS countries --  Brazil , the Russian
Federation,  India , China and  South Africa  -- continued to be the
leading sources of FDI among emerging investor countries.”  The  World Bank  this month cut its global growth forecast
for this year as budget cuts deepened Europe’s contraction. FDI
into Europe plunged 42 percent last year while that into the U.S.
fell 26 percent, according to UNCTAD.  Inflows into China fell about 2 percent to $121 billion in
2012, the report said. There is “strong downward pressure” on
foreign investment into China in manufacturing amid rising
production costs, weaker export markets and foreign companies
moving to lower-income countries, it said.  Four of the top five recipients of funds are  listed  as
developing economies by the UN. They are China,  Hong Kong ,
Brazil and the British Virgin Islands, which received $65
billion last year.  The British Virgin Islands attracts investments because
it’s a tax haven and transit destination before money is moved
to its “real destination,” according to Nagesh Kumar, chief
economist of the UN’s Economic and Social Commission for Asia
and the Pacific.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  