-- Emerging Stocks Advance Most in Six Months as Real Climbs
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-26T21:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/emerging-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-philippine-shares-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in almost six months, while bond yields sank, as  China ’s cash
crunch eased and speculation grew that the  Federal Reserve  will
maintain stimulus.  Brazil ’s real gained for a fourth day.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.8 percent to
901.98, the biggest rally since Jan. 2. Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender, surged 6.8
percent, while the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  jumped the
most since 2008. The real led gains in developing-nation
currencies and  India ’s rupee fell to a record. The premium
investors demand to own emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries slumped, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Stocks joined a global rally after a government report
showed that the American economy grew less than previously
calculated in the first quarter, bolstering bets the Fed will
keep its bond buying program. The cost of locking in China’s
interest rates slid for a fourth day, the longest run of
declines since February, and money-market rates fell after the
central bank pledged to ease the worst cash crunch in a decade.  “The moderate growth environment in the U.S. tends to be
favorable for stocks,” Audrey Kaplan, head of international
equities for Federated Investors and senior portfolio manager of
the Federated InterContinental Fund. Her firm manages about $377
billion in assets. “The fundamentals of why we like emerging
economies is still in place. China can turn the liquidity back
on at any time.”  Biggest Gains  All  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose today
led by consumer, industrial and financial shares. The broad
measure, which has fallen 11 percent this month, is trading at
9.4 times  estimated  earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares in the MSCI World Index of developed markets
are valued at 13 times projected profits.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund rose 1.6 percent to $38.02. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 12 percent to 28.52.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose a second day as B2W Cia. Digital led
retailers higher amid bets that a stronger currency will help
ease inflation. The real climbed as the central bank said it
will eliminate  reserve requirements  on short dollar positions
held by local banks to support the local currency.  The Mexican IPC index surged 2.4 percent, the most since
January 2012, led by construction company Empresas ICA SAB.  Russia, Turkey  The Micex Index jumped 1.8 percent in Moscow as  OAO
Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s largest lender, advanced the most since April
30. Benchmark gauges in  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic  gained at
least 1 percent, while Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  was unchanged. The
Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index rallied 3.7
percent as banks surged.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
rose 3.3 percent, its biggest advance since Jan. 2.  ICBC (1398)  rallied
the most since December 2011. The Shanghai Composite Index fell
to the lowest level since January 2009. While money-market rates
dropped after the People’s Bank of China said tight liquidity is
poised to ease, a gauge of seven-day interbank funding costs is
nearly double this year’s average.  India’s rupee plunged to 60.73 per dollar in Mumbai, while
bonds and stocks declined. Philippine stocks rallied, sending
the benchmark equities index to its biggest gain in almost five
years, after valuations tumbled to a  seven-month low . The gauge
entered a  bear market  yesterday after falling more than 20
percent from a record 7,392.20 set on May 15.  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries declined seven basis points to 358 basis points,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  