-- Empire State Building Second Bid Led by Mideast Investors
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-06-26T22:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/empire-state-building-second-bid-led-by-mideast-investors.html
A Middle Eastern group joined  New
York  real estate investors Philip Pilevsky and Joseph Tabak in a
$2.1 billion bid for New York’s Empire State Building, the
second takeover proposal reported before a planned initial
public offering that would include the skyscraper.  Pilevsky, president of New York-based Philips
International, said the offer is in cash. He declined to further
identify the Middle Eastern group.  “My partners want to be discreet,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Building supervisor Malkin Holdings LLC said today that two
unsolicited offers for the tower were made last week and are
being reviewed, according to a regulatory filing that didn’t
name the bidders. The other offer is from Rubin Schron, a New
York real estate investor, who proposed buying the skyscraper
for $2 billion in cash.  Malkin Holdings -- led by Chairman  Peter Malkin  and his son
Anthony, the company’s president -- is proceeding with plans to
form a real estate investment trust that would include the
landmark Manhattan tower after a 16-month fight with an
opposition group.  Pilevsky said he was contacted by the Middle Eastern
partners about making the bid.  “They view it as a last opportunity” to acquire the tower
before it becomes part of the REIT, he said.  A call to Tabak at his firm, New York-based Princeton
Holdings LLC, wasn’t immediately returned.  Moving Ahead  Malkin Holdings last month won enough votes from investors
in the building to move ahead with the company’s proposal. The
Malkins have notified opposing investors they would receive $100
for units projected to be worth more than $300,000 apiece,
according to today’s filing. They have 10 days from getting the
buyout notice to change their minds.  “We are reviewing the offers and their terms,” Peter and
Anthony Malkin said in a letter to investors dated June 24. “We
consider all matters, including unsolicited offers, consistent
with our fiduciary duties, to form a judgment on what action is
appropriate.”  They won’t comment further until the review is completed,
according to the letter.  Pilevsky said the Malkins “know” his group’s offer is
viable. He declined to elaborate.  The Pilevsky group’s involvement in the bid was reported
earlier today on the website of the New York Post.  Hugh Burns, a spokesman for the Malkins with Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the two offers.  An appraisal of the Empire State Building values the
property at $2.53 billion, the Malkins have said in separate
filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  