-- Empire State Building Receives Second Bid Ahead of IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-06-26T19:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/empire-state-building-receives-second-bid-ahead-of-ipo.html
An unidentified bidder offered to
buy  New York ’s Empire State Building for $2.1 billion, the
second takeover proposal reported before a planned initial
public offering that would include the skyscraper.  Two unsolicited bids were made last week and are being
reviewed, according to a regulatory filing today by building
supervisor Malkin Holdings LLC. One offer has come from Rubin Schron, a New York real estate investor, who proposed buying the
tower for $2 billion in cash.  The buyout bids offer Malkin Holdings an alternative to an
IPO at a time when shares of  real estate investment trusts  have
been hurt by the prospect of rising interest rates. Chairman
Peter Malkin and his son Anthony, the company’s president, began
an effort 16 months ago to form a REIT that would include the
landmark Manhattan tower and take it public. They last month won
enough votes from investors in the building to proceed with the
transaction following a fight with an opposition group.  An acquisition bid “certainly does gum up their IPO,”
said Lawrence Longua, clinical associate professor at New York
University’s Schack Institute of Real Estate. With an offer,
particularly if it’s in cash, “you’re not betting on the
success of the REIT or the market value of the shares after it
goes public.”  Moving Ahead  Malkin Holdings is proceeding with plans for the IPO,
notifying opposing investors they would receive $100 for units
projected to be worth more than $300,000 apiece, according to
today’s filing. They have 10 days from getting the buyout notice
to change their minds.  “We are reviewing the offers and their terms,” Peter and
Anthony Malkin said in a letter to investors dated June 24. “We
consider all matters, including unsolicited offers, consistent
with our fiduciary duties, to form a judgment on what action is
appropriate.”  The Malkins won’t comment further until the review is
completed, they said in the letter.  An appraisal of the Empire State Building values the
property at $2.53 billion the Malkins have said in separate
filings.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) , as the company would be
called, is seeking to raise about $1 billion in what may be the
second-biggest U.S. IPO of a REIT. The Bloomberg REIT Index has
fallen 13 percent from an almost six-year high on May 21 amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will reduce bond purchases,
which have kept borrowing costs close to record lows.  ‘Better Off’  “This is what I’ve been talking about all along,” said
Andrew Penson, a New York real estate investor who owns Grand
Central Terminal and controls a company that owns 10 Empire
State Building units. “The investors would be better off
accepting a sale of the Empire State Building than going along
with the IPO,” even if the offer were lower than the appraisal,
especially given the current volatility in equity markets, he
said.  Hugh Burns, a spokesman for the Malkins with Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on the offers.  Penson was among a group of unit-holders who unsuccessfully
challenged the $100 buyout provision in court, calling it
coercive. An appeal of that decision is pending. Schron’s buyout
offer was made through Stephen Meister, the lawyer for dissident
investors in that case.  Jason Meister, a vice president at brokerage firm Avison
Young, who represented Schron and is Stephen Meister’s son, said
in an e-mail he is awaiting a response from the Malkins.
Schron’s offer would allow unit-holders to retain their interest
in the Empire State Building if they so choose, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  