-- Men’s Wearhouse Ousted Founder Says He Didn’t Seek Buyout
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-26T21:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/men-s-wearhouse-ousted-founder-says-he-didn-t-seek-buyout.html
Men’s Wearhouse Inc.’s (MW)  ousted
founder George Zimmer, disputing claims the retailer made
yesterday, said he never concluded that taking the company
private was the right course for the apparel chain.  His objection against the board was that it refused to
“thoughtfully” evaluate strategic alternatives beyond simply
selling the company’s K&G clothing-store chain, Zimmer said in a
statement today about the disagreements that led to his ouster
as executive chairman.  “To justify their actions, they now have tried to portray
me as an obstinate former CEO, determined to regain absolute
control by pushing a going private transaction for my own
personal benefit and ego,” he said. “Nothing could be further
from the truth.”  Zimmer is responding to Men’s Wearhouse’s statement
yesterday that he was fired in part because he was pushing for a
sale of the company to an investment group. The founder also
disagreed with a plan to seek alternatives for K&G and sought
final approval on certain decisions, such as executive
compensation, the retailer said.  Zimmer, 64, founded the Houston-based menswear retailer 40
years ago and still owns about 3.5 percent of its shares, making
him the seventh-largest investor.  Men’s Wearhouse fell 0.8 percent to $36.85 today in  New
York . The  shares  have gained 18 percent this year, compared with
a 12 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company in March said it hired investment-banking firm
Jefferies & Co. to explore strategic alternatives for K&G, which
sells discounted casual wear.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net 
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  