-- English Says New Zealand Dollar Still ‘a Bit Overvalued’
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-06-26T03:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/english-says-new-zealand-dollar-still-a-bit-overvalued-.html
New Zealand  Finance Minister  Bill English  said the nation’s currency is still too strong as a
pickup in the  U.S. economy  has taken more time than anticipated.  “It’s probably still a bit overvalued,” English, who is
also New Zealand’s deputy prime minister, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  in
 London  yesterday. “It’s the kind of adjustment we’ve been
expecting for some time, but it’s taken longer for the U.S.
economy to get into shape.”  Since peaking at above 86 U.S. cents on April 11, the  New
Zealand dollar  has dropped more than 10 percent against the
greenback amid signs of an improving U.S. economy. The kiwi fell
0.3 percent to a 12-month low of 77.20 U.S. cents at 3 p.m. in
Wellington today. The currency’s strength has impeded New
Zealand’s economic recovery by reducing export returns. The
country is the world’s biggest exporter of dairy products.  English said the South Pacific nation of 4.4 million people
can’t expect to take on the $4 trillion-a-day  currency market 
because it has little firepower, even though the central bank’s
governor, Graeme Wheeler, announced in May that he was
intervening to weaken the kiwi.  “Our Reserve Bank has limited capacity to intervene,”
English said, likening it to a “peashooter in a war zone.”  English said New Zealand’s focus on competitiveness will
pay off in the long run, in spite of the forces of the
international currency market.  ‘Pay Off’  “We just regard it as something we can’t control and just
stick to a strong focus of improving our own competitiveness,”
he said in a separate interview earlier yesterday. “In the last
four or five years that’s been hard work for New Zealand but in
the long run it’s going to pay off.”  Economic growth  slowed to 0.3 percent in the first quarter
from 1.5 percent in the previous three months after the worst
drought in 30 years curbed farm output.  The  Reserve Bank  projects annual growth will accelerate
from 2.4 percent in the first quarter to 3.6 percent by the
second half of 2014, led by the NZ$40 billion ($31 billion)
rebuild in the South Island city of Christchurch, where houses,
roads, shops and commercial buildings were destroyed by
earthquakes in 2010-11. The most devastating quake in February
2011 killed 185 people.  English said gains in the  housing market  are “a bit
overdone,” partly due to strong demand for homes after the
earthquake, and they would eventually slow.  ‘Slow Down’  “The key issue is supply that doesn’t respond fast enough
to demand,” he told Bloomberg Television. “We should expect
over the next few years for the housing market to slow down a
bit.”  With  inflation  forecast to remain below the central bank’s
1 percent to 3 percent midpoint until the second quarter of 2015,
Wheeler kept the official cash rate this month at a record-low
2.5 percent and said he expected to leave borrowing costs
unchanged until next year.  The government projects it will return to surplus in the
2014-15 fiscal year, aided by an asset-sales program. It wants
to raise between NZ$5 billion and NZ$7 billion by selling
partial stakes in at least four state-owned enterprises.  In the first sale in May, shares in energy company Mighty
River Power Ltd. floated at NZ$2.50. They traded as low as
NZ$2.20 this week.  Contract negotiations are continuing between Meridian and
 Rio Tinto  Group Ltd., the majority owner of the nation’s only
aluminum smelter, which used about 13 percent of national power
output last year. If Rio closed the plant, that might result in
a sustained drop in power prices, Mighty River said in its offer
documents last month.  English said Rio Tinto’s contractual obligations meant that
the smelter has to remain open for another six years and the
effects of the closure are not something the government was
“overly concerned” about.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  