-- EPA Says Ethanol Bounty May Push Refiners Over Blend Wall
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-26T16:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/epa-says-ethanol-bounty-may-push-refiners-over-blend-wall.html
Refiners may be forced to exceed 10
percent ethanol in their fuels next year in order to meet
congressionally mandated renewable-fuel standards, according the
Environmental Protection Agency.  While oil-industry lobbyists are urging lawmakers to scrap
the Renewable Fuel Standard because of problems this year, an
EPA official will tell Congress today that issues with the
“blend wall” -- where the amount of mandated corn-based fuel
exceeds levels considered safe for all engines -- won’t bite
until 2014.  “Given these facts, we will continue to look at the
potential impacts of the blend wall over the near and longer
term,” Christopher Grundler, director of the office of
transportation and  air quality  at the EPA said in  testimony 
prepared for delivery today to a panel of the House Energy and
Commerce committee. “EPA will continue to engage with
stakeholders on this issue as we move to propose the RFS volume
requirements for 2014.”  The Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, dates in its current
form to 2007, when concerns about dependence on overseas oil and
a desire to curb the use of fossil fuels induced Congress to set
quotas for the use of alternatives to gasoline or diesel, such
as corn-based ethanol and biodiesel.  Corn Fuel  Under the law, refiners such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must
blend a certain volume of renewable fuels into their gasoline
each year regardless of the total amount of fuel produced. When
fuel use falls, it effectively boosts the amount of ethanol in
the gasoline and other fuels.  The EPA and renewable-fuel producers say the mandate spurs
production of American-made fuels, helps corn farmers and cuts
carbon emissions by replacing gasoline.  Lobbyists representing refiners such as Exxon, based in
Irving,  Texas , say falling U.S. fuel demand means that
requirements for ethanol may force its use higher than the 10
percent that the government says is safe for all engines.  U.S. gasoline  demand  has declined every year since 2007,
reaching a 14-year low of 8.518 million barrels a day in 2012,
according to the Energy Department in Washington. Last year,
average daily gasoline use in the world’s largest economy was
8.3 percent lower than in 2007.  Engine Damage  The EPA has cleared the use of E15, or gasoline with 15
percent ethanol, for most vehicles sold since 2001. The oil
industry is fighting that determination, and argues that the
higher ethanol content can harm vehicle engines.  In his testimony today, Grundler said that higher blends of
ethanol may need to be used to meet the requirements, or
“significant additional volumes of non-ethanol biofuels would
be needed.”  While the EPA acknowledged the issues of refiners, a
Department of Agriculture official shot down concerns from chain
restaurants, food charities and chicken producers that the fuel
standard is raising the cost of food.  “Any increase in farm prices for corn and soybeans due to
increased biofuels production has likely had only a small effect
on U.S. retail food prices,” Joseph Glauber, chief economist of
USDA, said in his testimony to the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  