-- Tepco’s Shareholders Decline to Pursue GE for Fukushima Claims
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-06-26T06:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/tepco-s-shareholders-decline-to-pursue-ge-for-fukushima-claims.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) 
shareholders rejected a proposal to look into pursuing claims
for compensation against companies that supplied parts for the
crippled Fukushima nuclear plant, including  General Electric Co. (GE)   Shareholders at today’s annual general meeting for the
company known as Tepco voted down the motion, proposed by
 Greenpeace , to study whether suppliers can be held liable for
damages incurred during the March 2011 earthquake, tsunami and
subsequent nuclear disaster.  The proposal was one of 15 motions advanced today by Tepco
investors, many of them aiming to raise funds for the company
that has so far been granted 3.79 trillion yen ($38.9 billion)
by the government to settle compensation claims from the nuclear
disaster. Other proposals included relocating Tepco headquarters
so its current building can be sold, and to cut employee bonuses
and board member salaries. All were rejected.  “It is very important to find how much GE knew about
issues that may lead to accidents and how much GE has tried to
remedy them in order to find cause of the accident and to
determine responsibility,” Greenpeace campaigner Ayako Sekine
said at the meeting. “At this moment, only Tepco is paying the
compensation. But this isn’t enough for the victims to
reestablish their lives.”  Tepco’s board had recommended that shareholders reject the
measure, arguing that there was no clear basis to pursue claims.  Turnaround Plan  The March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami that caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station forced the utility to seek a government bailout
to help meet costs for compensation and damages.  Tepco, which had a 685.3 billion yen loss last fiscal year,
said in a turnaround strategy released May 2012 that it would
return to profit by the end of the current fiscal year if it
pursued a plan that includes restarting its Kashiwazaki-Kariwa
nuclear station.  Tepco President Naomi Hirose said yesterday that the
company had not yet decided whether to seek the plant’s restart
when  Japan ’s nuclear regulator begins inspections on July 8. All
but two of Japan’s 50 reactors are idled for the safety
assessments after the accident at the Fukushima plant, which
caused the evacuation of 160,000 people.  Shareholders today rejected a motion to decommission the
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant and the Fukushima Dai-Ni plant about 12
kilometers (7 miles) from the tsunami-damaged Dai-Ichi station.  The only item approved at the shareholder session was the
appointment of its 11 directors. Tepco said 2,090 shareholders
attended the meeting, which lasted for 3 hours and 41 minutes,
today at the Yoyogi National Gymnasium in Tokyo. There were
4,471 attendees at the meeting last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  