-- Merrill-to-Wimbledon Journey Complete for Dominic Inglot
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-26T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/merrill-to-wimbledon-journey-complete-for-dominic-inglot.html
Dominic Inglot was working for  Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch (BAC)  two years ago when he took a
chance that brought him back on the grass tennis courts of
Wimbledon, this time as a ranked player, not a stand-in for a
movie actor.  Ankle and knee injuries had forced Inglot away from the
sport and into a three-month stint at the London-based private
wealth unit of Merrill Lynch. Instead of pursuing a career in
finance, he decided to take one last shot on the men’s tennis
tour, and the bet paid off.  Nicknamed “Dom The Bomb” for his booming 140 miles-per-hour serve, the 6-foot-5 (1.96 meter) Briton is part of the No.
16-seeded men’s doubles team at Wimbledon, who yesterday won
their opening round match against Spanish pair Roberto Bautista
Agut and Daniel Gimeno-Traver in straight sets.  “I spoke to a few people in the right places, and they
said that banks and  hedge funds  like people who have gone off
the beaten path, who have done something different, who have got
a different perspective on life,” the 27-year-old Inglot said
in an interview. “And now I realize, you can go and play tennis
and come back to it.”  Inglot funded part of his finance degree at the  University
of Virginia  with 15,000 pounds ($23,000) made as a stand-in for
actor  Paul Bettany  in the 2004 romantic comedy, “Wimbledon,”
about the relationship between an aging player on the men’s tour
and an emerging star on the women’s. Choosing between tennis and
business in the first place wasn’t easy, he said.  Job Offer  “One of the biggest fears I had was that if you don’t go
down that route, of going to school and then getting a job, that
job offer won’t be there anymore,” he said at the French Open
last month. “My goal was always to be a professional tennis
player.”  Inglot moved to doubles ranking No. 39 on the ATP World
Tour this week from No. 540 in 2011. At Wimbledon, he is teaming
with Treat Huey from the  Philippines , whom he met at  Virginia 
where they both played on the college team. They won their first
top-tour championship in  Washington  in August.  Paul Hutchins, a former British Davis Cup captain who has
known Inglot since he was a junior player, said he has the
potential to be ranked inside the top 15 in doubles.  “He can dominate the serve, and you can’t lob him because
he is like a mountain,” Hutchins said in an interview.  Inglot was the only British player in any main draw to
advance to the third round of the French Open, losing in men’s
doubles to eventual runners-up Nicolas Mahut and  Michael Llodra 
of  France .  Hollywood Debut  Having started competitive tennis relatively late, at age
10, Inglot ended up at 17 playing on Centre Court of the All
England Club in southwest  London  while filming “Wimbledon”
with Bettany and Kirsten Dunst in the lead roles.  “They said I looked very similar, and would I be
interested in becoming Paul’s double,” Inglot said. “It was
such a great experience, I’d do it again, for sure.”  Inglot worked at Merrill Lynch on a team led by Colin Dowdeswell, a Davis Cup teammate of Hutchins, who had put the
two men in touch.  “Dom’s a bright guy with a great character,” Hutchins
said. “He got very badly injured. It’s important to get
occupied during the time that you are injured. But I am glad he
came back to tennis, plus he can always go back to finance.”  Investment Adviser  Dowdeswell, a runner-up in men’s doubles at Wimbledon in
1975, is a former ATP board member. Now 58, he retired from
Merrill Lynch last year and is living and working in  Monaco  as
an  investment adviser , he said in an interview yesterday at the
All England Club, where he is a member.  “Dom was interested in finance, and generally we like
tennis players,” said Dowdeswell, shortly before going to Court
7 to watch Inglot. “It’s a combination of discipline and focus.
Clients love to talk to somebody who has been a great sportsman.
On the trading floors, they’re always looking at the guys
playing. There is an element of respect for someone who has been
there.”  Sara Louise Boyes, a spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch in
London, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Working for Dowdeswell “really took a lot of weight off my
shoulders in the sense that I now at least had something to show
that I’d done this,” Inglot said. “And although I love tennis,
finance is something that I’d like to go back to once I am
done.”  Own Portfolio  Inglot said he has helped manage finances at Merrill Lynch
for players, including one former  French Open  champion, none of
which he would identify citing company policy. He said he
“invested pretty safely. At that level, those guys want to be
in a nice, safe portfolio without massive swings.”  His own portfolio only holds some cash for possible future
investments, Inglot said. In a year on the ATP circuit, he’s
made $257,305 in prize money.  “I was looking at property in London,” said Inglot, whose
Polish-born father, Andrei, went into property development after
a professional soccer career.  As for Wimbledon, Inglot has already improved on last year.  “We lost in the first round, after we had a match point,”
he said. “I’m expecting a slightly better result this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  