-- Hertz CEO ‘Feels Great’ About FTC Approval of Purchase
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-26T17:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hertz-ceo-feels-great-about-ftc-approval-of-purchase.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  is
optimistic that its $2.3 billion acquisition of Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group in November will receive final approval from
U.S. antitrust regulators soon.  “We feel great that this thing is a pending
announcement,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora said in an
interview today. “I can’t predict what the government is going
to do, but we feel really good about things.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission pushed Park Ridge, New
Jersey-based Hertz to sell the Advantage car-rental brand and 29
additional airport locations as a condition of acquiring Dollar
Thrifty to create a competitor strong enough to keep Hertz,  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  and closely held market leader Enterprise
Holdings Inc. from having too much market power.  The FTC is weighing Advantage’s strength and viability
under its new ownership, people familiar with the matter have
said. Hertz sold Advantage to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s private-equity arm in a joint venture with  Franchise Services of North
America Inc. (FSN)  under a consent agreement with the FTC.  Under normal circumstances, the FTC would have approved the
consent decree in December following a 30-day comment period.  Hertz rose 1.9 percent to $23.94 at 1:31 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares surged 44 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with an 11 percent gain for the Russell 1000 Index.  Richard Branson  The FTC’s investigation has focused on whether Macquarie
was following through on commitments to expand and strengthen
Advantage after the Dec. 7 ouster of Sanford Miller, an industry
veteran who was hired to run the brand, two people familiar with
the matter said in April. Macquarie had said in an e-mail to
Miller last July that it didn’t have car-rental experience.  Richard Branson’s Virgin Group Ltd., the travel and
entertainment conglomerate, has also signaled its interest in
Advantage, sending a letter to the FTC this month saying it
wanted to enter the U.S. rental-car business by buying the
rental-car assets Hertz was ordered to divest.  “There’s been nothing else that has happened regardless of
what the headlines have been,” Frissora said today. “A lot of
it is noise and the noise is propagated by people who are trying
to screw the deal up any way they can.”  Hertz acquired Dollar Thrifty to secure its position as
second-largest U.S. rental-car company behind Enterprise. FTC
staff recommended that the commission approve the Hertz-Dollar
Thrifty consent decree, one of the people familiar with the
agency’s investigation has said.  Rates Rise  Hertz and Avis this year have reported price increases at a
rate not seen since the recession as Hertz has awaited final FTC
approval of its Dollar Thrifty deal.  Avis has “continued to aggressively implement pricing
increases in North America,” Chief Financial Officer David Wyshner said June 4 at an investment conference. The company
raised prices six times in the first quarter and attributed it
in part to Hertz’s deal for Dollar Thrifty. Avis boosted prices
two more times this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  