-- Hertz Challenges Enterprise With Lowe's, Walgreen, Kiosks
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hertz-ramps-up-enterprise-attack-with-lowe-s-walgreen-kiosks.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , trying
to expand its  car-rental  business away from airports, wants to
outfit its global fleet by 2016 with technology that lets
customers rent a car at any hour and for any length of time.  The technology will enable Hertz to better manage its fleet
of 575,000 vehicles and give the second-largest rental-car
company a way to add locations with kiosks instead of buying or
renting property. Hertz last year got 30 percent of its $7.46
billion in global rental-car revenue at non-airport locations,
long the stronghold of industry-leader Enterprise Holdings Inc.  Hertz, which has 2,600 neighborhood locations now, sees
having as many as 12,000 locations in the next few years, Chief
Executive Officer Mark Frissora said in an interview yesterday.
Hertz is working with retailers including  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) ,  Walgreen
Co. (WAG)  and Tire Kingdom Inc. to help broaden that reach.  “This 24/7 capability allows us to hit the sweet spot of
what we think may be consumer demand and accessibility,” he
said. “We think this is an opportunity to expand the pie of
renters in the U.S.”  U.S. consumers spend about $11 billion a year renting cars
at non-airport locations,  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz
said in a June investor presentation. Hertz has about 12 percent
of that market. Closely held St. Louis-based Enterprise, which
had $15.4 billion in revenue last year, has the largest share.
Enterprise has about  5,500 U.S. locations , mostly in
neighborhoods.  ‘Utilization Gains’  Zipcar, acquired by  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  in March,
created the business of automated car rental in 2000. With the
acquisition, Avis is now the leader in the hourly rental segment,
with about 770,000 worldwide members and about 10,000 vehicles.  “Technology-enabled hourly, car sharing product offerings
will become a key driver of utilization gains for both Hertz and
Avis in the coming years,” Fred Lowrance, senior research
analyst with Avondale Partners LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee , said
in an e-mail.  Hertz began directly competing with Zipcar in 2008 after
considering buying the startup. Frissora said last year he
planned to equip Hertz’s then-375,000-vehicle U.S. fleet for
hourly rental within about a year. Hertz now has equipped 35,000
vehicles available in 1,800 neighborhood locations and 800 in
the U.S.  ‘A Little Slower’  “We’re going a little slower than what I previously
outlined, due to fact that we want to be careful that we don’t
upset the customer that we’re able to fulfill the demand we
generate,” Frissora said yesterday.  Hertz is adding  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz Sprinter
commercial vans and Ford Motor Co. pickups that can be rented
from a kiosk at Lowe’s’s 1,740 locations, Frissora said.  The company is also conducting pilots in  Chicago  and  San
Antonio  with Walgreen, where Frissora is a  director , and Kingdom.
Hertz plans to add other retailers as well as hotel chains, he
said. The company is also working with  Standard Parking Corp. (STAN) , a
Chicago-based parking-lot operator.  Hertz maintains the cars with a mobile cleaning crew and
pays retailers a cut of the revenue.  “It’s kind of a win-win situation,” Frissora said. “The
retailer is able to monetize their parking lot. It’s almost a
no-brainer. It’s part of our asset-light strategy, investing in
technology and making the car, if you will, the bricks and
mortar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  