-- Hess Said to Begin Sale Process for Oil-Terminal Network
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-06-26T20:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hess-corp-said-to-begin-sale-process-for-oil-terminal-network.html
Hess Corp., the energy company that
recently settled a proxy fight with  Paul Singer , began the sale
of its oil-terminal network and is seeking $1 billion for the
asset, said people familiar with the matter.  Hess asked suitors to submit expressions of interest by
July 2 for the 19 terminals, said two of the people, who asked
not to be named as the process is private. The asset generates
about $100 million in annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the people said.  Hess decided to pursue the sale this year amid pressure
from billionaire Singer’s Elliott Management Corp., one of the
New York-based company’s top  shareholders . The business may
attract interest from private-equity firms ArcLight Capital
Holdings LLC and Alinda Capital Partners LLC, as well as energy
companies such as  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL) ,  Buckeye Partners
LP (BPL)  and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , the people said.  Jon Pepper, a spokesman for Hess, declined to comment, as
did representatives for Marathon and Sunoco Logistics. Spokesmen
at ArcLight, Alinda and Buckeye didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  Hess rose 3.2 percent to $65.71 at the close in New York.
 The shares  have gained 24 percent this year.  Hess said in January that it would sell the terminal
network and that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was working as its
adviser on that process. The company ended a four-month proxy
battle with Elliott last month by agreeing to add directors
backed by the New York-based activist to its board.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  