-- Metro Plans Stronger Tie With Carphone to Speed Digital Growth
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-06-26T11:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/metro-plans-stronger-tie-with-carphone-to-speed-digital-growth.html
Metro AG (MEO)  plans to extend its
relationship with  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc (CPW)  as  Germany ’s
biggest retailer hauls itself into the digital age.  A cooperation agreement that started with the companies
selling mobile devices and contracts at Metro’s Media-Saturn
outlets in the Netherlands is set to be extended to other Metro
units and countries, the Dusseldorf-based company said today.  The extension of the relationship is an important step for
Metro, which has been slow to embrace the digital revolution.
Saturn stores only started selling online in Germany in October
2011 and the Media-Saturn electronics unit still made only about
4 percent of revenue from the Web last year.  “The connected world is a gigantic growth market and at
the same time continues to rely heavily on personal sales
advice,” said Pieter Haas, Metro’s management board member with
responsibility for Media-Saturn and business innovation. “With
 Carphone Warehouse , we have found the perfect partner to pool
our strengths in this important business segment.”  In addition to jointly selling mobile devices in tests at
Media-Saturn’s Dutch outlets, the companies are carrying out
trials at 17 of Metro’s Cash & Carry outlets in the country.  Besides selling smartphones and tablet PCs, the companies
will provide contracts, accessories, services as well as
installation, repairs and digital services, such as video and
music, Metro said today.  The retailer plans to ramp up the fledgling online offering
of electronics, which account for more than 30 percent of sales.
Media-Saturn’s revenue gained 2 percent in the first quarter,
boosted by an increase of more than 60 percent in online sales.  Carphone Warehouse, based in  London , today reported little
changed full-year profit of 58.1 million pounds ($89.3 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  