-- EU Nations Weigh More Creditor Loss Leeway in Bank Failure Law
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-26T12:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/eu-nations-weigh-more-creditor-loss-leeway-in-bank-failure-law.html
European Union financial regulators
may be given flexibility in assigning losses at failing banks,
under a proposal circulated today by Ireland, which holds the
bloc’s rotating presidency.  The Irish plan would give nations more scope than in
previous drafts to grant exemptions from forced losses if the
burden is shifted to other private creditors, rather than to
backstop funds, according to the document dated today and
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Under the plan, nations could shield specific types of
unsecured creditors if including them would threaten financial
stability or cause “value destruction that would leave other
creditors worse off,” according to the draft.  EU finance ministers convene in Brussels this afternoon to
continue battling over how to handle failing banks, aiming to
break a deadlock that sent them home empty-handed after 19 hours
of talks last week. Talks foundered on the question of which
creditors face writedowns when banks fail.  Some countries demanded more flexibility for national
authorities, while others sought strict rules across all 27 EU
nations. Ministers considered several ways to set thresholds for
losses that would need to be assigned via strict formulas before
national discretion would be allowed.  Under the new Irish plan, regulators would be required to
wipe out 8 percent of a bank’s unsecured liabilities, in order
of seniority, before they would earn the write to grant
exemptions and make up the shortfall with contributions from
national resolution funds.  These national funds, financed through levies on banks,
would be prevented from surpassing certain limits on the amount
they could contribute.  These thresholds wouldn’t apply for exemptions where the
shortfall is made up by simply shifting the burden to other
creditors, although carve-outs would still have to be justified
on financial stability or other grounds, according to the draft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  