-- Euro Falls Below $1.30 on Draghi Pledge; Rupee Drops to Record
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-26T21:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/euro-declines-for-sixth-day-versus-dollar-to-trade-at-1-3046.html
The euro fell below $1.30 for the
first time in almost a month as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said monetary policy will remain stimulative,
dimming the relative allure of assets denominated in the
currency.  The dollar remained higher versus the 17-nation currency
even as Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey
Lacker  said he expects U.S. economic expansion to remain
“sluggish” for “a couple more years” and that the central
bank isn’t close to reducing its bond holdings. Australia’s
dollar rose as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  lost a ballot for
the leadership of the governing Labor party to her predecessor,
 Kevin Rudd . India’s rupee plunged to a record versus the dollar.  “The euro weakness today is being driven by comments from
Draghi,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC in  New York , in a telephone interview. “It’s
all about market perception of which direction central banks are
moving. The Fed is moving in a direction where they’re going to
be slowing the pace of accommodation, while the ECB could still
provide more, if necessary.”  The euro declined 0.5 percent to $1.3012 at 5 p.m. New York
time, reaching as low as $1.2985, the weakest level since June
3.  Europe ’s shared currency fell 0.6 percent to 127.17 yen.
 Japan ’s currency rose 0.1 percent to 97.72 per dollar.  Market Rankings  The yen has gained 2.7 percent to the greenback this month,
while Norway’s krone has declined 3.9 percent. This quarter, the
euro has led all major gainers with a 1.5 percent increase,
while the worst-performing Australian dollar has slipped 10.9
percent. The greenback is the best-performing currency in 2013
and South Africa’s rand has plunged 16.3 percent.  India’s rupee declined versus all 31 of its most-traded
counterparts as investors favored the greenback based on the
U.S. economic outlook. The currency depreciated 1.8 percent to
60.73 per dollar after reaching 60.77, its lowest-ever level
versus the greenback.  Australia’s dollar rose after Rudd defeated Gillard in
their third face-off to head Australia’s governing  Labor party 
in three years. The currency increased 0.2 percent to 92.77 U.S.
cents after touching its strongest level in a week.  The  New Zealand dollar  gained versus all of its major peers
after reassurances from  China  that it will ease a credit squeeze
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets. The so-called kiwi
rose 0.6 percent to 77.91 U.S. cents.  ECB ‘Accommodative’  The ECB’s monetary policy “will stay accommodative for the
foreseeable future,” Draghi said in a speech at the French
National Assembly in Paris. “We have an open mind about all
other possible instruments that we may consider proper to
adopt,” he said, adding that an exit remains “distant.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  to
a record-low 0.5 percent in May after six consecutive quarters
of  contraction  in the 17-nation currency-bloc economy.  “It’s all about the fairly dovish comments from Draghi,”
 Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a telephone interview. “At
this point, it’s more a case of euro weakness than dollar
strength. That’s driven by the shift in the relative stance of
the two central banks.”  Europe’s common currency may extend declines versus the
dollar after dropping below its 200-day moving average,
currently $1.3073, Brooks said.  Technical Level  The 17-nation euro is testing support at $1.3034,  Richard Adcock , a technical strategist at UBS AG in  London , wrote today
in a note to clients.  If the currency closes below this level, a deeper sell-off
will be triggered, with the next layer of support coming at
$1.2797, he said. That would be the lowest since May 17. Support
refers to an area on a chart where buy orders may be clustered.  The shared currency has declined 2.8 percent against the
greenback since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
June 19 the U.S. central bank may begin paring back bond
purchases this year.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a revised 1.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, down from the previous
estimate of 2.4 percent, the Commerce Department said. The first
quarter rate was projected to hold at 2.4 percent, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Reports yesterday showed U.S. durable goods orders rose
more than forecast in May and  consumer confidence  for June
exceeded projections.  The dollar has gained 2.5 percent since June 19, according
to the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index that represents 10 major
currencies weighted by liquidity and trade flows.  Pound Down  The pound fell versus the greenback as  Bank of England 
policy maker  David Miles  renewed his call for more asset
purchases.  A “slight expansion” of the bank’s quantitative-easing
program would be helpful, he told a conference in London today.  Sterling fell 0.7 percent to $1.5314.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $38.1 billion, compared with $27.5 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yuan  exchange rate  amounted to $11.9 billion, the
largest share of trades at 31 percent. Euro-dollar options were
the second most-actively traded, at $6 billion, or 16 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 181 percent above the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 50 percent above average.  Volatility in currencies surged since the Fed signaled last
week it may start reducing stimulus this year. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index , based on currency-option
premiums, reached 11.58 percent after rising to 11.96 percent on
June 24, the highest since January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  