-- Perry Calls Texas Lawmakers Back for Abortion Limits Bill
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-27T19:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/texas-abortion-limits-sent-back-to-state-lawmakers-by-perry-1-.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  called the
state legislature back into session July 1 to give lawmakers
another chance to pass a measure that may close most of the
state’s abortion clinics.  The legislation died in a special session that ended late
June 25 after a Democratic senator delayed consideration.
Republican backers forced a vote approving the measure that was
later ruled invalid because it came after the midnight
conclusion of the session.  “Texans value life and want to protect women and the
unborn,” Perry, a Republican, said in a statement yesterday.  The measure that failed would ban abortions at 20 weeks of
pregnancy and require that they be performed in ambulatory
surgical centers by doctors with admitting privileges at a
hospital within 30 miles (50 kilometers).  Most clinics would have to alter facilities to meet the
requirements, which abortion-rights advocates say they can’t
afford. Doctors at other clinics may struggle to win privileges.  Democrats might not be able to block the bill because of
Republican majorities in both the House and Senate, said state
Representative Jessica Farrar, a Democrat who helped lead
opposition to the measure.  “We aren’t going to quit trying because this issue is so
important to the health of women in  Texas ,” Farrar said.  ‘Angry Mob’  More than 1,000 people favoring abortion rights gathered at
the capitol in Austin to support Senator Wendy Davis, a
Democrat, who spoke for more than 10 hours in a filibuster.
Shouting from the gallery by spectators helped delay the final
vote past the deadline, said Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst,
a Republican. He likened the protesters to “an angry mob.”  Speaking today at a National Right to Life convention at a
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport hotel, Perry criticized
Davis for trying to block abortion restrictions, saying she was
the daughter of a single mother and became a teenage mother
herself.  “It’s just unfortunate that she hasn’t learned from her
own example: that every life must be given a chance to realize
its full potential; that every life is precious,” Perry said.  Davis, 50, said on her website that she was the first
person in her family to earn a bachelor’s degree and went on to
graduate from  Harvard Law School  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Davis said in an e-mailed statement that the governor’s
comment “is without dignity and tarnishes the office he
holds.”  Upsetting People  More abortion rights advocates will protest next week, said
Heather Busby, executive director of NARAL Pro-Choice America’s
Texas chapter in Austin. “If Rick Perry wanted to upset even
more of the people of this state, he’s done exactly the right
thing,” she said.  Anti-abortion groups are urging supporters to attend
committee hearings and chamber debates during the special
session, after few showed up during the past week, said Abby
Johnson, legislative director for Americans United for Life, a
Washington-based group that favors alternatives to abortion.  “I don’t think it’s going to be a problem getting the bill
passed,” Johnson said. “We want to have a strong pro-life
presence throughout the session.”  Twenty-Week Bans  In the past three years, Republican-led states increasingly
have restricted when and how women can end pregnancies. Twenty-week bans have been among the most popular, passing in at least
10 states since 2010. Some measures face legal challenges and
haven’t taken effect.  In May, an  Arizona  law that made it a crime for doctors to
perform abortions after 20 weeks was struck down by a federal
appeals court. The ruling said the measure violated the
precedent set by the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade
decision, which granted the right to an abortion until a fetus
is viable, typically considered about 24 weeks.  The Texas measure passed the House, but was stymied in the
Senate by Davis’s filibuster. Republicans, who have a 19-12
Senate majority, eventually forced a vote. After some confusion,
Republican leaders said the vote came after the midnight end of
the special session and didn’t count.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  