-- Exelon Gets Obama Boost After Years of Climate Lobbying
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-06-27T20:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/exelon-gets-obama-boost-after-years-of-climate-lobbying.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the largest U.S.
nuclear power producer, may begin to see its low-emissions
strategy pay off -- four years after it lost a fight for climate
legislation it told investors would add $1.1 billion in annual
earnings.  The company’s shareholders have paid the price during the
wait for U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions limits. The Chicago-based
company, which has  trailed  the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for
the past five years, has lost $30.5 billion of market value
since 2008 as its stock declined 64 percent on falling prices
for natural gas and wholesale electricity.  The tide may now be turning for the utility owner after
President  Barack Obama  announced plans this week to limit heat-trapping carbon dioxide emitted from  power plants , giving a
boost for Exelon and its nuclear reactors. Other winners may
include  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , the biggest operator of U.S. wind
power, and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , builder of utility-scale solar
projects. Coal producers like  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  have attacked
the plan for its potential harm to jobs and the economy.  “The worse things are for coal, the better they are for
nuclear,” Kit Konolige, a New York-based analyst for BGC
Partners LP who rates Exelon a hold and doesn’t own the shares,
said today in a phone interview. “These guys are the nuclear
play.”  Exelon declined 0.8 percent to $31.09 at the close in New
York. The shares have increased 4.5 percent this year.  The company, which announced its first dividend cut in
February, has 17 nuclear reactors and 44 wind-power projects and
much to gain from carbon dioxide, or CO2, regulations. Limits
probably will drive up the price of electricity by making coal-fired plants more expensive or even too costly to run, said
 Andrew Smith , a Houston-based analyst for Drexel Hamilton LLC.  ‘Clear Winner’  “The one clear winner that I think you can point to out in
the industry is zero-emissions generation sources, so nuclear
for Exelon, wind and solar farms for NextEra,” Smith said.
“Any sort of asset that doesn’t produce CO2.”  Exelon emits a quarter of the greenhouse gases of its next-cleanest competitor to generate the same amount of power, so it
has an advantage if government policies crimp the output of
competitors,  Hugh Wynne , a New York-based analyst for Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. wrote in note to clients yesterday.  Coal-heavy generators including  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ,  PPL
Corp. (PPL)  and  Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  emit 14 times to 17 times more than
Exelon, Wynne wrote. Wholesale markets offer no assurance
companies can recover the cost of emissions compliance, Wynne
wrote.  Rowe’s Lobbying  Exelon’s former Chief Executive Officer  John Rowe  was a
vocal proponent of climate legislation, often flying to
Washington to lobby elected officials. During his tenure, Exelon
left the U.S. Chamber of Commerce because of a disagreement with
business group’s global warming policies. They have since
rejoined the Washington-based lobbying group.  In a July 2, 2009 slide show, the company said proposed
climate legislation from Democratic Representatives  Henry Waxman 
and  Edward Markey  would add $1.1 billion to annual earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The
legislation failed to win approval from both houses of Congress.  “Any actions that would reduce coal-fueled generation harm
Americans, who would feel the same pain at the plug we now feel
at the pump,” St. Louis-based Peabody Energy, the biggest U.S.
coal miner, said in a statement yesterday.  The latest Obama plan doesn’t specify how deeply and how
quickly the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will curb
emissions from existing power plants. In a speech at  Georgetown
University , Obama called for proposed rules from the agency by
June 2014.  Pace of Changes  Obama’s target to cut greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent
from 2005 levels by 2020 would require a 21 percent reduction in
coal-fired generation if the most-efficient natural gas burning
plants take their place and a 13 percent cut in coal if
renewables or conservation replace that power supply, according
to Wynne.  A key consideration will be what rules take effect and how
quickly, Drexel’s Smith said. Carbon-reducing legislation in
 California  took more than five years to implement, he said.  New “meaningful” rules for existing plants probably won’t
take effect until about 2020, Julien Dumoulin-Smith, a New York-based analyst for UBS Securities LLC, wrote in a June 25 note to
investors. Wynne said the regulations may not be finalized until
the end of 2016.  ‘Reasonable Timelines’  “The regulations should feature reasonable timelines for
implementation and be supportive of existing state programs,”
Paul Elsberg, an Exelon spokesman, said in an e-mail. Elsberg
declined to comment on the potential earnings benefit of Obama’s
climate plan and whether the $1.1 billion in added earnings is
still applicable.  A spokesman for Juno Beach, Florida-based NextEra Energy
declined to comment.  A sharp rise in limits with a short timeframe for
compliance will boost power prices, Tom Hahn, executive vice
president of U.S. power derivatives at brokerage ICAP Energy LLC
in Durham, North Carolina, said in a phone interview.“If the
limits are more gradual,and if natural gas stays in this lower
trading range, then the price impact should be more muted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  