-- Mexico’s Peso Advances for Fourth Day After U.S. GDP Revision
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-26T14:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/mexico-s-peso-advances-for-fourth-day-after-u-s-gdp-revision.html
Mexico ’s peso rose for a fourth
straight day as slower-than-estimated U.S. growth damped
speculation the Federal Reserve will reduce economic stimulus
that’s fueled growth for the Latin American country’s debt.  The currency rose 0.6 percent to 13.1496 per U.S. dollar at
8:54 a.m. in Mexico City. Today’s rally pared the loss this
quarter to 6.2 percent and 2.6 percent in June. Yields on
government bonds maturing in 2042, the nation’s longest-dated
peso debt, fell nine basis points to 7.34 percent. It was the
bonds’ first advance on a closing basis since June 14.  Slower-than-estimated growth in the U.S. last quarter is
rekindling the demand for peso-denominated securities that Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke sapped June 19 when he said policy
makers may start tapering their bond buying program known as
quantitative easing, or QE. The Fed has been buying assets at an
$85 billion monthly pace, including $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities, to bolster growth and reduce the jobless
rate.  “There is always a disproportionate impact because of the
liquidity of the peso and the peso market,”  Pedro Tuesta ,
senior Latin America economist at 4cast Ltd, said in a phone
interview from  Washington . “The GDP numbers came weaker than
expected so the market believes now that maybe the Fed will not
taper QE as early as the were expecting. So rates go down, the
peso goes up.”  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a revised 1.8
percent annualized rate from January through March, down from a
prior estimate of 2.4 percent, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Mexico sends about 80
percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  