-- FDIC’s Hoenig Says Another Crisis May Resurrect Bailout Specter
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-26T21:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/fdic-s-hoenig-says-another-crisis-may-resurrect-bailout-specter.html
Thomas Hoenig , vice chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said that while his agency can
handle the wind-down of one big failing bank at a time, a larger
crisis could lead to talk of bailouts.  Hoenig said the authority given to U.S. banking regulators
in the Dodd-Frank Act to dismantle a large bank may be effective
only in an “idiosyncratic” situation and not a wider
breakdown. In the latter case, lawmakers may be pressured to
weigh a bailout like the Troubled Asset Relief Program of the
2008 credit crisis, he said at a House Financial Services
Committee hearing today.  “If you have a systematic meltdown, as we did last time, I
feel pretty confident that the Congress will be asked for
another TARP,” he said.  While regulators work to figure out how they would use the
law to wind down failing banks, he said “we have institutions
that are every bit as vulnerable as they were before.” Big
banks are “woefully undercapitalized,” and he contends they
should be forced to set aside larger buffers, such as a 10
percent tangible capital ratio.  In statistics he submitted to the committee, bank leverage
ratios, as calculated under  Europe ’s International Financial
Reporting Standards, are frequently below 4 percent -- and even
lower among some of the largest non-U.S. banks.  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) 
is at 1.63 percent and Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  at 2.52 percent, his
numbers show.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is the lowest among the largest
U.S. banks, at 2.55 percent.  Safety Net  Hoenig, a former Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
president, said at the hearing that Dodd-Frank didn’t pull the
government safety net from banks’ investment arms, which could
have made the institutions easier to handle in a crisis by
causing them to wall off their investment units.  Two Federal Reserve district bank presidents, Richmond’s
 Jeffrey Lacker  and  Richard Fisher  of Dallas, said they believe
Dodd-Frank didn’t end the perception that some banks are too big
to fail.  “I don’t think we have prevented taxpayer bailouts by
Dodd-Frank,” Fisher told lawmakers.  Lacker said the law failed to end the too-big-to-fail
perception because it gives a “tremendous amount of
discretion” to regulators in deciding how to take down banks,
leaving government officials too vulnerable to lobbying and
outside influence. He said he thought overhauling the  bankruptcy
code  may be “worthy of consideration” if it can help a big
bank go bankrupt rather than relying on FDIC resolution.  The law gave the FDIC the power to dismantle a bank if
bankruptcy would be too risky. Former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair ,
who also testified today, said the agency has come up with “a
viable, operational strategy so the shareholder and creditors
will take the losses” instead of taxpayers.  Dodd-Frank also called for banks to write so-called living
wills to plan their own demise in the bankruptcy courts. It
requires the plans be “credible” and to show how the banks can
go bankrupt without threatening the financial system -- “a very
tough standard,” according to Bair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 