-- Federer Ousted From Wimbledon Second Round by Stakhovsky
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-26T21:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/federer-ousted-from-wimbledon-second-round-by-stakhovsky.html
Roger Federer  was eliminated in the
second round at Wimbledon by Sergiy Stakhovsky, the earliest
defeat since 2002 for the seven-time champion at the grass-court
Grand Slam tournament.  Stakhovsky of Ukraine used classic serve-and-volley tennis
to beat the defending champion 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-5), 7-5, 7-6
(7-5) on Centre Court at  London ’s All England Club.  “I’m still in disbelief,” Stakhovsky said in an interview
with the British Broadcasting Corp. “I was playing my best
tennis ever and it was almost not enough to beat Federer.”  The match came on a day when two other former champions  --
 Maria Sharapova  and  Lleyton Hewitt  -- were upset, and injuries
caused seven players, including men’s sixth seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and women’s No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka to drop out.  Stakhovsky is ranked 116th on the ATP World Tour, making
this Federer’s worst defeat by ranking in any event since he
lost to No. 154 Mario Ancic in the first round at Wimbledon in
2002, according to the  International Tennis Federation .  It’s also the earliest defeat for a defending Wimbledon
champion since Ivo Karlovic beat Lleyton Hewitt in the first
round in 2003.  “When you play Roger Federer at Wimbledon, it’s like
playing two people,” Stakhovsky said. “You play him the player
and him the ego. It’s like playing two against one. I was hoping
that he wouldn’t get too far ahead of me and I hung in there.”  Ancic Loss  Federer, the No. 3 seed from  Switzerland , hadn’t lost at
Wimbledon before the quarterfinals since he was beaten in 2002
by Ancic of  Croatia . The 31-year-old right-hander has since won
a men’s record seven singles titles, including a record-extending 17th major championship last year by beating Britain’s
 Andy Murray  in the Wimbledon final.  The loss also ended Federer’s record run of 36 consecutive
Grand Slam quarterfinal appearances, which started at Wimbledon
nine years ago. Federer said he didn’t see the loss as the end
of an era and that he wouldn’t dwell on the defeat.  “I still have plans to play for many more years to come,”
Federer said. “It’s normal that after all of a sudden losing
early after being in the quarters 36 times, people feel it’s
different.  “You don’t panic at this point, that’s clear,” he said.
“Just go back to work and come back stronger really.”  Earliest Since 2003  Federer’s defeat, his earliest in a major since the 2003
 French Open , comes two days after two-time champion  Rafael Nadal 
of  Spain  lost in the first round to Belgium’s Steve Darcis,
ranked 135th on the men’s ATP World Tour.  Federer and the fifth-seeded Nadal had been on schedule to
play each other in the quarterfinals, with the winner of that
match due to play Murray in the semifinals.  Stakhovsky took a two-set lead as he served 14 aces and
kept rushing to the net. In the fourth set, Stakhovsky broke
serve early and Federer broke back for 3-3 for the first time in
the match after 2 1/2 hours of play. Federer evened for 4-4 with
a 96 mile-per-hour (154 kph) passing shot that forced his
opponent to duck at the net.  “Magic,” Stakhovsky said. “I couldn’t play any better
today. Every important point I needed to serve out, I did.”  Stakhovsky produced 72 winners, including 17 aces, while
Federer had 57 winners, including 16 aces. Federer made 13
unforced errors, four less than his opponent. Stakhovsky won 162
points in total, one more than Federer. The Ukrainian went to
the net 96 times, compared with 54 for Federer.  Winning Start  Federer had entered Wimbledon having ended a 10-month
championship drought in Halle,  Germany , last week. With 13
grass-court titles -- seven at Wimbledon and six in Halle -- he
has the best winning record of all time on the surface at 122-18.  The other big upset involved  Russia ’s Sharapova, who lost
to Michelle Larcher de Brito, a qualifier ranked 128 places
below her. The Portuguese player beat the 2004 champion 6-3, 6-4
on Court 2. It was the earliest loss at the tournament for
Sharapova since 2009. Larcher de Brito, ranked 131st on the
women’s WTA tour, had never before reached the third round.  “It’s probably the best win of my career,” Larcher de
Brito said in a televised interview. “I just tried to stay
calm.”  Injuries Mount  Seven players withdrew from the tournament today because of
illness or injury, which the ITF said probably is a single-day
record in the professional era. Ten players have left since the
start of the tournament.  No. 10 Marin Cilic withdrew along with Azarenka, the
Australian Open champion, Darcis and Yarovlava Shvedova. Tsonga
of  France , American  John Isner  and  Radek Stepanek  retired during
matches because of injuries. Darcis said he hurt his shoulder
during his opening-round victory over Nadal.  Azarenka pulled out with a right-knee injury shortly before
her match against Italy’s Flavia Pennetta. The 23-year-old from
Belarus was hurt when she slipped on the grass two days ago in a
win over Portugal’s Maria Joao Koehler.  Azarenka said the court was “slippery” during that match
and that her opponent had fallen twice. Others also fell
afterward, she said.  “I don’t know if it’s the court or the weather,” she said
at a news conference today. “I can’t figure it out. Would be
great if the club or somebody who takes care of the court just
would examine or try to find an issue so that wouldn’t happen.
Because there is nothing I’ve done wrong that cost me to just
withdraw from Wimbledon.”  No Changes  Richard Lewis, chief executive officer of the All England
Club, said in an e-mail there have been no changes in the
preparation of the courts.  Hewitt was beaten Germany’s Dustin Brown in four sets,
while Britain’s Murray defeated Taiwan’s Yen-Hsun Lu and Spain’s
Nicolas Almagro defeated Guillaume Rufin of France. Petra
Cetkovska, a qualifier from the Czech Republic, beat  Caroline Wozniacki , the ninth seed from Denmark, 6-2, 6-2, while  Canada ’s
Eugenie Bouchard topped No. 12 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, 6-3, 6-3.  Sloane Stephens, the No. 17 seed from the U.S. who reached
the Australian Open semifinals this season, beat Germany’s
 Andrea Petkovic  in three sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 