-- Former Barclays Bankers Led by Selim Set Up Quant Funds Manager
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-06-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/former-barclays-bankers-led-by-selim-set-up-quant-funds-manager.html
Former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  bankers led by
Omar Selim are setting up an asset-management firm focusing on
quantitative strategies to find socially responsible
investments.  Arabesque Asset Management Ltd. will start in July with two
equity funds, said Selim, 49, who left London-based Barclays at
the end of May, having held positions including head of global
markets for institutional clients for  Europe , the Middle East
and Africa and chairman of  Germany . Quant funds seek to
outperform competitors that track indexes by using mathematical
algorithms and computers to find investments.  Based in  London , the firm is seeking to tap demand for
investments in companies promoting the improvement of the
environment, consumer protection and human rights. Socially
responsible investors typically avoid alcohol, tobacco,
gambling, pornography and weapons industries. At least $13.6
trillion, or 22 percent of global assets, are  allocated  for such
strategies, the Global Sustainable Investment Alliance said in
January.  The MSCI World Socially Responsible Index generated a 7.9
percent return this year, while the MSCI World Index earned 6.3
percent.  The Arabesque Global Top 1,000 will be made up of 1,000
stocks, weighted by market capitalization. The Arabesque
Systematic Global Equity Fund is based on the same stocks and
allows for varying degrees of risk, Selim said.  Arabesque has a research and advisory office in Frankfurt
and plans another in the  Middle East  for Islamic-compliant
investors, Selim said. The project was initiated by Barclays two
years ago, before Arabesque founders bought it from the bank in
May, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  