-- FTC Calls for Clear Distinguishment of Ads in Searches
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/ftc-tells-google-led-search-providers-to-distinguish-ads-clearly.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
has a message for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and other Internet
companies: make sure online ads are clearly distinguished from
regular Web-search results to avoid misleading customers.  The FTC, updating recommendations in place for more than a
decade,  said  search sites are displaying advertising more
prominently on pages while doing less to highlight it. That has
made it difficult for users to distinguish ads from results that
aren’t backed by ad dollars, the FTC said. The regulator
lamented a “decline in compliance” with guidelines from 2002.  “In recent years, the features traditional search engines
use to differentiate advertising from natural search results
have become less noticeable to consumers,” the FTC  wrote  in a
sample letter posted on its website, dated June 24. “We
encourage you to review your websites or other methods of
displaying search results, including your use of specialized
search, and make any necessary adjustments to ensure you clearly
and prominently disclose any advertising.”  Search engines such as Google and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing
have been seeking new ways to make money from advertising that’s
tied to the keywords users type in when they’re scouting out
information on the Web. Google has parlayed its lead in the
Internet-search market to help it become the largest online
advertiser in the world, according to EMarketer Inc.  Other companies receiving the FTC letter include  AOL Inc. (AOL) 
and 17 providers of search in areas such as shopping, travel and
local business.  ‘Deceptive Practice’  To distinguish ads from natural results, the FTC recommends
that search engines use darker shading or more prominent borders
to delineate marketing messages. The search engines also could
use “text labels” that are clear and large enough for
consumers to notice.  “Failing to clearly and prominently distinguish
advertising from natural search results could be a deceptive
practice,” the FTC  said .  The guidelines follow an FTC decision to close a review of
Google’s search business in January without taking action. The
FTC voted 5-0 to end the investigation into whether Google
unfairly skewed its search results to hobble competition.  Google said it would remove restrictions on use of its
online search advertising platform and that it would offer
companies the option of keeping their content out of Google’s
search results.  -- Editors: Jillian Ward, Tom Giles  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 