-- Fukushima Nuclear Disaster Casts Shadow Over EDF’s Safety Drill
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-06-26T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/fukushima-nuclear-disaster-casts-shadow-over-edf-s-safety-drill.html
For  Electricite de France SA (EDF) , a lot
rode on its nuclear drill yesterday.  Members of its new rapid-action nuclear force created after
the meltdown in Fukushima in  Japan  in 2011 gripped the nozzle of
a hose, looking triumphant as it began spouting water from a
canal near the utility’s Chinon atomic plant on the banks of the
Loire River.  “Everything is destroyed around here; it’s night and no one
can come and help,” Caroline Bernard, head of safety at EDF,
said during the exercise witnessed by a group of reporters. “We
have put ourselves in the extreme case of Fukushima.”  In the wake of the Japanese accident, EDF was given six
years by nuclear regulator  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire  to
complete about 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of measures to
boost safety while  France  debates scaling back its reliance on
atomic energy. EDF operates the 58 nuclear reactors in France,
which depends on atomic energy for about three quarters of its
power production, the highest proportion in the world.  The drill yesterday worked under the scenario that all of
the plant’s power and cooling systems had failed, putting its
four 900-megawatt reactors at risk of a meltdown similar to what
happened in Fukushima.  There, an earthquake and tsunami knocked out defenses at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co (9501) ’s reactors, sending radioactivity
spewing into the air and sea, and leaving rescue workers
scrambling to bring water by fire trucks and helicopters to cool
overheating installations.  ‘No Guarantees’  “No one can ever guarantee that a nuclear accident will
never happen in France,”  Andre-Claude Lacoste , then head of the
watchdog, said at the time. He decided that safety must be made
“more robust” at EDF’s nuclear operators, stopping short of
immediately shutting any sites.  Bolstering safety has included investment in new equipment
such as diesel generators, bunkered control rooms, and barriers
against flooding.  As Chancellor  Angela Merkel  decided on  Germany ’s pullout
from nuclear energy and  Italy  scrapped a planned revival, EDF
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said the “stakes are high
for the group” to reassure the French population.  The rapid reaction force, which is costing the utility 150
million euros, is being designed so it can intervene within 24
hours simultaneously at as many as six reactors at any one EDF
site, the utility said. The 50-strong team is expected to grow
to about 300 by 2015 spread over four atomic plants.  The Drill  During yesterday’s drill, the task for the nuclear force --
wearing safety gear and hardhats -- was to transport pumps,
filters and generators necessary to bring water from a nearby
canal to one of Chinon’s reactors as an alternative coolant.  Working under the assumption that all existing equipment at
the plant was crippled, the team lowered a pump by rope into the
canal, set up power supplies and hoses and got the water to the
nuclear generator building in less than two hours.  Hose connections have been added to the outsides of French
reactor buildings since Fukushima that allow water to be pumped
straight inside, Bernard said.  At Fukushima, power outages knocked out all cooling systems
and workers had to organize water transport by truck and
helicopter, a long and tedious process that increased the risks
of meltdowns, French safety authorities said at the time.  EDF’s action force is made up of volunteers among staff
who’ll train about 20 weeks a year on the task, according to the
utility. They sign a waiver stating they may have to work under
“emergency radiological conditions” and get no extra pay.  ‘Struck Chord’  “Our goal is to arrive on the scene before an accident to
prevent a meltdown and radioactivity from escaping,” said
Bernard Camporesi, 51, head of operations for the team at EDF’s
Civaux plant.  Calling himself a “standard person with special training,”
he rejects all comparisons with the workers at Chernobyl and
Fukushima who risked their lives going into hostile atomic
environments to prevent even worse disasters from happening.  “Fukushima struck a chord in all of us,” Camporesi said.
“We asked ourselves how this could have happened, we tried to
understand and do something about it.”  Before the accident, EDF didn’t have the equivalent of the
rapid-action force in terms of people or equipment, he said.  A tour of their base camp revealed brand-new trucks for
hauling heavy materials, lifts, all-terrain vehicles, air-conditioned tents with real beds and hot-water showers.  The team is trained to work autonomously for three days
with the goal of relieving or replacing personnel on the site.  It hauled 48 tons of equipment to Chinon for the three-day
drill.  “Fukushima shook up teams at our plants,” said Bernard,
who was head of the utility’s Goldfech plant in southwestern
France. “We just didn’t expect it from the Japanese.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  