-- Gay-Marriage Ruling Safeguards Human Dignity
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-06-26T20:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/gay-marriage-ruling-safeguards-human-dignity.html
The word “dignity” can’t be found in
the Constitution, but in his majority opinion in U.S. v.
Windsor, Supreme Court Justice  Anthony Kennedy  uses it no fewer
than nine times (actually 10, if we include “indignity”). The
foundation of the court’s opinion, and its real importance, lie
in its insistence on human dignity as a constitutional value,
one that stands at the heart of our longstanding commitment to
equal protection of the laws.  In Windsor, the court struck down a central provision of
the Defense of Marriage Act, enacted in 1996, which states that,
under federal law, “the word ‘marriage’ means only a legal union
between one man and one woman as husband and wife.” When filing
tax returns or seeking federal benefits, same-sex couples can’t
count as “married” under federal law, even if their state allows
them to wed.  The court’s chief  objection  to the law is that it is an
affront to dignity. In describing the recent rise of same-sex
marriage, the court emphasizes that some states have conferred
on same-sex couples “a dignity and status of immense import.” In
identifying the central problem with the Defense of Marriage
Act, the court proclaims that it “demeans the couple” and
“humiliates tens of thousands of children” now being raised by
same-sex parents.  In explaining its constitutional judgment, it finds that
“the resulting injury and indignity is a deprivation of an
essential part of the liberty protected by the Fifth Amendment.”
In its critical closing paragraph, the court states that the
“federal statute is invalid, for no legitimate purpose overcomes
the purpose and effect to disparage and to injure those whom the
State, by its marriage laws, sought to protect in personhood and
dignity.”  States’ Rights  It is true that the Windsor  opinion  emphasizes not only
dignity, but an unruly mixture of constitutional concerns. The
court devotes considerable space to the traditional role of the
states in establishing the legal nature and incidents of
marriage. In the majority’s words, the “significance of state
responsibilities for the definition and regulation of marriage
dates to the Nation’s beginning,” and the “State’s power in
defining the marital relation is of central relevance in this
case.”  Kennedy was clearly troubled that by inserting federal
authority into domestic-relations law, the Defense of Marriage
Act “departs from this history and tradition of reliance on
state law to define marriage.”  But the court didn’t invalidate the law on federalism
grounds. Instead it  invoked  the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment, which prevents the federal government from depriving
people of life, liberty or property “without due process of
law,” and which has long been understood to contain an equal
protection component.  Because the Defense of Marriage Act discriminates against
same-sex couples for no legitimate reason, because its “purpose
and practical effect” are to impose “a stigma upon all who enter
into  same-sex marriages ,” and because it reflects (in the
court’s view) “an improper animus or purpose,” it violates the
Fifth Amendment.  Windsor isn’t exactly a minimalist decision, but it does
leave a great deal undecided, especially when taken together
with  Hollingsworth v. Perry , in which the court declined to rule
on the constitutional challenge to  California ’s Proposition 8,
which similarly restricts marriage to opposite-sex couples.
(Notably, Hollingsworth  allows  the federal district court’s
decision striking down Proposition 8 to stand, and thus allows
same-sex couples to marry in California.)  ‘Strict Scrutiny’  The court conspicuously declined to resolve a question to
which the briefs devoted a lot of attention: Must courts give
“strict scrutiny” to laws that discriminate on the basis of
sexual orientation? The  Department of Justice  so argued. If the
court had agreed, it would have imposed a severe  obstacle , not
limited to the area of marriage, to any form of discrimination
against gay men and lesbians.  In his dissenting opinion, Chief Justice  John Roberts  urged
a narrow reading of the court’s opinion, clearly attempting a
kind of damage control. In his view, federalism was crucial to
the outcome, and hence the court’s opinion did not bear on
whether states must recognize same-sex marriages.  By contrast, Justice Antonin Scalia contended that the
handwriting is on the wall: “The view that this Court will take
of state prohibition of same-sex marriage is indicated beyond
mistaking by today’s opinion.” It is too soon to know whether
Scalia’s prediction is correct, but as a technical matter,
Roberts is right to say that the issue remains undecided.  There are also hard questions about the meaning and scope
of the notion of dignity. That notion should be taken not as
freestanding or as a recent invention, but as a modest and
historically grounded effort to help specify what a denial of
equal protection looks like. If the government is demeaning,
humiliating and stigmatizing people, there is a constitutional
problem. That problem is hardly disconnected from the concerns
that long ago gave rise to the national repudiation of slavery
and  Jim Crow  -- and to the enduring constitutional principles
that reflect that repudiation.  As a matter of simple fact, American constitutional law has
 never been static ; a disciplined dynamism is built into our
constitutional fabric. That dynamism is most inspiring, most
constrained and least dangerous when the court refuses to build
out of whole cloth, but instead maintains continuity with the
basic purposes of the constitutional design. In resting its
ruling on the foundation of human dignity, the Windsor opinion
does exactly that.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University
Professor at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist.
He is the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 