-- German Stocks Advance as Consumer Sentiment Increases
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-26T16:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/german-stocks-advance-as-consumer-sentiment-increases.html
German stocks  climbed, posting their
biggest two-day advance since April, as a report showed the
nation’s consumer sentiment will increase in July more than
economists had forecast.  SAP AG (SAP)  added 4.6 percent after its co-Chief Executive
Officer said the world’s largest maker of business-management
software has gained market share.  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  jumped 3.8
percent after Berlin’s largest residential landlord said both
its chairman and chief executive officer will leave.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 1.7 percent to 7,940.99 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, extending their 1.6 percent rally
yesterday. The gauge retreated 4.2 percent last week as
investors prepared for a potential paring of stimulus this year
by the  Federal Reserve  if the  U.S. economy  improves. The broader
HDAX Index also increased 1.6 percent today.  “The good consumer confidence data in Germany is
supportive that recent weaker macro-economic data hasn’t dented
consumerism,” James Butterfill, who helps oversee 29 billion
pounds ($44 billion) as head of global equity strategy at Coutts
& Co. in  London , said. “There is a post selloff relief rally
across all equity markets. When tapering is about to occur,
there is an initial shock, but when there is confirmation of the
baton of growth -- shifting to a more sustainable economy -- it
tends to be supportive of equity markets.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 27 percent greater than average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A German  consumer confidence  gauge for July rose to 6.8
from 6.5 in June, Nuremberg-based research company GfK AG said
today. That would be the highest since September 2007. Analysts
had expected a reading of 6.5, according to the median of 32
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Failing Banks  European Union finance ministers meet in Brussels today to
resume their discussions over how to handle failing banks. Irish
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  will chair his final meeting
under Ireland’s six-month presidency of the EU.  SAP advanced 4.6 percent to 57.39 euros. Co-CEO  Bill McDermott  told CNBC after the close of European trading
yesterday that the company’s cloud business in Europe is growing
rapidly. SAP slid 9.6 percent from the beginning of the year
through yesterday, while the Stoxx 600 Technology Index climbed
3.2 percent.  GSW Immobilien rallied 3.8 percent to 29.61 euros. CEO
Bernd Kottmann will leave his post on July 15 and Chairman
Eckart John von Freyend will follow him on July 31, GSW said in
a statement late yesterday. Shareholders passed a no-confidence
motion against Kottmann at a meeting last week. They also voted
to dismiss Freyend.  Merck, Commerzbank  Merck KGaA (MRK) , the German maker of cancer drug Erbitux,
advanced 1.7 percent to 116.90 euros. Merck plans to expand its
liquid-crystals business beyond displays for flat-screen
televisions, according to Chief Financial Officer Matthias Zachert, who was speaking to reporters in Darmstadt.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  dropped 2.1 percent to 6.90 euros, its
lowest price since at least 1992. BNP Paribas SA reached the
final stages of its negotiations to buy Commerzbank’s custodian
business, according to a report in Boersen-Zeitung, which did
not state where it obtained the information. The agreement
between Germany’s second-biggest bank and France’s largest
lender is expected to be signed by mid-July, according to the
Boersen-Zeitung report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  