-- Glen Rice Jr. Shoots From NBA’s D-League to First Round of Draft
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/glen-rice-jr-shoots-from-nba-d-league-to-draft-s-first-round.html
A sharpshooting touch has given Glen
Rice Jr. a chance to make history at today’s  National Basketball
Association  draft as the first player from the sport’s
developmental league to be taken in the opening round.  The son of three-time NBA All-Star Glen Rice led the Rio
Grande Valley Vipers to a  D-League  title this season after being
kicked off the basketball team at Georgia Tech during his junior
year.  The two-round draft for the NBA’s 30 teams is set for
tonight at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. The
 Cleveland Cavaliers  have the top pick, followed by the  Orlando
Magic ,  Washington Wizards ,  Charlotte  Bobcats and  Phoenix Suns .  Rice, who’s 6-foot-6 and 215 pounds, averaged  25 points  and
9.5 rebounds in the D-League playoffs, and the NBA’s  New York
Knicks ,  Boston Celtics , Suns and Portland Trail Blazers all
brought him in for pre-draft workouts. Oddsmakers expect him to
be a first-round pick.  “He played on the highest level of any player in this
draft,” ESPN draft analyst Chad Ford said in a telephone
interview. “As much as we love some of our college teams, a D-League team would exceed even the best college team. The talent
level is higher. Not only did he excel, he led his team to the
D-League championship and was MVP of the finals.”  The D-League was formed 12 years ago, and 41 percent of all
players drafted by NBA teams since 2005 have spent time there.
Twenty-six of last year’s 60 draftees played in the
developmental league, including former Syracuse University
center Fab Melo of the Celtics and lottery picks Jeremy Lamb of
the Oklahoma City Thunder and Kendall Marshall of the Suns.  NBA Game  While Rice played for the  Houston Rockets ’ affiliate, he’s
eligible to be selected out of the D-League because he never
declared for the draft as a college underclassman.  “We know when you’re playing the NBA game, with NBA rules,
with an NBA 3-point line, Glen Rice can score the basketball and
he was playing against former lottery picks and other elite
players,” Ford said. “He’s a great athlete and he can really
shoot the basketball -- those are things that teams covet. But
he wasn’t in the D-League by choice.”  While Rice’s father ranks 14th in NBA history with 1,559 3-pointers, draft analysts say the son’s off-court difficulties in
college might be a concern to some teams. Rice was benched at
the end of his sophomore season at Georgia Tech and suspended
twice for a total of nine games as a junior. He was kicked off
the team in March 2012 after driving a car from which one of his
passengers fired a gun.  Mature Response  Ryan Blake, the NBA’s director of scouting operations, said
that Rice’s D-League performance has shown his maturity.  “He took the bull by its horns, he made it
professionally,” Blake said. “He’ll tell you that he made
mistakes, was immature, did things that were wrong.”  Rice, who hit 39 percent of his 3-point shots in 42
regular-season games for  Rio Grande , said he appreciated the
chance to play in the D-League. Rice’s father was the fourth
overall pick in the 1989 draft of the Miami Heat and played 15
seasons in the NBA.  “They believed in me, coach believed in me, and when you
get that opportunity with a bunch of guys behind you, you’re
going to get much better,” said Rice, who added that facing
bigger and more physical players was the most significant
transition he had to make from college to the professional game.  University of Kentucky  freshman center Nerlens Noel, who is
coming back from a torn knee ligament that ended his college
season in February, is the 2-3 favorite to be taken No. 1,
according to online sportsbook Bovada.lv. That site puts the
over/under on Rice’s draft position at 28 1/2, meaning it
expects him to be gone by the end of the first round.  First-Round Picks  The University of Maryland’s 7-foot-1 center, Alex Len;
Georgetown small forward Otto Porter, and University of Nevada-Las Vegas power forward Anthony Bennett are among other
projected top picks, along with shooting guards Victor Oladipo
of  Indiana  and Ben McLemore of  Kansas . Len has 3-2 odds of being
the top pick, with McLemore at 6-1 to be the first shooting
guard drafted No. 1 since David Thompson in 1975.  The Cavaliers, Suns, Thunder, Minnesota Timberwolves,  Utah
Jazz  and  Atlanta Hawks  all have two first-round picks, while the
 Los Angeles Lakers  and NBA-champion  Miami Heat  are among the
teams without a selection in the opening round. The Brooklyn
Nets pick 22nd, with the Knicks at No. 24.  Ford, who projects Rice to go 30th to the Suns, said he has
as wide a range as any potential first-round pick, with the
possibility of being taken as high as No. 15 by the  Milwaukee
Bucks .  Three players have been drafted out of the D-League,
according to NBA records. All three were second-round picks,
most recently in 2011 when Chukwudiebere Maduabum went 56th to
the Lakers.  “I can almost assure you that he won’t get past the
Houston Rockets at 35,” Ford said of Rice. “He played for
their D-League franchise and they love him. They wish they could
just claim him, but the NBA rules you have to go through a
draft.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  