-- GM’s Opel Names Mueller of Henkel to Oversee Marketing
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-06-26T09:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/gm-s-opel-names-mueller-of-henkel-to-oversee-marketing.html
General Motor Co. (GM) ’s Opel division
appointed Tina Mueller, a former executive at German soapmaker
Henkel AG, to run the auto brand’s marketing as the European
carmaker works to sustain sales amid shrinking demand.  Mueller, 44, will take the new post of chief marketing
officer on Aug. 1, Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel said in a
 statement  today. Duncan Aldred, who replaced Alfred Rieck as
head of sales and marketing on an interim basis in January, will
retain responsibility for sales and keep his post as head of
Vauxhall, Opel’s sister brand in the U.K., it said.  General Motors is working to turn around its European
operations, which have accumulated more than $18 billion in
losses since 1999, and has a target for the business to break
even by 2015. The Detroit-based company has laid out plans to
invest $4 billion through 2016 to develop 23 vehicles and 13
engines. New models introduced in the last year include the Adam
small car and Mokka sport-utility vehicle.  “With her valuable experience in the brand-driven consumer
goods industry, Tina Mueller will have a major impact on the
Opel brand,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Thomas Neumann said
in the statement.  Thomas Sedran, who has been Opel’s strategy chief since
April 2012, will move from the division on July 1 to become head
of European operations for GM’s Chevrolet brand, the carmaker
also said. He succeeds Susan Docherty, who is  leaving  GM.  Mueller’s  previous work  has included managing the
Schwarzkopf hair-care, Diadermine skin-care and Theramed dental
brands at Dusseldorf, Germany-based Henkel, as well as stints at
European cosmetics producers Wella AG and  L’Oreal SA. (OR)   Opel has a goal of maintaining market share in Europe this
year amid a sixth consecutive industrywide contraction. Combined
Opel and Vauxhall five-month new registrations in Europe fell
6.3 percent from a year earlier, less than the market’s decline
of 6.8 percent, and their share of sales was stable at 6.7
percent, according to the Brussels-based ACEA trade group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  