-- Goldman Sachs Invests $100 Million in APT Cloud-Data Business
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/goldman-sachs-invests-100-million-in-apt-cloud-data-business.html
Applied Predictive Technologies, a
maker of cloud-based data-analysis software, received a $100
million investment from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to expand
internationally and enhance its tools for predicting trends.  The investment is the largest since Arlington, Virginia-based APT was founded 14 years ago. The company, which counts
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  among its customers,
uses data analysis to measure the effect of advertising, pricing
and other initiatives on company profitability. With the new
funding, APT plans to open an office in Japan and take on more
clients, said Chief Executive Officer Anthony Bruce.  While banks leery of security issues have been late
adopters of Internet-delivered cloud technology, Goldman Sachs
is betting they will eventually embrace the concept, said  David Campbell , an executive at the bank.  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  also offer analytics services
and sales in that market may grow to  $23.8 billion  in 2016, at
an annual rate of 32 percent, according to IDC.  “This is a way to ensure as the technology develops over
the next decade we’re in a position to use them and apply them
to our business,” Campbell, a vice president in Goldman Sachs’s
merchant banking division, said in an interview.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, isn’t
currently an APT client, the company said.  APT is considering an eventual public offering, according
to Robert Palumbo at Accel-KKR, which invested $54 million in
APT in 2006. The closely held company, which has more than 100
clients, declined to disclose revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  