-- Goldman Says Sony Risk Jump Overdone Amid Loeb Bid: Japan Credit
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-06-26T02:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/goldman-says-sony-risk-jump-overdone-amid-loeb-bid-japan-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA recommend investors seek to profit from the jump in
bond risk of  Sony Corp. (6758) , which is considering billionaire Daniel
Loeb’s proposal to spin off its movie and music business.  The cost to protect the debt of the maker of PlayStation
video-game consoles and Bravia televisions has risen 88 basis
points to 228 basis points since May 13, a day before Loeb’s
plan was first reported, according to data provider CMA. That’s
the highest since Feb. 1. Japan’s benchmark for  credit-default
swaps  climbed 47 basis points in the period to 121, and the
gauge for the U.S. increased 19 to 92, according to CMA.  Goldman and BNP Paribas both recommend selling protection
on Sony debt to profit from the excessive costs, with the French
bank blaming hedging activity by equity investors for the
increase. The Tokyo-based company forecast a 16 percent increase
in profit for the year started April 1 after posting its first
net income in four years, helped by the weaker yen, job cuts,
asset sales and hit movies including “Skyfall.”  “Sony’s credit-default swaps are at pretty high levels,”
Hisayoshi Nogawa, a Tokyo-based structured credit strategist at
BNP Paribas, said in a telephone interview. “From a credit
investors’ point of view, the levels are wider than the
benchmark index by about one percentage point. That’s a good
premium.”  Loeb’s Proposal  The company’s bond risk rose to a record 488 basis points
on Nov. 1 as the electronics maker unexpectedly posted its
seventh straight quarterly loss on falling demand, according to
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. It
declined to 140 basis points May 13, the lowest since Nov. 17,
2011, before Loeb’s proposal triggered a share rally.  An initial public offering of the entertainment operations
would help Sony focus on its unprofitable electronics
businesses, Loeb said in the May 14 letter. Daiwa Asset
Management Co. is opposed to the proposal, claiming it will
drain the company of a source of profits.  The billionaire is pushing for talks with Sony directors
and investment bankers advising the company on his proposal
after the board agreed to consider it. Third Point LLC funds now
 own  70 million shares, up from 64 million in May, and it is
interested in serving on Sony’s board, Loeb said in a June 17
letter to Hirai. That’s about 6.9 percent of outstanding shares.  Mami Imada, a Sony spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
credit-default swap moves.  Bond Sales  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, the  Japan  Student
Services Organization hired banks for a 40 billion yen ($408
million) sale of two-year notes in August, according to a
statement yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co., which is managing the deal with Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yield rose 1 1/2 basis
points, or 0.015 percentage point, to 0.875 percent as of 10:57
a.m. in Tokyo today. The securities  yielded  175 basis points
less than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, the widest spread
since July 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yen was little changed at 97.86 per dollar as of 10:59
a.m. in Tokyo, after touching 98.70 on June 24, the weakest
since June 11. It has depreciated 8.9 percent in the past six
months, the most among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The
weaker yen helps boost exporters’ overseas earnings and make
their products more competitive abroad.  Hedging Positions  The cheaper currency, along with a recovering electronics
business, will help lower Sony’s bond risk, BNP Paribas’ Nogawa
said. The swaps may have risen in mid-May because of equity
investors betting the spinoff plan will raise the stock price
and buying the insurance to hedge positions, he said.  After those managers closed their positions, pushing the
credit derivatives down by mid-June, the rates started climbing
again as the the prospect of the U.S. Federal Reserve reducing
stimulus measures roiled financial markets, Nogawa said.  Credit-default swap contracts typically rise as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves, and investors
use them to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Entertainment Profits  Sony’s  main TV business  has lost 762 billion yen during
nine straight annual losses. Without the contribution of
profitable entertainment units and an insurance arm, Sony would
have booked 130 billion yen in losses in the year ended March
31. Its net income was 43 billion yen.  The company plans to turn around the electronics segment
and forecasts a 100 billion yen profit for it this fiscal year,
Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said last month.  Operating profits and free cash flow generated in the year
through March 31 “should be a tailwind to its CDS
performance,” Kenneth Ho, a Hong-Kong based credit strategist
at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note dated June 18. The bank is
recommending buying swaps on Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the
world’s largest merchant ship operator, at 215 basis points,
while offering protection on Sony at 200.  Convertible Bonds  Goldman Sachs was one of the underwriters, along with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Nomura Holdings and SMBC Nikko Capital
Markets Ltd., hired to manage last year’s 150 billion-yen sale
of Sony convertible bonds.  The U.S. bank purchased the notes on the secondary market
and a special vehicle was set up to hold them and sell financial
products after separating the debt from the equity option,
according to a Dec. 7 statement by the investment bank.  Nomura Holdings said credit-market concern that the Fed
will start tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond buying may
cause Sony’s bond risk to rise in the short term.  “When default swaps are likely to rise, companies with bad
fundamentals are more likely to suffer,” said Toshihiro Uomoto,
Tokyo-based chief credit strategist at Nomura. “I’m not
positive about Sony’s recovery.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policy to end 15 year of
deflation through monetary and fiscal stimulus has helped lower
the debt risk of Sony’s domestic competitors, according to
Nogawa at BNP Paribas.  Sharp Corp.’s default swaps were at 812.3 basis points
yesterday after soaring to a record 8,078 on Oct. 18, while
Panasonic Corp. decreased to 159.3 basis points from a record
506 on Nov. 6, CMA prices show.  “You can’t win at credit investment unless you get in when
the levels are high,” he said. “Timing is everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in  Tokyo  at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  