-- GSW Shares Jump as Top Two Executives Resign: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-06-26T09:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/gsw-shares-jump-as-top-two-executives-resign-frankfurt-mover.html
GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) , the German
property company that faced investor criticism over the March
hiring of its chief executive officer, rose the most in 19
months after saying its CEO and its chairman will quit.  GSW, Berlin’s largest residential landlord by market value,
rose as much as 5.3 percent to 30 euros in  Frankfurt trading ,
the biggest gain since November 2011, boosting its market value
to 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion). CEO Bernd Kottmann and
Chairman Eckart John von Freyend, who oversaw his appointment,
will both leave the company in July, the Berlin-based company
said in a statement after the market closed yesterday.  Their departure ends two months of conflict that culminated
at a Berlin meeting last week at which shareholders passed a no-confidence motion against Kottmann and voted to dismiss Freyend.
The ouster represents a rare show of force by shareholders in
 Europe ’s largest economy, where corporate-governance rules lag
behind U.K. and U.S. standards, said Peter Papadakos, an analyst
with Green Street Advisors in  London .  GSW, which owns 60,000 apartments in Berlin, said on March
11 that CEO Thomas Zinnoecker would resign and announced a week
later that Kottmann would succeed him. PGGM NV, which  owns about
3 percent  of GSW, called for votes on the appointment, saying
the speed with which Kottmann was chosen raised questions about
the thoroughness of the search. The Dutch pension administrator
also criticized Kottmann and Freyend over their tenure at  IVG
Immobilien AG (IVG) , a German real estate company now in debt-restructuring talks with creditors.  GSW has declined about 10 percent since PGGM called on
Kottmann to quit on May 15, compared with a 14 percent decline
in the  EPRA FTSE/NAREIT index  of German property stocks.  GSW’s biggest shareholders are  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ,
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Singapore ’s wealth fund,  according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  