-- Li’s Shock Treatment to China Lenders Evokes Ex-Reformer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-27T10:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/li-s-shock-treatment-to-china-lenders-evokes-ex-reformer.html
The jolt Premier Li Keqiang
delivered to  China ’s financial system emulates a playbook
crafted by predecessor Zhu Rongji in the 1990s, inflicting
short-term pain in the anticipation of long-term gain.  Li, who took office in March, sent the clearest message yet
the past week that China’s new leadership team wants lenders to
rein in  credit expansion , depriving money markets of liquidity
in the biggest squeeze in at least a decade. Next steps may
include tightening that sends some smaller financial
institutions into bankruptcy, according to analysts at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  Zhu’s strategy of cutting the size of state enterprises
with millions on the payrolls helped set the stage for years of
 growth  in excess of 10 percent. With a focus now on a slower
expansion pace that avoids asset bubbles or bad-loan crises, Li
and his team face a possible backlash from indebted local
governments and state banks that are among the world’s largest
by market value.  “You’ve got to use a hammer to change this system,” said
James McGregor, a Beijing-based former chairman of the American
Chamber of Commerce in China and author of the 2012 book “No
Ancient Wisdom, No Followers: The Challenges of Chinese
Authoritarian Capitalism.”  “There’s no rule of law here, so you’ve got to use blunt
instruments to get party members out there in the financial
system to pay attention,” said McGregor, now chairman for
Greater China at public-relations company APCO Worldwide Inc.
“This got their attention.”  Liquidity Support  The central bank signaled this week that while it won’t let
the cash squeeze further roil money markets, any liquidity
support will be focused on banks that are lending to help the
economy, after credit expansion outpaced economic growth this
year. Li’s State Council, or Cabinet, said last week that the
financial system must better support the economy, and yesterday
said China will keep consistency and stability in its policies
to stabilize market expectations.  “It takes pains to get through the liquidity crunch, but
it also paves way for future gains,” the official Xinhua News
Agency said in a commentary last night. “For the blessing of a
more sustainable economy, banks are the first, but certainly not
the last to suffer the hardship.”  China’s seven-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank
funding, fell 55 basis points to 6.74 percent today after the
central bank said June 25 it would use tools to safeguard
stability and that tight liquidity would ease. The rate touched
a record 12.45 percent on June 20.  Stocks Fall  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index of stocks fell 0.1
percent at the close, the seventh straight decline.  Li, 57, has pledged to open the economy to more market
forces and strip power from the government. This “self-imposed
revolution” would “even feel like cutting one’s own wrist,”
Li said at a March 17 press conference.  “Both premiers are reformers and investors are trying to
find out if Li, like Zhu, has the courage and will to push for
wrenching changes,” said Fred Hu, the Beijing-based founder of
private-equity firm Primavera Capital Group and former Greater
China chairman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Zhu’s reforms,
while unpopular and painful at the time, ultimately delivered
tremendous benefits to the Chinese economy.”  Li’s economic team includes leaders who worked under Zhu in
the 1990s such as People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan ,
who was a deputy governor from 1996 to 1998, and Finance
Minister  Lou Jiwei , a vice minister from 1998 to 2007. Both
played roles in economic restructuring that led to China joining
the World Trade Organization in 2001.  Zhou’s Position  While the PBOC’s actions this month have been
“extraordinarily reckless,” Zhou is in a “very difficult
position” given that he doesn’t have authority to make key
decisions, said Mark Williams, a former U.K. Treasury adviser on
China who is now an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London . “There will be a lot of angry bankers out there and a
lot of state-owned industry will be questioning what went on.”  Jiang Jianqing , chairman of Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the nation’s biggest bank, said there was no clear
direction from policy makers on their goals during the money-market turmoil, Reuters reported, citing a June 25 interview.
“Those few days, even for us, we were genuinely a bit tense,”
Jiang said, according to Reuters.  Economy’s Steward  As the economy’s steward from the early 1990s through 2003,
during which he served as vice premier, central bank governor
and then premier, Zhu helped slash  inflation  to 2.8 percent in
1997 from more than 24 percent in 1994 while slowing growth in
fixed-asset investment. More than 50 million workers were laid
off at state-owned enterprises under Zhu’s watch, according to
Standard Chartered Plc.  Li, China’s first premier with an economics doctorate, gave
his “unwavering commitment” to the 400-plus-page “China
2030”  report  published last year by the World Bank and the
Development Research Center of China’s State Council, then-World
Bank President Robert Zoellick said in February 2012.  The report lays out a framework to restructure China’s
economy through market mechanisms. It recommends loosening
controls over  interest rates , boosting consumption, rolling back
state enterprises and speeding a shift to market-set prices for
everything from loans to raw materials.  Such initiatives may face opposition from entities
including local governments that rely on debt to finance their
budgets and state-owned enterprises in industries from banking
to telecommunications that resist increased competition.  Pushing Back  “Everybody who needs credit will be pushing back,” said
Steve Tsang, director of the China Policy Institute at the
University of Nottingham in  England . “How are local governments
going to service their huge debt?”  Zhu and Li both inherited an overhang of excess  investment 
and both vowed to slash the role of government. Still, Zhu, now
84, became premier with a reputation as a risk taker after
earning the nickname “One-Chop Zhu,” referring to the red
stamps of approval for paperwork, for making it easier for
foreigners to set up businesses in Shanghai when he was mayor
there. Li rose to office with a lower profile and a reputation
for caution.  “Both saw the need to take drastic action on the economy
and they have done so in different ways,” Tsang said. “That’s
probably as far as it goes. Li Keqiang doesn’t have a reputation
for taking risks. He wouldn’t have done this without Xi Jinping
and the rest of the Standing Committee behind him.”  Follow Through  The success or failure of Li’s policies will hinge on
whether he follows through with “structural reforms,” Barclays
Plc analysts led by Hong Kong-based Huang Yiping said in a note
today.  Deposit and lending rates may become more flexible in the
coming months and other initiatives, including changes to the
fiscal and household-registration systems, may be detailed at a
Communist Party meeting this autumn, Huang wrote.  Li inherited combined government, corporate and consumer
debt at about 206 percent of  gross domestic product , up from 150
percent a decade earlier, Standard Chartered estimates.  With May M2 money supply expanding 15.8 percent from a year
earlier, above the year’s 13 percent target, policy will remain
tight in the second half, said Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura’s chief
China economist in Hong Kong.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, New Zealand
reported a May trade surplus that was smaller than economists
projected, while  Vietnam ’s economic growth accelerated in the
second quarter. Taiwan kept borrowing costs unchanged.  German Unemployment  Germany ’s unemployment fell by 12,000 people in June, while
U.S. data will probably show consumer spending rebounded in May,
based on the median analyst estimate.  The sudden action by Li’s government in China contrasts
with a decade of incremental policy change under former
President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao.  “What you are seeing is a re-connection with the economic
management and reform mindset of the period of former President
Jiang Zemin and Zhu Rongji,” said Kenneth Courtis, founder of
Tokyo-based advisory company Next Capital Partners and former
Asia vice chairman at Goldman Sachs. “People are starting to
understand more fully that the new leadership is working to move
China beyond the Hu-Wen period, when change was modest and based
largely on vast reforms that had gone before.”  --Kevin Hamlin. With assistance from Emma Bi in Hong Kong,
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  and James Mayger in  Tokyo . Editors:
Scott Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net . 