-- Spanish Investor Bankia Sells Stake in British Airways Owner
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-06-27T12:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/iag-investor-bankia-exiting-12-1-stake-in-british-airways-owner.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) , the Spanish banking group
bailed out by the government last year, said it has sold its
stake in British Airways parent  IAG SA (IAG) , exiting a holding
obtained in the 2011 merger of the U.K. airline with Iberia.  The company’s Bankia Bolsa SA brokerage arm placed 224.3
million IAG shares at 256 pence each, it said in a statement,
valuing the transaction at 574.2 million pounds ($880 million).
The stock sold corresponds to a 12.09 percent stake in IAG,
which closed at 264 pence yesterday in London.  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  has said that
there was no longer strategic value in having the bank as an
investor, and he predicted Bankia would exit to focus on its
main operations. Walsh has sought to accelerate the integration
of Iberia into the combined group with a cost-cutting plan that
includes the elimination of thousands of jobs in  Spain .  “The overhang has been removed and that’s a positive for
IAG,” said  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Holdings in
Dublin, who rates the stock “outperform.” “IAG has moved
along as a restructuring story, not just at BA, which addressed
its issues before anyone else, but also at Iberia, where the
restructuring has been immediate, radical and necessary.”  IAG, known in full as International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, fell as much as 7.7 pence, or 2.9 percent, to 256.5
pence. The stock has gained 40 percent this year.  Collateral Planes  The disposal announced yesterday coincided with IAG’s plan
for a bond sale that uses its new aircraft as collateral. IAG
said that six  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners are part of collateral
in the placement of a $927 million asset-back bond, along with
two Boeing 777-300ER long-range jets and six Airbus SAS A320
short-haul planes due for delivery through next June.  The Class A certificates, worth $721.6 million, have an
annual coupon of 4.625 percent, with Class B certificates,
valued at $205.4 million, carrying a 5.625 percent coupon,
London-based IAG said yesterday.  “This transaction marks a strategic milestone as we
diversify our sources of funding,” Chief Financial Officer
Enrique Dupuy said in a statement, adding it marks BA’s first
use of so-called enhanced equipment trust certificates.  The method of selling bonds backed by aircraft is more
common in  North America . In April,  Air Canada (AC/B)  announced a
private offering of 2 tranches of enhanced equipment trust
certificates secured by five new Boeing 777-300ER.  American
Airlines  sold bonds in March backed by single-aisle Boeing’s as
well as larger wide-body airliners by the U.S. manufacturer.  Bankia, Spain’s fourth-biggest banking group, said the exit
marks a step toward the completion of a three-year plan
presented on Nov. 28. The company got about half of the 41
billion euros in European aid sought by Spain last year, as it
reported a a record 19 billion-euro annual loss.  The retreat from IAG “stipulates, among other things, the
divestment of non-strategic units, including the portfolio of
holdings,” Bankia said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  