-- Ibovespa Futures Advance as Concern Eases on China Cash Crunch
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-26T12:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/ibovespa-futures-advance-as-concern-eases-on-china-cash-crunch.html
Ibovespa  futures  advanced as  China ’s
central bank said it will act to safeguard stability in money
markets, easing concern that a cash crunch will curb economic
growth in  Brazil ’s top trading partner.  Banco Bradesco SA, Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market
value, may move after saying it renewed a stock buyback program
and plans to repurchase as many as 15 million shares in the next
12 months. OSX Brasil SA, the billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
shipping unit, may be active after it failed to place a quarter
of the shares offered to recapitalize the company.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August rose 0.3
percent to 47,105 at 9:08 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real climbed
0.1 percent to 2.2116 per dollar.  European equities and U.S. stock-index futures gained after
the People’s Bank of China said in a statement it has provided
liquidity to some financial institutions to stabilize money-market rates and will use short-term liquidity operations and
standing lending-facility tools to ensure steady markets.  “This statement indicates the central bank’s support to
stabilize interbank liquidity,” Credit Suisse Group AG’s
analysts Dong Tao and Weishen Deng wrote in a research note.  The Ibovespa slumped into a  bear market  on June 11 after
falling more than 20 percent from this year’s peak on Jan. 3. It
has since extended those losses to 26 percent. Brazil’s
benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.8 times analysts’  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with 9.7 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Foreign investors have pulled 4.53 billion reais from Latin
America’s largest equity market this month through June 21, data
from the exchange show. Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo
was 6.88 billion reais yesterday, compared with a daily average
of 7.93 billion reais this year through June 24, according to
data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  