-- Michigan Pays 40% More as Detroit Debt Hits Spread: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/michigan-pays-40-more-as-detroit-debt-hits-spread-muni-credit.html
The yield penalty on Michigan’s debt
has climbed 40 percent in less than two weeks as defaults by
Detroit and two school districts lead investors to question the
state’s commitment to protect bondholders.  Buyers demand about  0.49 percentage point  of extra yield to
own general obligations of Michigan instead of benchmark
securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s up from 0.35
percentage point on June 13, the day before Detroit emergency
financial manager Kevyn Orr released his plan to avert a record
municipal bankruptcy. The proposal included halting payments on
$2 billion of munis.  The month before, school districts in  Buena Vista  and
Pontiac defaulted. They were the first such issuers in the state
to do so, according to research firm Municipal Market Advisors.
The events call into question Michigan’s willingness to preserve
the safety of securities backed by a municipality’s full faith
and credit, said Shawn O’Leary, a senior research analyst in
 Chicago  at Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees $95 billion
of local-government debt.  “There’s a tremendous amount of selling -- people are very
anxious about Michigan cities,” said Matt Fabian, a managing
director at Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA. “Those districts
defaulting are absolutely a sign of the state’s eroding concern
about bondholders.”  Turnaround Task  In Michigan, where no locality has filed for Chapter 9
bankruptcy, about 10 percent of its 9.9 million residents live
in communities under fiscal oversight, said O’Leary. Orr, a
former bankruptcy lawyer, is trying to turn around a city that
has lost a quarter of its population since 2000.  He proposed a deal June 14 that included skipping a $39.7
million payment on pension-obligation debt as the city grapples
with $17 billion in liabilities. Uninsured  Detroit  debt maturing
in April 2016 traded this week at 33 cents on the dollar, down
from 90 cents earlier in June.  “Michigan historically has been a state that will work to
support the credit quality of its underlying municipalities,”
O’Leary said. “If the state has any interest at all in
preserving the market access of those communities, it needs to
say that it supports the legality and strength of the general-obligation pledge.”  ‘No Involvement’  Karen Cain, treasurer of Pontiac School District, about
30 miles (48 kilometers) northwest of Detroit, wasn’t available
to comment, said Valdria Rowe, executive administrative
assistant. A message left with Brittanny Anderson, secretary to
the superintendent of the Buena Vista district, wasn’t returned.
The community is about 100 miles northwest of Detroit.  Terry Stanton , a spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon, said the state had “no involvement in either issue.”
The deals weren’t part of a state program that provides credit
enhancement to debt approved by Dillon for capital projects.  The Republican-controlled legislature last week passed two
bills allowing the state to dissolve Buena Vista and the Inkster
district near Detroit. The bills await Republican Governor  Rick Snyder ’s signature.  About 55 Michigan school districts project budget deficits
this year, said Matt Butler, an analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service. The New York-based company doesn’t grade Buena Vista’s
district, and has Pontiac’s at Caa1, seven steps below
investment grade. Michigan has an Aa2 rank, third highest.  Deficit Districts  Jurisdictions facing budget shortfalls must submit a
deficit-elimination plan to the state, said Martin Ackley, a
spokesman for Mike Flanagan, state superintendent. If a system
fails to, the state withholds funding, he said.  Pontiac and Buena Vista schools both missed May 1 debt-service payments because  Michigan  halted aid in the prior two
months, Butler said.  The state’s not intervening to protect bondholders was a
surprise, he said.  “Our understanding has been with these tools that the
state has, it would not allow a district to default,” Butler
said in a telephone interview. “It does raise new questions
going forward for any other districts that fall into a position
like this.”  Detroit Focus  Tax-exempt Pontiac school bonds maturing in May 2015 traded
this week at an average yield of 9.14 percent, or about 93 cents
on the dollar. That’s about 7.5 percentage points more than
benchmark munis. The debt is insured by Syncora Guarantee Inc.  “Syncora Capital Assurance Inc. received and duly paid a
claim in full” related to the Pontiac district, Michael Corbally, a spokesman for Syncora, said in an e-mail.  The Pontiac system has $14 million of debt, while the Buena
Vista district has about $2.5 million, Bloomberg data show.
Buena Vista’s district enrolls 435 students, compared with about
5,200 in Pontiac’s.  The state may not have intervened because the debt was
insured and authorities were focused on Detroit, said Tom Metzold, co-director of munis at Eaton Vance Management in
 Boston .  “I’ve got to believe that Detroit has taken up 100 percent
of the state’s time,” said Metzold, who helps oversee about $30
billion in munis. “These are the very same insurers that are in
Detroit. In effect, it’s being taken care of regardless as part
of the whole Detroit situation.”  Insurers’ Backing  Insurers back about 80 percent of Detroit general-obligation and pension bonds, according to Lisa Washburn, a
managing director at MMA. Syncora said in a June 17 statement
that it would pay claims on the certificates of participation on
which the city failed to make payments.  School districts in Michigan are also allowed to have
emergency managers appointed by the state. An emergency has been
in place for Detroit Public Schools since March 2009, according
to the  treasurer’s website .  Highland Park School District and Muskegon Heights School
District also have state-appointed overseers, according to the
website. Pontiac’s system is under review for an emergency
manager.  Investors will watch for signs that Snyder approves of
Orr’s plan for bondholders, Nuveen’s O’Leary said. A sign of
endorsement from the governor could further punish localities
statewide by weakening the perception of their full faith and
credit backing, he said.  “If the governor signs off on the plan as currently
proposed, the state is tacitly supporting the view that the G.O.
pledge isn’t worth its credit,” O’Leary said. “In that case,
you suddenly call into question the creditworthiness of every
G.O. offered in the state of Michigan.”  Market Movement  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market, Illinois is set to
sell $1.3 billion of general obligations today, the week’s
biggest offer, as investors are poised for their worst monthly
losses since 2008.  Institutional investors are joining individuals in exiting
the market as yields surged to the highest since 2011.  Bondholders such as mutual funds were offering about $2
billion of munis for sale as of June 24, the most since
Bloomberg data began in 1996.  Ten-year AAA munis yield  2.96 percent , the highest since
April 2011. The  interest rate  compares with  2.61 percent  for
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 113 percent, the highest since August. The greater the
figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  