-- Indian Bond Yields Hold Near Six-Week High on Currency Concern
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-26T05:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/indian-bond-yields-hold-near-six-week-high-on-currency-concern.html
Indian bond yields hovered near a
six-week high on speculation a weaker currency will limit the
central bank’s room to cut  interest rates .  The rupee fell to within 0.2 percent of a record low today
as investors favored the dollar after U.S. data bolstered the
outlook for the world’s largest economy. Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram plans to raise a record 6.3 trillion
rupees ($105 billion) from debt sales in the fiscal year that
began April 1, according to budget estimates. Only a “ durable
receding  of inflation” will allow further policy easing, the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in a June 17 statement while keeping
the repurchase  rate  unchanged at 7.25 percent after cutting it
three times this year.  “The rupee continues to be an overhang for the bond
markets,” said Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “Though levels are
pretty attractive, large debt supplies ahead seem to be
deterring investors.”  The yield on 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.67 percent as of
10.29 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The yield climbed to 7.70 percent on June 24, a level
last reached May 8, and has risen 23 basis points this month.  Almost a week after the  Federal Reserve  said an improving
economy could spur reductions in stimulus, data in the U.S.
showed orders for durable goods rose in May while  house prices ,
new-home sales and  consumer confidence  reports beat economists’
estimates. The rupee has fallen 5.6 percent this month, the
worst performer among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, slid one basis
point to 7.43 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  -- With assistance from V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai. Editors:
Robin Ganguly, Andrew Janes  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  