-- India to Cremate Himalayan Flood Victims as Evacuations Continue
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-06-26T08:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/india-to-cremate-himalayan-flood-victims-as-evacuations-continue.html
Priests prepared to cremate some of
the hundreds of people killed in flash floods in northern  India 
last week as the armed forces bid to evacuate 5,000 pilgrims
still trapped in the foothills of the Himalayas.  Weather permitting, mass funerals for victims will be
performed today in Kedarnath, the temple town at the epicenter
of the deluge that may have left 1,000 dead across the
mountainous north of Uttarakhand state, said Laxmi Raj Chauhan,
a local magistrate in the province’s  Rudraprayag  district, by
phone.  Authorities are continuing to collect DNA samples and take
photographs of those killed to aid identification by victims’
families, Chauhan said.  Rain and low visibility has hampered rescue work in a
difficult environment for air crews. An Indian Air Force
helicopter crashed yesterday, killing all five crew members and
15 members of various rescue teams. The voice and flight data
recorders of the aircraft have been recovered, air force chief
N.A.K. Browne told reporters in Uttarakhand.  Browne said four days of clear weather were needed to
complete the evacuation. As many as 4,000 people are stranded in
Badrinath, another town whose temples each year draw crowds of
Hindu pilgrims, he said.  About 10,000 defense and paramilitary personnel and
volunteers -- aided by 83 aircraft -- have been deployed to
search for survivors and deliver relief. They have evacuated
more than 85,000 people from the narrow valleys of the
Himalayas.  Narrow Valleys  Unprecedented downpours triggered landslides and floods
June 16, washing away vehicles, homes and roads. Television
networks broadcast footage of buildings collapsing into raging
rivers and village streets filled with debris and rocks. As many
as 1,000 people may have died, the NDTV 24x7 television channel
has reported citing Vijay Bahuguna, Uttarakhand’s chief
minister.  Shrines in the narrow valleys of the Himalayas lure
thousands of Hindu and Sikh pilgrims during the summer months.
While tourists usually return to the plains before the annual
monsoon, this year the rains came early and in unprecedented
ferocity, catching many by surprise.  Uttarakhand, which abuts India’s border with  China  to the
west of Nepal and has a population of about 10 million, has
received almost four times the usual rainfall this month,
causing rivers to burst their banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  