-- Indonesian Capital Starts Monorail Project After Five-Year Pause
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-06-26T12:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/indonesian-capital-starts-monorail-project-after-five-year-pause.html
Jakarta Governor Joko Widodo signed
an 8 trillion rupiah ($800 million) contract to restart a
monorail project after a five-year hiatus, aiming to reduce
traffic jams in the capital of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy.  Jakarta awarded the contract to PT Jakarta Monorail, which
is expected to complete the project in about 3 years, Widodo
said at a monorail exhibition in the city today. The first such
project was halted in 2008 after it failed to obtain funding
support, Sukmawaty Sukur, operational director at  Jakarta
Monorail , said.  “This will be a part of the solution to solve the city’s
traffic problems,” Edward Soeryadjaya, chairman of Ortus
Holdings, the majority shareholder of Jakarta Monorail, told
reporters during the exhibition.  Indonesia ’s economy expanded 6.02 percent in the three
months through March, with Jakarta contributing about 16 percent
of that growth, government data show. Domestic vehicle sales
rose 23 percent to 1.1 million units last year, according to
data compiled by  PT Astra International (ASII) , the nation’s biggest
car seller.  The monorail will have two lines running through the
capital, a 14.2-kilometer (8.83 miles) blue line connecting
Kampung Melayu with Tanah Abang and another 14.8-kilometer green
circle line from the Casablanca area to Rasuna Said, according
to the Jakarta Monorail website.  Construction is expected to start in October, Sukur said.
The monorail will also link with a separate monorail project to
be built by the government, she said. PT Adhi Karya, PT Jasa
Marga and PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia are among the state
companies that plan to build a 9 trillion rupiah, 54-kilometer
monorail project connecting Jakarta with Cibubur and Bekasi,
State-Owned Enterprises Minister Dahlan Iskan said Feb. 7.  Jakarta ranked 181 out of 221 cities for personal safety in
a survey conducted in 2011 by advisory company Mercer that rated
internal stability, crime levels and law enforcement
effectiveness. The city ranked 140 in overall quality of life,
below  Singapore ,  Kuala Lumpur , Bangkok and  Manila .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  