-- Injured Azarenka, Isner, Darcis, Stepanek Exit Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-26T13:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/injured-azarenka-isner-darcis-stepanek-exit-wimbledon.html
Wimbledon lost four players to
injury in less than two hours today, including Australian Open
champion  Victoria Azarenka  and Steve Darcis, who upset  Rafael Nadal  in the first round.  Azarenka, the second-seed from Belarus, withdrew with a
right-knee injury shortly before she was scheduled to play her
second-round match against  Italy ’s Flavia Pennetta at 1 p.m.
local time at the All England Club in  London . The 23-year-old
was hurt when she slipped on the grass in the second set of her
victory two days ago over  Portugal ’s Maria Joao Koehler.  Darcis also withdrew ahead of his match, while  John Isner 
and  Radek Stepanek  both retired during play.  Belgium ’s Darcis, who had been scheduled to meet Lukasz Kubot of  Poland , pulled out with a right shoulder injury, the
 International Tennis Federation  (ITF) said in an e-mailed
statement.  The world No. 135 caused one of the biggest upsets in
tennis history by beating two-time champion Nadal two days ago.
The Spaniard, the winner of 12 major titles, had never before
lost in the first round of a Grand Slam event.  “Not to go on the court today, it’s maybe the biggest
disappointing thing I have had to do,” Darcis told reporters.
He said he’d hurt his shoulder during a fall in the middle of
the first set against Nadal, and the pain grew worse at night.  No Chance  “No chance I can play,” Darcis added. “I cannot serve.
Even on the forehand side, I cannot hit a ball. Makes no sense
to go on the court to withdraw after two games.”  Darcis withdrew less than an hour after Isner, the U.S.
player nicknamed the “Marathon Man” for playing the longest
match in history, retired with a knee injury after 15 minutes of
his second-round match against Adrian Mannarino of  France .  The 18th-seeded player had been the highest-ranked American
man left in the singles draw. Isner’s draw had opened up after
the opening-round upset of Nadal. The two had been scheduled to
meet in the fourth round.  “Third point of the match,” Isner said in a news
conference, when asked what had caused his injury. “I didn’t do
anything different. I just go to serve, and I think it was as I
landed. Always serve and land on my left leg, like I have done
20 million times playing this game, and this is the first time I
just felt this sharp pain.”  Missed Chances  Isner added his retirement was “very disappointing. It’s
tough to think about. I had a good chance to go pretty far
here.”  Isner, who missed the Australian Open at the start of the
season because of a knee ailment, beat France’s Nicolas Mahut in
the first round of Wimbledon three years ago in a match that
lasted 11 hours, 5 minutes.  Stepanek of the  Czech Republic  retired with a left
hamstring injury as he trailed Poland’s Jerzy Janowicz 6-2, 5-3.  So far, five men and two women have exited the tournament
because of injury or illness, the ITF said. Today is the third
day of the grass-court championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  