-- Investigators Search Bank Indonesia Overnight in Century Probe
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-06-26T05:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/investigators-search-bank-indonesia-overnight-in-century-probe.html
Indonesia ’s anti-corruption
commission searched the central bank’s premises through the
night as part of a probe into the 2008 PT Bank Century bailout
that has dogged President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s second term.  “The search finished in the early morning today,” the anti-graft agency’s spokesman, Johan Budi, said in a mobile-phone
text message. “About 20 boxes of documents were taken by
investigators, which were suspected to be related to the Century
case.”  The agency started its search yesterday from about 10:30
a.m. in Jakarta, according to Peter Jacobs, director of the
communications department at Bank Indonesia. The officials took
some documents after searching areas including the bank
supervision and monetary departments that were related to the
Bank Century case, he said.  The Bank Century rescue at the height of the global
financial crisis was attacked by Yudhoyono’s own political
allies, with parliament voting in 2010 for a criminal probe of
Vice President Boediono and then-Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati. The anti-graft agency started investigating the case
after an examination by the state auditor implicated former Bank
Indonesia Deputy Governor Budi Mulya.  The anti-corruption agency issued instructions to start a
probe into the Bank Century case, VIVAnews reported in February,
citing Chairman Abraham Samad. In November, it named as suspects
Mulya and Siti Chalimah Fadjriah, another former deputy governor
at the central bank, according to the report.  Opposition Campaign  Bank Century, and its 6.7 trillion-rupiah ($674 million)
government bailout in 2008, was at the center of a campaign by
opposition lawmakers against Boediono and Indrawati, who left to
become one of the World Bank’s managing directors. Two major
partners in Yudhoyono’s coalition, Golkar and the Prosperous
Justice Party, joined the opposition in accusing the officials
of abusing their authority during the rescue.  Boediono was central bank governor when the Bank Century
rescue was approved. In 2008, Boediono’s predecessor at the
central bank, Burhanuddin Abdullah, was found guilty by the
country’s anti-corruption court of illegally transferring funds
to Indonesian lawmakers. Abdullah denied any wrongdoing.  Bank Indonesia is cooperating and assisting the anti-corruption commission in its investigations, Jacobs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  