-- Iran Influence in Latin America Waning, U.S. Report Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-26T22:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/iran-influence-in-latin-america-waning-u-s-report-says.html
Iran  isn’t actively supporting
terrorist cells in Latin America and its influence is waning in
the region after almost a decade of promises to increase
investment, according to a State Department report.  While Iran’s interest in Latin America is a “concern,”
sanctions have undermined efforts by the Islamic republic to
expand its economic and political toehold in the region,
according to the unclassified summary of yesterday’s report.  “As a result of diplomatic outreach, strengthening of
allies’ capacity, international nonproliferation efforts, a
strong sanctions policy, and Iran’s poor management of its
foreign relations, Iranian influence in Latin America and the
Caribbean is waning,” according to the report.  The findings disappointed some Republican lawmakers who say
President  Barack Obama ’s administration is underestimating the
threat from Iran. The report comes as the U.S. takes a wait-and-see approach to President-elect Hassan Rohani, who has vowed to
seek more dialog with the U.S.  “I believe the Administration has failed to consider the
seriousness of Iran’s presence here at home,” said Congressman
Jeff Duncan, a Republican from South Carolina who wrote the
legislation requiring the State Department report. “I question
the methodology that was used in developing this report.”  Chavez Alliance  The U.S. stepped up its monitoring of Iran’s presence in
Latin America in a bid to isolate the country over its nuclear
program and after President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  forged closer
ties with anti-American allies of the late Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez . While Iran’s outreach bears watching, claims about
more sinister activities are unproven, said  Christopher Sabatini , senior policy director at the Council of the Americas.  “It’s a shame that in such a dynamic hemisphere in which
we have so many diplomatic initiatives that for some --
especially Congress -- attention to the region has boiled down
to mostly spurious charges about Iranian infiltration,”
Sabatini said via e-mail.  Ahmadinejad made repeated trips to Latin America after
taking office in 2005, most recently to Caracas to attend
Chavez’s funeral in March and the inauguration of his successor,
 Nicolas Maduro , a month later.  By contrast, Rohani has said little about the region since
his surprise victory earlier this month. Instead, he said one of
his main foreign policy priorities will be seeking
“constructive dialog” with the U.S. and U.K., two nations with
which the country has traditionally been at odds.  ‘Good Relations’  “We’ll seek to have good relations with all nations,
including Latin American states,” Rohani said during his first
post-election press conference June 17, in response to a
question about the attention he’ll devote to  Latin America .  Under Ahmadinejad’s watch, Iran added embassies in Latin
America and more than doubled trade with Brazil, the region’s
biggest economy. With Chavez, Ahmadinejad signed more than 100
accords to support everything from a campaign to build homes in
 Venezuela  to a joint venture to manufacture bicycles, which
Chavez jokingly referred to as “atomic” two-wheelers.  The two countries also established in Caracas the  Banco
Internacional de Desarrollo , which together with its main
Iranian shareholder, Bank Saderat, is accused by the U.S. of
being a vehicle for the Ahmadinejad government’s funding of the
Middle Eastern terrorist group Hezbollah.  Yet with Iran’s economy crippled by sanctions, many of the
projects haven’t gotten off the ground. For example, pledges
from 2007 and 2008 to help build a $350 million deep-water port
off Nicaragua’s Atlantic coast and an  oil refinery  in  Ecuador 
have yet to materialize. Nor has it built what former Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  warned would be a “huge” embassy in
Managua.  That hasn’t prevented the Obama administration from trying
to curb Iran’s influence. In 2011, it imposed sanctions on
state-owned oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA for defying
sanctions on Iran. It also implicated an Iranian man working out
of Mexico in a plot to kill Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  