-- IRS Should Make Payments to Harmed Groups, Advocate Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-26T14:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/irs-should-make-payments-to-harmed-groups-advocate-says.html
Congress should allow “apology
payments” of as much as $1,000 to tax-exempt groups and other
taxpayers who incur significant expenses or burdens because of
the agency’s failures, said Nina Olson, the national taxpayer
advocate.  In a special report to Congress today responding to the
controversy surrounding the agency, Olson recommends clearer
rules governing political involvement of nonprofit groups and
simpler forms to make it easier for the IRS to enforce limits on
political activity. Olson operates an independent office within
the IRS that assists taxpayers and makes suggestions to
lawmakers.  In light of the IRS’s verbal apology to groups affected by
delays and inappropriate screening criteria, Olson renewed a
2008 recommendation that her office make as much as $1 million a
year in apology payments. The report doesn’t say they would be
retroactive; it notes that payments could help identify problems
more quickly and make IRS employees more sensitive.  “The rationale for an apology payment is not to compensate
the taxpayer fully for his or her time and frustration, but to
serve as a symbolic gesture to show that the government
recognizes its mistake and the taxpayer’s burden,” the report
said.  The IRS disclosed May 10 that it had subjected Tea Party
groups applying for tax-exempt status to tougher scrutiny and
delays of as long as three years.  Congressional Inquiries  The IRS’ disclosure, made in advance of an inspector
general’s audit, prompted six congressional inquiries and a
Justice Department criminal probe. President  Barack Obama 
replaced the acting commissioner, installing Danny Werfel, who
then replaced three officials who oversaw tax-exempt groups.  The inspector general’s audit is receiving renewed
attention this week after the IRS disclosed that it had given
additional scrutiny to “progressives” applying for tax-exempt
status, a fact the audit didn’t include. Some Democratic-leaning
groups had their applications delayed, according to  Democrats  on
the House Ways and Means Committee.  It’s not clear yet how, when and why the IRS focused on
progressives. Olson’s report says one group with a
“progressive-sounding name” had its application for tax-exempt
status delayed and that an IRS official told the advocate’s
office that it was “taking so long due to the name.”  According to Olson, the IRS didn’t provide taxpayers with
adequate guidance for how it would assess political involvement
of nonprofit groups and failed to keep the groups informed.  ‘Template Responses’  “Their concerns were met with stock, template responses,
and during the periods of delay, taxpayers were not told what
additional information they should be gathering to dislodge
their cases,” she wrote.  Olson also blamed the IRS for asking unnecessary questions
of applicants, lacking a tracking system for cases and operating
in a way that questioned the impartiality of tax administration.
The IRS’s failure to disclose its instructions to its own staff
“appeared to violate the law,” she writes.  She placed part of the blame on the lack of clarity on the
rules governing politically oriented nonprofit groups. Groups
seeking tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(4) of the tax
code can’t have politics as their primary purpose.  Olson said Congress should either ban political activity by
these groups, make it unlimited or clarify the meaning of
“primarily.”  ‘Inherently Controversial’  IRS application forms don’t give the agency enough
information to make that judgment quickly. Assessing political
activity, Olson writes, is an “inherently controversial
determination” that might be better performed by an agency such
as the Federal Election Commission.  Olson recommended that Congress grant 501(c)(4) groups a
right that charities organized under section 501(c)(3) already
have -- the ability to sue if the IRS doesn’t respond to their
applications within nine months.  The report also discloses that as many as 19 groups
affected by the delays brought their cases to the taxpayer
advocate service and requested answers from IRS officials.  From February 2011 to February 2012, the taxpayer advocates
received e-mails with identical language about how these cases
presented “novel” issues and that the agency was trying to
come up with a “template” to address them.  In a statement issued today, Werfel said he and the IRS
plan to work with Olson to improve employee training and
taxpayer education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  