-- IRS Deputy Won’t Testify Before Congress on Awards to Friend
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-06-26T16:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/irs-deputy-won-t-testify-before-congress-on-contracts-to-friend.html
An Internal Revenue Service deputy
director whose office awarded more than $500 million in
contracts to a friend’s technology company wouldn’t testify
before a congressional committee.  Greg Roseman was subpoenaed to appear today before a U.S.
House committee investigating how Strong Castle Inc., a small
business formed in late 2011, managed to attract so much
contract work in such a short time.  At a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
hearing, he declined to answer questions about his relationship
with Braulio Castillo, president of Washington-based Strong
Castle.  “Mr. Chairman, on the advice of counsel, I respectfully
decline to answer any questions and invoke my Fifth Amendment
privilege to remain silent,” Roseman told Representative
Darrell Issa, a California Republican and the panel’s chairman.  The committee released a report yesterday describing the
company’s “cozy relationship” with the IRS, saying Roseman may
have “influenced the selection process” to benefit his friend.  When asked at the hearing about his ties to Roseman,
Castillo said, “I believe we are friends.”  “I wish he was here to testify,” he told lawmakers.  Castillo said his company didn’t get “inappropriate
preferential treatment” from the IRS. While the House staff
report determined that Strong Castle had received contracts with
a potential value of $500 million, Castillo said in prepared
testimony that the company has gotten about $50 million in
awards.  Disabled Veterans  Beth Tucker, an IRS deputy commissioner, received a
February letter from the committee on the investigation of
Strong Castle. She said she immediately referred the matter to a
Treasury Department inspector general.  The IRS is in the process of “separating” itself from
Strong Castle, Tucker said. She didn’t say whether the company
would lose its contracts.  Strong Castle was eligible for contracts that had been set
aside for disabled veterans and for small businesses in
economically disadvantaged communities.  The company was recently cut from the set-aside program for
disadvantaged areas because it provided “inaccurate,
unreliable, and misleading information” to the Small Business
Administration, according to the report.  Castillo acknowledged submitting false records to the SBA.
He also complained about the outcome of his company’s
participation in the small-business programs.  Cummings Rebuke  “Ultimately, our participation in these small business
programs has caused our company and our family to face intense
and costly scrutiny from the Government Accountability Office,
from Congress, from the press and from the SBA,” he said in
prepared testimony.  Representative Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat and the
committee’s ranking minority member, rebuked Castillo during the
hearing.  “You criticize everyone but yourself,” Cummings said.
“Michael Jackson had this song, the ‘Man in the Mirror.’ You
need to look in the mirror.”  Castillo had suffered a foot injury in 1984 at the U.S.
Military Academy Preparatory School, which he attended for a
year, according to the report.  He described his disability in an e-mail to the Veterans
Affairs Department when he was applying to its set-aside
program, the House report shows. His injuries were “crosses
that I bear due to my service to our great country,” he said.  College Football  He had no other connection to the military, and his injury
didn’t prevent him from playing softball or college football,
congressional investigators said.  “I hope you think twice about the example you are setting
for your children,” Representative Tammy Duckworth, an Illinois
Democrat and Iraq war veteran, said during the hearing. She lost
both her legs and injured her arm during her service.  Castillo also rented an office in  Washington ’s Chinatown
neighborhood to qualify for contracts benefiting small
businesses in the disadvantaged communities. He and his wife --
the firm’s top executives at the time -- lived and worked in the
“wealthy Virginia suburbs,” according to the report.  He used the head football coach at Catholic University of
America, his college roommate, to recruit student employees.  Castillo met Roseman in 2003. The two frequently exchanged
phone calls and text messages, some of which contained
homophobic slurs.  The IRS’s Tucker called the messages unacceptable, and said
she took “immediate steps to have the manager reassigned to a
non-supervisory position that does not involve the awarding or
administration of contracts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  