-- Italy Sees No Threat to Finances From Derivatives Deals
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-06-26T11:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/italy-sees-no-threat-to-finances-from-derivatives-deals.html
Italy ’s Treasury said derivative
deals the nation used to reduce interest-rate and currency risks
on its borrowings pose no threat to the country’s finances.  Italy didn’t use the contracts to improve its accounts when
it sought to join the euro and the financial reporting of the
transactions have been vetted by the region’s statistics agency,
Eurostat, the Treasury said in an e-mailed  statement .  The Financial Times reported earlier today Italy faces
losses of 8 billion euros ($10.4 billion) on about 32 billion
euros of derivatives. The newspaper attributed the estimate to
its own analysis of a Treasury report that details some of the
country’s derivative agreements as they stood in the first half
of 2012.  Italy holds derivatives contracts on about 160 billion
euros of debt, or almost 10 percent of government securities in
circulation, a government official said in March 2012. The
amounts involved and the specific contracts aren’t publicly
disclosed.  “There won’t be any negative impact on public accounts,”
Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said at a press conference
in  Rome . “These are instruments used to manage interest-rate
risk.”  Derivatives Deals  The Treasury said today it submits information to the
government auditor’s office on derivative deals every six
months. In March, the country’s finance police, acting on behalf
of the auditor, requested documents related to a group of deals
with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  that have been terminated and the Treasury
complied with the request. Italy last year paid New York-based
Morgan Stanley $3.4 billion to close contracts from the
mid-1990s, a person with direct knowledge of the transactions
said at the time.  In a separate statement, the auditor’s office said it
receives regular reports from the Italian Treasury on the
country’s public debt. The estimates of potential losses from
the derivatives contracts reported by the FT came from
independent experts used by the newspaper and not from the
auditor, it said in the statement.  Italy said today it used swaptions, options to enter into a
swap, to cut the cost of servicing debt. The mark-to-market on
existing contracts cannot be considered a loss and only in
specific cases can the unwinding of the contracts be demanded by
the counter-party, the Treasury said.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 12 basis points, the
biggest one-day decline in more than two weeks, to 4.74 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  