-- Italy Approves Jobs Plan, Three Months Delay of VAT Increase
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-06-26T10:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/italy-approves-jobs-plan-three-months-delay-of-vat-increase.html
The Italian government said it would
spend 1.5 billion ($2 billion) euros on measures to boost youth
 employment  and delayed by three months an increase of the value-added tax planned in July.  In order to spur consumer spending, the cabinet today
decided to postpone the sales tax increase until Oct. 1, with
the possibility of delaying it further, Prime Minister Enrico Letta said at a press conference in Rome today. The delay will
cost the government 1 billion euros, the premier said.  “I think this shows the government is willing to help the
economy with due caution,” Letta said. This isn’t the right
time “to damage public accounts.”  The cabinet also approved a series of measures to try to
increase hiring of young people, particularly in southern  Italy ,
before a European Union summit starting in Brussels tomorrow
that will discuss the issue.  The labor plan, which will be financed with 1.5 billion
euros in EU and Italian funds, includes tax breaks for companies
that offer permanent job contracts to young workers or convert
temporary contracts into open-ended ones, Labor Minister Enrico
Giovannini said at the press conference.  The reform follows similar measures drafted last year by
Giovannini’s predecessor Elsa Fornero that sought to change the
country’s two-tier labor market divided between highly-protected
workers with lifetime jobs and young people with precarious
short-term contracts. Last year’s overhaul, which aimed to
discourage temporary contracts while giving employers more
leeway to dismiss workers in bad economic times, was partially
watered down due to the opposition of unions and some political
parties.  Letta has pushed to put the issue youth unemployment on the
EU meeting’s agenda as joblessness in the country reached a 36-year high of 12 percent in April with the economy mired in a
two-year recession.  “I highlighted a need and obtained a large and unexpected
consensus,” Letta said in a speech to the Chamber of Deputies
yesterday in  Rome . The EU “can’t afford to close the upcoming
June summit with empty language and generic commitments,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  