-- Japan’s TSE Mothers Plummets as PeptiDream Shares Tumble
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-06-26T06:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/japan-s-tse-mothers-plummets-as-peptidream-shares-tumble.html
Japan ’s  Tokyo  Stock Exchange Mothers
Index of smaller companies plunged to its lowest in almost three
months as medical shares led declines.  PeptiDream Inc. (4587)  plummeted
after the pharmaceutical company canceled a research and
development pact with Pfizer Inc.  The Mothers Index lost 12 percent to 620.46 in Tokyo, its
lowest close since April 5 and steepest drop since June 6. The
gauge has fallen 41 percent since its recent peak on May 14,
when it closed at its highest since March 2007.  PeptiDream tumbled 28 percent.  CanBas Co. (4575)  plunged 24
percent, the most on the index, after the maker of cancer
medications soared as much as 728 percent this year. GNI Group
Ltd., which makes drugs based on genome analysis and had surged
as much as 514 percent this year, dropped 24 percent today. Gene
Techno Science Co. slumped 23 percent for its biggest loss on
record.  “The news about PeptiDream is overwhelmingly adding to
pressure on the Mothers market,” said Yoshihisa Okamoto, head
of equity research at Mizuho Asset Management Co. “It’s making
investors lose confidence in start-up companies. Anxiety is
breeding anxiety.”  Japanese biotechnology companies surged this year after
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to reform the Pharmaceutical
Affairs Law to facilitate biotechnology research, including
exploring  stem cells  that can be reprogrammed for use in tissue
engineering and regenerative medicine.  PeptiDream, which soared 268 percent the day after listing
on June 11, dropped 28 percent to 7,740 yen. The
biopharmaceutical company that specializes in peptide technology
said yesterday it exited a 2010  cooperation agreement  with
Pfizer at the U.S. drugmaker’s request.  “The cancellation of the pact is a shock,” said  Kenichi Hirano , a Tokyo-based market analyst at Tachibana Securities.
The broader sell-off shows that “individual investors’ appetite
is waning. We have clients who had been increasing their stakes
bit by bit, but shares aren’t rising so they’re losing
enthusiasm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  