-- Japan Economic Strength Will Show in Stocks, Nishimura Says
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p ,   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-26T01:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/japan-s-economic-strength-will-be-seen-in-stocks-nishimura-says.html
Japan ’s deputy economy minister said
he’s confident the nation’s economic recovery will be seen in
share prices after next month’s elections.  “I’m optimistic and expect the strength of the Japanese
economy will be reflected in the stock market,” Yasutoshi Nishimura, 50, said yesterday in an interview in  Tokyo . Markets
are likely to “positively rate the government’s policies after
the upper house elections once they see how determined we are to
implement them.”  Victory for the Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition in
the ballot planned for July 21 would end a split parliament that
has slowed the passage of bills. The government’s task will then
be to ensure its growth strategy -- the third of the three
Abenomics arrows after monetary and fiscal stimulus -- produces
a sustained  recovery  in the world’s third-largest economy.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  hit a high of 15,942.60 on May
23, up more than 80 percent from mid-November last year. The
benchmark was at 13,135.52 at 10:07 a.m. in Tokyo today.  The release of the mid-term fiscal outlook in August should
help stabilize bond yields, Nishimura said. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year bond was at 0.87 percent today, after tripling
from a record low of 0.315 percent to as high as 1 percent since
April.  Nishimura said concerns over the direction of the Chinese
economy and the U.S. Federal Reserve potentially slowing its
bond-buying program have been a cause of market turbulence in
Japan.  “Firm Ground”  “While external factors have had some influence, the
Japanese economy is on extremely firm ground,” Nishimura said
in his Tokyo office. The economy should be in a position to
allow the government to raise the  consumption tax  to 8 percent
in April next year from the current 5 percent, he said.  The LDP is set to win next month’s election for the upper
house, where the government currently lacks a majority. A survey
published by the Nikkei newspaper on June 24 found 47 percent of
respondents planned to vote for the party in the proportional
representation section of the poll.  Nishimura declined to comment yesterday on the yen’s level.
When the currency was trading around 89 to the dollar in
January, he said in an interview that a level of 100 wouldn’t be
a problem, a remark that caused the yen to weaken.  The yen reached an almost five-year low in May before
rising more than 5 percent over the past month. The currency
traded at 98.09 per dollar in Tokyo today.  Volatility Eases  Nishimura also said that political stability after next
month’s poll would help ease volatility in government bond
markets following the Bank of Japan’s unleashing of monetary
easing in April.  “In terms of properly preserving fiscal discipline, the
publication of our mid-term fiscal outlook in August should help
to stabilize yields,” Nishimura said. “We have to properly
maintain confidence in  government bonds .”  Nishimura will be in  New York  on June 28 to explain Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s growth strategy. He will be joined by Abe
adviser Koichi Hamada, an architect of Abenomic’s first arrow of
“bold” monetary easing.  A  native  of Akashi in western Japan’s Hyogo Prefecture,
Nishimura graduated from the Faculty of Law at Tokyo University,
where he was member of the boxing club. He joined the trade
ministry in 1985 and was elected to the lower house of
parliament for the first time in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  