-- Kerry Warns Time Is Short to Revive Mideast Peace Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-06-27T10:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/kerry-warns-time-running-short-to-restart-mideast-peace-talks.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said some progress toward reviving Middle East peace talks needs
to be made “long before September,” when the next session of
the  United Nations General Assembly  will begin.  While Kerry said he will set no deadlines for kick-starting
a new round of negotiations, he warned yesterday at an
appearance with his Kuwaiti counterpart that time “allows a
vacuum to be filled by people who don’t want things to happen,”
and unforeseen dangers can arise.  Kerry was greeted by such a development yesterday, when
Israel approved plans for 69 new housing units in a section of
 Jerusalem  that Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 Middle
East War and Palestinians consider occupied territory. A
municipal building committee approved the permits, city
spokeswoman Brachie Sprung said by telephone.  Israel continues to build in settlements in the  West Bank 
and east Jerusalem, which the U.S. State Department has called
“unproductive.” The latest move to add housing is unhelpful as
the U.S. urges all parties to help create a climate for peace, a
department official said yesterday, speaking on condition of
anonymity in advance of Kerry’s meetings.  The Palestinians have refused to return to talks without a
freeze in settlement construction, and they have signaled they
might resume their quest at the UN to join the  International
Criminal Court .  ‘Something Important’  Now Kerry is in Amman, Jordan, for three days of
consultations with Israeli and Palestinian leaders aimed at
bringing them to the table for the first time in almost three
years.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said in an
interview with Al Jazeera television yesterday that he hopes
Kerry brings “something important” and new that will help
narrow the gaps with Israel and lead to fresh talks. Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said this week that he’ll
engage in peace negotiations if Palestinians indicate they’re
willing to address all substantial issues and resolve the
conflict.  Netanyahu is willing to withdraw from more than 90 percent
of the West Bank if his security concerns are met, Ha’aretz
newspaper said today, citing an unidentified Israeli minister.
The prime minister has said any Palestinian state must be
demilitarized, and Israel needs to maintain a security presence
on the border between the West Bank and Jordan.  “Peace is based on security,” Netanyahu said today at a
ceremony in Jerusalem. “It is not based on goodwill and
legitimacy,” he said, in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio .  UN Status  Progress is urgent “because time is the enemy of a  peace
process ,” Kerry said yesterday in Kuwait City, alongside
Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah al-Khalid al-Sabah. The
passage of time, Kerry said, “has the ability to wear out
people’s patience and to feed cynicism and to give people a
sense of impossibility where there in fact is possibility.”  The timing of the UN General Assembly in September is
significant because last year it recognized the Palestinians as
an “observer state,” and they have threatened to use UN
organizations such as the ICC to level war-crimes charges
against Israel.  Kerry has thrown himself into reviving Israeli-Palestinian
peace negotiations, making his fifth trip to Israel since he
became the top U.S. diplomat in February. He’s pushing for
renewed talks even amid a crush of competing demands in the
 Middle East , including Syria’s civil war, violence in Iraq and
 Libya , tensions over  Iran’s nuclear program , and worries about
the stability of  Egypt  and Jordan.  Raising Stakes  Kerry has repeatedly said that time is running out to reach
a two-state solution that would ensure security for Israel and
an independent  Palestine . The Palestinians want to establish a
state in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and east Jerusalem as
well as the  Gaza Strip , currently ruled by Palestinian militant
group Hamas.  “If we do not succeed now, and I know I’m raising the
stakes, we may not get another chance,” Kerry said on June 3 to
the American Jewish Committee, a  Washington  advocacy group.  Israelis and Palestinians have shown no signs of being any
closer to resuming talks, with each side blaming the other for
the impasse, and the Palestinian leadership has been in
disarray. Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah submitted his
resignation June 20, two weeks after taking office.  No ‘Ownership’  An agreement with the Palestinians is possible and Israel
should do more to strengthen them as peace partners, outgoing
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said today on Army
Radio. Fischer steps down from the bank on June 30.  The danger of starting U.S.-brokered peace talks now is
that there’s been no sense of “ownership” of the process from
the Israelis and Palestinians, said  Aaron David Miller , a former
adviser to Republican and Democratic U.S. secretaries of state
and now a vice president at the Woodrow Wilson Center for
Scholars in Washington.  “The real problem here is the absence of ownership,”
Miller said in an interview last week. “I don’t see how Kerry
can get around that.”  Kerry said he’s committed to trying because both Netanyahu
and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas have shown a
“seriousness of purpose” in wanting a peace deal.  “I wouldn’t be here now if I didn’t have a belief that
this is possible,” Kerry said. “But it’s difficult. If this
were easy, it would have been done a long time ago.”  Kerry denied an Israeli news report that he was preparing
for three-way talks between U.S., Israeli and Palestinian
officials this week under the auspices of Jordan’s King Abdullah. He plans to meet separately with Abbas in Amman and
with Netanyahu in Jerusalem.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  