-- Kleiner Perkins Loses Bid to Avoid Public Trial With Pao
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-06-26T23:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/kleiner-perkins-loses-bid-to-avoid-public-trial-with-pao-1-.html
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
the venture-capital firm that provided startup financing to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Amazon.com Inc., can’t force ex-partner Ellen Pao to move her sex-discrimination claims to arbitration.  The  California  Court of Appeal in  San Francisco  said in an
opinion today that mandatory arbitration clauses in the
operating agreements Pao signed with seven managing LLCs for
which she was an adviser weren’t intended to govern employment
disputes. Kleiner Perkins had sought to avoid a public trial.  “Pao’s claims for employment discrimination, retaliation
and failure to prevent discrimination bear little connection to
the operating agreements containing the arbitration
provisions,” the three-judge appellate panel said in a
unanimous decision.  Pao sued the firm last year alleging Kleiner treated female
employees unfairly by promoting and compensating them less than
men. She said she was retaliated against after she complained
about sexual harassment.  Kleiner, based in  Menlo Park , California, denied the
allegations and asked a trial judge to rule that Pao’s claims
should be handled through private arbitration. A state court
judge ruled against the firm and Kleiner appealed.  Junior Partner  Pao said in her complaint that in 2006 she “succumbed” to
the advances of a married Kleiner junior partner who had
pressured her to have a sexual relationship. When she ended the
relationship, the co-worker, who was later promoted to senior
partner, retaliated against her during the next five years, she
said in her complaint.  John Doerr , Kleiner’s lead partner, has said the lawsuit is
“without merit,” citing an independent investigation that
found the firm doesn’t discriminate on the basis of gender.
Kleiner took “great care to treat this situation seriously,
swiftly and with integrity,” he said in a May 2012 statement.  Doerr didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment on today’s ruling.  The appeals case is Pao v. Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, A136090, 1st District, Division 5, California Court of
Appeal (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  