-- Kocherlakota Sees Unemployment Above 7% Until Second Half 2014
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-06-26T12:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/kocherlakota-sees-unemployment-above-7-until-second-half-2014.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota , who doesn’t vote on monetary
policy this year, said he favors continuing bond purchases until
unemployment falls below 7 percent, which he doesn’t expect
until the second half of next year.  “I’m expecting the  unemployment rate  to be hitting 7
percent sometime in the second half of 2014,” Kocherlakota said
today in an interview on CNBC. He backs a strategy of buying
assets “at least until” unemployment is below 7 percent.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the Fed may cut its
$85 billion in monthly bond buying this year and end it around
mid-2014 if the economy grows in line with the central bank’s
forecast. His comments pushed down stocks and bonds. Since the
day before his remarks the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
fallen 3.9 percent, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note
has risen to an intra-day high of 2.66 percent from 2.19
percent.  Kocherlakota may be more pessimistic about unemployment
than many of his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee . Bernanke said last week that by mid-2014 unemployment
would likely be “in the vicinity of 7 percent.”  The Minneapolis Fed chief has stressed that the Fed still
remains accommodative, telling reporters June 24 the  central
bank  should highlight the line from its policy statements that
stimulus will persist “for a considerable time” after the end
of quantitative easing. “We have to bring that forward and
hammer it every time we talk about policy,” he said.  Today he said the Fed will be “in the business of
accommodation long after the asset purchases end.”  2014 Vote  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy and
Kocherlakota is next scheduled to vote in 2014 when the FOMC may
be considering winding down its bond purchases.  Kocherlakota in 2011 voted against two decisions of the
FOMC, opposing actions to add stimulus. He joined in his dissent
with Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and the Dallas
Fed’s  Richard Fisher , two of the most outspoken critics within
the Fed of the central bank’s bond purchases.  In May 2012 Kocherlakota said the Fed may need to raise
 interest rates  by the end of 2012. By September, his views
changed and he said the central bank was providing insufficient
accommodation to push the economy toward recovery. He attributed
his shift to declining inflation and to research that suggested
unemployment in the U.S. was driven by economic weakness and not
structural changes in the economy.  “Inflation should be something that we’re keeping our eye
on,” Kocherlakota said today. “We have a 2 percent target and
we should defend our target from below as well as above.”  “I do see the low levels right now as being largely
transitory,” he added. “I think inflation will come back up.”  Kocherlakota criticized the Fed’s recent communications in
a June 24 statement, saying the central bank needs to set
clearer guideposts for the outlook for record stimulus and
commit to press on with monthly bond purchases at least until
unemployment falls below 7 percent.  “The committee’s communications have provided insufficient
detail about how its policy strategy will play out when the
recovery is more advanced,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  