-- New York Times Set to Sell Globe for Fraction of Purchase
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-06-27T12:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/new-york-times-set-to-sell-globe-for-fraction-of-purchase.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , which is
accepting bids for the Boston Globe today, is likely to fetch a
price that’s about a 10th of what it paid in 1993, a sign of the
industry’s deterioration over the past two decades.  The bids are set to be in the range of $100 million,
according to three people who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. The potential buyers include Rick Daniels, a former president of the Globe, and former Time Inc.
Chief Executive Officer  Jack Griffin , in partnership with
cousins Steven and Ben Taylor, whose family once owned the
newspaper, the people said.  Times Co. put the Boston Globe up  for sale  in February and
hired  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to manage the process, part of an
effort to focus on its flagship New York Times media brand. The
deal will include the Worcester Telegram & Gazette and a growing
printing business.  The New York-based company, which bought the Globe for $1.1
billion 20 years ago, mostly in stock, is coping with an
industrywide decline in advertising that has caused a drop in
sales and stock prices. Its market capitalization has  fallen  19
percent since the Globe acquisition, to about $1.6 billion
today, after reaching more than $8 billion in 1999.  Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for Times Co., didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  The discussions have been hampered by disagreements with
bidders over what contingencies to attach to a deal, said the
people. At issue is whether to fold in a portion of the pension
liability as part of the offers and how to value other parts of
the Globe’s balance sheet, said the people. Two potential
bidders are considering including part of the pension liability
in their offer, meaning a $100 million bid would likely include
a lower cash amount, two of the people said.  Pension Liabilities  The New England Media Group, the division that manages the
Globe, has about $110 million in pension liabilities, according
to two of the people familiar with the matter. Times Co. would
prefer cash to help offset the liabilities rather than bids that
assume even part of them, one of the people said. Such bids
would be less attractive because in the event a new owner of the
Globe were to become insolvent, the Globe’s pension liabilities
would revert back to Times Co., the people said.  Unsolicited Bid  The group also has commercial real estate valued at about
$50 million and annual earnings before interest depreciation and
amortization of around $20 million, according to these people.
The unit that owns the Boston Globe had $394.7 million in sales
last year, a 44 percent decline since 2004.  The publisher, controlled by the  Ochs-Sulzberger (NYTAB)  family,
has been working on a plan to sell the Globe since 2012 when it
received an unsolicited bid from Daniels, the former Globe
president, along with Heberden Ryan, a managing director of
private equity firm Boston Post Partners LLC, according to one
of the people. While their bid was about $100 million, it
included contingencies that made it less attractive, the person
said. Ryan didn’t respond to phone and e-mail requests for
comment.  Times Co. has rebuffed proposals that exceeded $100
million in the past. In 2011, Freedom Communications Inc. CEO 
Aaron Kushner, publisher of the  Orange County Register  and 
other California papers, offered more than $300 million, 
according to another person familiar with the deal who asked 
not to be identified because the matter was private. His offer 
included the assumption of both qualified and unqualified 
pensions. Times Co. turned down the offer because it didn’t 
include enough cash up front, according to another person, 
who also requested not to be named because the talks weren’t
public.  Times Co. shares gained 1.7 percent to $10.85 yesterday.
They have increased 27 percent this year, while Gannett Co.,
publisher of  USA Today , rose 37 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  