-- New England Patriots’ Aaron Hernandez Charged With Murder
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-06-27T20:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/new-england-patriot-aaron-hernandez-arrrested-in-massachusetts.html
Former New England Patriots tight
end  Aaron Hernandez  was again ordered held without bail after
being charged with murder for what prosecutors called
orchestrating the execution of a friend.  Superior Court Judge Renee Dupuis in Fall River,
Massachusetts, today affirmed that Hernandez will be held in
jail. While agreeing with Hernandez’s lawyer that the case was
based on circumstantial evidence, Dupuis said, “It’s a very,
very strong circumstantial case.”  As Hernandez stood in the courtroom, the judge said the
killing seemed “cold-blooded.”  Hernandez, 23, was arraigned yesterday in district court in
Attleboro, Massachusetts, after being arrested at his home in
North Attleboro, about 30 miles (48 kilometers) southwest of
Boston. He’s charged with murder in the first degree and
firearms crimes. Hernandez, dressed in a white T-shirt and red
shorts, pleaded not guilty during the 40-minute arraignment.  In court yesterday, William McCauley of the Bristol County
District Attorney’s Office gave a minute-by-minute account of
the early morning hours of June 17, saying Odin Lloyd, 27, was
driven from his home in  Boston  by Hernandez and two other men to
an industrial park in North Attleboro and shot to death.  ‘Orchestrated’ Execution  “He orchestrated the execution,” McCauley said of
Hernandez.  McCauley told the judge that the police found five spent
.45-caliber bullet casings near Lloyd’s body and that he had
been shot five times. The gun hasn’t been found. Lloyd’s body
was discovered by a jogger later in the day.  The apparent motive, according to McCauley, was that Lloyd
had been talking to some people at a club in Boston with whom
Hernandez had “troubles.” Hernandez had told friends he
“couldn’t trust anyone anymore,” according to McCauley.  Michael Fee, Hernandez’s lawyer, asked that his client be
released on bail, telling Attleboro District Court Judge Daniel
O’Shea yesterday that the prosecution’s case was circumstantial.  “It is not a strong case,” Fee told O’Shea.  Hernandez’s lawyers appealed O’Shea’s bail decision, saying
that he lacked a criminal record, was a stable homeowner with a
family and did not pose a risk of flight. Dupuis rejected that
appeal today.  If convicted, Hernandez faces life in prison without
parole, McCauley said. Hernandez is scheduled to appear again in
court on July 24.  Team’s Disappointment  The  National Football League ’s Patriots said in a statement
yesterday Hernandez was released from the team after his arrest.  “A young man was murdered last week and we extend our
sympathies to the family and friends who mourn his loss,” the
Patriots said in the e-mailed statement. “Words cannot express
the disappointment we feel knowing that one of our players was
arrested as a result of this investigation.”  After the arraignment, Fee told reporters, “Aaron’s fine”
and declined to comment further. Bristol County District
Attorney Samuel Sutter said the investigation was still under
way and also declined to comment further.  At the request of Hernandez’s lawyers, O’Shea issued an
order preventing defense and prosecution attorneys and law
enforcement officers from commenting publicly on the case. Fee
had complained of a “hysterical atmosphere” surrounding the
case.  Police and prosecutors pieced together their case from
mobile-phone  text messages  sent and received in the hours before
Lloyd’s murder, as well as footage from surveillance cameras at
Hernandez’s home and other locations along the route from Boston
to North Attleboro.  Fugitive Charged  The two other men in the rented Nissan with Hernandez and
Lloyd that night weren’t identified by Massachusetts
prosecutors. One man has been charged in  Connecticut  in
connection with the case.  Brian Preleski, state’s attorney for  New Britain ,
Connecticut, said in a statement today that in assisting
Massachusetts authorities in the “investigation into the facts
and circumstances surrounding the homicide of Odin Lloyd,”
Carlos Ortiz of Bristol, Connecticut, was charged as a fugitive
from justice and agreed to waive extradition to  Massachusetts .  Hernandez grew up in Bristol and went to the local high
school.  McCauley said the three men picked Lloyd up in Boston at
about 2:30 a.m. Shortly before his death, according to the
prosecutor, Lloyd was text-messaging his sister from the car
telling her he was with “NFL” and writing “Just so you
know.”  Shots Heard  “Two minutes later shots are heard by folks working the
midnight shift,” McCauley said.  By 3:30, Hernandez and his two friends had arrived at his
house, about a two-minute drive from the site of the killing,
the prosecutor said. Surveillance cameras at the house showed
Hernandez and another man entering with firearms, McCauley said.  Lloyd had dated the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee, the
prosecutor said. Fee said Hernandez lived with his fiancee and
their 8-month-old daughter.  The Patriots selected Hernandez in the fourth round of the
2010  NFL draft  out of the University of  Florida . He was an All-American and the 2009 winner of the John Mackey Award as college
football’s top tight end.  In three years with the National Football League’s
Patriots, the 6-foot-1, 245-pound tight end had 175 receptions
for 1,956 yards and 18 touchdowns.  Hernandez and fellow tight end  Rob Gronkowski  combined for
40 touchdowns in the past two NFL seasons.  In August 2012, Hernandez agreed to a five-year,
$41 million contract extension, according to the  Associated
Press .  Hernandez missed six games last season because of injuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  