-- News Corp. Italy Unit Claims Mediaset Bias by Telecom Agency
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-06-27T16:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/news-corp-italy-unit-sues-saying-telecom-agency-favors-mediaset.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  has
turned to the Italian courts in its fight against  Mediaset SpA (MS) ,
suing a regulator for allegedly favoring former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s media company.  News Corp.’s local pay-television unit Sky Italia Srl filed
a complaint against the Rome-based telecommunications authority
known as Agcom, a Sky spokesman said yesterday, asking not to be
named citing company policy.  Sky is seeking about 100 million euros ($130 million) from
Agcom for thwarting its efforts in the advertising market with
rules that, since 2011, have benefited Mediaset, according to
two people familiar with the lawsuit who asked not to be
identified because of the ongoing litigation. Mediaset isn’t
named as a defendant, the people said.  The civil complaint, filed to the regional court in Lazio,
claims Agcom’s old board led by former President Corrado Calabro
distorted the advertising market when it lifted a rule in 2011
requiring Berlusconi’s company to separate its ad sales for
digital and analog TV channels as a way to block packaged
offers, according to the people.  Agcom and Mediaset spokesmen declined to comment. The  Sky
Italia  spokesman declined to discuss details of the lawsuit.  ‘Relatively Minor’  “A 100 million-euro request seems to suggest News Corp.
Italy Unit thinks it could have got one more percentage point of
the advertising market under different rules,” said Sarah Simon, an analyst at Berenberg Bank. “This is relatively minor
if you put this in the context of Mediaset’s nearly 60 percent
share of the market.”  Mediaset’s share of the Italian TV-ad market reached 62
percent in 2012, worth 2.4 billion euros, according to
researcher Nielsen. Sky Italia controlled about 80 percent of
the smaller pay-TV segment last year. Its share was worth 344
million euros.  In 2006, Mediaset formed Digitalia ’08 Srl to sell ads for
new digital channels, to work alongside its historical ad-sales
company, Publitalia ’80 SpA. Five years later, with the switch-over from analog to digital TV, Mediaset returned to relying on
Publitalia as its main advertising contractor.  Today Mediaset uses separate ad agencies, focusing ads on
free channels through Publitalia, and using Digitalia to sell
ads for the Milan-based company’s pay-TV unit Premium.  Mediaset shares gained 7.8 percent to 2.82 euros at the
close of trading in Milan. The company has a market value of 3.3
billion euros. In  New York , News Corp. rose 2.4 percent to
$32.92 at 2:37 p.m. for a market value of $76.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  