-- Northeast Asia LNG Gains on Forecast for Summer Demand, WGI Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-06-26T05:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/northeast-asia-lng-gains-on-forecast-for-summer-demand-wgi-says.html
Liquefied natural  gas prices  for
delivery to Northeast Asia increased this week on summer demand
for power and “bullish sentiment,” according to Energy
Intelligence Group.  Spot cargoes for delivery of the power-station fuel over
the next four to eight weeks rose to $15.15 per million British
thermal units from $14.75 per million Btu in the period ended
June 17, the research company said on the website of its World
Gas Intelligence publication. The price in Southwest Europe
increased to $11.60 from last week’s $11.55, according to WGI.  LNG prices will rise or remain unchanged this week as
warmer summer weather in North Asia boosts demand for
electricity to run air conditioners, according to four traders
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  through June 21. Asian LNG buyers
typically pay more from June through August as power consumption
climbs.  Japanese utilities  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  and  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) , along with South Korea’s GS Caltex Corp. and
SK E&S Co Ltd. are looking to buy LNG for delivery in August and
September, WGI said.  Buyers may get some relief as Russia’s Sakhalin,
Australia’s Pluto and Brunei LNG projects offer as many as five
spot cargoes for sale, according to the research company.  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest LNG exporter, halted shipments
from June 21 as the nation’s maritime agency continued a
blockade of Nigeria LNG Ltd.’s Bonny Island liquefaction plant
in the south of the country, WGI said  “The impact of the blockade will be small unless it goes
on for several weeks,” said  Andy Flower , a former  BP Plc (BP/) 
executive who’s now a Surrey, England-based consultant.  “I expect the traders will try and use it as an excuse to
try and push up prices, but there does not appear to be any
buyers desperate for cargoes, and several projects are reported
to be offering cargoes over the next couple of months,”
according to Flower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  