-- NQ Mobile Jumps as Cash Crunch Eases: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-26T21:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/nq-mobile-jumps-as-cash-crunch-eases-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks climbed to a one-week
high in  New York , led by  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  and  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (HNP) , as dropping money-market rates showed the
worst cash crunch in a decade has eased.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. gained 1.5 percent to 84.37
yesterday, trimming this month’s slide to 6 percent. NQ soared
the most since March after the mobile security company expanded
product offerings to Chicago-based U.S. Cellular Corp. Huaneng,
 China ’s biggest electricity producer, jumped 6.6 percent while
solar makers extended a rally on a report the government plans
to increase subsidies.  China’s seven-day  repo rate , a measure of interbank
liquidity, dropped for a fourth day after the People’s Bank of
China said June 25 that it provided financing to some
institutions to stabilize money-market rates. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  rose for a second time this
month after sliding to the lowest close since October 2011.  “The PBOC statement to support the interbank rate and
injection of liquidity relaxes market concerns,” Michael Ding,
the lead manager of the China Region Fund at U.S. Global
Investors Inc., said by e-mail from  San Antonio , Texas.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., rallied 1.8 percent to $32.26
for the steepest increase in two months. It’s a rebound after
reaching the lowest level since October 2011 the previous day.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed for a second day, adding
1 percent as slower-than-forecast economic growth in the U.S.
fueled speculation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus.  Security Software  NQ Mobile surged 7.9 percent to $8.32, the highest price
since June 13. The Beijing-based company agreed with U.S.
Cellular to offer two mobile-security software products to the
American carrier, which has 5.2 million customers, NQ said in a
statement yesterday. The partnership started in February.  Huaneng, which operates coal-fired  power plants  in China,
jumped to $37.46, the highest close in two weeks. The American
depositary receipts traded 1.1 percent above the Hong Kong
stock, the biggest premium since June 13. The ADRs, each
representing 40 underlying shares in the Beijing-based company,
have tumbled 24 percent from a five-year high reached May 15.  China’s Bohai-Rim Steam-Coal Price Index, which tracks
power-station coal prices at six Chinese ports, fell 0.7 percent
in the week through yesterday, according to the Qinhuangdao
Seaborne Coal Market website.  Huaneng’s benefits from the lower coal prices, according to
Ding at the  China Region Fund. (USCOX)  “Its share price was beaten due
to fear of a tariff reduction in China,” he said.  Yanzhou Coal  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , China’s fourth-largest coal
producer, sank 2.1 percent to $7.62, adding its loss this year
to 55 percent.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-largest solar-panel maker
globally, soared 5.6 percent to $5.66, its biggest rally in two
weeks. Suntech Power Holdings Co. climbed 4 percent to $1.04
while Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. advanced 3.9 percent to
$3.18 in New York.  China may double surcharges to subsidize renewable energy
projects, the Economic Information Daily reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people. The plan may start around July,
according to the report.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  retreated 3.5 percent to
$6.83 in New York after surging 14 percent on the prior day. The
company had the biggest drop on the China-US gauge. Trading
volume on its ADRs was twice the daily average over the past
three months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The Hang Seng enterprises gauge jumped 3.3 percent to
9,164.64, advancing for the first time in seven days. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.4 percent to 1,951.50, the
weakest level since January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  