-- NYC Showdown Looms as Council Plans Limits on Police
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-27T01:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/nyc-showdown-looms-as-council-plans-limits-on-police.html
(Corrects votes needed for override in third paragraph.)  New York council members plan to
approve two bills to protect minorities from overzealous police,
setting up a clash with Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who says the
city would become vulnerable to criminals and terrorists.  One law would create an inspector general empowered to
review police policies and practices. The other would allow
lawsuits against the city when an officer uses racial profiling
as a reason for questioning an individual.  Council Speaker Christine Quinn, one of seven candidates
seeking the Democratic mayoral nomination, was blasted by her
rivals after pushing to allow the vote and announcing her
support for the first measure and not the second. The mayor says
he’ll veto the bills, which are set for a vote this week.
Council members need 34 votes in the 51-member chamber to
override him.  Crime has dropped 34 percent since Bloomberg became mayor
in 2002, and the city has had 25 percent fewer homicides so far
this year than in 2012, when it recorded an all-time low of 417,
according to the police department. The numbers show  New York  to
be the safest big city in the U.S., Bloomberg says.  The proposed laws jeopardize those achievements, creating
“a police department pointlessly hampered by outside intrusion
and recklessly threatened by second-guessing from the courts,”
Bloomberg said at a June 23 news conference in  Lower Manhattan ,
where he was joined by Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly.  Vallone Overruled  That was the day Quinn, 46, the mayor’s closest ally on the
council, helped steer the bills to a vote by joining with her
colleagues to overrule Peter Vallone Jr., the Democratic
chairman of the Public Safety Committee, who had refused to free
them for consideration. The council is controlled by Democrats.  “We can both keep New York the safest big city in America
and improve police-community relations throughout our city,”
Quinn said in an e-mail. “We can enhance the effectiveness of
the NYPD and at the same time increase the public’s faith and
confidence in the department.”  The debate over police oversight takes place as the city
and civil-liberties advocates await a decision by U.S. District
Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  in a 2008 lawsuit accusing
police of disproportionately targeting minority youths to stop,
question or frisk them on the street.  ‘Deliberatively Indifferent’  Of the 4.3 million stop-and-frisk searches in the past nine
years, more than 80 percent were of blacks and Latinos,
according to court papers filed by the New York-based Center for
Constitutional Rights, which backs the plaintiffs. Less than 1
percent of those stops led to recovery of a gun, the plaintiffs
said.  New York has been “deliberately indifferent” to the
constitutional violations of its police force, attorneys for the
four men suing said in a June 12 post-trial brief.  The U.S.  Justice Department , while taking no position on
the claims against the city, said in a June 12 memorandum to the
judge that it endorsed the use of a court-appointed monitor in
the event she rules it necessary.  “The experience of the  United States  in enforcing police
reform injunctions teaches that the appointment of an
independent monitor is a critically important asset,” the
department said.  Bloomberg, 71, denounced the Justice Department statement
during a June 13 news conference in Queens, saying “it just
makes no sense whatsoever when lives are on the line to change
the rules and hamper the police department from doing their
job.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. A political independent, he is barred by
law from seeking a fourth term.  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  