-- Tokyo Olympic Bid Organizers Vow to Ensure Hotel Availability
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-06-26T03:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/tokyo-olympic-bid-organizers-vow-to-ensure-hotel-availability.html
Organizers of  Tokyo ’s 2020 Olympic
bid vowed to work with hotels and the  tourism industry  to ensure
an adequate supply of hotel rooms at various rates.  “Tokyo Metropolitan Government plans to collaborate with
hotel industry groups and travel agents to form a liaison
council to ensure this wide range of reasonably-priced
accommodation options is available to meet the individual needs
of visitors,” a statement from the bid committee said.  The comment was in response to a report from the
 International Olympic Committee  yesterday that raised concerns
about accommodation prices as Tokyo vies for the games. The
Lausanne, Switzerland-based group will pick the host of the 2020
summer Olympics on Sept. 7.  The IOC said it was concerned about the “guaranteed
maximum” hotel rates in Tokyo that would be as much as $1,634
per night for a double room in a five-star hotel and $571 in a
three-star hotel. The average daily rate for hotels in Tokyo in
May was $155.91, according to data compiled by STR Global, a
hotel industry researcher.  Tokyo is the favorite to be awarded the Olympics for the
first time since 1964, with all seven bookmakers listed on the
 oddschecker.com  website. Istanbul is the second-favorite and
 Madrid  is the outsider, according to the website.  The price difference between a single and double room in
Tokyo was as wide as $944, the commission’s report said. The
Tokyo 2020 bid committee responded that a single room usually
consists of a single bed while a double room price would apply
regardless of whether the room was occupied by one or two
people, according to the report.  Concerns Addressed  “As we see it, the concern has already been addressed,”
said Shinichi Morozumi, a director at the planning division of
the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in charge of accommodation for
the city’s Olympic bid. “Our proposal has been well received,
so we don’t plan to make any changes at this point.”  On top of hotel rates in Tokyo, the evaluation of cities
bidding to host the 2020 summer Olympics raised issues including
traffic congestion in Istanbul and the ability of Madrid to
raise sponsorship. The report was compiled by an IOC committee
that visited the three cities in March.  Madrid’s estimated top rates were the cheapest of the three
cities at between $626 for a five-star hotel and $218 for so-called budget accommodation including 3,000 university campus
rooms.  The report said there was clear backing of Tokyo’s bid by
Japanese business leaders.  Congestion, Sponsorship  The committee was “cautious” about whether Madrid can
meet its target of raising $694 million in sponsorships in
 Spain . The country is in the sixth year of an economic slump.  Madrid could also face challenges in turning landmark
locations such as the Las Ventas bullring and Retiro Park into
venues, according to the report.  In Istanbul, it said there’s a “high” risk of traffic
congestion because of plans to stage sports in the European and
Asian sides of the city. The Turkish city’s estimates for travel
time to venues -- it says no trip will take more than 40 minutes
-- were “somewhat optimistic.”  Istanbul’s plan for security is “adequate,” although a
proposal to recruit 20,000 private security staff could be a
challenge, according to the report, which was finalized on April
19 before a wave of anti-government protests.  Demonstrations against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s administration erupted in late May in frustration over
what protesters say is his increasingly authoritarian conduct
and attempts to impose Islamic ways on the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  