-- Hon Hai’s Gou Guarantees Profit Increase Amid Sales Challenge
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-06-26T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hon-hai-s-gou-guarantees-profit-increase-amid-sales-challenge.html
Billionaire Terry Gou promised
higher earnings at  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  even as
analysts predict the maker of  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhones and iPads
will post its first profit drop in five years.  “I guarantee profit this year will surpass last year’s,”
Gou, chairman of Hon Hai, said at the company’s annual meeting
in Taipei yesterday without providing a specific earnings
number. The company is staying with its 15 percent growth
target, he said.  Hon Hai, flagship of the Foxconn Technology Group, faces
slowing sales to Apple, its largest client, as well as a weak
personal-computer industry and stalling global economy. The
company has boosted production efficiency and invested in new
manufacturing technologies to help improve profit margins.  Net income will fall to NT$92.8 billion ($3.1 billion) in
2013 from NT$94.8 billion a year earlier, according to the
average of 23  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. A decline
in annual earnings would be the first by the Taipei-based
company since 2008.  Gou is also planning to spin off business including cables,
connectors and nanotechnology, beginning with its Foxconn
Interconnect Technology unit, he said.  That strategy will help Gou focus on the company’s core
strengths as well as new businesses such as e-commerce, he said.
The move also may help those units gain visibility and attract
orders, Chief Financial Officer Huang Chiu-lien said in an
interview yesterday.  Gou said he’ll conduct regular meetings with small
shareholders, with the first to be held by early October. Hon
Hai doesn’t hold investor conferences, provide revenue
breakdowns or offer earnings guidance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  