-- One Dead in Clashes as Egyptians Await Mursi TV Address
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-06-27T07:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/one-dead-in-clashes-as-egyptians-await-mursi-tv-address.html
President Mohamed Mursi, facing
mounting pressure to step down, said Egypt’s turmoil is
threatening to paralyze the state and accused his opponents of
aligning themselves with “enemies of the revolution.”  In a 2 1/2-hour speech before planned nationwide rallies on
June 30 seeking to end his rule, Mursi admitted making mistakes
though he blamed the nation’s crisis on an opposition that has
rejected his calls for talks. Clashes before the speech between
his supporters and opponents in the Nile Delta city of Mansoura
killed one person, according to the health ministry. In Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square , protesters chanted “Leave, leave” as they
watched the Islamist leader’s address.  “Polarization has reached a state that endangers our
nascent democratic experience and threatens chaos,” Mursi said
in the speech that ended after midnight. “I took power at a
difficult time -- at times I was right, at times I was wrong.”
Mistakes must be corrected, he said.  Mursi is facing what could be the biggest threat to his
one-year rule as his opponents, who accuse him of seeking to
consolidate power while failing to revive the economy, plan to
take to the streets to force an early presidential election. The
military, whose leaders ruled Egypt since the overthrow of the
monarchy in 1952 until the 2011 uprising, said it won’t stand
idle while the country slides into conflict.  Default Risk  Political unrest during Mursi’s tenure has deepened  Egypt ’s
economic crisis, with fuel shortages across the country leading
to traffic jams and long lines at gasoline stations. Economic
growth is trapped in the worst slowdown in two decades and the
risk of default on sovereign dollar debt is at a record high.  To counter the opposition rally, Islamists are planning
demonstrations on June 28 to defend Mursi, who was a leader of
the Muslim Brotherhood before becoming the country’s first
democratically-elected president.  “I understand opposition disagreements but I cannot accept
the opposition taking part inadvertently in reversing the
revolt, aligning itself with enemies of the revolution,” Mursi
said. “Our hands are extended” to start a dialog, he said.
Opposition leaders rejected the offer.  ‘National Duty’  “The speech is detached from reality,” former
presidential candidate Khaled Ali said on Twitter. Mursi “is
not aware of the level of popular anger against him. Every
single word that came in that speech proves that revolt against
this tyrant regime is a national duty.”  Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi said this week the
military is prepared to intervene to stop Egypt plunging into a
“dark tunnel.” There is no rift between the presidency and the
armed forces, Mursi said.  The president urged the Supreme  Constitutional Court  to
expedite its review of Egypt’s election law so the country can
vote in a new parliament and speed up reforms. He also said he
will form a committee that includes all parties to consider
constitutional amendments. The opposition has said the
constitution favors Islamists and infringes on rights.  “Mursi comes up today to form a constitutional amendments
committee,” Mahmoud Badr, a spokesman of Tamarod, or Rebellion,
campaign said. “We say it’s too late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  