-- Hong Kong Express Plans 30% Cheaper Fares, Challenging Cathay
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-06-26T21:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hong-kong-express-plans-30-cheaper-fares-challenging-cathay.html
Hong Kong Express Airways Ltd . plans
to offer fares that are 30 percent cheaper than the lowest
prices offered by competitors when it converts to a budget
carrier in October, challenging  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)   Hong Kong Express, an affiliate of Hong Kong Airlines that
is backed by  China ’s HNA Group, plans to have a fleet of 30
planes in five years, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Andrew
Cowen said in Hong Kong yesterday. The airline will have five
Airbus A320s by September, he said.  “For too long, the people of Hong Kong have been denied
the opportunity to travel at low cost to China and the rest of
Asia because of high fares,” Cowen said. “It is well known
that air fares to and out of Hong Kong are among the highest in
the world.”  The carrier, which will fly to cities in China, Southeast
Asia,  Japan  and South Korea, expects to break even in two years,
Executive Chairman Yang Jianhong said . Jetstar Hong Kong, a
venture owned by  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , China Eastern Airlines
Corp. and  Shun Tak Holdings Ltd. (242) , is also planning low-cost
flights from Hong Kong to lure cost-conscious passengers from
Cathay Pacific, the city’s largest carrier.  Hong Kong Express will oppose the government awarding an
operating license to Jetstar Hong Kong because of limited slots
and parking space at the city’s airport, Yang said.  Jetstar Hong Kong is still waiting for a license to start
operations in the former British colony. The carrier said
earlier this month that it is having a “positive and ongoing
dialog” with regulators and is confident of winning approval at
the end of this year.  The Hong Kong government has said it won’t process any
applications to start airlines until it completes a review of
criteria for designating local carriers.  Hong Kong Airport isn’t currently used by any low-cost
carriers as a hub. Oasis Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which operated
budget long-haul flights, collapsed in 2008 after racking up
losses of about HK$1 billion ($129 million) in less than two
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  