-- Mongolia’s Elbegdorj Seeks Re-Election on Anti-Graft Drive
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-06-26T08:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/mongolia-s-elbegdorj-seeks-re-election-on-anti-corruption-drive.html
Mongolia President Tsakhia Elbegdorj
is positioned to cement his party’s hold on the mineral-rich
country, with a poll showing he is front-runner to win re-election after campaigning on his anti-corruption credentials.  A win by Elbegdorj over Badmaanyambuu Bat-Erdene of the
Mongolian People’s Party in today’s vote would give his
 Democratic Party  sweeping powers until 2016, as it controls the
positions of prime minister and parliament speaker and has a
majority in parliament. It could ease legislative bottlenecks,
with Elbegdorj calling for more foreign investment.  Having Elbegdorj remain at the helm “will bring more
economic growth,” said Bayanjargal Byambasaikhan, chairman of
the Business Council of Mongolia, with business “not having to
worry about politics.”  The Mongolian leader, president since 2009, has promised to
revive foreign investment that fell 37 percent in the first four
months of the year after parliament, controlled by Bat-Erdene’s
MPP at the time, passed a law restricting investment in mining,
media and banking. Gross domestic product growth reached 17.5
percent in 2011 -- the fastest rate in the world -- before
slipping to an estimated 12.3 percent last year, according to
data from the  International Monetary Fund .  Polls will close at 10 p.m. local time and are being
monitored by 400 foreign observers from 35 countries. At a
handful of polling stations electronic voting machines had to be
reset following complaints they weren’t operating properly,
according to the head of the General Election Commission,
Choinzon Sodnomtseren.  Must Unite  Casting her vote in the capital of Ulaanbaatar, Tsevegjav
Tuya, a 47-year-old businesswoman and Elbegdorj supporter, said
lowering energy tariffs, fighting corruption and promoting
national unity should top the agenda for the next president.  “A reliable source of power and low energy costs will
determine economic conditions,” Tuya said. “Politicians need
to unite instead of standing in each other’s way and just
speaking on behalf of their own party.”  The 2012 foreign investment law has been amended once and
the Democratic Party has talked of replacing it. Fresh
investment is also waiting on a new minerals law proposed by the
president’s office, which has been held up by the election.  Sant Maral  A poll by non-profit group Sant Maral Foundation on June
14-16 showed that 54 percent of voters favor Elbegdorj and 37
percent support Bat-Erdene. A third candidate, Natsag Udval,
received 9 percent. Almost 43 percent of respondents said they
back the policies of the Democratic Party and 16.5 percent
support the MPP. The poll of 1,480 people was conducted in
Ulaanbaatar, home to half Mongolia’s 2.9 million people, and had
a margin of error of 2 percent.  “Most probably Elbegdorj will cross through in the first
round,”  Sant Maral Foundation  director Luvsandendev Sumati said
by phone. According to election rules, a run-off is held within
two weeks if no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote.  Elbegdorj has pledged to battle corruption by giving more
power to communities to decide how money is spent. Communities
will get 270 billion tugrik ($187 million) to spend at their
discretion, he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV Mongolia
on June 14, with the government requiring all agencies to report
their finances on the Internet to foster transparency.  Corruption Campaign  The MPP ruled on its own or was part of a coalition
government for all but four years from 1921 to 2012, and has
come under criticism over corruption.  Since the Democratic Party took power in July 2012 there
have been a number of high-profile arrests. In August 2012,
former President Nambar Enkhbayar of the Mongolian People’s
Revolutionary Party was sentenced to four years in jail for
corruption, later reduced to two and a half years. The former
chairman of the Mineral Resource Authority, Dorjpurev Batkhuyag,
is serving a three and a half year sentence for selling more
than 100 illegal mining licenses.  Combating corruption “has emerged as one of the hallmarks
of the Democratic Party and Elbegdorj is continuing with a theme
that has worked well in the past,” said Julian Dierkes,
associate professor at the University of British Columbia’s
Institute of Asian Research. The campaign makes Elbegdorj look
like “an underdog fighting against the entrenched structures
within the state associated with the MPP.”  Business Climate  Elbegdorj’s Democrats have emerged unscathed from the anti-corruption campaign, Bat-Erdene said. “If one wants to fight
corruption, then the strict rules of the law should be applied
to every corrupt official irrespective of their party
membership,” he said in an e-mail.  Disputes over wealth-sharing have delayed progress on some
projects. Last year, Bat-Erdene backed an unsuccessful bid to
scale back the 2009 Oyu Tolgoi Investment Agreement, which
guarantees 30 years of stability for investors in one of the
world’s largest untapped copper and gold deposits, including
Anglo-Australian miner Rio Tinto Group.  “I am still critical of the agreement, there is room for
improvement,” said Bat-Erdene.  The MPRP has in the past advocated  term limits  on mining
operations owned by foreign entities. In a June 4 interview, the
party’s candidate Udval said she welcomes foreign investment
that’s “socially responsible and environmentally friendly.”  Some investors say the business climate will not improve
substantially after the election, even with an Elbegdorj win.  “The problem is Elbegdorj was already in power and nothing
happened with him after the parliament elections” a year ago,
said Oscar Mendoza, the managing partner for Mongolia Asset
Management, an Ulaanbaatar-based advisory group. “Nothing will
have changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  