-- Mongolian President Wins Re-Election in Preliminary Tally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-06-27T02:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/mongolia-president-wins-re-election-on-anti-corruption-platform.html
Mongolian President Tsakhia Elbegdorj defeated a wrestling champion and a pediatrician to
win re-election without the need for a run-off vote.  Democratic Party  candidate Elbegdorj won 50.23 percent of
the vote with all counting completed, Choinzon Sodnomtseren,
head of the General Election Commission, said at a briefing in
the Mongolian capital of Ulaanbaatar today. Former wrestling
champion Badmaanyambuu Bat-Erdene took 41.97 percent and Health
Minister and former doctor Natsag Udval was third with 6.5
percent. The results will be made final within five days.  Elbegdorj’s victory would ensure that the Democratic Party
holds all major political posts until Parliamentary elections in
2016. The president, prime minister, parliamentary speaker and
Ulaanbaatar mayor are members of the party, which also has a
majority in the legislature. The lack of an opposition may
relieve bottlenecks in passing legislation needed to keep the
economy growing.  “The parliament of Mongolia, the government of Mongolia
and the president of Mongolia will work as one team in the
remaining period,” Prime Minister Norov Altankhuyag said at a
briefing late yesterday. “We work to improve the lives of all
Mongolians and eradicate corruption.”  Gross domestic product growth reached 17.5 percent in 2011
-- the fastest rate in the world -- before slipping to an
estimated 12.3 percent last year, according to data from the
 International Monetary Fund .  Cabinet Secretary Chimed Saikhanbileg said yesterday that
Elbegdorj was planning to deliver a victory speech at 11:40 a.m.
today in Ulaanbaatar’s main square.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  