-- Monsanto Earnings Drop on Higher Seed-Production Costs
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-06-26T20:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/monsanto-earnings-beat-estimates-on-weedkiller-prices.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, reported third-quarter earnings fell 3 percent as
increased seed-production costs overshadowed rising prices for
Roundup herbicide.  Net income dropped to $909 million, or $1.68 a share, in
the three months through May, from $937 million, or $1.74, a
year earlier, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today in a
statement. Per-share profit excluding a legacy tax matter was
$1.66, exceeding the $1.59 average of 15 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said profit
fell because last year’s U.S. drought required more seed to be
shipped from South America in the quarter, and the company
didn’t pass on the higher costs to customers. Gross profit in
the  unit  that makes Roundup herbicide gained 31 percent because
of higher prices while profit in the larger seed unit declined
10 percent.  “It’s an earnings beat but it’s not coming from the crown
jewel seeds business,”  Matt Arnold , a St. Louis-based analyst
at  Edward Jones  who recommends holding the shares, said today by
telephone.  Monsanto fell 0.6 percent to $100.84 at the close in  New
York .  The shares  have gained 6.5 percent this year.  Sales rose 0.7 percent to $4.25 billion, missing the $4.43
billion average of 16 estimates. Gains were limited by a
reduction in planted cotton, Monsanto said, and a patent dispute
in  Brazil  that eroded soybean revenue.  Drought Costs  Profit from the seed unit fell to $1.82 billion from $2.02
billion amid declines in corn, soybeans, cotton and vegetables.
Drought-related costs for shipping seeds from South America will
be less next year, providing a boost to fiscal 2014 earnings,
Chief Financial Officer Pierre Courduroux said today on a
conference call with analysts.  Profit in the agricultural productivity unit, which makes
Roundup, rose to $447 million from $342 million on higher sales,
Monsanto said.  Retail prices for glyphosate, which Monsanto markets under
the Roundup brand, have gained about 42 percent from a year ago,
 Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt &
Co. who recommends buying Monsanto shares, said in a June 24
note.  Agricultural productivity earnings were 11 cents more than
estimated while seed earnings were 24 cents less than estimated,
Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies LLC
who recommends holding the shares, said in a note today. A
lower-than-expected  tax rate  added 14 cents to earnings, he
said.  Forecast Unchanged  The company reiterated its May  forecast  for full-year
earnings of $4.50 to $4.55 a share, excluding some items,
trailing the $4.58  average estimate  of 23 analysts. Monsanto
said it continues to anticipate that earnings in the fiscal year
that begins Sept. 1 will increase by a percentage in the “mid-teens.”  In addition to lower seed-production costs next year,
Monsanto will benefit from average corn-seed prices that will be
5 percent to 10 percent higher and continued “strong” earnings
in the unit that makes Roundup herbicide, Courduroux said.  Excluded from this year’s forecast is an estimated 20 cents
to 25 cents a share of earnings from soybean sales in Brazil,
which are the subject of a legal challenge. The company
suspended royalty collections for Roundup Ready soybeans late
last year because of a legal dispute over patent expiration.  Latin America  Grant is counting on demand outside the core U.S. market,
particularly  Latin America  and Eastern Europe, to drive earnings
growth in the coming years. Corn-seed volumes will increase next
year even if U.S. acreage shrinks, Monsanto President Brett Begemann said on the conference call.  China  this month approved imports of Intacta soybeans, the
first beans engineered to control insects, creating a 100
million-acre sales opportunity for Intacta beans grown in Latin
America, Begemann said. The company is targeting 3 million acres
of Intacta soybean sales in the initial growing season in
Brazil, he said.  Monsanto is projecting the possibility of expanding onto at
a total of 200 million acres with the addition of two other new
types of genetically modified soybeans this decade, Begemann
said.  Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans will be planted on at least
41 million acres this year in the U.S., he said. And Roundup
Ready 2 Extend, which adds dicamba herbicide tolerance to
Roundup Ready beans, will be sold in  North America ,  Argentina 
and Brazil once approved by regulators, he said.  Latin Potential  South America  may account for half of the company’s revenue
growth next year, Michael E. Cox, a New York-based analyst at
Piper Jaffray & Co. who recommends buying the shares, said in a
June 24 note.  Monsanto’s seed-testing procedures have come under scrutiny
after the USDA said May 29 that experimental white wheat
engineered to tolerate Roundup was discovered in an Oregon field
eight years after field tests ended. Japan, Korea and  Taiwan 
have suspended imports of U.S. white wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  