-- Oregon Dodges Bowl Ban in NCAA Probe of Recruiting Violation
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-06-26T15:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/oregon-escapes-bowl-ban-in-ncaa-probe-of-recruiting-violations.html
The  University of Oregon  escaped a
bowl ban and other major penalties in a National Collegiate
Athletic Association probe of football recruiting violations.  The NCAA said in a  release  today that former coach Chip Kelly and the school failed to monitor the football program,
which had become one of the strongest in the nation.  Kelly, who has left Oregon for the  National Football
League ’s  Philadelphia Eagles , was given an 18-month show-cause
window that would affect any effort he made to return to the
college ranks. The Ducks also lost some football scholarships
through the 2015-16 academic year and were placed on probation
for three years.  Oregon finished the 2012 season 12-1 after beating Kansas
State 35-17 in the Fiesta Bowl and was ranked No. 2 behind
 Alabama  in the Associated Press and USA Today polls.  The No. 2 AP ranking marked the fourth Top 5 finish in
Oregon history. The Ducks have been ranked in 60 straight AP Top
25 polls, including the last 28 in the top 10.  The NCAA said  Oregon  used a recruiting service provider,
who worked as a representative of the school’s athletic
department to help the Ducks bring in several prospects.  The representative provided cash and gave free lodging to a
prospect, and engaged in impermissible calls and off-campus
contacts with football prospects, their families and high school
coaches, according to the NCAA.  After a rule change requiring four reports annually from
recruiting/scouting services, the university paid $25,000 for a
subscription to the recruiting service but did not receive the
necessary reports, according to the NCAA investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in  New York  at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  