-- Morgan Stanley Sells Largest Note Tied to Lululemon Stock
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-06-26T22:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/morgan-stanley-sells-largest-note-tied-to-lululemon-stock.html
Morgan Stanley sold $10.7 million of
one-year securities tied to  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , the
largest such offering in at least three and a half years.  The securities, issued June 21, yield as much as 12 percent
so long as the stock doesn’t end up below 70 percent of its
starting value, with all principal at risk, according to a
 prospectus  filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The bank distributed the securities for a 1.5 percent
commission.  Lululemon, the Vancouver-based athletic clothing maker that
recalled some of its women’s pants in March for being too sheer,
tumbled 18 percent on June 11. The day before, Christine Day,
the company’s chief executive officer, said she would leave the
company.  “I think what Lulu has done well is create an immensely
strong consumer following that is pretty sticky,” said Camilo Lyon, a New York-based analyst for Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Whoever succeeds Day “doesn’t really have a lot to change,” he
said.  Canaccord lowered its 12-month target price for the stock
to $87 on June 11 from $92.  Shares fell 16 percent this year to close at $63.88 today.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  will automatically redeem the notes quarterly if
the stock rises above its initial level of $61.90.  Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley in  New
York , didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment on the note. The
bank is the largest U.S. structured note issuer by volume.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  