-- Osborne Outlines Spending Cuts as U.K. Vote Agenda Set
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-06-26T13:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/osborne-outlines-spending-cuts-as-u-k-vote-agenda-set.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  outlined spending cuts the government will make
in 2015, setting the agenda for that year’s general election.  Osborne said he’s acting on behalf of present and future
taxpayers as he  gave details  of how 11.5 billion pounds ($17.5
billion) of savings in the fiscal year starting in April 2015
will be divided between government departments, a real-terms cut
of 2.7 percent from the previous year. He challenged the
opposition  Labour Party  to say what it would do to restrain
budget spending if it wins in 2015.  “We have to deal with the world as it is, not as we wish
it to be, so this country has to continue to make savings,”
Osborne told lawmakers in the House of Commons in  London  today.
“We’ve made real progress, putting right what went so badly
wrong but while we’ve been acting, the challenges from abroad
have grown.”  The spending review, which extends the deepest austerity
program in British peacetime history into a sixth year, reflects
the failure of Osborne’s plan to balance the budget before the
May 2015 election. Weaker-than-expected  economic growth  and
lower-than-forecast tax receipts have led to the extension of
budget cuts until 2017-18.  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5382 at 2:46 p.m. in
London. The yield on the 10-year gilt was down 10 basis points
at 2.44 percent.  Efficiency Savings  Ministries have identified a further 5 billion pounds of
efficiency savings in the 2015-16 fiscal year on top of 5
billion pounds the government has already found by cutting
spending on marketing consultants and  information technology  and
by negotiating lower prices, Osborne said.  When they took power in 2010, both Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  and its Liberal Democrat coalition
partners banked on Osborne’s austerity program being over in
time for the election, giving them the opportunity to go to
voters with an agenda of tax cuts and a growing economy. Labour
leads the Tories by about seven percentage points in recent
opinion polls.  The  National Health Service , education and overseas aid are
protected from spending cuts, meaning the Ministry of Justice
and the Department for Communities and Local Government are
among those facing reductions of as much as 10 percent. Grants
to local authorities will be continued to enable them to freeze
council tax for a further two years.  The number of soldiers, sailors and airmen in the armed
forces will not be cut, Osborne said. The  defense budget  will be
lowered by 2 percent, much less than most other departments.
Defense-equipment programs will grow in real terms.  Welfare Cap  Branding Labour “the welfare party” over opposition to
limiting benefits, Osborne said a cap on the total welfare bill
will be introduced starting in 2015. Spending on tax credits and
housing, disability and pensioner benefits totaling as much as
100 billion pounds -- about half of all such spending -- will be
included, he said. The state pension will be excluded from the
cap, which will be reviewed and reset for four years in the
annual budget.  Welfare claimants who can’t speak English will have their
benefits cut if they refuse to attend language classes and all
jobseekers will have to attend a jobcentre every week instead of
every two weeks, Osborne said. Changes to the welfare system
will save as much as 4 billion pounds by 2015, he said.  Police counter-terrorism spending will be maintained,
Osborne told lawmakers, and there will be a 3.4 percent increase
in the budget for the intelligence services.  ‘Terrorist Threat’  “Silently, and often heroically, these fellow citizens
protect us and our way of life,” Osborne said. “Protecting
Britain from the terrorist threat remains a top priority.”  Government workers will have automatic pay increases for
length of service taken away and pay rises in the public sector
will be limited to an average of 1 percent, Osborne said. A
further 144,000 public-sector jobs will be cut by 2015-16, he
said.  “Finding savings on this scale has not been easy. These
are difficult decisions that will affect people in our
country,” Osborne said. “But there never was an easy way to
bring spending under control.”  Osborne committed to 50 billion pounds of capital
expenditure in 2015, ranging across roads, railways, bridges,
broadband, science and schools. He also reaffirmed the
government’s commitment to the HS2 project which will link
London to the north of  England  with a high-speed rail line.  Nuclear Plants  Tax and planning changes as well as government guarantees
on new nuclear plants will support more than 100 billion pounds
of private-sector investment in energy, Osborne said. Similar
moves will put the U.K. at the forefront of shale gas
extraction, he said.  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander will
announce specific plans for 100 billion pounds of infrastructure
projects tomorrow, Osborne said.  Labour economy spokesman  Ed Balls  accused Osborne of
failing the tests he had set himself when he came to office and
breaking promises about cutting the deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  