-- Osborne Spending Seen Pressuring Labour Heading for 2015
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n ,   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-27T06:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/osborne-budget-seen-pressuring-labour-heading-for-2015.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne set out spending cuts for the 2015 election year,
seeking to appeal to disaffected Conservatives while pushing the
Labour opposition to come up with an acceptable alternative.  Announcing 11.5 billion pounds ($17.5 billion) of  budget
reductions  yesterday, Osborne protected spending on defense,
schools and hospitals and increased outlays on science and
transport infrastructure at the expense of local governments and
welfare.  The chancellor taunted Labour lawmakers in Parliament in
London, asking them what their alternative was. Labour’s
Treasury spokesman, Ed Balls, said Osborne was being forced to
make the cuts to “pay for his economic failure.” Recent data
suggest an economic recovery is getting under way after a  return
to growth  in the first quarter. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said this week that growth is still “too weak to be
satisfactory.”  “The whole statement was quite political, designed to set
up elephant traps for the Labour Party to stumble into,” Wyn Grant, professor of politics at Warwick University, said in a
telephone interview. “Osborne is trying to portray the Labour
Party as sticking up for benefit claimants.”  Osborne’s clampdown on spending has helped keep  bond yields 
close to record lows. Ten-year gilts yielded 43 basis points
more than German bunds on average since the Conservative-led
coalition took office in May 2010, versus 96 basis points the
day before the election.  ‘Control Spending’  “My political opponents would probably want to put taxes
up,” Osborne told ITV’s “Daybreak” program this morning. “My
instinct is: let’s try to control spending, like welfare
bills.”  From 2015, the government will set a cap on total welfare
spending, excluding state pensions, Osborne announced yesterday.
The Office for Budget Responsibility spending watchdog will have
a duty to warn him publicly if ministers are on course to breach
the limit. He didn’t offer a likely level for the cap.  “We have set out our plans, we have set out our economic
strategy,” Osborne told Balls in Parliament. “Those who
disagree with them -- advance an alternative or retreat from the
battlefield.”  Jobless Claims  The Department for Work and Pensions saw its budget reduced
by 9.5 percent in 2015-16, among the biggest cuts for any
ministry. Money will be saved by increasing rents on state-owned
housing, and the government will also make it harder to claim
joblessness benefits.  Some of the “more populist” policies, including one to
force benefits claimants to learn English and changing the rules
so that those seeking work must be unemployed for seven days,
not the current three, before they can ask for state aid are
“an attempt to undermine the risk of Conservative voters going
across to UKIP,” Grant said.  The U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns for withdrawal
from the European Union, has been targeting voters concerned
about immigration, at the expense of the Tories’ poll ratings.
UKIP is regularly attracting more than 10 percent support in
national surveys, while the Tories are around 7 points behind
Labour.  According to the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies,
Osborne is only halfway through a squeeze that will reduce
departmental budgets by about 20 percent, the fifth-largest
program of cuts among 29 advanced economies. The chancellor said
144,000 civil servants will lose their jobs in 2015-16.  Science Spending  The Department for Communities and Local Government took
one of the biggest hits, with 10 percent taken off its budget in
real terms. The Business, Innovation and Skills Department
suffered a 4.8 percent cut, while securing a guarantee of
science spending every year until 2020.  “It’s going to get harder to keep hammering budgets; we’re
all crossing our fingers economic growth saves the day,” Philip Shaw, chief economist at Investec Securities in  London , said in
a telephone interview. “Eventually there comes a point when you
cannot cut spending any further and that potentially means
increasing taxes.”  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander will today
give details of 100 billion pounds worth of capital spending
planned between 2015 and 2020. Projects are set to include
government guarantees on new nuclear plants, spending on the
north-south high-speed rail link and facilitating shale-gas
extraction.  Intelligence Agencies  The Department for Transport saw its total budget rise as
Osborne pumped money into infrastructure. The Treasury said that
every road program that had planning permission was now under
way. The defense budget was reduced by about 2 percent, one of
the smallest reductions. While the Home Office saw its overall
budget cut by 6.1 percent, that was also less than many other
departments. The intelligence agencies’ budget will go up, while
spending on police counter-terrorism work won’t be reduced.  There are individual Cabinet ministers who benefit from
the announcements yesterday. By protecting their departments’
spending from the deepest cuts, Tory Home Secretary Theresa May,
Defence Secretary Philip Hammond and Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin have strengthened their personal positions, as has
Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable. The
Conservative mayor of London, Boris Johnson, also benefited from
an announcement of infrastructure investment.  For the Tory ministers “it enhances their political
reputation within the Conservative Party, and also for Vince
Cable who is seen as a potential successor to Nick Clegg,” the
Liberal Democrat leader and deputy prime minister, Grant said.
“In any future leadership contest in either party the position
of these people is strengthened because they can show they can
defend their budgets, and, in the case of the Tory party,
relevant to core values upheld by the backbenchers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  