-- Moyes Wants Rooney to Stay at Manchester Utd.: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-26T09:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/moyes-wants-rooney-to-stay-at-manchester-utd-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Moyes Wants Rooney  Manchester United manager  David Moyes  will try to convince
striker  Wayne Rooney  to stay at the Premier League champion, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Moyes, who previously managed Rooney at Everton, hasn’t
arranged a special meeting with the forward and plans to have a
quiet chat once pre-season training begins, the Mirror added.  Although Rooney stopped short of submitting a written
transfer request last month, he’s keen for a fresh start to
kick-start his career before next year’s  World Cup , the  Daily
Mail reported .  Barcelona Bound?  Rooney wants to join Barcelona if he decides to leave
United and the Spanish champion is ready to compete to sign him,
the  Sun reported .  Paris Saint-Germain, Real Madrid, Chelsea and Arsenal are
also monitoring developments with Rooney, the newspaper added.  Newcastle Bid  Newcastle United  is preparing a 12 million-pound ($18.5
million) bid for Marseille striker Andre-Pierre Gignac, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The 27-year-old Gignac, who has previously been a target
for Everton, Fulham, Arsenal and  Manchester United , is ready to
move to St James’ Park, the Mail added.  Inter Targets Richards  Manchester City fullback Micah Richards is a target for
Inter Milan, the  Sun reported .  Inter would be willing to sign Richards, who played seven
games last season following a knee injury, on a permanent deal,
though may still try to take him on loan if he signs a new
contract with City, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  