-- Toyota Seeks Prius-Like Success With 2015 Fuel-Cell Model
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-26T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/toyota-seeks-prius-like-success-with-2015-fuel-cell-model.html
Hydrogen fuel cells have long been
seen as a potentially perfect way to power a car: They generate
electricity and emit only  water vapor . While a few cars have
been tested,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is about ready to roll.  The automaker that defied skeptics in the ’90s with its
Prius gasoline-electric hybrid cars is looking for a fuel-cell
sequel. At the Tokyo Motor Show in November, it plans to show a
hydrogen-powered sedan that would be sold as a 2015 model. It
could be available in U.S. dealerships as soon next year for a
price comparable to a mid-size BMW or Tesla Model S.  The allure of hydrogen, the most abundant element in the
universe, as a clean gasoline replacement led carmakers a decade
ago -- notably the former General Motors Corp. -- to predict
millions of fuel cell autos would be on the road by now. While a
mass-market for hydrogen cars may be a decade or more away, the
enticement is undiminished.  “We’re now in the ‘trough of disillusionment’ for fuel-cell vehicles,” said John German, program director with the
International Council on Clean Transportation environmental
policy group, citing a phase of Gartner Research’s “ Hype
Cycle ” that charts commercial viability of new technologies.  “This is a genuinely better vehicle” over the long term
than gasoline-burning or battery-only autos, said German, a
contributor to National Academy of Sciences studies.  ‘Fool Cells’  Environmental rules in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  encourage
automakers to sell vehicles that don’t emit climate-warming
gases. That has aided hybrid sales, led to lighter cars and
smaller engines and convinced  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201)  to push high-volume sales of battery cars.  Battery-electric vehicles such as Tesla’s Model S and
Nissan’s Leaf hatchback share many technologies with fuel-cell
cars. They use similar electric motors to power the wheels and
brakes that capture power when stopping, as well as software and
related electronics.  The difference is the energy source. Battery cars store
electricity in large lithium-ion packs -- Tesla’s weigh 1,000
pounds (454 kilograms). Fuel cells generate it in an electro-chemical reaction of hydrogen and air.  In a fuel cell, hydrogen gas passes through a stack of
plastic membranes and metal plates -- like syrup soaking a tower
of platinum-dusted pancakes -- to produce electricity.  Because of the precious metals needed, fuel-cell stacks
remain expensive, as do high-pressure hydrogen tanks. Prototypes
have cost $1 million to make.  Other Challenges  Challenges lurk beyond the car itself. Most commercial
hydrogen is made from natural gas, which uses a lot of power and
emits carbon. It takes energy to compress the gas for storage at
fuel stations, of which there are few, clustered mainly in
Southern  California .  Tesla Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  said hydrogen’s
shortcomings make it a dead-end for vehicles.  “Fuel cells should be renamed ‘fool cells,’ they are so
stupid,” he said in an interview last month. “You could take
best case of a fuel cell, theoretically the best case, and it
does not compete with lithium-ion cells today. And lithium-ion
cells are far from their optimum.”  Nevertheless, Toyota sees potential to top its Prius
success with a hydrogen fuel cell sedan.  In 1997, Toyota touted the first mass-produced hybrid as
having twice the fuel economy and half the carbon exhaust of a
conventional car. Some dismissed it as a money-losing science
project, yet the gamble paid off. Toyota has since sold almost 4
million Prius models, making it the most successful alternative
powertrain vehicle line.  ‘Wildly Inflated’  Soon after that debut, Toyota and competitors promoted
hydrogen as even more promising. Market-readiness estimates in
the early 2000s were “wildly inflated,” said German, who was
then a  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  engineer. Larry Burns, who ran GM’s R&D
then, had predicted that 80 million to 90 million fuel-cell
vehicles would be sold in the 2010 decade.  Perhaps “ hundreds ” of leased and prototype hydrogen autos
and buses operate on California’s roads, according to estimates
by the California Fuel Cell Partnership, the primary evaluation
program for the technology. They include versions of Toyota’s
Highlander and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s  Santa Fe  mid-size sport-utility vehicles; Honda’s leased FCX Clarity, an Accord-sized
sedan; and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s leased Mercedes-Benz  F-Cell  wagon.  Hyundai, Honda and Mercedes are also planning increased
output of 2015 models.  ‘Price Competitive’  Toyota declined to forecast sales or production volumes for
its new model.  Toyota had said the model would be a Lexus with a price
about $50,000. It’s now non-committal on the brand, and the car
will cost in the neighborhood of $50,000, “depending on how big
your neighborhood is,” Chris Hostetter, U.S. group vice
president for advanced product development, told reporters last
month.  It will be “price competitive” with Tesla’s $69,900 Model
S, he said, and go about 300 miles (483 kilometers) per fueling.  And who’s behind this push? The original chief engineer of
the Prius, now-Chairman Takeshi Uchiyamada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  