-- Toyota Robot Booked for First Conversation With Human in Space
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-06-26T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/toyota-robot-booked-for-first-conversation-with-human-in-space.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said a robot it
co-developed will have the first human-robot conversation in
space as part of a project to make machines that can interact
with and assist people living alone.  “This is one small step for me, but one giant leap for
robots,” the 13-inch-tall humanoid robot named  Kirobo  said at a
briefing in  Tokyo  after being unveiled to the theme song of
Astro Boy, an animation series about robots living among humans.  Voice-recognition technology developed by the carmaker will
enable Kirobo to remember human voices and respond to them in
Japanese, according to Toyota. The world’s largest automaker
will use findings from the project to improve the  partner robots 
it makes that can perform tasks such as housework and assisting
people who have difficulty walking.  “Japanese people are more comfortable with the idea of
living and communicating with robots, because that’s a popular
scene in manga,”  University of Tokyo  Associate Professor
Tomotaka Takahashi said yesterday, referring to Japanese comics.
“In about 15 years, we want to see a society where everyone is
living with a personal robot.”  University of Tokyo researchers and Dentsu Inc., Japan’s
biggest advertising agency, are working with the Toyota City,
Japan-based carmaker on the project.  Toyota is developing its partner robots partly because
Japan has one of the world’s fastest-aging populations. One in
every four people in the country will be older than 65 in 2014,
compared with 9.6 percent in  China  and 14 percent in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau.  August Blastoff  The carmaker has been developing industrial robots since
the 1970s to help cut costs and improve quality by automating
tasks like welding and painting.  Kirobo is set to blast off from  Japan  for the International
Space Station in August aboard the Kounotori 4 cargo spacecraft.
The robot will then wait for Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata to
arrive in November or December and take part in the first robot-human conversation in space, according to Toyota.  Kirobo is scheduled to return to earth in December 2014.  “We want people to dream of a society where we live with
robots,” Fuminori Kataoka, general manager of Toyota’s product
planning division, said at the briefing yesterday. “I’m very
excited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  