-- Pakistan Plans Talks With IMF on Loan of Up To $7 Billion
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-06-26T10:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/pakistan-plans-talks-with-imf-on-loan-of-up-to-7-billion-1-.html
Pakistan  said it will discuss a loan
program of as much as $7 billion with the  International Monetary
Fund , as the nation tries to rebuild currency reserves.  “Certainly, we will talk and negotiate for a program,”
Finance Minister Ishaq Dar said in an interview late yesterday
in Dubai. “We would be looking for anything pragmatic. It would
be anything between $5 billion to $7 billion.”  Pakistan’s foreign-exchange reserves slid over 40 percent
to $6.24 billion in June from a year earlier, enough to cover
about two months of imports, central bank data show. The plunge
has weighed on the rupee and adds to other challenges facing the
recently elected government of Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , such
as energy shortages and a Taliban insurgency in the northwest.  “An arrangement with the IMF will give the market some
confidence,” said Sayem Ali, an economist at Standard Chartered
Plc in Karachi. It would calm fears among foreign investors that
the rupee is headed for a “drastic” plunge, he said.  The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 98.87 per dollar as
of 3:01 p.m. local time, climbing for the first time in five
days, while the Karachi Stock Exchange 100 index was little
changed.  Dar also said the government will clear about $5 billion of
so-called circular debt that has choked power generation in the
 energy industry . Circular debt refers to money owed to power
companies from unpaid bills.  The step will boost electricity output by 1,700 megawatts,
helping to curb outages that have hurt economic growth, he said.  Policy Changes  Dar said an IMF team is already in Islamabad.  Jeffrey Franks , the head of the IMF’s Pakistan mission,
said in January that the lender won’t sign a new loan program
without a “deep and clear” commitment on a set of policy
reforms to curb the  budget deficit .  Dar in his June 12 budget speech pledged to narrow the
widest fiscal deficit in over two decades and to spur expansion
in an economy he said was “shattered.”  He imposed additional levies, such as a sales-tax increase
to 17 percent from 16 percent, to help achieve a deficit of 6.3
percent of gross domestic product in the year starting July 1,
compared with 8.8 percent in 2012-2013.  “We have already taken steps for reforms,” he said in the
interview yesterday after attending an investment conference.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan on June 21 unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  for the first time this year to boost economic
growth, even as higher taxes and the drop in the currency
threaten to revive inflation.  The rupee has depreciated about 4.5 percent versus the
dollar in the past year, risking costlier imports. Consumer
prices advanced 5.13 percent in May, the slowest pace since at
least 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharif is aiming for 4.4 percent economic growth next
fiscal year, up from an estimated 3.6 percent in 2012-2013, and
to keep inflation in single digits.  He returned to power in a May 11 general election, more
than 13 years after his second period as premier was cut short
by a 1999 army coup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  