-- South Korea Inc. Joins Park on China Visit to Reshape Ties
-- B y   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-06-27T05:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/park-joined-by-south-korea-inc-on-visit-to-china-seeking-trade.html
President Park Geun Hye arrived in
Beijing today with the biggest-ever business delegation to join
a South Korean leader’s state visit, signaling the importance
she puts on  China  in boosting her nation’s economic fortunes.  Park will be joined by 71 executives, including Hyundai
Motor Co. Chairman  Chung Mong Koo , as her nation turns to its
biggest trading partner and the world’s second biggest economy
to spur growth that fell in 2012 to the slowest pace since 2009.  The four-day visit is a chance for Park, elected to a
single five-year term in December, to pin down a free-trade deal
as conglomerates such as Hyundai and  Samsung Group (005930)  look to tap
China’s growing consumer class. Expanding trade ties may be
crucial for Park to deliver on promises to boost employment to
70 percent by 2017 from 64.2 percent.  “ South Korea ’s future is increasingly the China
relationship in terms of trade and investment,” said John
Delury, assistant professor of East Asian Studies at Yonsei
University in  Seoul . “For a new South Korean president this is
the top priority -- to get China right.”  Park’s interest in China -- she taught herself Mandarin and
reads Chinese philosophy -- may help her as she tries to enlist
the country’s support in pressing  North Korea  to abandon its
nuclear program.  China, the North’s main ally, tightened enforcement of
United Nations sanctions on the totalitarian regime and
Communist leaders stressed the need for a nuclear-free peninsula
during visits by two North Korean diplomats since late May.
While Park campaigned on re-engagement with the North, she has
taken a tougher line since becoming president.  Common Ground  China and South Korea are “really trying to design their
approach to North Korea,” Delury said. “Both of them are
groping a bit but they do have a good deal of common ground.”  The nuclear issue will come up when Park meets President  Xi Jinping  and other leaders, China Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Hua Chunying said yesterday. China sees Park “as an old
friend,” Hua said June 18.  Park’s office has said a focus of the trip will be economic
ties. Annual trade has grown at an average rate of 19 percent
since 1992. More than 300 business leaders and government
officials will attend a business forum in Beijing tomorrow. She
will also push for progress on a  free-trade  agreement first
announced in May 2012.  Trade Deal  China and South Korea still haven’t worked out details,
making a deal unlikely for now, said Fang Xiuyu, a professor of
Korean Studies at Fudan University in  Shanghai .  Park will visit Xi’an, the location of a factory that
Samsung Electronics Co. started building in 2012 to build memory
chips. Construction is expected to be finished in 2014.  South Korea’s current-account surplus hit a record $8.6
billion in May, compared with $3.9 billion in April, as exports
rose on mobile phones, semiconductor chips, and cars while
imports dropped on a lower oil purchase price and weaker demand
for imported  consumer goods , the  Bank of Korea  said today.  Park comes to China as it grapples with its own troubles. A
cash squeeze increases the chance that China will miss its
economic growth goal of 7.5 percent this year. Park’s economy --
about six times smaller than China’s -- can’t compete on issues
such as  cheap labor  and cheap exports, said Han Jae Jin, a
research fellow at Hyundai Research Institute in Seoul.  Accept Reality  “We need to accept reality and work together with China,
and pick our battles,” Han said.  Park’s visit reflects the shifting power balance in  Asia .
Like past leaders, she visited the U.S. in her first trip
abroad, though she is breaking with precedent that saw South
Korean leaders go to  Japan  next.  “This breaks the order established by her predecessors,”
said a commentary in the state-run China Daily newspaper by Woo
Jin Hoon, a guest professor at Renmin University in Beijing.
“Park is visiting China ahead of Japan as it is more of a
priority” in her foreign policy.  Eighty-three percent of South Koreans believe relations
with China are more important than with Japan, a June 14-15
survey by Seoul-based Realmeter said. Sixty percent of 1,000
respondents said they see China staying neutral in any military
clash between the two Koreas, Realmeter said. The poll had a 3.1
percentage-point margin of error.  China fought on the North’s side in the  Korean War  that
ended with a 1953 armistice separating the two countries at the
38th parallel. The South was backed by the United Nations forces
led by the U.S.  Park taught herself Chinese in her 30’s by watching
language programs on public television, according to her 2007
autobiography. She recommends people read Chinese philosopher
Feng Youlan’s “A History of Chinese Philosophy,” which guided
her through “times of difficulty,” she said in May.  “Park likes reading Chinese books and understands
Chinese,” Fang said. “Her vision is very similar to Xi’s. They
have lots of shared ideas about cooperation in  East Asia .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  