-- Poland Details Plan to Scale Back Pension Funds to Reduce Debt
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-06-26T12:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/poland-details-plan-to-scale-back-pension-funds-to-reduce-debt.html
Poland will downsize its fund-based
pension system to curb the country’s public debt, choosing one
of three methods for the overhaul after a month of public
debate, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said today.  “The present structure” of the privately-managed pension
funds “is a gigantic burden on public finances,” Rostowski
told a news briefing in Warsaw on the findings of a government
report on the system. “It isn’t a model we want to promote.”  Poland will probably revise its 2013 budget as the European
Union’s largest eastern economy battles its worst slowdown in 12
years and tax revenues fall short of plan, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said on June 11. Transfers to the 14 funds will cost 11.3
billion zloty ($3.4 billion) this year as  Finance Ministry  sells
more bonds to make up for the shortfall in payments to current
retirees, according to the government report.  Warsaw-listed stocks tumbled to a 10-month low before
recovering most losses after Rostowski said “nationalization”
of the pension funds wasn’t an option. The  WIG20 (WIG20)  Index declined
0.4 percent at 2,237.93 at 2:33 p.m. in Warsaw. The zloty
weakened 0.1 percent to 4.3430 against the euro and the yield on
the government’s 10-year bonds fell five basis points to 4.35
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Second Pillar’  Poland’s cabinet will vote next week on the  review  of the
pension system, which includes a mandatory “second pillar” of
privately-managed pension funds set up in 1999. Two of the three
alternative policy courses recommended in the review would
transfer the 16.2 million Poles enrolled in second-pillar funds
back to the state-run pension system unless they file
declarations to remain. The third would cancel 120 billion zloty
of  government bonds  now held by the funds.  Polish pension funds held 280 billion zloty in assets,
including 110.8 billion zloty in equities as of May 31, data
from Poland’s financial markets regulator show.  The government’s proposals are a short-term fix, according
to Piotr Krolikowski, Chief Executive Officer of the Warsaw-based pension fund owned by Nordea Bank AB.  Two years ago, Hungary took over $13 billion in privately
managed pension assets to reduce the  budget deficit  and cut debt
by canceling government bonds held by funds. Poland’s Finance
and Labor Ministries, which co-authored the report, specifically
advised against eliminating or gradually phasing out privately
managed funds, Rostowski said. The report also recommended
against suspending contributions to the funds.  No Nationalization  “The key for us is that the changes don’t lead in any way
to nationalizing the shares,” Rostowski told reporters. “We’ll
approach the question of  voting rights  cautiously, too.”  Bonds held by Poles who return to the state-run system
would be canceled, according to the recommendations. Equity
holdings wouldn’t be immediately sold, as the Social Security
Fund could entrust them for management to private financial
institutions, including the existing pension funds, or to the
state-operated Demographic Reserve Fund, Rostowski said.  “The most important thing is that they unequivocally ruled
out the possibility of nationalizing pension funds; that means
the worst-case scenario hasn’t materialized,” Andrzej Domanski,
who manages the equivalent of $165 million in stocks at Noble
Funds TFI SA in Warsaw, said by phone. “It’s also important
that stocks held by funds won’t be sold on the market.”  The first of two main recommendations in the report called
for the state-owned Social Security Fund to handle payouts of
retirement pensions from the privately-managed funds. This would
involve gradual transfer of an individual’s assets from the
funds to the state system starting 10 years before retirement.  Reducing Debt  The review’s second recommendation called for a “thorough
restructuring” of second-pillar funds, by three alternative
methods. The first option would cancel the 120 billion zloty in
government bonds held by the funds, cutting public debt by 11
percentage points of gross domestic product, according to the
report. The value of the bonds would be credited to an
individual’s retirement account in the state-run system and
would bear interest at a rate equivalent to  Poland ’s average GDP
growth over the previous five years.  Caps on equity holdings by second-pillar funds would be
lifted and they would be banned from buying bonds, according to
the recommendations.  Under the second option, Poles enrolled in pension funds
would have three months to declare whether they want to remain
in the second pillar. Those who don’t file a declaration, along
with their assets, would be transferred to the state-run, pay-as-you-go system. Contributions to funds would remain the same,
rising to a planned 3.5 percent in 2017.  Below Czech  The third method would be identical to the second, except
that those remaining with the funds would have to make an
extra payroll contribution of 2 percent, increasing the
total contribution to the funds to 4 percent.  “We want to curb the growth in public debt caused by the
pension system,” Rostowski told reporters. “If we hadn’t
introduced the capital pillar in 1999, our public debt would be
below 40 percent of GDP, less than the  Czech Republic ’s, and our
debt service costs would also be lower.”  Poland’s public debt stood at 55.6 percent of GDP last
year, according to EU accounting methods. Investors demand 198
basis points in additional yield to hold Poland’s 10-year bonds
over similarly-dated notes from the Czech Republic.  Rostowski’s proposals won’t cover the 60 billion-zloty
yearly deficit in Poland’s social security system, Nordea’s
Krolikowski said in an interview in Sopot, Poland today.  “Liquidating bond holdings or transferring assets back to
the Social Security Fund is a short-term remedy,” Krolikowski
said on the sidelines of a financial conference in Sopot,
Poland. “We want to hear how the government plans to finance
pensions in five or 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  