-- Polish Stocks Drop on Pension Fund Overhaul Plans
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-06-26T16:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/polish-stocks-drop-on-pension-fund-overhaul-plans.html
Polish stocks erased losses after
the government unveiled proposals to reduce the role of pension
funds, the biggest investor in the local equity market.
Government bonds gained and the zloty weakened.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  of the biggest and most traded companies
slumped as much as 2.9 percent before paring losses when Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  ruled out taking over pension fund
assets. The gauge closed little changed at 2,246.66 points in
Warsaw.  “Investors got some relief after the government said
explicitly that they won’t nationalize pension funds,” Jakub Bentke, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.5 billion zloty of
equities and debt at KBC TFI SA mutual fund in Warsaw, said by
phone today. “It means that they won’t see a sudden supply of
equities from these funds as you cannot sell stocks worth about
100 billion zloty while preserving their value.”  Poland will downsize its fund-based pension system to curb
the country’s public debt, choosing one of three methods for the
overhaul presented today, Rostowski said. The country’s
privately-managed pension funds, which can invest as much as
47.5 percent of their assets in stocks, held 110.8 billion zloty
($33.2 billion) in equities on May 31, latest data from  Poland ’s
financial-market regulator show.  The government, which in 2011 reduced cash transfers to
funds to 2.3 percent of a worker’s pay from 7.3 percent to help
trim the deficit, seeks to overhaul the industry at a time the
economy is growing at the slowest pace in more than a decade.  Showing ‘Interest’  “They unequivocally ruled out the possibility of
nationalizing pension funds so the worst case scenario hasn’t
materialized,” Andrzej Domanski, who manages 550 million zloty
in stocks at mutual fund Noble Funds TFI SA, said by phone from
Warsaw today. “The good thing is that the Finance Minister
actually showed an interest in the impact of the reform on the
equity market.”  ING Bank Slaski SA, which together with its majority-owner
ING Groep NV own Poland’s largest pension fund, fell 1.5
percent. Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, a coal miner, declined
4.1 percent to 62.80 zloty, the lowest on record.  The yield on 5-year  government bonds  fell 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.72 percent today, while the zloty
weakened 0.3 percent to 4.3513 against the euro.  The government narrowed its  budget deficit  less than
planned last year because of the economic slowdown and has until
2014 to reduce the gap to an EU-prescribed level of 3 percent of
economic output. It also has to keep the public debt below 55
percent, a level that would trigger austerity measures.  State transfers to the 14 funds will cost 11.3 billion
zloty this year as  Finance Ministry  sells more bonds to make up
for the shortfall in payments to current retirees, according to
a government report published today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  