-- Portuguese Strike Halts Trains, Shuts Lisbon’s Metro
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-06-26T23:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/portuguese-strike-halts-trains-shuts-lisbon-s-metro.html
Trains in  Portugal  will stop running
today and Lisbon’s metro service will shut down as the country’s
two main labor groups strike to protest government austerity
measures.  Underground trains will restart at 1 a.m. tomorrow,
according to the Metropolitano de Lisboa website. State-owned
rail operator CP-Comboios de Portugal said on its website
yesterday it doesn’t expect services to run.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and a deepening recession as he cuts spending and
raises taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($102
billion) aid plan from the euro area and the  International
Monetary Fund . Coelho announced measures on May 3 intended to
generate savings of about 4.8 billion euros through 2015 that
include reducing the number of state workers.  A deeper recession and higher unemployment are
“exacerbating social and political tensions and, in turn,
testing the government’s resolve to continue with adjustment
policies and reforms,” the IMF said in a report on June 13.  Today’s strike may affect flights, state-owned airline TAP
SGPS SA and airport manager ANA-Aeroportos de  Portugal (PTGDPQOQ)  SA said.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Autoeuropa car factory in Palmela, southern
Portugal, will halt production. The plant accounts for 1.3
percent of Portugal’s economy.  The government also plans to review state workers’ pay, and
their working week will increase to 40 hours from 35 hours
starting this year, in line with the private sector.  The UGT and CGTP labor groups, which called today’s
walkout, last staged a joint general strike in November 2011,
six months after the bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  