-- Gilts Climb, Pound Drops After Miles Says Economy Remains Weak
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-06-26T15:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/pound-is-little-changed-before-osborne-presents-spending-review.html
U.K. government bonds rose for the
first time in five days and the pound declined after Bank of
England policy maker David Miles said the economy remained weak
and renewed his call for more asset purchases.  Benchmark  10-year yields  slid the most in three months
after BOE Governor Mervyn King said yesterday tighter monetary
policy is still some way off. The pound fell to a three-week low
against the dollar as Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
said the U.K. has to continue to make savings. Gilts extended
their advance after data showed the U.S. economy expanded less
than previously estimated in the first quarter.  “There are signs of stabilization, markets are trying to
form a base,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. “Central bankers are
keen to talk rates down again. It’s way too premature for the
U.K. recovery to be confronted with tighter monetary
conditions.”  The 10-year yield fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 2.44 percent at 4:21 p.m. in London. That’s
the biggest decline since March 1. The 1.75 percent gilt due in
September 2022 rose 0.745, or 7.45 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,533) face amount, to 94.315. The rate on two-year gilts
dropped 11 basis points to 0.41 percent.  Miles, who has voted for additional quantitative easing at
each Bank of England meeting since November, said any unwinding
of stimulus in the future should be done “very gradually.”  ‘Next Move’  “I do not think we should be in any hurry in the U.K. to
move the monetary policy dials back to more normal settings,”
Miles said in a speech in  London . “Indeed it might well be
right for the next move in the U.K. to push them even further to
give more support to demand.”  Benchmark U.K. yields jumped 35 basis points last week, the
most since January 2009, after Federal Reserve President Ben S. Bernanke signaled the U.S. central bank may start reducing its
asset-purchase program this year if economic growth is in line
with central-bank projections.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a revised 1.8 percent
annualized rate from January through March, down from a prior
estimate of 2.4 percent, the Commerce Department reported.  The Bank of England’s benchmark  interest rate  has been at a
record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009 and the central bank has
 bought  375 billion pounds of government bonds since then.  Outlook ‘Clouded’  “The outlook for financial stability is still clouded by
risks from a weak and uneven global recovery and imbalances in
the euro area,” the central bank said in its  Financial
Stability Report  released today. “Risks could crystallize if
global long-term interest rates were to rise abruptly from
currently still historically low levels or if credit spreads
were to widen.”  Gilts handed investors a loss of 4.2 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds dropped 2.1 percent and Treasuries fell 3 percent.  The pound fell against all except two of its 16 major
counterparts as Osborne outlined the spending cuts the
government will make in 2015.  “We have to deal with the world as it is, not as we wish
it to be, so this country has to continue to make savings,” he
told lawmakers in London. “We’ve made real progress, putting
right what went so badly wrong but while we’ve been acting, the
challenges from abroad have grown.”  The pound fell 0.6 percent to $1.5327 after sliding to
$1.5315, the weakest level since June 5. The U.K. currency was
little changed at 84.75 pence per euro.  Sterling has declined 0.7 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-market currencies. The euro gained 4.2 percent and the dollar
appreciated 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  