-- Prima ‘Cautious’ on Adding Peru Debt, Weighs More Foreign Equity
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-06-26T19:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/prima-cautious-on-adding-peru-debt-weighs-more-foreign-equity.html
Prima AFP, Peru’s biggest pension
fund manager, is wary about increasing holdings of local bonds
as it weighs opportunities in foreign equity markets, according
to its head of investments.  While Peruvian bonds may be poised for a rebound after
local banks and foreign investors scaled back holdings, other
markets offer better returns, Chief Investment Officer Jose Roca
told reporters in  Lima .  Peru’s four private pension funds have taken advantage of
rule changes this year allowing them to increase foreign
investment, reducing the impact of a slump in local securities.
Prima may add to the 2.9 billion soles ($1.04 billion) it has
invested in equities overseas by selling holdings in mutual
funds and investing in individual stocks, Roca said.  “We’re being cautious about what we take advantage of”
and put “a very strong emphasis on liquidity,” Roca said.
“Sometimes it’s an opportunity on paper. We want to turn
tangible opportunities into real profits.”  The  Lima General Index (IGBVL)  has fallen 26 percent this year, the
worst performance of 94 primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg.
Returns on Peru’s local government bonds are down 11 percent
this year, versus an average 2.6 percent decline for  Latin
America , according to according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 2020 sol-denominated bonds surged to a 17-month high on June 24 on the
expectation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus that’s
bolstered emerging-market assets. The yield fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.49 percent at 1:56 p.m.
in Lima today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  