-- Prudential’s Lillard Says Buy CMBS as Bonds Overreacted
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-26T19:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/prudential-s-lillard-says-buy-cmbs-as-bonds-overreacted.html
Prudential (PRU)  Financial Inc.’s Michael Lillard said investors should buy commercial mortgage-backed
securities and other bonds that fell on concerns the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  will slow its pace of debt purchases.  The increase in yield provided by CMBS, emerging-market
debt, high-yield bonds and bank debt makes those assets
particularly attractive, said Lillard, who’s chief investment
officer at Prudential Fixed Income.  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, has more than
$1 trillion under management.  “You’ve seen a big overreaction to the Federal Reserve,”
Lillard said today at an event in New York. “We really think
it’s a situation where commercial real estate is pretty solid.”  Fixed-income assets have fallen since May 22 when Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that the central bank’s
bond purchases may be reduced if the U.S. employment outlook
shows sustained improvement. Bernanke said June 19 that the Fed
could begin phasing out bond buying later this year and halt
purchases around mid-2014 as long as the economy meets its
forecast.  “Yields have overreacted here and they’re too high,”
Lillard said. “In our portfolios right now, we’re actually
somewhat long duration, and we expect yields to retrace.”  The  10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  yields 2.54 percent, up from 2.04
percent on May 22. Bond prices fall when yields rise.  Investors pulled a record $61.7 billion from U.S. listed
bond mutual funds and exchange-traded funds this month through
June 24, according to TrimTabs Investment Research.  Highest Quality  Lillard said he recommends the highest-quality CMBS issues.
Investors are demanding 1.2 percentage points more than the
benchmark swap rate to buy new CMBS tied to shopping malls,
skyscrapers, hotels and apartment buildings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from 72 basis points in
February, the narrowest spread since sales revived in 2009. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was  382 basis points  yesterday,
compared with 278 basis points on May 22, according to index
data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  