-- Traders Trapped in Scandinavia Discover No Easy Sell: Currencies
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-26T13:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/traders-trapped-in-scandinavia-discover-no-easy-sell-currencies.html
Foreign-exchange traders becalmed by
central-bank largesse are finding that even currencies from
Group of 10 nations are about as hard to escape as  emerging
markets  once volatility rises.  Norway ’s krone is the biggest loser among 31 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg since June 18, the day before the  Federal
Reserve  signaled it may reduce its stimulus measures this year,
falling 5.8 percent against the dollar and 3.2 percent versus
the euro.  Sweden ’s krona posted the second-biggest drop. The
declines exceeded those of the Polish zloty and Indian rupee.  As two of the three least-traded G-10 developed-nation
currencies based on the latest  triennial survey  by the  Bank for
International Settlements , the krone and krona trapped investors
while the Fed roiled markets worldwide. As long as central banks
were tamping down volatility by providing unprecedented
stimulus, traders were confident to take ever bigger risks by
wading into hard-to-trade currencies.  “In relatively low-liquidity currencies, such as the
Scandinavians, you get these big moves when all the investors
want to rush through the same exit door,” Thomas Kressin, the
Munich-based head of European foreign exchange at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which oversees about $2 trillion,
said in a June 24 phone interview.  ‘Shallow’ Liquidity  Traders who use debt to amplify returns in the krone and
krona likely exacerbated the declines by being forced to sell to
meet margin calls, Kressin said.  The two Nordic currencies accounted for just 3.5 percent of
the $4 trillion of average daily turnover in foreign-exchange
markets in the three years to 2010, the Basel, Switzerland-based
BIS said. The krone was little changed at 6.0890 to the dollar
as of 9:19 a.m. in  New York , while the krona traded at 6.7026.  “Liquidity is very shallow in the Scandies,” Lee Oliver,
a London-based director at Citigroup Inc., wrote in the second-largest currency trader’s FXWire client note on June 24.  Scandinavian midsummer public holidays meant many local
traders and investors were absent from their desks at the end of
last week, compounding the lack of liquidity, according to
Richard Falkenhall, a strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm .  Exiting Trades  “This is a move related to foreign investors” exiting
trades, Falkenhall said in a June 24 phone interview. “Probably
there were more longs in these trades than we thought,” he
said, referring to bets an asset will rise.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank may pare its unprecedented bond-buying program this year
and end it in mid-2014 if the economy improves in line with its
expectations. His comments after the Fed’s June policy meeting
sparked a selloff in relatively high-risk assets on speculation
there will be less cash circulating in the global economy.  Norway’s krone slipped to 6.1737 per dollar, the weakest
level since December 2010, and a 2 1/2-year low of 8.0819 per
euro on June 24, before rebounding the most in more than a week
yesterday. The Swedish krona dropped to a seven-month low of
6.8018 per dollar and a one-year low of 8.8990 versus the euro,
before rising for the first time in four days yesterday.  Sweden’s currency will end the year at 6.69 per dollar and
8.46 versus the euro, while Norway’s krone will be at 5.92 and
7.45, according to median estimates of analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Rising Volatility  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index, which measures
price swings in currencies, rose as high as 11.96 this week from
a more than five-year low 7.05 in December.  The lack of liquidity also pushed up price swings in the
Nordic currencies. Three-month volatility in the Norwegian krone
versus the dollar jumped 33 percent in the past week and swings
in Sweden’s krona rose 11 percent, Bloomberg data show.  The currencies have been weakening since about the end of
the first quarter even as Sweden defies the recession in the
euro region and Norway benefits from oil revenues that bolstered
its $730 billion sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said that he welcomes
a weaker  exchange rate .  “I don’t mind the krona weakening a little bit when we see
problems in the world economy,” Borg said yesterday in a phone
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson . “We don’t have a strong krona policy. We believe that
the market should set the rate.”  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  echoed that sentiment,
saying yesterday said the krona’s recent slump has brought
relief to exporters after the government ruled out tampering
with the exchange rate.  Faster Growth  Sweden’s Riksbank has refrained from lowering  interest
rates , which tend to reduce the appeal of a currency, at its
last two policy meetings. Gross domestic product increased  0.6
percent (SWGDPAQQ)  in the first quarter, up from 0.1 percent in the
previous three months and compared with a 0.3 percent estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Norway will grow 2.4 percent this year and 3 percent in
2014,  Statistics Norway  forecast on May 30. Its central bank,
Norges Bank, has kept inflation below its 2.5 percent target
since mid-2009 even as it signaled it may lower its deposit rate
from 1.5 percent. That’s putting pressure on the krone.  “We are dealing here with fundamentally sound
currencies,” said Pimco’s Kressin. “Once the positions are
washed out, investors will have opportunities to buy these
currencies at really attractive levels. For long-term investors,
this is a great opportunity.”  No Target  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said June 21 he has no
specific target for the krone even as he acknowledged policy
makers were aware they would trigger a slump by lowering the
outlook for borrowing costs.  Bilal Hafeez, the head of global foreign-exchange strategy
at Deutsche Bank AG, the biggest currency trader, said the
German lender’s data show a build-up of positions in Nordic
currencies that still need to be unwound.  “Some of the largest positioning going into the Fed was in
the Scandinavian currencies,” Hafeez said in a phone interview
on June 24. “The market is exhibiting a lot of risk-aversion
and position unwinds. Unless we get stabilization in that, or a
shift in the domestic story within Scandinavia, I don’t think
one should try to fade these moves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  