-- Rand Pares Worst Quarterly Losing Streak in 12 Years on Exports
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-06-26T09:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/rand-pares-worst-quarterly-losing-streak-in-12-years-on-exports.html
The rand strengthened, paring its
longest quarterly losing streak in almost 12 years, as exporters
converted earnings from abroad to the local currency.  “There was some inflows from local companies translating
their foreign exchange earnings,” Edwin Smit, a derivatives
trader at EDI (Pty) Ltd., said by phone from the capital
 Pretoria .  The rand gained as much as 0.8 percent to 10.0288 per
dollar and was trading 0.4 percent stronger at 10.0676 as of
11:30 a.m. in Johannesburg. The currency has lost 8.3 percent
over the past three months, heading for its fifth quarterly
decline in the worst stretch of declines since the final three
month of 2001. Yields on 10.5 percent government bonds due
December 2026 fell for a second day, declining three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.20 percent.  South Africa , the world’s largest miner of platinum, used
as catalytic converters in vehicles, and the fifth-largest
producer of gold, relies on raw materials for more than 50
percent of its foreign exchange earnings. The continents’s
largest economy ships about a third of its manufactured goods to
countries that share the euro.  The spot price of gold declined for a third day, slumping
as much as 3.6 percent as U.S. economic data beat estimates,
strengthening the case for reduced stimulus from the  Federal
Reserve . Durable goods orders in the world’s largest economy
rose more than forecast in May, while  consumer confidence  for
June exceeded projections, data showed yesterday.  Rate Increase  South African  forward-rate agreements  are pricing in a more
than 80 percent probability that the nation’s central bank will
increase its benchmark  interest rate  before November,  FirstRand
Ltd. (FSR) ’s Rand Merchant Bank said in an e-mailed note to clients
today. These contracts are used by investors to speculate on
future rate movements.  The U.S., the world’s biggest economy, probably expanded by
2.4 percent in the three months through March, unchanged from
the last quarter of 2012, according to the median estimate of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  