-- RBNZ Says Higher Rates Wrong Policy to Tackle Housing Boom
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-06-27T03:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/rbnz-says-higher-rates-not-right-policy-to-tackle-housing-boom.html
New Zealand’s central bank said it
isn’t appropriate to raise interest rates at the moment and it
is “seriously considering” using other tools to curb a
housing-market boom.  “We at the Reserve Bank see the current overheated housing
market as a real threat to future financial stability,” Deputy
Governor Grant Spencer said in a speech in Wellington today.
“Higher interest rates are not the right policy response at
this time” and the central bank “is therefore seriously
considering the use of macro-prudential policy,” he said.  The RBNZ is reluctant to raise its Official Cash Rate from
a record-low 2.5 percent because that could boost a currency it
has described as over-valued. Since peaking at above 86 U.S.
cents on April 11, the New Zealand dollar has dropped more than
10 percent against the greenback amid signs of an improving U.S.
economy and after limited intervention by the central bank.  Policy makers are “well aware that any official cash rate
increases at this time would likely put unwanted pressure on the
exchange rate,” Spencer said.  The New Zealand dollar traded 0.4 percent higher at 78.20
U.S. cents as of 3:30 p.m. in Wellington after a report showed
business confidence rose in June to the highest since February
2010.  Rate Outlook  Spencer’s views echo RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler, who said
June 13 he didn’t expect to raise borrowing costs this year. The
bank’s forecasts released the same day signaled no change in
rates until the second half of 2014.  “From what the bank’s emphasizing, it gives the impression
they don’t want to touch the OCR for as long as they can,” said
 Craig Ebert , senior economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington, who predicts the RBNZ will be forced to raise rates
in March next year. “For us it’s more of a macro picture. We
think the risks of them making a mistake here are rising.”  New Zealand’s dollar has declined since Wheeler on May 8
said he was intervening to weaken it. He bought a net NZ$90
million ($70 million) in May after selling NZ$256 million in
April, according to RBNZ data published today.  Wheeler and Finance Minister Bill English last month agreed
on the use of a number of measures to curb home lending,
including limits on the number of loans banks can make at more
than 80 percent of a property’s value.  Prime Minister John Key said this month he wants the
central bank to exempt first-home buyers from the tighter
lending criteria.  “Our preference is to keep the policy simple and effective
by not having major exemptions and by minimizing the
possibilities for avoidance,” Spencer said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  