-- Real Madrid Soccer Players Look to U.K. as La Liga Loses Luster
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-26T22:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/real-madrid-soccer-players-look-to-u-k-as-la-liga-loses-luster.html
As Spain celebrated winning the 2010
soccer  World Cup , Inigo Calderon lost his job with his hometown
team Deportivo Alaves and went to the U.K. to look for work.  Calderon, a defender, had trials with Norwich and
Gillingham before joining second-tier Brighton where he now
plays. Although he says he hasn’t got used to “everything”
closing at 5 p.m. on England’s south coast, he has no plans to
return to Spain.  He’s part of an exodus of Spanish talent. The number of
Spaniards playing abroad in  Europe ’s top five leagues rose 30
percent to 148 last year, according to a Jan. 21 report by the
 CIES Football Observatory  in Neuchatel,  Switzerland . They’re
fleeing the nation’s six-year economic slump in search of a
regular paycheck.  “We have to emigrate because the clubs in  Spain  are a bit
of a joke,” Calderon, 31, said. “When I tell my teammates
Spanish teams don’t pay wages on time, they don’t believe me.
It’s unthinkable in English soccer.”  The diaspora of talent comes amid a flight of young
Spaniards because of a 56 percent jobless rate for workers under
25. In the year to April 2012, 30,370 Spaniards registered to
work in the U.K., up 25 percent on a year earlier.  Spain plays  Italy  in a Confederations Cup semifinal in
Brazil tonight. Although the national team is world and European
champion, some Spanish clubs are struggling to stay in business.
Union Deportiva Salamanca, the third-tier hometown team of
national coach Vicente del Bosque, said June 18 it was folding
after 90 years.  ‘On the Cheap’  At the same time as coping with sluggish sponsorship and
ticket sales, clubs face stricter rules on debt that are forcing
some to trade players to the U.K. to make up revenue shortfalls,
league spokesman Juan Carlos Santamaria said. The rules will
help clubs become more sustainable, and maintain players in the
future, Santamaria said.  For now the flow of players to  England  “on the cheap” is
lowering the standard of Spanish club soccer, says Lee Dixon, a
former Arsenal defender who is an analyst for ITV Plc. It also
damages the prospects for England’s national team because
Spaniards are taking berths that would be filled by young
English players, Dixon said.  Among those eyeing a move to the U.K. are teenagers at
Spanish powerhouses Real Madrid and Barcelona, according to
Joyce Moreno, a former Real youth-team player in the 1990s who
is now an agent.  Jose Angel Pozo, 17, one of Real Madrid’s brightest
talents, signed for  Manchester City  last year, a “bit of a slap
in the face” for the record 32-time Spanish champion, Moreno
said.  Barcelona ’s Sergio Canos and Josimar Quintero are heading
to Liverpool and Chelsea, he added.  England Flops  “When I was 16, I couldn’t imagine going to play in
Manchester, nobody did,” Moreno, 38, said. “Now players want
to go because there’s more money.”  With Spanish soccer “in vogue,” scouts from England
regularly attend Real youth-team games, Moreno said. Spain’s
Under-21 team beat Italy 4-2 on June 18 to win the European
championship.  England lost its three games  in the competition in
 Israel .  “The level of talent available to the England manager has
dwindled,” former national team player Dixon said by phone.  Some 55 percent of Premier League players last year were
foreign, the highest ratio of any European championship apart
from Cyprus, according to CIES data. The league is the richest
in world soccer, with broadcasting deals worth 5.5 billion
pounds ($8.5 billion) over the next three seasons.  Fulham, Sunderland  The Premier League is investing some of that money in the
development of English players, last year committing to spend
320 million pounds over four years to assist youth-team training
in 92 professional clubs.  Yet even smaller-budget U.K. clubs are looking for bargain
signings in Spain like  Miguel Perez Cuesta, known as Michu . The
2 million-pound capture from Rayo Vallecano got 18 goals for
Swansea in the Premier League last season. Maheta Molango, a
sports lawyer in  Madrid  who helps Charlton Athletic identify
talent, says scouts from clubs like Fulham and Sunderland
regularly attend games in Spain.  In England’s second tier, footballers can earn as much as
20,000 pounds a month -- about five times what they’d get at the
same level in Spain, Molango said. That’s if they get paid at
all in Spain: in the third tier, some 240 players filed
complaints that they are owed wages from last season, according
to the  Madrid-based players’ union .  The exodus of Spanish players is continuing this offseason:
Sevilla winger Jesus Navas moved to Manchester City, while Real
Betis goalkeeper  Adrian San Miguel switched to West Ham . Jose
Alberto Canas left Betis for Swansea, and striker Iago Aspas
quit Celta Vigo for Liverpool.  At Brighton, Calderon says he regularly plays against
Spaniards on other teams such as Sheffield Wednesday and
Blackburn. He’s signed a one-year extension with Brighton
through next season.  “I’m a romantic and I would like to play for my hometown
team again, but we footballers have a short career and we have
to look after our families,” Calderon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  