-- Repsol Rejects Argentina’s $5 Billion YPF Compensation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-06-27T08:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/repsol-rejects-argentina-s-5-billion-ypf-compensation-offer.html
Repsol SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest oil
driller, said its board rejected an offer by the Argentine
government meant as compensation for the expropriation of a 51
percent stake in YPF SA in April 2012.  Repsol was offered a 47 percent stake in a joint venture in
the Vaca Muerta shale formation valued by  Argentina  at $3.5
billion, as well as $1.5 billion toward development, according
to a filing sent to Spain’s securities regulator. The proposal
“does not equal the losses suffered by Repsol,” the Madrid-based company said. YPF would hold a 51 percent stake, while
 Petroleos Mexicanos  SA would own 2 percent in the venture.  Any potential agreement in which the company obtained
stakes in Vaca Muerta “would force Repsol back to Argentina,”
 Societe Generale (GLE)  analysts, who lowered Repsol’s price target to
17.25 euros from 19 euros, said in a note yesterday.  Repsol, which lost almost one-quarter of its market value
in the month following the nationalization, has filed numerous
lawsuits including ones in  Madrid  and  New York  seeking
compensation of $10.5 billion for the seizure of the Buenos
Aires-based oil producer.  Shares in the Spanish company fell as much as 1.4 percent
to 15.89 euros in Madrid and pared the loss to 0.3 percent as of
10 a.m. local time.  ‘Negotiated Solution’  “The board of directors of Repsol and its executive team
are pleased to note the interest of the Argentinean government
in a negotiated solution,” Repsol said in the filing.  Jessica Rey, a spokeswoman for Argentine Deputy Economy
Minister Axel Kicillof, didn’t reply to a call seeking comment
on the rejection. Kicillof oversees the country’s energy
policies and has a seat on YPF’s board.  YPF said it had informal talks with Repsol’s shareholders
and denied the government sent an official compensation offer.
In an e-mailed statement, it also said it is open to finding a
negotiated solution.  The offer values the Vaca Muerta formation at $42,000 per
acre. Argentina holds the world’s second-largest shale gas
reserves and fourth-largest shale oil reserve, according to U.S.
Energy Information Administration data.  Petroleos Mexicanos, known as Pemex, is a minority
shareholder in Repsol.  YPF’s American depositary receipts gained 2.6 percent to
$14.50 at close in New York. The ADRs earlier rose as much as
5.2 percent to $14.87, the biggest intraday increase since May
29. Repsol’s ADRs added 1.6 percent to $21.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  