-- ResCap Wins Initial Approval for $2.1 Billion Ally Deal
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-26T17:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/rescap-wins-initial-approval-for-2-1-billion-ally-deal.html
Residential Capital LLC, the
bankrupt former mortgage company, won initial approval for a
$2.1 billion deal with parent  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  that paves the
way for the company to craft a plan to repay creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn said in  Manhattan  today
that he will sign an order approving an agreement that requires
the companies and allies among ResCap’s creditors to back the
proposed deal. Glenn will consider giving final approval to the
settlement as part of ResCap’s proposed reorganization plan
later this year.  The reorganization plan will lay out details about how
creditors owed at least $6.3 billion will split up money from
the settlement and about $4.5 billion ResCap raised by selling
its mortgage-servicing business and a loan portfolio.  Getting Ally, ResCap and major creditors to sign the plan
support agreement “is a singular moment” in the bankruptcy,
Glenn said. Without the agreement, “this case returns to square
one.”  Under the proposed settlement, Ally will pay $1.95 billion
in cash to the ResCap bankruptcy estate, plus $150 million in
insurance proceeds, according to a court filing.  Bond Buyers  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy partly to
help resolve lawsuits brought by buyers of mortgage bonds backed
by home loans. The investors claimed the bonds lost value
because many of the loans were bad. Such losses account for much
of the $25 billion in unsecured debt that the creditors
committee claimed ResCap may owe.  Glenn also ordered the unsealing of a report on an
$80 million investigation into ResCap’s pre-bankruptcy
relationship with Ally.  Some creditors, including  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the
holding company run by the billionaire  Warren Buffett , tried
unsuccessfully to persuade Glenn to unseal the report before
considering the plan support agreement, saying creditors who
weren’t part of the deal needed it to decide whether to support
or oppose the settlement.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  