-- Riverstone Is Said to Seek $1.5 Billion for Listed Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-06-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/riverstone-is-said-to-seek-1-5-billion-for-listed-fund.html
Riverstone Holdings LLC, the
private-equity firm that raised this year’s largest energy fund,
plans to seek 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) for a listed
vehicle that will provide permanent capital for deals, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Riverstone Energy Ltd., to be traded on the London Stock
Exchange, will invest alongside the $7.7 billion fund for which
the New York-based firm completed capital raising this month,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  Jeffrey Taufield , a spokesman at Kekst & Co., declined to
comment on behalf of Riverstone.  Private-equity firms and  hedge funds  have raised money on
public exchanges to gain access to a more stable capital base.
NGP Energy Capital Management LLC, a fund company based in
Irving,  Texas , brought affiliate NGP Capital Resources Co.
public in 2004 on the Nasdaq stock market, raising $240 million.  Energy-focused firms are attracting cash amid the U.S.
shale boom and increased demand for natural resources from
 emerging markets . First Reserve Corp. is seeking as much as $5
billion for its next energy fund, and KKR & Co. is targeting
$1.5 billion, according to people familiar with those firms.  Topping Target  Riverstone’s fifth fund surpassed its $6 billion target
after coming to market in the second half of 2011. The firm last
year increased the amount it could raise from investors to $7.5
billion from $6.5 billion. The $7.7 billion it ultimately
gathered includes the general partner commitment.  Riverstone makes buyout and growth capital investments in
the exploration and production, midstream, oilfield services,
power and renewable segments of the  energy industry . Riverstone
Global Energy & Power Fund V LP has invested $2.3 billion in 19
companies, the firm said in a June 19 statement announcing the
close of fundraising. The fund is Riverstone’s first since it
ended a joint venture with buyout firm Carlyle Group LP.  Riverstone in April agreed to invest as much as $200
million in Ridgebury Tankers LLC, a tanker company focused on
acquiring and operating vessels. In March, Riverstone agreed to
acquire equipment maker Utex Industries Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  