-- Royal Bank Takes on Rivals With New Canada Stock Exchange
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/royal-bank-takes-on-rivals-with-new-canada-stock-exchange.html
Royal Bank of Canada , left out of a
banking group that bought the Toronto Stock Exchange last year,
is betting a new exchange will take business from Canada’s
largest bourse.  Canada’s  biggest bank  teamed up with two of the country’s
largest mutual fund dealers to create Aequitas Innovations Inc.,
with a plan to target investors who are concerned about the rise
of high-frequency trading on traditional markets.  “You have a new competitor in the game which is a big
kid,” said  Thomas Caldwell , Toronto-based chief executive
officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd., which oversees C$1 billion
($950 million) including shares of Toronto exchange owner  TMX
Group Ltd. (X)  “They probably have a good shot at it. They will
make a mark for themselves.”  Royal Bank and its five partners are trying to emulate the
success of bank-led exchanges in  Europe  and the U.S. that have
taken market share from former monopolies such as the  New York 
Stock Exchange.  Stock trading  in the U.S. is spread among 13 exchanges and
dozens of private venues such as so-called dark pools that are
operated by brokers. Once dominated by the NYSE and Nasdaq Stock
Market, U.S. markets have fragmented as a result of regulatory
changes aimed at fostering competition and lowering costs to
investors.  Market Share  Venues operated by Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats Global Markets
Inc. and Direct Edge Holdings LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
didn’t exist a decade ago and now handle about 20 percent of
U.S. trading volume.  In Canada, the TMX Group had about 81 percent of equity
trading by volume as of May, according to data from the
Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. The Maple
Group of banks, pension funds and insurers bought Alpha Group as
part of its takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange in 2012. The
incumbent may lose ground to the Royal Bank-led group.  “TMX will feel some pressure,” Shubha Khan, a Toronto-based analyst at National Bank Financial, said by phone. “I
don’t know that there’s any other reason for the creation of the
exchange other than to curb high-frequency trading.”  TMX fell 2.3 percent to C$42.80 yesterday in Toronto, its
lowest since September.  The shares  have slumped 16 percent this
year.  London Advisers  Royal Bank and Bank of Montreal were the only two banks
among Canada’s six largest lenders that weren’t involved when
the Maple Group acquired TMX. Toronto-Dominion Bank, Bank of
 Nova Scotia  and Manulife Financial Corp. are among the Toronto
exchange’s owners.  Royal Bank advised the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  on a
competing bid for the Toronto bourse, while Bank of Montreal,
Canada’s fourth-biggest bank, was working with TMX.  Paul Deegan, a Bank of Montreal spokesman, declined to
comment on whether the Toronto-based lender was approached by
Aequitas.  The aim of the exchange is to foster “a more level playing
field” for market participants, Gillian McArdle, an RBC Capital
Markets spokeswoman, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“We believe Aequitas will become an effective competitor within
the Canadian equity market landscape.”  Aequitas is also backed by London-based Barclays Plc,
Toronto investment firm CI Financial Corp. and  IGM Financial
Inc. (IGM)  of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada’s  largest  mutual fund company
by market value.  ‘12 Seconds’  ITG  Canada  Corp., which is part of New York-based brokerage
Investment Technology Group Inc., and pension manager PSP Public
Markets Inc. also hold stakes in the proposed exchange. The
group will file an application to regulators by the end of the
year.  Aequitas will compete with the largest stock market in
Canada by bringing individual investors back into the market,
Nick Thadaney, CEO of ITG Canada, said in a phone interview.  “The fastest marketplace in the world does nothing for
long-term investors,” Thadaney said. “Someone who holds a
stock for 12 seconds is not a real investor. If you feel the
game is rigged and the market isn’t fair, you won’t want to
play.”  Thadaney said Aequitas may try to thwart high-frequency
firms by avoiding a pricing system used on many venues that pays
rebates to traders for supplying bids and offers to buy and
sell. Critics of electronic markets sometimes point to this
practice, known as maker-taker, as encouraging excesses such as
rapid-fire buying and selling of stocks.  ‘The Pie’  Aequitas is probably aiming to do more than just steal
market share from TMX, according to  Adam Sussman , a partner at
Tabb Group in  Boston . They may hope their venue will encourage
trading that wouldn’t have occurred in the past.  “You can always grow the size of the pie too,” Sussman
said. “That has to be part of their hope. They’re looking at
this not just as a displacement strategy but for organic growth
as well.”  Carolyn Quick, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based TMX, said
yesterday that CEO Tom Kloet and Kevan Cowan, president of TSX
Markets and group head of equities, were hosting a Trade Canada
conference in  London  and were unavailable to comment.  “The Canadian marketplace is certainly a competitive one
and the news of a new market entrant is not unexpected,” Quick
said in an e-mail. “We are both prepared and well-positioned to
compete effectively.”  ‘Competitive Pressure’  Aequitas will be led by CEO Jos Schmitt, who started Alpha
Group as a rival platform to TMX about four years ago. He left
the company in October after the C$3.73 billion TMX deal was
complete.  “Alpha was created, initiated by dealers to put
competitive pressure on the incumbent exchange and it was all
about a cost play,” Schmitt said in a phone interview. “If you
look at Aequitas, it’s all about the issuers, the investors and
the dealers coming together and saying, ‘We need to tackle some
fundamental challenges in our markets.’”  The new bourse may force TMX to keep a lid on listing fees,
though it may struggle to attract liquidity, said Andrey
Omelchak, who helps manage C$5.6 billion at Montrusco Bolton
Inc. in  Montreal .  “I don’t expect any companies to delist from TMX and list
there,” he said. “Liquidity attracts liquidity and it’s always
an uphill battle starting a new exchange.” Montrusco  owns  TMX
shares.  IGM Financial, which runs C$127.1 billion, is one of the
backers of Aequitas yet it won’t be moving all its trading to
the new bourse, said Scott Penman, CEO of IGM’s Investors Group
unit.  “Competition is the right solution, choice is the right
solution,” Penman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  