-- Ruble Drops Second Day as Central Bank Eases Currency Defense
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-26T13:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/ruble-drops-second-day-as-central-bank-eases-currency-defense.html
The ruble weakened for a second day
as Bank Rossii pared its defense of the currency for the  first
time  since last July after it slumped to a four-year low.  The central bank yesterday raised the band in which it
allows the ruble to trade against its target dollar-euro basket,
central bank Deputy Chairman Sergey Shvetsov said today in
Moscow. The regulator  moves  the corridor 5 kopeks when currency
interventions reach $450 million and the band stood at
31.65-38.65 rubles as of May 31, according to Bank Rossii’s
website. The ruble sank 0.4 percent against the dollar to
32.9350, by 5:30 p.m. in Moscow.  Russia’s central bank is conducting daily interventions to
slow the ruble’s decline amid concern U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will start reducing bond purchases that
have stoked global asset-price gains. Speculation that a plan by
the  Finance Ministry  to buy foreign currency on the market for
its wealth funds will weaken the ruble helped drive it to the
lowest since 2009 on June 20.  “The ruble’s weakening occured because of global concerns,
but the government’s comments about buying foreign currency on
the market added to the overall nervousness,” Natalia Orlova,
Moscow-based chief economist at  Alfa Bank , Russia’s largest
private bank, said by phone. The corridor move “is due to the
size of the central bank’s interventions,” she said.  The ruble erased gains against the dollar-euro basket,
trading little changed at 37.4456 and set for a 6.6 percent drop
in the quarter.  Ruble Purchases  The central bank started buying rubles on May 29 to slow
its slide. Bank Rossii, which reports intervention data with a
delay and intervenes if the ruble weakens beyond certain levels
against the basket,  spent  the equivalent of 6.57 billion rubles
($200 million) of foreign currency on June 24, it said today.  “A small weakening” in the ruble can be “positive” for
the budget and the economy, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said
in an interview this month. The economy of the world’s biggest
energy exporter grew 1.6 percent in the first three months, the
slowest pace since 2009.  “Siluanov’s statement pushed people to buy foreign
currency,” Orlova said.  Ruble bonds kept gains after Shvetsov’s comment, with the
yield on benchmark ruble debt due 2027 falling 22 basis points
to 8.03 percent, a second day of declines. The yield on  Russia ’s
Eurobonds due March 2030 fell 14 basis points to 4.33 percent,
after climbing to the highest since December 2011 on June 24.  Auctions Axed  The Finance Ministry canceled the ruble-bond auction
scheduled for today earlier this week, citing market conditions.
It also axed a June 5 sale and shelved an auction of 10 billion
rubles of 15-year notes last week on a lack of competitive bids.
The government scrapped a May 22 sale for the same reason and
sold only 900 million rubles of 20 billion rubles in notes
offered May 29.  Bank Rossii is loosening its controls on the currency as it
aims to complete a transition to targeting inflation instead of
the  exchange rate  by 2015.  The central bank widened the ruble’s corridor was on July
24, when it expanded the band to 7 rubles from 6 rubles. The
regulator twice widened the trading band in 2011, each time by a
ruble, while reducing the cumulative amount of interventions
needed to shift the corridor.  Elvira Nabiullina, the new central bank chairman, said she
sees no reason to drop the central bank’s aim of moving to
inflation targeting from 2015, while conceding there was a
chance “those reasons would arise later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  