-- S&P Revises Monetary Score Criteria in Sovereign Ratings Update
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-26T23:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/s-p-revises-monetary-score-criteria-in-sovereign-ratings-update.html
Standard & Poor’s  updated its
sovereign rating methodology, giving reserve currency status its
highest monetary score.  Countries with a reserve currency receive the strongest
score under the company’s monetary criteria category, one of
five the largest credit rater examines to rank sovereign
nations, the New York-based unit of  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) 
said in a June 24 report. The top spot was previously defined as
floating currencies. The reserve currency status was already
considered under a separate category.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its top  credit rating  in August
2011, sending prices on the debt to all-time highs.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s U.S. Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss
franc, Canada dollar and Swedish krona, has risen 11 percent to
82.951 since the downgrade. The currency gauge may rise to 85.2
by the end of the year, according to the median forecast of
economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The report is part of S&P’s “regular review process,” the
company said in a statement. The changes aren’t expected to
change existing ratings.  In the new criteria, S&P also renamed its “political
risk” category “institutional and governance effectiveness
risk.”  In downgrading the U.S., S&P cited a political stalemate in
Washington over raising the nation’s debt limit and political
fighting that made it less confident Congress would end tax cuts
enacted under President  George W. Bush  or tackle entitlements
programs, such as  Social Security  and Medicaid.  Stable Outlook  S&P boosted its U.S. rating outlook to “stable” from
“negative” on June 10, meaning the U.S. has a less than one-in-three likelihood of a downgrade in the “near term” with the
revision, it said.  The company said it sees “tentative improvements,” such
as the deal politicians reached to resolve the so-called fiscal
cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases and through
the Budget Control Act of 2011.  The dollar has risen and Treasuries have fallen as the
 Federal Reserve  signaled this month that it may reduce bond
purchases this year designed to reduce borrowing costs and boost
asset prices.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasuries were at 2.54 percent in New
York yesterday, compared with 2.4 percent the day before S&P
stripped the U.S. of its AAA rating on Aug. 5, 2011.  Attempting to predict the market consequence of a rating
change has proven to be little different than flipping a coin.
Yields on  government securities  moved in the opposite direction
from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades,
downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg on Moody’s Investors Service and S&P
grades.  Bond markets shouldn’t be expected to react when a
country’s credit rating is changed because the yield of
sovereign debt reflects more than just the credit risk on which
rankings hinge, according to a May 15 report from  Fitch Ratings .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  