-- Samsung Defends Apple Import Ban in U.S. Smartphone Battle
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-26T17:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/samsung-defends-apple-import-ban-in-u-s-smartphone-battle.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of smartphones, defended an import ban on some
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products it won in a U.S. patent dispute and urged
trade officials to let the block take effect.  The “limited effect” of halting certain iPhone 4 and iPad
2 models from entering the U.S. “raises no economic policy
concerns sufficient to take the extraordinary and nearly
unprecedented step” of overturning the ban issued June 4,
Samsung told the U.S. Trade Representative’s office in a June 19
filing.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington 
ordered the ban after finding Apple’s older devices infringe a
Samsung patent for a widely used way phones transmit data. Apple
is asking the USTR, which acts on behalf of the president in
such matters, to overturn that order before it takes effect in
early August.  Cupertino, California-based Apple submitted its own filing
urging the USTR to decide Samsung hadn’t fulfilled requirements
that it offer to license the patent on fair and reasonable
terms, according to the blog Foss Patents, which first reported
on the filings.  Apple and USTR officials didn’t immediately respond to
requests for a copy of the Apple filing.  Samsung said it made an offer and Apple refused to pay
anything.  “By any definition, Apple is an unwilling licensee of
Samsung’s declared essential patents,” Samsung wrote in the
filing.  Import Ban  Ronald Reagan was the last U.S. president to overturn an
ITC-ordered import ban. Such decisions must be made on public-policy grounds. The president and USTR usually don’t take
action, allowing the bans to take effect after the 60-day review
period.  Apple would be precluded from importing or selling China-made models of the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 that are designed to work
on the  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  networks. Newer models,
including the iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPad mini and the iPad with
retina display, aren’t part of the case.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said it acted
properly in its efforts to license patents that cover elements
of standardized technology used throughout the industry.
Companies that participate in establishing industry standards
get the advantage of having their technology used, so they must
pledge to license any relevant patents to anyone on fair terms.  Royalty Demands  Apple has accused Samsung of making unreasonable royalty
demands. Samsung, which is under investigation by European
regulators for its use of standard-essential patents in the
Apple fights, has pledged not to use the patents to block sales
of Apple products in Europe. That pledge wasn’t extended to the
U.S., where Apple is the dominant maker of smartphones.  Apple, in letters to U.S. and European regulators, said it
wouldn’t use any of its own standard-essential patents to block
sales of rival products. It hasn’t asserted such patents in any
of the global patent battles it has waged against Samsung and
other handset manufacturers, which Apple claims copied the
unique look and features of the iPhone.  The ITC is scheduled to announce Aug. 1 whether it will ban
certain Samsung phones based on an Apple case.  The U.S. Justice Department and U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office in January told the ITC that, in some instances, import
bans shouldn’t be imposed in cases involving standard-essential
patents. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, which reached a
consent decree with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  on the issue, has taken a
similar position.  Samsung told the USTR that the case involving the iPhone 4
and iPad 2 case shouldn’t be used by President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to address whether there’s misuse of standard-essential patents at the trade agency.  A better case, it said, might be an ITC case involving
standard-essential patents asserted against Samsung by Ericsson
AB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 