-- Saudi Ceramic Surges to 7-Year High on Profit Bets: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-06-26T13:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/saudi-ceramic-surges-to-7-year-high-on-profit-bets-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Ceramic Co. (SCERCO) , a manufacturer
and retailer of bathroom fixtures and floor tiles, soared to the
highest level in more than seven years on bets second-quarter
profit will improve.  Shares of the Riyadh-based company rallied 3.3 percent to
111.25 riyals, the highest close since March 2006. The stock was
the  third-biggest  gainer in percentage terms on the benchmark
Tadawul All Share Index, which declined 0.2 percent.  Saudi Ceramic, which also produces electric water heaters
and porcelain tiles, posted a 31 percent increase in  first-quarter profit  to 82 million riyals ($22 million). The stock has
surged 34 percent this quarter, outpacing a gain of 5.3 percent
for the Tadawul, the Arab world’s biggest bourse.  “Saudi Ceramic’s shares have been increasing over the last
two months, driven by strong first-quarter results on solid
improvement in margins,” said Tarek El Shawarby, a Cairo-based
analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “The continuous share-price
increase might be due to anticipation of another strong quarter
performance.”  El Shawarby predicts the company will post a  21 percent
increase  in full-year net income to 300 million riyals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia  plans to
build 500,000 homes as part of infrastructure investments
exceeding $500 billion. This year’s spending target is a record
820 billion riyals, according to the 2013 budget.  Two analysts have a buy rating on Saudi Ceramic, while one
 recommends  investors hold the shares and one says sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company may post
quarterly results on July 15, the data show.  Over half a million shares were traded today, more than
double the three-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  