-- HSBC, Citigroup Win Approval to Sell Mutual Funds in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-26T10:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hsbc-citigroup-win-approval-to-sell-mutual-funds-in-china.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest
bank, and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  won approval from  China ’s securities
regulator to sell domestic mutual funds, expanding their scope
of financial services in the local market.  HSBC Bank (China) Co. received permission from the China
Securities Regulatory Commission today and will introduce fund
products “soon,” the lender said in an e-mailed statement.
Citigroup will cooperate with seven fund management companies
including China Asset Management Co., the third-biggest U.S.
bank said.  Bank of East Asia Ltd.  said today it’s also among the
first batch of foreign banks to win the permission.  The regulator in February allowed brokerages and insurers
to sell mutual funds to the public as the government seeks to
increase the role of institutional investors and attract more
money into the country’s capital markets. The benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has tumbled 14 percent this year as the Chinese
economy cooled, even as the number of securities funds jumped 12
percent to 1,317 as of May 1, according to CSRC data.  “This product offering not only supplements the existing
range of wealth management products offered by foreign banks,
but also broadens distribution channels for local funds,” Helen Wong, president and chief executive officer of HSBC China, said
in the statement.  HSBC will initially offer local fund products managed by
HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Co., its local joint venture,
before partnering with other fund houses later this year, the
bank said.  New York-based Citigroup in August became the first Western
bank to issue credit cards in China without co-branding from a
local financial institution as the government relaxes
restrictions.  China has 81 fund companies managing assets worth 3.98
trillion  yuan  ($647 billion), with the 1,317 mutual funds
accounting for 3 trillion yuan, HSBC said, citing data from the
Asset Management Association of China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  