-- Scene in D.C.: Hungary Ambassador, Nitze at Folklife Fest
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-06-26T15:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/scene-in-d-c-hungary-ambassador-nitze-at-folklife-fest.html
Tibor Navracsics, deputy prime
minister of  Hungary , is getting a mini tour of  Washington ’s
landmarks today with a bona fide guide: Richard Kurin, the
undersecretary for history, art and culture at the  Smithsonian
Institution .  The two were the guests of honor last night at a reception
at the home of Hungarian ambassador to the U.S. Gyorgy Szapary
in celebration of the Smithsonian’s 2013 Folklife Festival with
its “ Hungarian Heritage ” theme.  “We brought our hearts into Washington,” said Navracsics,
referring to the week-long festival starting today on the
National Mall. “It’s a unique opportunity for us,” he said.
“We have an innovative, yet ancient culture.”  He and Kurin caught up last night over lemonade champagne
while Juan Molina, deputy chief of mission for the Spanish
embassy, huddled with his counterpart from the  Czech Republic ,
Jaroslav Zajicek.  Other guests, such as arts patrons Adrienne Arsht and Ina
Ginsburg, wore white in honor of Hungary’s national colors.
Arsht paired her dress with green and red bangles while interior
designer Aniko Gaal Schott, who decorated the ambassador’s
house, wore jewelry from the host country.  “It’s from the 18th century,” she said, beaming,
referring to the elaborate Hungarian necklace at her throat.  Foie gras was served with pigs in the blanket and shrimp
and hummus appetizer. A trio of Hungarian folk musicians gave
guests a slice of what’s in store.  Transylvanian Food  The events will showcase Hungary’s food, wine, music, dance
and fashions. A dance barn will offer lessons while a kitchen
will feature Transylvanian cuisine.  Karin revealed that while he’d never been to Budapest, he
now has renewed interest. The people of Hungary “know who they
are” and embrace their heritage “in a contemporary way. That’s
what people all over the world should be doing.”  Organizers estimate that a million people will stop at the
festival, now in its fourth decade.  The inspiration of foreign lands had guests talking about
their vacation plans. Karin suggested the Smithsonian’s “around
the world” tour, while Navracsics is a fan of the Smithsonian’s
National Museum of the American Indian for those coming to
Washington with the family.  Asian art collector Ann Nitze said she’ll be in  Colorado 
next week for the  Aspen Institute ’s Ideas Festival while Marie
Royce, senior director of international public affairs at
Alcatel-Lucent, is set to spend Bastille Day in Paris with her
husband, Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican and
chairman of the House Committee on  Foreign Affairs .  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 