-- LPGA Comes to Long Island Elite in Women’s U.S. Open at Sebonack
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/sebonack-brings-lpga-to-long-island-elite-for-women-s-u-s-open.html
A golf club that opened seven years
ago with a $650,000 membership fee is bringing the first major
women’s championship to New York’s  Long Island .  A centerpiece of the sport in the U.S. for more than a
century, the island boasts courses such as Shinnecock Hills Golf
Links, a four-time men’s U.S. Open site that was home to the
first golf clubhouse in America; National Golf Links of America,
the location of the sport’s first Walker Cup amateur
competition, and Bethpage State Park’s Black Course, where  Tiger Woods  held off  Phil Mickelson  to win the 2002 U.S. Open as the
municipal facility became the first state-owned course to host
the championship.  The best women’s golfers in the world now get their chance
to play a Long Island major when the U.S. Women’s Open begins
today at Sebonack Golf Club in Southampton,  New York .  “Long Island has had a lot of terrific men’s
championships,” said Michael Pascucci, Sebonack’s owner, who in
1997 sold Oxford Resources Corp., the car-leasing business he
controlled, for $700 million in stock and now owns Melville, New
York-based television station WLNY. “This is an opportunity for
us to see the best women in the world come play golf on Long
Island.”  It’s the first time in 40 years that the $3.25 million U.S.
Women’s Open, organized by the U.S. Golf Association and the
third of the LPGA Tour’s five annual major championships, will
be held in New York. It comes at a modern club that sits
alongside two of golf’s most celebrated courses, Shinnecock
Hills and the National.  ‘Incredible Stretch’  “That is one incredible stretch of golf,” Dottie Pepper,
a former LPGA Tour player and now an ESPN golf analyst, said in
an interview. “It’s a testament to where the USGA is going with
their championships. They’re going to classic places in American
golf and certainly Long Island is one of those places. I know
the girls are excited.”  Shinnecock, which will host the men’s  U.S. Open  for the
fifth time in 2018, is ranked No. 4 in Golf Digest’s list of the
top  100 U.S. courses . The National, which opened in 1911 and is
hosting the USGA’s Walker Cup this year, is ranked 11th.  Sebonack, on the Great Peconic Bay, has quickly taken a
place alongside those venerable clubs, climbing to 39th in the
magazine’s latest ranking.  There are eight courses on golf-rich Long Island in the
current top 100, with Fishers Island (10), Friar’s Head (28),
Bethpage Black (42),  Garden City  (55) and Maidstone (100)
joining the trio in Southampton. Woods captured the second of
his three U.S. Open titles at Bethpage Black in 2002, while
Mickelson was also the runner-up to Retief Goosen at the 2004
U.S. Open at Shinnecock.  Course Designers  Sebonack showcases the design partnership of  Jack Nicklaus ,
an 18-time major champion, and Tom Doak, the creator of Pacific
Dunes at the Bandon Dunes Resort in  Oregon . Architects with
differing philosophies, Nicklaus and Doak built a course over
330 acres that Pascucci says offers generous fairways, good
strategy and challenging greens.  “They were sensitive to the fact that they wanted to do
the very best work they could,” Pascucci said. “After all, we
were next door to two very fine golf courses.”  This will be the fifth U.S. Women’s Open held in New York.
The 1953 and 1973 tournaments were played at the Country Club of
Rochester, while the 1957 and 1972 events were at Winged Foot
Golf Club in Westchester County.  ‘Wily Veteran’  Ben Kimball, director of the U.S. Women’s Open for the
USGA, said that while Sebonack is relatively new -- it  ranked
eighth  in Golfweek’s 2012 list of the top 100 modern courses --
he expects it to perform like a “wily veteran.” The course
will play at 6,796 yards and par 72 for the championship, with
three par-5s over the final six holes.  “There’s some trepidation,” said Pepper, a 17-time winner
on the LPGA Tour. “It’s going to be a handful. The greens are
extraordinarily severe. There’s all sorts of room to drive the
golf ball and you only have to shape a couple of tee shots. The
greens are going to separate the field.”  South Korean players have captured four of the past five
U.S. Women’s Open titles, including Na Yeon Choi’s four-stroke
victory at Blackwolf Run in Kohler,  Wisconsin , a year ago.  American Paula Creamer’s win at the 2010 U.S. Women’s Open
at Oakmont Country Club in  Pennsylvania  was followed by So Yeon
Ryu’s victory in 2011 and was preceded by titles for South
Koreans Inbee Park and Eun-Hee Ji in 2008 and 2009.  Park Favorite  Park, 24, won this season’s first two LPGA majors -- the
Kraft Nabisco Championship and LPGA Championship -- and is the
5-1 favorite to win at Sebonack, according to the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book. Babe Zaharias was the last woman to win the
first three women’s majors in a season in 1950 and Pat Bradley
was the last to win three in a year, in 1986.  The 156 women in this week’s field will finally be getting
a taste of major championship golf on Long Island.  “Long Island golf is off the charts,” said Pepper, 47.
“People sometimes forget that New York state goes so much
further beyond  New York City , and this was the great foundation
of American golf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  