-- Slovenian Bailout Hinges on Europe as Yields Rise, Capital Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-26T09:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/slovenian-bailout-hinges-on-europe-as-yields-rise-capital-says.html
Slovenia will probably ask for a
bailout to prop up its ailing banks should  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsen with government bond yields near a record, Capital
Economics Ltd. said.  While the government can still avoid asking for outside
help, “the road ahead is long and precarious,” according to
London-based economist James Howat. Yields on benchmark bonds
have been “creeping up” and a worsening of Europe’s debt
crisis could trigger a bailout, regardless of government
efforts, he wrote today in a note to clients.  Slovenia “may well be forced into asking for help from the
European Union, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund ,” Howat said. “From a financing perspective, any
bailout for Slovenia would be much closer to the bank bailout
seen in  Spain  rather than Cyprus’s full-country program.”  Slovenia, which is struggling with a deepening banking
crisis and a  second recession  since 2009, came to the fore of
Europe’s debt crisis in March after Cyprus’s bailout put the
focus on the Adriatic nation’s financial industry. Yields on the
nation’s dollar-denominated bonds breached 7 percent June 24 and
were 30 basis points lower at 6.996 percent at 10:31 a.m. in the
capital, Ljubljana, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek presented
an overhaul plan for the export-driven economy and its state-owned banks last month that’s meant to reassure investors no
outside intervention will be needed. The plan includes a 900
million-euro ($1.2 billion) capital boost for banks and
envisages transferring toxic loans to a special government
agency starting to repair their balance sheets.  “We would not be surprised if bank recapitalization costs
ultimately fell somewhere in the range of 5 percent to 10
percent of gross domestic product, far higher than the official
estimate of 2.5 percent,” Howat said.  The economy will shrink 3 percent this year, more than the
government forecasting institute’s estimate for a 2.4 percent
contraction, he predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  