-- Sneakers to Women’s Underwear for Troops Skirt Buy-American Law
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/sneakers-to-women-s-underwear-for-troops-skirt-buy-american-law.html
At boot camp, U.S. Army recruits
receive four sets of camouflage fatigues, 100 percent American-made. For women, the clothing package from Uncle Sam is missing
one layer: undies. Neither gender gets sneakers.  A 1941 law directs the Pentagon to choose made-in-the-U.S.A. products when buying clothing for soldiers. Still,
recruits receive cash allowances to buy items such as sneakers
and women’s underwear, even if they come from  China .  New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc., the last major manufacturer
to produce athletic footwear in the U.S., may gain by forcing
the government to live up to its own rules. The House of
Representatives voted this month to require the Pentagon to give
recruits American-made athletic shoes, after more than three
years of lobbying by New Balance.  “It’s the law and it should be complied with, not
circumvented,” said U.S. Representative Mike Michaud, a Maine
Democrat who co-sponsored the measure and has New Balance
factories in his state. “Purchases made by the U.S. government
should benefit our domestic economy.”  Athletic shoes and women’s underwear are two examples of
how the government has skirted requirements to spend taxpayer
money on American-made goods. The so-called Berry Amendment, a
World War II-era rule that directs the Defense Department to
favor American-made food and textile products, has been eroded
by trends in manufacturing that have sent many plants overseas.  “We’re saying the law is pretty clear, so follow the
law,” Matt LeBretton, vice president of public affairs for
Boston-based New Balance, said in a phone interview. “There is
a pride piece here, too. Our soldiers should be wearing goods
that were made in the U.S.”  Panties to Pumps  The military’s efforts to expand personal choice for
recruits on items such as sneakers, women’s panties, bras,
purses and pumps may also conflict with the law’s intent.  Those options may be appreciated, especially by women who
don’t want an Army or Air Force acquisition officer choosing
their undergarments.  “I think women are probably more particular about their
underwear than men,” said Lory Manning, a retired Navy captain
who served for 25 years and is now director of the Women in the
Military Project at the Women’s Research and Education Institute
in  Washington . “Particularly with something like a bra, I am
sure women want to get something that fits right.”  Female Recruits  Maureen Schumann, a Pentagon spokeswoman, declined to
comment on how much the military spends on cash allowances for
recruits. She referred the question to individual service units.  The Air Force spends about $3.9 million on vouchers a year,
said Lieutenant Colonel Laurel Tingley, a spokeswoman for the
service. Its roughly 30,000 recruits get $75 each year for
sneakers that can be redeemed for the product of their choice at
military-exchange stores. Female recruits get about $275 more in
vouchers for pumps, underwear, stockings and purses when they
enter basic training, she said.  The Army provides similar cash allowances, according to
data from Wayne Hall, an Army spokesman. It decided to issue
cash allowances for recruits’ running shoes and women’s
underwear because of the wide range of sizes and needs, Hall
said.  The Army would have to maintain an “astronomical supply”
of women’s underwear in order to properly fit “the wide range
of females” who enter the service, Hall said.  “I’ve done that sort of shopping with my wife, and it’s
not easy to do,” Hall said.  Defense Cuts  Fit aside, the Defense Department should seek the best
value for everything it buys, as long as it’s not of strategic
importance, said Stephen Bronars, a senior economist at Welch
Consulting in Washington.  That is especially important as the Pentagon absorbs
automatic budget cuts, he said. Defense officials must cut $37
billion in spending through Sept. 30 under a process known as
sequestration.  “The bottom line is cost has got to be the No. 1
concern,” Bronars said in a phone interview.  For sneakers alone, closely held New Balance has estimated
the military issues about $15 million in vouchers annually,
assuming there are 225,000 to 250,000 recruits a year.  If recruits are required to wear American-made sneakers,
the vouchers could no longer be used for shoes made overseas by
Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and other companies.  Nike Plants  Nike products are made at 777 plants in 43 nations, Greg
Rossiter, a spokesman for the company, said in a phone
interview. The shoemaker doesn’t sell any 100-percent American-made footwear, he said. He declined to comment on the House
legislation.  New Balance was founded in 1906 by William Riley, who was
inspired by the structure of a chicken foot to improve arch
support for laborers, according to its website. Jim Davis, the
company’s chairman, bought the company in 1972. Revenue was $2.4
billion last year, said New Balance’s LeBretton.  The company has more people making footwear in the U.S.
than ever, he said. Even so, it has also expanded overseas
production as demand has increased.  About a quarter of New Balance’s shoes sold in North
America come from U.S. factories, LeBretton said. The remainder
are made in countries including the U.K., China,  Indonesia  and
 Vietnam .  Wolverine Footwear  New Balance teamed up with other shoemakers, such as
Rockford, Michigan-based  Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW) , that could
also produce 100-percent American-made shoes, to lobby Congress
over the military footwear measure.  The requirement was included in an amendment to the  defense
spending  bill, which passed June 14. It was sponsored by Michaud
and Representative Niki Tsongas, a Massachusetts Democrat. The
measure will have to clear the Senate and win President  Barack
Obama ’s approval before it becomes law.  Some senators already have pressed the sneaker issue. At
least 15 senators, including Susan Collins, a Maine Republican,
and Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, wrote to Obama in April to
urge him to direct the Defense Department to purchase American-made athletic shoes for entry-level recruits.  “American workers can meet the footwear requirements of
nearly all our service members if you simply give them this
opportunity,” they said in the April letter.  American Apparel  So far, no one has taken a similar stand for women’s
undies.  American Apparel Inc. (APP) , the Los Angeles-based manufacturer
of retail clothing, produces U.S.-made underwear for both men
and women, said Ryan Holiday, a company spokesman. While it
makes uniform pieces for fire departments, police and other
groups, the company hasn’t lobbied Congress to change the
Pentagon’s underwear policy, he said.  “If the government -- or any group -- is interested in
great, dependable and sweatshop-free basics made here in the
U.S., we’d be excited to have their business,” Holiday said in
an e-mail.  Angela King, a 27-year-old Navy veteran, said she brought
her own “granny panties,” or high-waisted cotton underwear, to
boot camp in 2004. She supports efforts to require other
recruits to wear American-made sneakers and underwear, saying
boot camp isn’t about personal choice.  “You had to wear high-waisted white cotton underwear,”
said King, who next month starts graduate school at Duke
University in Durham, North Carolina. “Those weren’t things
that I would put my voucher towards anyhow because I wouldn’t
wear them later.”  -- Editors: Stephanie Stoughton, Steve Geimann  To contact the reporter on this story:  Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net  