-- SocGen CEO Says European Banks Need Leverage Reflecting Lending
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-06-26T22:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/socgen-ceo-says-european-banks-need-leverage-reflecting-lending.html
European banks shouldn’t be
subjected to the same leverage measures as U.S. competitors,
which rely less on lending to finance clients,  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said.  “In Europe, where banks are providing the bulk of the
lending, you cannot apply the same regulation as in the U.S.,
where you have predominantly  capital markets  which finance the
economy,” Oudea said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Paris yesterday. “The leverage ratio in itself is not the
right way of looking at banks.”  International regulators are increasingly looking at
leverage, in addition to capital measures based on risk
weightings assigned to different assets, to gauge banks’
financial strength. Their focus intensified as some banks
improved  capital ratios  following the financial crisis by
altering internal models or cutting risk-weighted assets without
correspondingly shrinking their balance sheets.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed
revamping standards for a binding limit, or  leverage ratio , on
bank debt to ensure that the rule would be applied consistently
by lenders across the world, Stefan Ingves, the group’s
chairman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “There are discussions about the definition and the right
level,” said Oudea. “Fundamentally, yes, we will be able to
adapt.”  Oudea also said that market swings stemming from concern
the Federal Reserve will slow its bond-buying program are “not
a big deal” for Societe Generale. The CEO declined to comment
on this quarter’s earnings at the lender, France’s second
largest by market capitalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  