-- South Africans Flock to Mandela’s Hospital to Praise Him
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-06-26T21:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/south-africans-flock-to-mandela-s-hospital-to-praise-him.html
South Africans posted messages of
support and sang songs of praise outside the hospital where
President  Nelson Mandela  remained in a critical condition.  More than 150 people, many of them children, stuck cards,
balloons, flowers and messages of support on the wall of the
hospital in  Pretoria , the capital, while they waited for news
about the 94-year-old former president, who was admitted to the
intensive-care unit on June 8 to receive treatment for a
recurring lung infection.  “We went there because my children wanted to drop off
letters to show their appreciation,” Pertunia Legodi, 35, said
in an interview outside the hospital. “He’s like a father to
us, we love him so much.”  Doctors downgraded Mandela’s condition to critical on June
23. “We must keep him and the family in our thoughts and
prayers every minute,” President  Jacob Zuma  said in a speech in
Johannesburg today. Zuma visited Mandela about 10 p.m., the
president’s office said in a statement. Mandela was still in
critical condition, and Zuma canceled a trip to  Mozambique 
scheduled for tomorrow, according to the statement.  Mandela, the nation’s first black president, spent 27 years
in jail for opposing white minority rule under apartheid. Most
of his imprisonment was on Robben Island, off the coast of  Cape
Town , where he contracted tuberculosis. He took office in 1994
when the ruling  African National Congress  won the first
multiracial elections, stepping down after serving one five-year
term.  ‘God Bless’  Robbin Sacco, 5, accompanied by her mother, stuck a thank-you message on the wall along with letters and cards from people
as far away as Ethiopia and  Sudan .  “He created the picture of how  South Africa  would be and
he had faith, and that’s why I’m here,” Robbin’s mother Jacque,
32, said in an interview outside the Medi-Clinic Heart Hospital.
“I would have given up long ago but he had that faith.”  A message by Thandu’xolo Day Care reads: “Dear Tata, our
prayers are with you and your family. God bless.” Tata means
father in the Zulu and Xhosa languages.  Mandela and former leader F.W. de Klerk, the nation’s last
white president, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for the
their work to end apartheid.  Members of Mandela’s family and the AbaThembu clan from his
ancestral home of Qunu, in Eastern Cape province, have been
meeting since yesterday to discuss his health, according to
reports by the Johannesburg-based  Times newspaper .  Florah Nkosi, 52, was dressed in her blue and white church
uniform to offer prayers for Mandela and his family.  “To the family of Mandela, I say hold each other in unity,
follow in his footsteps,” she said in an interview. “His life
is in Gods’ hands now, but we should not be afraid to pray for
him to get better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  