-- S. Africa Probes Trades in Month Bidvest Made Adcock Offer
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-06-26T13:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/south-africa-probes-trades-in-month-bidvest-made-adcock-offer.html
South African regulators will
investigate trading in shares of  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  and  Adcock
Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  during March, the month Bidvest made an
offer for a 60 percent stake in the drugmaker.  The  Financial Services Board ’s division for market abuse
will lead the probe and may refer cases of suspected  insider
trading  to the regulator’s enforcement committee, which can fine
the guilty parties, the FSB said in an e-mailed statement. The
FSB will only disclose names of the parties being investigated
once the findings are complete, Solly Keetse, a spokesman for
the FSB’s Directorate of Market Abuse, said by phone from
 Pretoria . An update on the case will be given on Oct. 2, he
said.  “There is always the possibility of information leaked
before a deal is announced, and I think the FSB are just trying
to make sure there was no wrongdoing,” Henre Herselman, a
derivatives trader at Nedbank Private Wealth, said by phone in
Johannesburg. “They are very good at monitoring these things as
the credibility of the stock exchange is at stake.”  Highest Price  Bidvest, which operates businesses from cleaning and car
sales to coal export terminals, offered to pay about 6.2 billion
rand ($612 million) to buy the stake in Adcock on March 22,
sending Adcock’s shares to their highest price in more than two
years.  About 4 million Adcock shares traded that day, or more than
seven times the three-month daily average at the time. About 5
million shares traded on March 15, the heaviest daily volume
that month before the announcement, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Adcock shares rallied 8.4 percent in March, while Bidvest
added 1.8 percent. Johannesburg’s benchmark  FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index (JALSH)  gained 0.4 percent in the month.  February trading in  Cipla Medpro South Africa Ltd. (CMP) , the
country’s third-largest drugmaker, is also being investigated,
the FSB said. Cipla Ltd., the Indian drugmaker which makes
generic HIV treatments, offered to buy all ordinary shares of
Medpro at 10 rand a share on Feb. 28. Cipla Medpro rose 5.4
percent in February, while the All Share Index fell 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  