-- Soybeans Fall as Favorable U.S. Weather May Boost Yields
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-06-26T19:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/soybeans-decline-on-concern-usda-may-raise-u-s-acreage-estimate.html
Soybeans fell on speculation that
favorable weather in much of the U.S. Midwest will boost yields,
adding to global output that was forecast to reach a record.
Wheat capped the longest slump in six months, and corn dropped.  Rain that delayed planting and caused flooding in Iowa and
 Illinois  will be less frequent in the next 10 days, Commodity
Weather Group Inc. in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a report. In
the year that starts Oct. 1, worldwide soybean production will
rise to an all-time high of 285.3 million metric tons, according
to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The price for delivery
after the harvest dropped 4.3 percent in the two weeks ended
June 21.  “I’m not overly concerned about yields,”  Jeff McReynolds ,
the owner of McReynolds Marketing & nvestments in Hays, Kansas,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re not seeing any signs of
unfavorable weather,” and output probably won’t be affected by
some late planting, he said.  Soybean futures for November delivery fell 0.2 percent to
settle at $12.76 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade.  U.S. farmers will probably plant 77.811 million acres this
year, more than the 77.126 million acres forecast by the
government in March, according to the average estimate of as
many as 34 analysts and trading companies surveyed by Bloomberg.
The USDA will update its estimate on June 28.  Wheat fell on speculation that the central counties of
 Kansas , the top state grower, will produce a “great” crop,
Jamey Kohake, a broker and branch manager at Paragon Investments
in  Silver Lake , Kansas, said in a telephone interview.  On the CBOT, wheat futures for September delivery slid 1.2
percent to $6.77 a bushel. The price dropped for the fifth
straight session, the longest slump since mid-December.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$5.44 a bushel. The price dropped for the fifth straight
session, the longest slump in four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  