-- Standard Chartered ‘Comfortable’ With Full-Year Estimates
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-06-26T10:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/standard-chartered-sees-mid-single-digit-revenue-growth.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
bank that generates more than three-quarters of its earnings in
Asia, reiterated its forecast for profit in 2013 amid a rout in
 emerging markets .  The bank said in a statement today it’s “comfortable”
with analyst estimates for full-year operating profit. That’s
about $8 billion for 2013 compared with about $6.88 billion in
the year-earlier-period, Finance Director Richard Meddings told
reporters on a call today. Revenue growth in the first half will
be in the “low single-digit” range compared with the year-earlier period, the firm said in a statement.  Investors are pulling money from emerging markets at the
fastest pace in two years as slowing economic growth and the
prospect of less global stimulus hurts stocks, bonds and
currencies from India to Brazil. China, the largest developing
economy, is forecast by the  World Bank  to expand at the slowest
pace since 1999 this year, and the CSI 300 Index of Chinese
equities tipped into a  bear market  on June 24.  “The tone of the interim update is far more confident than
the weak first quarter,” Andrew Coombs, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a note to clients today. Revenue is up by “high
single-digits” for the second quarter, “far better than the
‘modest’ year on year growth in the first quarter,” wrote
Coombs who has a buy rating on the stock.  Shares Rise  The stock rose as much as 3.9 percent and was up 1.5
percent at 1,431 pence by 11:22 a.m. in  London  trading.  Standard
Chartered  has fallen 9.1 percent this year, valuing it at about
35 billion pounds ($53.8 billion).  The net interest margin, a measure of profitability on
lending, will decline by 20 basis points from the end of 2012,
the bank said. Impairments are expected to increase by about 15
percent from a year earlier, driven by souring loans in  Korea ,
the London-based lender said today.  The impairment rise “reflects a change in the mix of
assets with a higher proportion of unsecured assets which carry
a higher propensity to loss,” Meddings said.  Korea was a “major” source of impairments as the
government seeks to help consumers reduce their debts, he said.  “This is a good performance against a backdrop of ongoing
turbulence in the global economy,” Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Sands , 51, said in the statement. “Growth has remained
resilient across our footprint markets of Asia, Africa and the
 Middle East  with high levels of client activity.”  The second quarter showed “an acceleration over the first
quarter for 2013 and over the comparable period last year,”
Sands said. “We continue to see good momentum.”  Meddings said he is “very happy at Standard Chartered,”
when asked whether he would consider filling the position of CEO
at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  following the departure of
 Stephen Hester .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  