-- Starbucks Baristas Can Share Tips, Court Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-26T16:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/starbucks-baristas-can-share-tips-court-says.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  baristas must share
tips with shift supervisors, while assistant managers can be
excluded from gratuity pools, New York’s highest court said in
answering questions posed by a federal appellate panel.  The world’s biggest coffee chain was sued in 2008 in
federal court in  Manhattan  by two former baristas who accused
the company of violating state labor laws by including shift
supervisors in tip pools. An assistant managers group sued in
the same court, saying they were illegally excluded from the
pool.  A federal court in Manhattan supported Starbucks in both
suits, ruling that shift supervisors can share in tips because
they have limited managerial responsibilities while it wasn’t
obligatory to include assistant store managers in gratuity
pools.  The plaintiffs in both cases appealed and a U.S. appellate
panel in  New York  asked the state’s highest court in  Albany  to
answer two questions: What factors determine whether an employee
is an agent of his employer and ineligible to receive
distributions from a tip pool; and does state law permit
employers to exclude eligible employees from such pools?  Serving Patrons  The Court of Appeals in Albany today said under state law
employees whose main duties are serving patrons can participate
in tip pools. That would include shift supervisors, whose
primary responsibility is to serve food and beverages, and not
assistant managers, who participate hiring or firing workers.  “An employee whose personal service to patrons is a
principal or regular part of his or her duties may participate
in an employer-mandated tip allocation arrangement” under state
law, Judge Victoria A. Graffeo wrote,“even if that employee
possesses limited supervisory responsibilities. But an employee
granted meaningful authority or control over subordinates can
longer be considered similar to waiters and busboys.”  Starbucks didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail sent to
its media relations team seeking comment on the decision.  The cases are Barenboim v. Starbucks Corp., 03318-cv-2008
and Winans v. Starbucks, 03734-cv-2008, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The appeals are
Barenboim v. Starbucks, 10-4912, and Winans v. Starbucks, 11-3199,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  