-- Steelmaker Faces Cost Burden on Higher Ore Tax: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-27T04:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/steelmaker-faces-cost-burden-on-higher-ore-tax-corporate-india.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. ,
besieged by falling demand and prices, is bracing for a further
erosion in earnings after a government panel recommended an
increase in royalty fees for  iron ore , a key raw material.  The nation’s second-largest steelmaker, whose mines deliver
all its iron ore needs, will pay 50 percent more royalties to
provinces where its quarries are located should the proposals be
implemented. The tax will rise to 15 percent of sales from 10
percent, according to the panel report, to be submitted to Mines
Minister Dinsha J. Patel this month and later for Cabinet
approval, two people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  “We’re already hard-pressed and an increase in royalty
will make things worse,”  Steel Authority (SAIL) ’s Raw Materials
Director  Kalyan Maity  said in an interview. “Looking at the
demand situation, we’ll have to absorb the cost.”  While higher ore costs will also hurt other Indian
steelmakers including  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and JSW Steel Ltd., Steel
Authority will be the hardest hit as it produces lower-margin
products and incurs higher wage and fuel expenses than its peers.
Indian iron ore being cheaper than imports, miners such as  NMDC
Ltd. (NMDC)  and  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  are likely to pass on the increase in
cost to their customers, said Prasad Baji, an analyst with
Edelweiss Financial Services in Mumbai.  “While mining companies will be able to increase their
prices, steelmakers will find it difficult to do the same
because of waning demand,” said Baji, who changed his rating on
Steel Authority shares to hold from buy this month. “We were
counting on a demand growth of as much as 4 percent this quarter.
In the first two months, it was just 1 percent.”  Benchmark Price  The decision to increase the tax was taken considering the
profitability of iron ore miners at current prices, one of the
officials said. The royalty is calculated on the basis of a
benchmark price set by the state-run Indian Bureau of Mines.  Steel Authority rose as much as 2.3 percent to 51 rupees
and traded at 50.30 rupees as of 9:29 a.m. in Mumbai. Tata Steel
advanced 1.6 percent to 268.85 rupees, while  JSW Steel (JSTL)  rose 1.1
percent to 652.70 rupees. Steel Authority, with a 45 percent
drop, has been the  biggest loser  among India’s three largest
steelmakers this year.  Its profitability is also the lowest of the three. The
company reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of 5,064 rupees ($83) a ton, less than a third of
bigger rival Tata Steel’s Indian operations and about 20 percent
lower than JSW Steel, the third-biggest producer.  Profit for the year ended March 31 at Steel Authority fell
to the  lowest in a decade , dragged by an increase in finance
costs to fund a 721.3 billion rupee expansion plan that seeks to
raise annual crude steel output by 60 percent.  Construction, Cars  The slowest economic growth in a decade in the last fiscal
year halted construction, while sales of automobiles, a key
consumer of steel, declined. Car sales in the year ended March
31 fell for the first time since 2001 as high  interest rates 
kept buyers away.  “If the panel’s recommendations are accepted, it would
adversely impact the profitability of domestic steel
companies,” ICICI Securities Ltd. analysts Dewang Sanghavi and
Shashank Kanodia said today in a report. “Taking into account
the current weak state of the industry, we believe the
recommendations may not be accepted by the mines ministry.”  Steel Authority’s average selling price fell 11 percent
from a year ago to 34,489 rupees a ton in the three months ended
March 31, Chairman C.S. Verma said in May. The company expects
prices to fall from that level in the present quarter, Ram Modi,
an analyst at Dolat Capital in Mumbai wrote in a June 21 report.  While large iron ore producers may be able to pass on costs,
smaller miners would find it a challenge, said R.K. Sharma,
secretary general at Federation of Indian Mineral Industries, a
lobby group. Higher taxes would also hurt  India ’s export
competitiveness, he said.  ‘Cascading Effect’  “Increase in royalties will mean the demise of many small
miners and will have a cascading effect on prices,” Sharma said
in a phone interview. “Increase in costs can wipe out India’s
participation in the iron ore export market as prices are
falling.”  Global iron ore prices have declined 21 percent this year.
Ore at  China ’s Tianjin port fell to $114.20 a ton as of June 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prasun Kumar Mukherjee, managing director at Sesa Goa
declined to comment on the impact of higher royalties. NMDC
Finance Director Swaminathan Thiagarajan couldn’t be reached on
his mobile phone.  The planned increase in taxes will precede the country’s
new mining law, which will require miners to set aside an amount
equal to royalty payments for social welfare programs. The law
is awaiting parliament’s approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  