-- SunAmerica Wins With Once-a-Year Picks: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-06-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/sunamerica-wins-with-once-a-year-picks-riskless-return.html
The past month’s rout in equities
and bonds didn’t trigger any buying or selling at the $4.5
billion  SunAmerica Focused Dividend Strategy Portfolio. (FDSAX)  The fund
chooses its 30 stocks once a year based on a formula and sticks
with them no matter what.  So far the system is working. The fund delivered the best
risk-adjusted returns among large funds that buy U.S. equities
since the stock market rally began in 2009, outpacing star
managers such as Donald Yacktman and William Nygren, according
to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The SunAmerica Fund
had a higher total return than all but two of 222 rivals and
lower volatility than 84 percent of competing funds.  “The beauty of our model is its simplicity and
discipline,” Timothy Pettee, chief investment officer for
SunAmerica Asset Management Corp., said in a telephone
interview. “We are not sitting here saying, ‘Gee do we like
this stock or do we want to overweight this industry?’ ”  Brendan Voege, who has managed the fund since 2006, selects
30 high-dividend stocks every November based on a model he
developed. In 2013, the fund’s top 10 holdings have all beaten
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. It’s also the best performer
since May 21, the day before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
Bernanke  indicated the central bank may scale back its asset
purchases, triggering a global selloff.  Dividend-paying stocks have appealed to investors in the
past few years because of the income they have generated in a
world of low interest rates, said Adam Longenecker, an analyst
with  EPFR Global , a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that
tracks the flow of money into funds worldwide.  ‘Wildly Popular’  “These bond-equivalent stocks that have been wildly
popular while rates have been at rock bottom will be less
attractive in the future if their true fixed-income counterparts
start yielding 3 to 4 percent again,” he wrote in an e-mail.  SunAmerica Focused Dividend Strategy gained 15 percent,
adjusted for volatility, from March 9, 2009, to June 24 of this
year, the best result for domestic equity funds with at least $3
billion in assets.  The second- and third-ranked funds are both run by  Donald
Yacktman , president of Austin, Texas-based Yacktman Asset
Management Co. The $9.8 billion Yacktman Focused Fund had a
risk-adjusted return of 13.7 percent, just ahead of the 13.6
percent gain for the $11.3 billion Yacktman Fund. Both funds
beat more than 90 percent of peers by total return and produced
lower than average volatility.  Nygren’s $9.4 billion  Oakmark Fund (OAKMX)  placed eighth with a
gain, adjusted for price swings, of 10 percent.  Dividend Stocks  The risk-adjusted return isn’t annualized. It’s calculated
by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk.
Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Voege buys the 10 highest-yielding stocks in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . The next 20 stocks are drawn from the
Russell 1000 Value Index, based on a formula the ranks companies
by dividends, profitability and valuation. If a chosen stock has
a dividend yield below the median yield of the dividend-paying
securities in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, it is tossed out
and replaced.  That process has turned up winners such as  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) , up 69 percent this year including dividends, and E.I. du
Pont de Nemours & Co., which has more than tripled since stocks
hit a 12-year low in March 2009.  Avoiding Financials  The SunAmerica fund typically doesn’t hold many financial
stocks or utilities, sectors that historically pay high
dividends, because otherwise the fund would be dominated by
those industries, Pettee said. The fund has a dividend yield of
3.72 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  S&P
500  has a dividend yield of 2.15 percent.  SunAmerica is owned by New York-based insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   Francis Kinniry, a principal at Vanguard Group Inc. in
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, said the SunAmerica fund should be
thought of as a form of rules-based investing. Rules-based funds
will go through periods when they “shine” and others when they
will lag behind market benchmarks, he said.  “Traditional active management, which is dynamic, has had
a hard time beating the indexes,” Kinniry, whose firm competes
with SunAmerica and is known for its low-cost, passive funds,
said in a telephone interview. “It is a little naïve to think
you can just write down some rules and do better over time.”  ‘More Luck’  This year the fund has benefited by owning two distressed
technology firms, Hewlett-Packard and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , which both
reached multiyear lows in November 2012 as customers shifted
away from personal computers toward tablets and smartphones.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto, California, rebounded
after Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  cut costs and moved to
halt seven straight quarters of declining sales and profit.
 Round Rock , Texas-based Dell, up 33 percent this year with
dividends, gained as a result of founder  Michael Dell ’s offer to
take the firm private.  Hewlett-Packard was the fund’s largest holding as of March
31; Dell was the third-largest position.  “I would chalk the results up more to luck than anything
else,” said Steven Roge, a portfolio manager with Bohemia, New
York-based R.W. Roge & Co., which oversees $200 million. “I’m
not sure it will do that well during the next downturn.”  Tobacco Stocks  So far, the fund has held up well. On June 20, when the  S&P
500 index  fell the most since November 2011, the SunAmerica fund
lost 1.8 percent compared with a decline of 2.5 percent for the
benchmark index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The SunAmerica fund has also had some longer-term holdings
that have outperformed, including tobacco stocks, which at times
have accounted for as much as 14 percent of total assets,
regulatory filings show.  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , based in Winston-Salem,  North
Carolina ;  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  of Richmond, Virginia; and New York-based  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  have all beaten the S&P
500 Index since the market lows of March 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. All three stocks have higher dividends yields
than the benchmark index.  “The tobacco stocks have been steady, stalwart performers
with attractive valuations,” said Pettee.  International Version  Investors have noticed the success. The SunAmerica fund
attracted $1.5 billion in deposits in 2012 and an additional $1
billion in the first five months of 2013, according to data from
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Pettee said he isn’t worried about the fund’s prospects
after  interest rates  climbed last week following Bernanke’s
comments.  “This is not just a dividend fund,” he said. “We will do
just fine, I think, if and when dividends don’t get the
attention they have been getting.”  SunAmerica created an international version of the dividend
fund last year, said Pettee, who conceded it has not done as
well as its U.S. counterpart. The $100 million SunAmerica
International Dividend Strategy Fund lost 11.5 percent this year
through June 24, compared with a gain of 1.9 percent for the
MSCI EAFE Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  