-- Swan Quits Treasury as Friend-Turned-Foe Rudd Back as Leader
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-27T01:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/swan-quits-treasury-as-friend-turned-foe-rudd-regains-leadership.html
Wayne Swan quit as  Australia ’s
treasurer and deputy prime minister as fallout from the return
to leadership of his friend-turned-enemy Kevin Rudd began.  Swan, 58, had been treasurer since Rudd’s 2007 victory
returned Labor to power after nearly 12 years in opposition, and
became deputy prime minister in June 2010, when he backed Julia Gillard’s ousting of Rudd in a backroom party coup. Chris Bowen
was sworn in as the new treasurer, just the nation’s third in 17
years.  “I want to say what a privilege it has been to serve as
deputy prime minister and also as treasurer in a Labor
government that has represented the very, very best of Labor
tradition,” Swan told reporters late yesterday. “Almost alone
amongst developed economies, we avoided a deep recession.”  Australia’s stretch of recession-free years was extended to
22 under Swan as he and Rudd met the global credit crunch
following Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse with
cash handouts and bank guarantees. As much of the developed
world grappled with anemic growth, Swan had to manage a mining
boom that sent the local currency soaring and crimped the
manufacturing industry, whose workers form the core of Labor
party support.  “Wayne, whatever our differences have been, I acknowledge
your contribution here,” Rudd said yesterday, referring to the
long hours the two worked together during Rudd’s first stint as
leader to prevent Australia falling into recession in 2008-2009.  Broken Pledge  Swan refrained from intervening as the Aussie -- which
recorded its longest stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar
since it was freely floated in 1983 -- slashed company tax
receipts and forced him to abandon a pledge to return the budget
to surplus, damaging his economic credibility. A plan to raise
taxes on mining-sector profits faltered under Rudd as companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  campaigned against it, while a
scaled-back version formed by Swan and Gillard will reap A$1.8
billion ($1.68 billion) less in revenue for the year to June 30
than previously forecast, budget documents showed May 14.  Rudd, 55, regained the leadership as lawmakers tired of
Labor’s consistent poor showing in opinion polls under Gillard.
A Newspoll survey published June 24 in the Australian newspaper
showed the opposition Liberal-National coalition leading 57
percent to 43 percent on a two-party preferred basis.  New Policies  Along with Rudd and his new deputy, Anthony Albanese, Bowen
was sworn in today in Canberra.  There’s unlikely to be any formal government budgetary or
fiscal policy changes ahead of the election, currently scheduled
for Sept. 14, said Warren Hogan, chief economist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   “There will be new policies announced, I’m sure, under a
new PM in an election campaign, but we’ve obviously just had a
budget, there’s no scope for a mini-budget,” he said. “The
pre-election outlook will be done by Treasury independent of the
political parties so I really don’t see it as being significant
for markets.”  Swan diverged as treasurer from a modern Australian
tradition of dominating parliament and policy debate and making
himself the central figure in the government, as Peter Costello
did in John Howard’s 1996 to 2007 administration and Paul Keating did in Bob Hawke’s government from 1983 to 1991.  “He didn’t have the impact of Keating and Costello,” said
 Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities
in  Singapore . “But they were wildly ambitious prime ministers
in waiting. Wayne Swan never saw the Treasury as a stepping
stone to the top job.”  Tensions Explode  Both Swan and Rudd attended Nambour High School in the
northeastern state of Queensland in the 1970s, where Swan
captained the rugby league team and Rudd led its debating team.  “Wayne was very, very cool. I was very, very not,” Rudd
said during the 2007 election campaign when the duo visited the
school.  An arts graduate of the University of Queensland, Swan
worked as a council sewerage maintenance worker before lecturing
at the Queensland Institute of Technology.  He started in politics as an adviser to then-federal Labor
leader Bill Hayden from 1978 to 1980. Swan and Rudd helped
return Labor to power in Queensland in state elections in 1989,
ending 32 years of conservative rule.  ‘Bury Hatchet’  Swan, a father of three, was elected to federal parliament
in 1993 when he won the Brisbane seat of Lilley. He lost it in
1996 and regained it in 1998, the year Rudd entered parliament
for the first time. He said yesterday he would recontest the
seat at the upcoming election.  As opposition lawmakers, Swan and Rudd shared an apartment
in Canberra until their friendship soured.  Rudd said he did everything he could to “bury the
hatchet” with Swan after winning the Labor leadership in 2006,
even as Swan campaigned against him, according to an interview
published in the Australian newspaper in February 2012. Upon
defeating the Howard government, Rudd appointed his former
school-mate to the nation’s top economic post and backed him
through early difficulties, he said in the interview.  When confronted by Lehman’s collapse and the ensuing credit
crunch, Rudd and Swan responded with measures that included
distributing more than A$10 billion in cash handouts to
consumers and for the first time in the country’s history
guaranteeing all bank deposits and the wholesale funding of its
biggest lenders. Swan was named Euromoney magazine’s finance
minister of the year in 2011 for helping navigate the economy
through the 2009 global downturn.  Ken Henry  TD’s Beacher said plaudits for Australia’s successful
response to the crisis belong with then-Treasury Secretary Ken Henry, who is credited with crafting the plan, and Reserve Bank
of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens, who slashed the benchmark
interest rate by 425 basis points to a then 50-year low of 3
percent between September 2008 and April 2009.  In June 2010, when factional leaders ousted Rudd as prime
minister, Swan didn’t inform his former flatmate he had switched
his support to Gillard. “I had to phone him,” Rudd said in the
Australian report. “I suppose he found the prospect of higher
office more tempting. It’s been a sad end to a friendship that
went back a long way.”  ‘Demeaning Attitude’  Tensions between Swan and Rudd exploded on Feb. 22 last
year when Rudd mounted an unsuccessful challenge against
Gillard. The then-treasurer accused Rudd of trying to “tear
down” Labor’s 2010 election campaign, having a “deeply
demeaning attitude” toward Labor party colleagues and of
“dysfunctional decision making” prior to his ouster as leader.  More recently, Swan’s fortunes have faded. A  Newspoll  taken
May 17-19 showed Shadow Treasurer Joe Hockey overtaking Swan on
the question of who is more capable of managing the economy.
Hockey surpassed Swan for the first time since he became
Treasury spokesman for the opposition Liberal-National coalition
in February 2009, leading 39 percent to 35 percent. That’s even
as unemployment remains at 5.5 percent.  Swan in late December abandoned a pledge to return the
budget to surplus this fiscal year and in May projected a
deficit of A$19.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  