-- Sweden Tells Exporters Not to Count on Further Krona Weakening
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-26T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/sweden-tells-exporters-not-to-count-on-further-krona-weakening.html
Sweden ’s state-backed export bank is
warning businesses not to rely on a weaker krona to support
their sales abroad even after the currency sank to its lowest in
a year against the euro.  “They shouldn’t expect a krona that will weaken
significantly,” Peter Yngwe, chief executive officer of the
Swedish Export Credit Corporation in  Stockholm , or SEK, said in
an interview today. “There is no reason for the krona to fall
significantly other than these short-term fluctuations.”  Sweden’s krona dropped 1.9 percent against the euro in the
week through June 21 and this week reached its lowest since June
18, 2012. Against the dollar, it fell to its lowest since
November following signals from the U.S. Federal Reserve it is
preparing to scale back stimulus. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said in an interview yesterday his government is
watching the  exchange rate  to see whether the weaker krona level
“has come to stay,” adding the sell-off has helped exporters
in the largest Nordic economy.  “We have strong finances, in other words fundamentals are
good,” Yngwe said. “The krona is a small currency; one should
be clear about that. All smaller currencies have been hit
following these signals from the U.S. as risk-appetite has
fallen.”  An Obstacle  The krona appreciated 31 percent against the euro from the
end of 2008 through the middle of March this year as investors
poured funds into Sweden’s AAA rated bonds. That prompted
warnings from Finance Minister  Anders Borg  that excessive krona
strength could become an obstacle for the nation’s exporters.  Since then, investors have sought to exit their krona
holdings as liquidity replaces public finance health as a driver
of capital flows. Yngwe said trading on Sweden’s haven status is
safer for long-term investors than for speculators.  “If you buy the Swedish krona to invest and stick with the
investment for a long time before exiting, then one should feel
that it’s pretty safe,” he said. “But if you’re buying to make
a quick deal, it’s probably not a safe haven, since it’s so
sensitive” to market volatility, he said.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index, which measures
price swings in currencies, rose as high as 11.96 this week from
a more than five-year low 7.05 in December. Three-month
volatility in the Swedish krona versus the dollar rose 11
percent in the past week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Almost 70 percent of exporters in the largest Nordic
economy said the krona’s strength at the end of May was hurting
their business, according to a survey published Monday by the
state-owned export lender, SEK. About half of Sweden’s $500
billion economy comes from exports, of which about 70 percent
are destined for  Europe .  “The krona is at a reasonably correct level where it is
now and where it was before,” Yngwe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  