-- U.K. Stresses ‘Strong’ Ties With China After Tibet Call
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-26T11:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-k-stresses-strong-ties-with-china-after-tibet-call.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
spokesman said the U.K. has “strong” ties with  China  after the
two countries’ foreign ministers spoke by telephone two days ago
to discuss  Tibet .  Cameron is intending to visit China this year, his office
said May 7, acknowledging that his meeting with the Tibetan
spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, in 2012, caused tension.
Diplomats are discussing the terms of the trip.  China “firmly” opposes any meeting between foreign
government officials and the Dalai Lama, the People’s Daily
newspaper said in a commentary today attributed to an author
identified as Zhong Sheng, a name that’s a homonym in Chinese
for “voice of China.” China accuses the Nobel Peace Prize
winner, who lives in exile in India, of waging a campaign for
independence, while he says he is seeking autonomy for Tibet.  “I think what is important is that we have a strong
bilateral relationship with China of the kind that has seen U.K.
trade with China in the last year rise very significantly,”
Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in
London today. “We don’t comment on the prime minister’s travel
plans.”  Asked if Cameron intends to meet the  Dalai Lama  again, Gray
said “he has no plans to do so.”  Cameron has visited China once as premier, in November
2010, when he stopped on his way to a Group of 20 summit in
 Seoul . On that occasion, he refused a Chinese request to remove
a poppy from his lapel, worn in memory of Britain’s war dead.
The flower has a difference resonance in China, which lost two
opium wars with Britain in the 19th century.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  