-- U.K. Wave Energy Needs Strike Price Six Times Higher Than Coal
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-26T11:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-k-wave-energy-needs-strike-price-six-times-higher-than-coal.html
Technologies that make electricity
from waves need subsidized prices almost six times tariffs paid
for coal-fired power if British developers are to bring their
devices to market, an adviser to the government said.  Under the U.K.’s Electricity Market Reform, wave energy
providers need at least 300 pounds ($461) a megawatt-hour if
support is given over 20 years or 350 pounds over 15 years, said
Richard Yemm, chairman of the EMR sub-group of the Marine Energy
Programme Board, which advises the government on the industry.
That compares with $78 a megawatt-hour price paid for coal-fired
power, according to a Bloomberg estimate.  The government is expected next month to publish proposals
on how much the guaranteed prices, known as strike prices, will
be for each renewable energy technology. Yemm said that the
government is “responding positively” to industry
recommendations and the economic case behind them.  “If the Department of Energy and Climate Change chooses to
build on the current momentum in the sector with supportive
strike prices, it would of course be a major boost and would
consolidate the current U.K. lead in this space,” said Yemm,
who is also the new chief executive officer of Pelamis Wave
Power Ltd., a Scottish developer.  Marine energy developers are mostly still testing single
unit devices to gather data for larger machines and multiple
arrays as they bring their technologies to market. While no
commercial-scale projects are operating in the water, large
industrial companies are starting to invest in the industry.
 Alstom SA (ALO) , DCNS SA and  Siemens AG (SIE)  all own stakes in companies.  Strategic Investor  If support levels are too low, Yemm said it will be
difficult for projects to proceed without “significant”
additional capital through the early stages.  Energy from the waves currently costs about $496 a
megawatt-hour, according to Bloomberg estimates.  “Pelamis will secure a strategic investor to work with us
through commercialization over the coming years -- we need to do
that, and we are making encouraging progress,” Yemm said of his
company. “Utilities and other project investors need to see
strong backing from a major industrial to place orders for large
commercial systems.”  Pelamis already is testing two machines in Orkney,
 Scotland , for  Germany ’s EON AG and Iberdrola SA’s ScottishPower
Renewables Ltd. Vattenfall AB is helping the company build a 10-megawatt project off the Shetland Islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  