-- U.K. Stocks Advance as China Eases Cash Crunch
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-26T08:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-k-stocks-advance-as-china-eases-cash-crunch.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, paring the
biggest quarterly decline since September 2011 for the FTSE 100
Index, as  China ’s cash crunch eased.  Afren Plc jumped 6.7 percent after saying it discovered oil
at a well off the coast of  Nigeria . Stagecoach Group Plc gained
the most in more than six months after the bus-and-train
operator posted full-year pre-tax profit that best forecasts.
Fresnillo Plc followed mining companies lower as gold and silver
dropped to their lowest levels since August 2010.  The FTSE 100 Index climbed 28.48 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,130.39 at 9:11 a.m. in  London . The gauge is still heading for
a 6.9 percent drop in June after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it
may end bond buying next year if the  U.S. economy  improves in
line with forecasts. The gauge has lost 4.4 percent so far this
quarter. The FTSE All-Share Index added 0.5 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.8 percent today.  “We still like equities,” Valentijn Van Nieuwenhuijzen,
head of strategy at ING Investment Management, told Anna Edwards
on Bloomberg Television. “We’ve liked them for most of the
year. In the end, central banks, especially the Fed, are just
changing course because the data is looking stronger and they
need to adapt their very easy policy stance.”  Compass Group Plc, Next Plc, and Tate & Lyle Plc are
trading without the rights to dividend today, wiping 1.36 points
off the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Money Market  In China, the overnight repurchase rate dropped 40 basis
points to 5.6 percent, according to the National Interbank
Funding Center. It reached a record 12.85 percent on June 20.
The one-year interest-rate swap, the cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, slid for a fourth day to
3.87 percent in Shanghai, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
reached an all-time high of 5.06 percent in intraday trading on
June 20.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday said it took steps to
ease a temporary cash crunch and will do more to stabilize
short-term financing conditions.  “China is in a very big changeover program for its growth
model,” Van Nieuwenhuijzen said. “Therefore, it’s very
questionable whether they can be on a solid footing for the next
couple of years.”  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will today
outline cuts to  government spending  for the year starting in
April 2015. In a statement to Parliament, Osborne will detail
11.5 billion pounds ($18 billion) of savings negotiated with
government departments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  