-- U.S. Needs More Time on Overseas Swaps, Democratic Senators Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-needs-more-time-on-overseas-swaps-democratic-senators-say.html
U.S. regulators will inject risk
into the  derivatives market  if they don’t take more time to
coordinate Dodd-Frank Act rules with their overseas
counterparts, six Democratic senators said.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, facing a July 12
deadline to determine the overseas reach of its rules, should
take additional time to coordinate oversight with other
regulators, the senators said in a letter yesterday to Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  “Creating an overly complicated compliance system for
market participants will result in conflicting, duplicative or
inconsistent rules that could foster new and unforeseen risks
and lead to international regulatory arbitrage,” the senators
said. “More time is needed for domestic harmonization and
sequencing with regulations that occur abroad.”  The letter was signed by Kirsten Gillibrand of New York,
Tom Carper of Delaware,  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina , Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Michael Bennet of Colorado and  Charles Schumer  of New York.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, and Suzanne Elio, Treasury
Department spokeswoman, both declined comment.  The guidance would govern the reach of rules affecting
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
other banks, hedge funds and companies in the $633 trillion
global swaps market.  The international reach of the CFTC swap trading
requirements has been one of the most controversial elements of
the agency’s Dodd-Frank Act rules, prompting opposition from
financial companies including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Barclays Plc.  ‘Means Delay’  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler said June 25 that his agency
should push through its cross-border derivatives guidance by
July 12 and opposed a proposal from a fellow Democrat on the
commission, Mark Wetjen, for “interim final guidance” that
could be amended based on industry and public feedback.  “It means delay, and I think we’ve had a year to do
this,” Gensler told reporters after testifying before a Senate
Appropriations subcommittee in Washington. “The American public
should hold us to task if we can’t get this done by July 12.
They should say, ‘Why does it take so long and are we doing too
much to accommodate  Wall Street ?’”  Jill E. Sommers, a Republican CFTC commissioner, released a
statement yesterday defending Wetjen’s position and criticizing
Gensler’s contention that efforts to delay rules are meant to
undermine Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in
response to the 2008 credit crisis.  “No one has ever accused  Gary Gensler  of being
reasonable,” Sommers said in her statement. “I may not totally
agree with it, but Commissioner Wetjen has put a reasonable
proposal on the table that would achieve multiple goals. He
understands the importance of working in good faith with other
global regulators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  