-- U.S. Stock Funds See Longest Span of Withdrawals Since January
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-26T20:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-stock-funds-see-longest-span-of-withdrawals-since-january.html
Customers of American equity mutual
funds withdrew money for the fifth straight week, the longest
stretch since Jan. 2, as  stocks  tumbled amid signs the  Federal
Reserve  may scale back its unprecedented stimulus.  Mutual funds that invest in U.S. shares had $463 million in
outflows in the five days that ended with the Federal Reserve’s
policy statement on June 19, according to data from Washington-based  Investment Company Institute  released today. Redemptions
since May 16 total $7.3 billion.  Withdrawals came as the S&P 500 tumbled 2.4 percent from a
record high on May 21 as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank could “step down” the pace of asset purchases
this year should the labor market improve. Investors had taken
out almost $400 billion from equities as the benchmark gauge
 more than doubled  the past four years.  “When the markets are strong the flows get strong and vice
versa,” Jim Russell, Cincinnati-based Senior Equity Strategist
at  U.S. Bank ’s wealth management group, said in a telephone
interview. “With recent  volatility (VIX)  I could see where the retail
investor would perhaps reassess, maybe take some profits, and
not react well to a change in tone from the Fed.”  Volatility has increased as investors grew more concerned
about when the Fed would start slowing the $85 billion monthly
bond-buying program. The average daily price move for the  S&P
500  rose to 0.73 percent this quarter from 0.48 percent in the
first, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Individuals burned in the financial crisis that erased
almost $11 trillion from American equity value have missed out
on the recovery, pouring about $1 trillion into bond funds since
the  bull market  began in March 2009. The Fed’s stimulus, three
years of earnings growth and improving economic reports helped
fuel a 160 percent rally for the S&P 500, including dividends.
That compares with a 17 percent return for 10-year Treasuries
according to data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Almost $8 billion came out of bond funds last week, after
$24.3 billion was withdrawn the previous two weeks, according to
today’s release.  Individual investors usually own stocks through mutual
funds, with 44 percent of households holding assets in the funds
last year, according to the 2013 ICI Fact book. Even with
outflows the past two months, retail investors have added $3.4
billion to U.S. stock funds this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Brennan in  New York  at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net  