-- U.S. Senate Clears Way for Passage of Immigration Measure
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-26T17:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-senate-clears-way-for-passage-of-immigration-measure.html
The Senate voted to advance the most
significant revisions to U.S. immigration law in a generation,
clearing the way for final passage as soon as tomorrow.  By a vote of 67-31, with 60 needed, senators voted to
advance a bipartisan bill that includes a path to citizenship
for as many as 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.
Senators also adopted a related amendment to bolster security at
the U.S.-Mexico border by a 69-29 vote.  “A permanent compromise solution to our dysfunctional
system is really in sight,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, said today. “It is my hope that our
colleagues in the House will follow the Senate’s lead and work
to pass bipartisan reform and do it now.”  The Senate is concluding its third week of debate on the
immigration legislation, which seeks to balance Democrats’ goal
of granting citizenship rights with Republicans’ demand for
stricter border controls.  Thirteen Republicans, including  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire  and  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , supported advancing the bill.
All of the opponents were Republicans, including Minority leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , who is seeking re-election next
year.  Costliest Plan  The border security plan adopted today, the costliest ever,
was crafted at the insistence of key Republicans, including
Marco Rubio of Florida, a co-sponsor of the broader legislation.
It would double the size of the U.S. Border Patrol and require
an additional 350 miles of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border,
at a price tag its backers say will reach $38 billion.  “This is about making sure we secure the border and we do
it in an objective and verifiable way,” said Senator  John Hoeven , a North Dakota Republican who crafted the amendment with
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican.  For some Republicans, including Iowa’s  Charles Grassley ,
the security amendment did not go far enough to allay concerns
over whether the border would be secure enough to deter any
future wave of illegal immigration.  “As is often the case here in Washington, the solution
always seems to be to just throw money at a problem,” Grassley
said. “This grand compromise measures the success of the
amendment by the amount of money spent, not by outcomes.”  Leahy Proposal  Another potential obstacle to Senate passage of the bill
dissolved today when Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat, announced he would not seek a vote on his proposal to
require equal treatment for same-sex couples when one is foreign
national. Leahy said his decision was prompted by the  Supreme
Court ’s decision today to strike down a 1996 federal law that
denies benefits to same-sex married couples.  “With the Supreme Court decision today, it appears that
the anti-discrimination principle that I have long advocated
will apply to immigration law,” Leahy said on the Senate floor.  U.S. immigration law hasn’t been significantly altered
since 1986. A 2007 immigration rewrite died in the Senate and
wasn’t considered in the House. The prospects for passage of a
bipartisan bill are greater this time because some Republicans
see the issue as a way to boost the party’s appeal with Hispanic
voters.  Republicans are trying to reconnect with Hispanic voters
after President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of the votes cast by
the fast-growing voter group in the 2012 election.  Still, the bill’s prospects in the Republican-controlled
House, where opposition to a citizenship path runs deep, are
uncertain.  The House Judiciary Committee, led by Virginia Republican
Bob Goodlatte, is considering individual pieces of legislation
involving aspects of immigration policy.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said last
week that he won’t bring an immigration proposal to a vote
unless a majority of the chamber’s 234 Republicans support it.  The Senate bill is S744.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  