-- U.S. First Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-06-26T12:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-first-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the technical note from
the Gross Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  Technical Note  Gross Domestic Product  First Quarter of 2013 (Third Estimate)  June 26, 2013  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the estimates
presented in the GDP news release. The complete set of estimates
for the first quarter is available on BEA’s Web site at
www.bea.gov; a brief summary of “highlights” is also posted on
the Web site. In a few weeks, the estimates will be published in
BEA’s monthly journal, the Survey of Current Business, along
with a more detailed analysis of the estimates (“GDP and the
Economy”).  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.8 percent (annual rate) in the first
quarter, which was 0.6 percentage point less than in last
month’s estimate. The revision to GDP reflected downward
revisions to  consumer spending , to exports, and to
nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by a
downward revision to imports:  *    The downward revision to consumer spending reflected a
downward revision to services. Within services, the revision was
widespread; the largest contributors
were “other” services (notably net foreign travel, legal
services, and personal care services), health care (notably
dental services and home health care services), and the gross
output of nonprofit institutions (specifically hospitals).
The revisions reflected newly available Census Bureau quarterly
services survey data for the first quarter and, for net foreign
travel, newly available and revised international transactions
accounts (ITAs) data.  *    The downward revision to exports was more than accounted
for by goods, especially industrial supplies and materials and
nonautomotive capital goods. The revisions reflected revised
Census goods data for January through March and the annual
revision of the ITAs, which was incorporated on a best-change
basis.
*    The downward revision to nonresidential fixed investment
was primarily accounted for by structures. Within structures,
the downward revision was primarily to power and communication
structures and was based on revised Census construction spending
data for February and March.
*    The downward revision to imports was primarily accounted
for by goods, especially automotive vehicles, engines, and parts
and nonautomotive capital goods. The revisions reflected revised
Census goods data and the annual revision of the ITAs.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases -- the prices paid
by U.S. residents for goods and services wherever produced --
increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter, the same increase as
in last month’s estimate.  Gross Domestic Income and Corporate Profits  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of
the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in the
production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the first quarter,
the same increase as in last month’s estimate. Real GDI
increased 5.5 percent in the fourth quarter. For a given quarter,
the estimates of GDP and GDI differ due to the incorporation of
largely independent source data. Over longer time spans, however,
the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns.
For the year 2012, real GDP and real GDI both increased 2.2
percent.  Profits from current production decreased $28.0 billion, or 1.4
percent (quarterly rate), in the first quarter. Domestic profits
of financial corporations decreased $3.4 billion, domestic
profits of nonfinancial corporations decreased $5.0 billion, and
rest-of-the-world profits decreased $19.6 billion.  Comprehensive NIPA Revision Scheduled for July 31  On July 31, 2013, BEA will present the results of its
comprehensive revision of the national income and product
accounts (NIPAs). A series of articles in the Survey of Current
Business discusses the revision in detail; these articles and
other information about the revision are available on the BEA
Web site at www.bea.gov/GDP-revisions.  As part of this comprehensive revision, BEA will:  *    Incorporate the results of the 2007 Benchmark Input-Output
Accounts;
*    Recognize expenditures on research and development and on
entertainment, literary, and artistic originals as fixed
investment;
*    Measure the transactions of defined benefit pension plans
on an accrual accounting basis and recognize the cost of
unfunded liabilities;
*    Update the reference year for chain-type quantity and price
indexes and chained-dollar estimates to 2009 from 2005.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  