-- U.S. First Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-06-26T12:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-first-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  FIRST QUARTER 2013 (THIRD ESTIMATE)  CORPORATE PROFITS:  FIRST QUARTER 2013 (REVISED ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the United
States -- increased at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the
first quarter of 2013 (that is, from the fourth quarter to the
first quarter), according to the “third” estimate released by
the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  In the fourth quarter, real
GDP increased 0.4 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the “second” estimate issued
last month.  In the second estimate, real GDP increased 2.4
percent.  With the third estimate for the first quarter, the
increase in personal consumption expenditures (PCE) was less
than previously estimated, and exports and imports are now
estimated to have declined.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from PCE, private inventory
investment, and residential fixed investment that were partly
offset by negative contributions from federal government
spending, state and local government spending, and exports.
Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP,
decreased.  Comprehensive Revision of the National Income and Product  Accounts  BEA will release the results of the 14th comprehensive (or
benchmark) revision of the national income and product accounts
(NIPAs) in conjunction with the second quarter 2013 “advance”
estimate on July 31, 2013.  More information on the revision is
available on BEA痴 Web site at www.bea.gov/gdp-revisions.  An
article in the March 2013 issue of the Survey of Current
Business discusses the upcoming changes in definitions and
presentations, and an article in the May Survey describes the
changes in statistical methods.  Revised NIPA table stubs and
news release stubs are also available on the Web site.  An
article in the September Survey will describe the estimates in
detail.  _______
Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted annual
rates, unless otherwise specified. Quarter-to-quarter dollar
changes are differences between these published estimates.
Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data and are
annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005) dollars.
Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site
(www.bea.gov) along with the Technical Note
(www.bea.gov/newsreleases/national/gdp/2013/tech1q13_3rd.htm)
and Highlights
(www.bea.gov/newsreleases/national/gdp/2013/pdf/gdp1q13_3rd_fax.
pdf) related to this release.  For information on revisions, see
“Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their Major Components”
(www.bea.gov/scb/pdf/2011/07 July/0711_revisions.pdf).
_________________  The acceleration in real GDP in the first quarter
primarily reflected an upturn in private inventory investment,
an acceleration in PCE, and smaller decreases in federal
government spending and in exports that were partly offset by a
deceleration in nonresidential fixed investment and a smaller
decrease in imports.  Motor vehicle output added 0.33 percentage point to the
first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.18 percentage
point to the fourth-quarter change.  Final sales of computers
added 0.09 percentage point to the first-quarter change in real
GDP after adding 0.10 percentage point to the fourth-quarter
change.  The price index for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 1.2 percent in
the first quarter, unrevised from the second estimate; this
index increased 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter.  Excluding
food and energy prices, the price index for gross domestic
purchases increased 1.5 percent in the first quarter, compared
with an increase of 1.2 percent in the fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.6
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.8
percent in the fourth.  Durable goods increased 7.6 percent,
compared with an increase of 13.6 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.8 percent, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent.
Services increased 1.7 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 0.4 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 13.2 percent
in the fourth.  Nonresidential structures decreased 8.3 percent,
in contrast to an increase of 16.7 percent.  Equipment and
software increased 4.1 percent, compared with an increase of
11.8 percent.  Real residential fixed investment increased 14.0
percent, compared with an increase of 17.6 percent.  Real exports of goods and services decreased 1.1 percent
in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of 2.8 percent in
the fourth.  Real imports of goods and services decreased 0.4
percent, compared with a decrease of 4.2 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 8.7 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a decrease of 14.8 percent in the fourth.  National defense
decreased 12.0 percent, compared with a decrease of 22.1 percent.
Nondefense decreased 2.1 percent, in contrast to an increase of
1.7 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 2.1 percent,
compared with a decrease of 1.5 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.57
percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP, after
subtracting 1.52 percentage points from the fourth-quarter
change.  Private businesses increased inventories $36.7 billion
in the first quarter, following increases of $13.3 billion in
the fourth quarter and $60.3 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.9 percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.8 percent in the first quarter; it was unchanged in the fourth.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 0.9 percent in the fourth.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which decreased $17.7 billion in the first quarter after
increasing $19.2 billion in the fourth; in the first quarter,
receipts decreased $16.3 billion, and payments increased $1.4
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.1 percent, or $120.0
billion, in the first quarter to a level of $15,984.1 billion.
In the fourth quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 1.3 percent,
or $53.1 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the
output of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes
earned in the production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the
first quarter, compared with an increase of 5.5 percent in the
fourth.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may
differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of
largely independent source data. However, over longer time spans,
the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of
change.  Revisions  The downward revision to the percent change in real GDP
primarily reflected downward revisions to personal consumption
expenditures, to exports, and to nonresidential fixed investment
that were partly offset by a downward revision to imports.  Advance Estimate  Second Estimate    Third Estimate  (Percent change from preceding quarter)  Real GDP......................................  2.5                 2.4              1.8
Current-dollar GDP............................  3.7                 3.6              3.1
Gross domestic purchases price index..........  1.1                 1.2              1.2  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
decreased $28.0 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an
increase of $45.4 billion in the fourth quarter.  Current-production cash flow (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- increased $125.6 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to a decrease of $89.8 billion in the fourth.  Taxes on corporate income decreased $10.5 billion in the
first quarter, compared with a decrease of $4.4 billion in the
fourth.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments decreased $17.5 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $49.8 billion in the
fourth.  Dividends decreased $103.5 billion, in contrast to an
increase of $124.3 billion.  The large fourth-quarter increase
reflected accelerated and special dividends paid by corporations
at the end of 2012 in anticipation of changes to individual
income tax rates.   Current-production undistributed profits
increased $85.8 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $74.3
billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $3.4
billion in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of $3.5
billion in the fourth.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations decreased $5.0 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to an increase of $24.8 billion in the fourth.  In the
first quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value added
decreased.  The decrease in unit profits reflected an increase
in the unit nonlabor costs incurred by corporations that was
partly offset by a decrease in unit labor costs; unit prices
were unchanged.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $19.6
billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of
$24.1 billion in the fourth.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The first-quarter decrease was accounted for by a larger
decrease in receipts than in payments.  Profits before tax with inventory valuation adjustment is
the best available measure of industry profits because estimates
of the capital consumption adjustment by industry do not exist.
This measure reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for
federal income tax returns.  According to this measure, domestic
profits of both financial and nonfinancial corporations
decreased.  The decrease in nonfinancial corporations primarily
reflected decreases in “other” nonfinancial and in manufacturing
that were partly offset by increases in information and in
wholesale trade.  Within manufacturing, the largest decreases
were in petroleum and coal products and in machinery.  Profits before tax decreased $34.7 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $27.3 billion in the
fourth.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption
and inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment increased $12.5 billion in the
first quarter (from -$199.5 billion to -$187.0 billion),
compared with an increase of $0.5 billion in the fourth.  The
inventory valuation adjustment decreased $5.8 billion (from -
$9.2 billion to -$15.0 billion), in contrast to an increase of
$17.6 billion.  The first-quarter changes in taxes on corporate income and
in the capital consumption adjustment mainly reflect the
expiration of bonus depreciation claimed under the American
Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.  For detailed data, see the table
“Net Effects of the Tax Acts of 2002, 2003, 2008, 2009, 2010,
and 2012 on Selected Measures of Corporate Profits” at
www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls.  Profits from
current production are not affected because they do not depend
on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income
tax returns; rather, they are based on depreciation of fixed
assets valued at current cost using consistent depreciation
profiles based on used-asset prices. For more details on the
effect of tax act provisions on the capital consumption
adjustment, see FAQ #999 on the BEA Web site, “Why does the
capital consumption adjustment for domestic business decline so
much in the first quarter of 2012?”
(www.bea.gov/faq/index.cfm?faq_id=999&searchQuery=999&start=0&ca
t_id=0)  *          *          *  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  *          *          *  Next release -- July 31, 2013, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
 Gross Domestic Product:  Second Quarter 2013 (Advance Estimate)  Comprehensive Revision of the National Income and Product  Accounts  (1929 through First Quarter 2013)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  