-- U.S. Retires Most Chimpanzees Used for Medical Research
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-26T17:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-retires-most-chimpanzees-used-for-medical-research.html
Most of the chimpanzees used for
government-funded  medical research  will be retired and sent to
sanctuaries after a three-year review by the  National Institutes
of Health  found use of the animals rarely improved human health.  “We view today’s announcement as a milestone at the dawn
of a new era, a compassionate era, in medical research,” NIH
Director Francis S. Collins told reporters on a conference call.  The decision acts on 27 of 28 recommendations made in a
January report by an NIH task force that encouraged the
retirement of all but 50 of the almost 700 chimpanzees owned or
supported by the government. A December 2011 report by the
 Institute of Medicine  of the National Academies found that most
biomedical research conducted with chimpanzees isn’t beneficial
with the exception of efforts to develop a hepatitis C vaccine.  “This is the moment we’ve all been waiting for,”  Kathleen
Conlee , vice president of animal research issues at the
Washington-based  Humane Society  of the U.S., said in a telephone
interview. “Some of these chimpanzees are in their mid- or late
50s and have been in labs since they were born, some were caught
in the wild and brought in. So we feel a real sense of urgency
about this.”  At least 310 chimpanzees owned by the government will be
retired, according to the NIH. More than 200 others had already
been removed from testing. Chimpanzees share 98 percent of their
DNA with humans.  While the NIH will keep 50 chimpanzees, it won’t breed the
animals, a policy instituted in 1995. The NIH rejected one of
the task force’s recommendations, which sought to ensure that
chimpanzees were given a minimum of 1,000 square feet each.
While Collins said the recommendation lacked sufficient
scientific backing, he didn’t rule out implementing it in the
future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  