-- U.S. Car Thefts Have First Increase Since 2003
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-27T21:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-car-thefts-have-first-increase-since-2003.html
(Corrects last name of Modesto police sergeant in fourth
and fifth paragraph of story published yesterday.)  U.S. auto thefts probably rose in
2012 after eight straight years of declines as criminals took
advantage of  California ’s budget cuts and reduced police forces,
an insurance-industry group said.  Thefts rose 1.3 percent last year from  715,373  in 2011,
according to preliminary data released today by the National
Insurance Crime Bureau. Thefts fell about 3 percent in 2011 from
a year earlier to the lowest levels since at least 1967, the
NICB said, citing data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  “There were budget crunches in a lot of areas,” Frank Scafidi, a spokesman for the Des Plaines, Illinois-based NICB,
said in a telephone interview. “There have been layoffs of
police. There’s been less focus on non-violent crimes, because
there’s been more focus, as there should be, on violent crimes
and crimes against people.”  Modesto, California, including Stanislaus County, placed
No. 1 in the ranking of auto thefts per capita in 2012. Thefts
in Modesto increased by 29 percent from 2011 to about 817 cars
per 100,000 people, according to the NICB. Modesto Police
Sergeant Rick Applegate estimated that staffing levels in the
city have shrunk by 30 percent over the past four years.  “You can only do so much with so many people,” Applegate
said in a telephone interview. “The auto-theft countywide task
force that we participate in has been devastated because our
staffing levels have been cut throughout the state.”  The  New York  City area, including northern New Jersey and
Long Island, had 26,311 thefts last year, or about 133 per
100,000 people. The Midland,  Michigan , region had the fewest
thefts per capita.  California Cities  Eight of the 10 metropolitan areas with the highest 2012
theft rates are in California, including No. 2 Fresno, No. 3
Bakersfield and No. 4 Stockton.  “California rates are going up because there’s no
resources and no law enforcement,”  John Abounader , executive
director at the International Association of Auto Theft
Investigators, said in a phone interview. “Criminals know where
the resources are and they go where they’re not.”  California has more vehicles than other states, access to
ports and borders for smuggling, and mild weather that keeps
cars in good shape, Scafidi said. Drug use also drives thefts,
he said.  “There’s a notorious methamphetamine problem in this
state,” Scafidi said. “Where you have a lot of drug problems,
police will tell you, you have a lot of property crimes. It’s
like peanut butter and jelly.”  Northeast, Midwest  Stockton, which filed for bankruptcy last year, is using
social media to combat thefts, according to Joe Silva, public
information officer at the city’s police department.  “Our community has stepped up to the plate and has been
submitting tips through Facebook and Twitter in regards to who
is out committing these types of crimes,” Silva said.  The West, including  Alaska , Arizona, California,  Colorado ,
 Hawaii ,  Idaho ,  Montana ,  Nevada , New Mexico,  Oregon ,  Utah ,
Washington and  Wyoming , saw a 10.6 percent increase in vehicle
thefts from 2011, the NICB said. The Midwest, Northeast and
South reported reductions of 3.1, 7.9 and 2.9 percent
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  