-- U.S. Bond Funds Have Record $61.7 Billion in Redemptions
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2013-06-26T19:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/u-s-bond-funds-have-record-61-7-billion-in-redemptions.html
U.S.-listed bond mutual funds and
exchange-traded funds saw record monthly redemptions of $61.7
billion through June 24 amid signs the country’s central bank
may scale back its unprecedented stimulus.  The redemptions surpassed the previous monthly record of
$41.8 billion, set in October 2008, according to an e-mailed
statement by TrimTabs Investment Research in Sausalito,
 California . Investors withdrew $52.8 billion from bond mutual
funds and $8.9 billion from ETFs during the period, said Richard
Stern, a spokesman for TrimTabs.  Bond funds worldwide have experienced withdrawals this
month after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
Congress on May 22 that the central bank’s policy-setting board
could start reducing its bonds purchases in “its next few
meetings,” if the U.S. employment outlooks shows sustained
improvement. Bernanke told reporters in Washington June 19 that
the Fed is prepared to begin phasing out bond buying later this
year and halt purchases around mid-2014 as long as the economy
meets its forecast.  “The unprecedented liquidation of bonds this month is a
dramatic departure from recent trends,” David Santschi, chief
executive officer of TrimTabs, said in the statement. “Before
June, bond funds had posted inflows for 21 consecutive months.”  Individual investors typically own bonds through mutual
funds while institutional investors are big buyers of ETFs,
which can be traded throughout the day like stocks.  ICI Estimates  The  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade
group, said today that bond mutual funds in the U.S. suffered
redemptions of $8 billion in the week ended June 19, compared
with $13.5 billion the week before and $10.9 billion in the week
ended June 5. ICI’s weekly compilation, which doesn’t include
ETFs, covers a different date range compared with TrimTabs. ICI
said its estimates are derived from data covering more than 95
percent of industry assets.  Rising rates may trigger hundreds of billions of dollars in
redemptions from traditional bond portfolios and funds,
according to a report issued last month by Casey, Quirk &
Associates LLC. The Darien, Connecticut-based consulting firm
estimates that U.S. investors will move $1 trillion from
strategies that are pegged to benchmarks and invest in core
fixed-income and  government bonds .  Yields Rise  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has risen to above
2.5 percent, from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before
Bernanke’s comments, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Ten-year notes gained for the first time in eight days today, as
data showed the  U.S. economy  grew less than previously
calculated in the first quarter. Gross domestic product expanded
at a revised 1.8 percent annualized rate from January through
March, down from a prior estimate of 2.4 percent, the Commerce
Department reported today.  Investors pulled an estimated $1.32 billion from  Bill
Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  in May, according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The redemptions at the $285 billion fund,
the world’s largest mutual fund, were the first monthly
withdrawals since 2011. Gross’s fund is down 4 percent this
year, trailing 93 percent of rivals.  The $4.4 billion Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund
has seen redemptions of $642 million since May 21, data from San
Francisco-based IndexUniverse show. 