-- UBS Unit Fined $13 Mln, Reprimanded by French Regulator
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-06-26T10:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/ubs-unit-fined-eu10-million-reprimanded-by-french-regulator-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s French unit was fined 10
million euros ($13.1 million) by the nation’s banking regulator
and reprimanded for a lack of controls that may have enabled
some clients in  France  to dodge taxes.  The unit of Switzerland’s largest bank was alerted to
“grave suspicions” by the fall of 2007 on its sales force’s
possible involvement in illicit marketing and the covering up of
 tax fraud , and waited more than 18 months before setting up the
necessary controls, the regulator said in a statement today.  That delay “is an especially grievous failure,” France’s
banking regulator said in a report dated yesterday that
described UBS’s control lapses.  The fine is more than twice the 4 million-euro penalty the
regulator demanded from  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in 2008 because of
internal-control shortcomings related to  Jerome Kerviel ’s multi-billion-euro trading loss. The UBS unit also failed to control
its sales force’s potential access to computer files shared with
the parent company that could have been used to identify
prospective clients for accounts outside France, the regulator
said today.  “We disagree with many of the disciplinary commission’s
conclusions,” Zurich-based UBS said in an e-mailed statement
today, adding that it will consider whether to appeal the
decision. “UBS does not tolerate any activities intended to
help its clients circumvent their tax obligations.”  UBS and its French unit are under a formal investigation by
Paris prosecutors as France steps up efforts to combat  tax
evasion . French tax investigators last year searched UBS offices
in cities including Strasbourg, Lyon and Paris. Three
individuals were also put under formal investigation last year.  UBS  rose  1.5 percent to 16.09 Swiss francs by 12:16 p.m. in
Zurich trading, bringing the gain this year to 13 percent.  “This is an issue from the past and we are pleased to note
that the disciplinary commission acknowledges in its report that
UBS France SA has taken appropriate steps to strengthen its
compliance framework since 2009,” UBS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net 
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  