-- Hungary Lifts Control in Bank Industry With Savings Cooperatives
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-06-26T12:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/hungary-lifts-control-in-bank-industry-with-savings-cooperatives.html
Hungary  is increasing control over
the banking industry after Premier Viktor Orban’s government
ordered savings cooperatives to be folded into a partially
state-owned bank and said it would buy stakes in two lenders.  The administration will require savings cooperatives to be
integrated into Takarekbank Zrt. and the state will acquire “an
important ownership position” in cooperatives’ operations,
according to a draft law posted on parliament’s website
yesterday. The government will allocate 100 billion forint ($439
million) to overhaul the savings sector, government spokesman
Andras Giro-Szasz said yesterday.  “It’s becoming ever more obvious that the government’s
strategic goal is to have a larger part of the financial
industry under state control and directly influence lending,”
Attila Gyurcsik, a Budapest-based analyst at brokerage Concorde
Securities Zrt., said in a phone interview.  Hungary, the most indebted eastern member of the European
Union, is reversing earlier privatizations as Orban extends
state control over strategic industries. Combining savings
cooperatives together will aid the Cabinet’s drive to prop up
lending, help the economy emerge from its  recession  and make
them more competitive against commercial lenders, Gyurcsik said.  Parliament, where Orban’s ruling Fidesz party has a two-thirds majority, will vote on the bill this week, Antal Rogan,
Fidesz parliamentary group leader said, according to Inforadio.  ‘Unhealthy Situation’  With Hungary’s banking industry almost 90 percent
controlled by foreign lenders, the government wants to lift
local bank-industry ownership to at least 50 percent, Orban said
on March 12.  “It’s an unhealthy situation that foreigners have such a
high degree of ownership in Hungary’s banking system,” Orban
said.  OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, competes with
local units of Austria’s Erste Group AG and Raiffeisen Bank
International AG, Italy’s UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,
Bayerische Landesbank of Germany, Belgium’s KBC Groep NV, and
U.S.-based General Electric Capital Corp. and Citigroup Inc.  OTP  shares  have dropped 5.3 percent this month and were
trading 1.4 percent stronger at 4,640 forint at 1:51 p.m. in
Budapest. The Benchmark BUX  index  slid 4.2 percent in the same
period.  The state holds a 39.28 percent stake in Takarekbank, which
groups 104 savings cooperatives, after buying DZ Bank AG’s stake
in the lender last year.  Limited Services  Savings cooperatives are typically rural financial service
providers regulated to offer a more limited array of services
than commercial banks. Their main focuses of activity are
deposit collection and lending.  The institutions had a combined return on equity of 8.1
percent in 2012, compared with commercial banks at minus 8.1
percent, according to data from the financial market regulator.  Cooperatives, which have about 1.1 million clients in a
country of 10 million, own about 40 percent of all bank branches
countrywide.  The government also acquired 49 percent stakes in
domestically owned Granit Bank Zrt. and Szechenyi Bank Zrt.,
according to separate statements on the financial market
regulator’s website.  The state paid a combined 5.6 billion forint for the
holdings and plans to increase the capital of the two lenders,
news website Index reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  