-- Turkey to Romania Seen at Risk as Emerging-Market Inflows Slump
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-26T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/turkey-to-romania-seen-at-risk-as-emerging-market-inflows-slump.html
Turkey ,  Romania , Poland and Morocco
are among the countries most vulnerable to slowing investment in
developing nations because of their dependence on foreign
financing, the  Institute of International Finance  said.  IIF, the Washington-based global finance trade group, cut
its forecast for private foreign capital flows to  emerging
markets  to $1.11 trillion in 2014, the lowest level since 2009.
Inflows estimated at $1.15 trillion this year would represent a
3 percent drop from 2012, according to a report released today.  “Global risk aversion has surged amid concerns about the
duration of ultra-easy U.S. monetary policy, sending ripples
through EMs,” IIF analysts led by Felix Huefner wrote in the
note. “Growth in emerging economies has lost some momentum
recently, while growth prospects in mature economies have
brightened somewhat, thus reducing the relative attractiveness
for developed-market investors to move capital abroad.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week
that the central bank may pare its bond buying program this year
and end it in mid-2014, signaling a reduction in monetary
stimulus that helped suppress interest rates worldwide.  China ’s
money-market rates rose to their record highs last week as the
People’s Bank of China refrained from adding liquidity into the
financial system to ease a cash shortage.  Countries including Turkey, Romania, Poland and Morocco
“stand out for their large external financing needs” the IIF
said. “If external financing dries up, borrowers could find
themselves in liquidity and solvency difficulties.”  The organization predicted total private outflows from
emerging markets will swell 7.3 percent this year to $1
trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  