-- Venezuela to Devalue Bolivar by Stealth: Analyst Survey
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   D a n i e l   G r i l l o
-- 2013-06-26T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/venezuela-to-devalue-bolivar-by-stealth-analyst-survey.html
Venezuela  will look to weaken the
bolivar this year without making an official devaluation of the
currency, as it tries to boost revenue and narrow the  budget
deficit , according to a survey of analysts.  South America’s biggest crude producer will step back from
formally devaluing the bolivar for the sixth time in nine years,
said eight out of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The government could instead restart an internal swap
market for dollar-denominated bonds after October, said Efrain Velazquez, partner in economic consultancy Azpurua Garcia-Palacios & Velazquez. In that market, companies would be allowed
to trade bonds for dollars at a weaker rate to finance imports,
he said. Caracas-based Ecoanalitica calculates an alternative
market could trade at about 15 bolivars per dollar, more than
double the official rate of 6.3 per dollar.  “Such a market would be an implicit devaluation, as it
would improve the fiscal accounts of the government and state
oil company,” said Jose Luis Saboin, an economist at
Ecoanalitica.  A devaluation will drive up the price of imports, further
fueling the world’s highest inflation ahead of December local
elections. Prices climbed 35.2 percent in May from a year
earlier.  An official at the  Finance Ministry , who can’t be named
because of government policy, had no comment on the possibility
of a devaluation.  Venezuela will probably devalue in order to boost revenue
from oil exports after late President  Hugo Chavez  went on a
spending spree before the 2012 election, according to Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania. The country needs to boost revenue to narrow the
public sector deficit that reached 16.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year, according to Barclays Plc.  Overvalued Currency  Venezuela last devalued the bolivar 32 percent in February.  “The devaluation at the beginning of the year was not
sufficient because the currency remains overvalued,” Fuentes
said. “The  exchange rate  is so far from reality and inflation
is so high that it’s only a matter of time before they devalue
again.”  The central bank will introduce an alternative  currency
market  that could include cash and bond trading as early as
July, the bank’s director  Armando Leon  said this month.  Venezuelans who can’t get dollars through the official
currency system, known as Cadivi, pay about five times as much
on the black market. The dollar cost 31.6 bolivars yesterday in
the Colombian border town of Cucuta, according to website
DolarToday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Grillo in Sao Paulo at 
 dgrillomader@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 