-- Verizon Rural Service Swap Must Stop, New York Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/verizon-rural-service-swap-must-stop-new-york-says.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  must be
stopped from pushing customers in  New York ’s Catskill Mountains
onto a wireless service it wants to use to replace landlines,
the state attorney general said in a regulatory filing.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat,
filed a petition with the New York Public Service Commission
yesterday, asking that Verizon be blocked from “illegally
installing” its Voice Link service for customers in the region
about 130 miles (223 kilometers) north of  Manhattan . The
wireless system cuts  Internet access , home alarm systems and is
susceptible to power failures, Schneiderman has said.  The commission granted Verizon permission last month to
install Voice Link for customers on western Fire Island off the
coast of  Long Island , where landlines were destroyed when
Superstorm Sandy struck Oct. 29. That permission explicitly
denied a request by the phone company to expand the wireless
service beyond the island, Schneiderman said in the petition.  “Verizon’s provision of Voice Link outside the confines of
western Fire Island is illegal,” he wrote. “Its open defiance
of the commission’s May 16 order must be met with effective
sanctions.”  Verizon should be subject to a $100,000 penalty for each
violation, with each day counting as a separate offense in the
case of a continuing violation, the state said in its petition.  “The commission did not allow Verizon to use Voice Link
elsewhere in the state as its sole service offering,” James
Denn, a Public Service Commission spokesman said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will investigate the allegations raised in this
petition.”  Old Copper  Verizon is moving customers from old copper wire phone
systems to fiber optic cable in areas where it offers FiOS
service. Outside those areas, especially in rural territories,
the company has drawn a line on what it is willing to spend and
has been pushing for replacement with wireless.  “In some of these situations, we’re not going to rebuild
copper,” Fran Shammo, Verizon Chief Financial Officer said on
an April 18 earnings call. “It doesn’t make financial sense to
lay fiber to some of these remote areas. So wireless may be a
better solution here, and we’re working with regulatory agencies
on that.”  People in the Catskills don’t have to have the wireless
service if they don’t want it, Jim Gerace, a Verizon spokesman
said.  Sandy destroyed or damaged 40 percent of the lines on
western Fire Island, and Verizon has been using that as an
opportunity to put customers on Voice Link rather than replacing
them, Manuel Sampedro, a regional vice president, wrote in a May
3 filing with the PSC.  Landline Jack  Voice Link uses the same technology as a mobile phone,
linking household phones through their landline jack to a
transmitter that’s about the size of an Internet router,
Sampedro said in the filing. The transmitter has a battery
backup that can provide two hours of talk time.  Implementing the service, though, also means eliminating
Digital Subscriber Line access to customers who rely on it to
connect to the Internet, Schneiderman wrote in a May 15 filing
with the PSC. In rural areas, where there’s no other option to
connect to the Internet, customers won’t have access, he said.
Fax machine transmissions, and medical alert and home alarm
systems also don’t work on Voice Link. The two hours of talking
time available through the battery backup isn’t enough, he said.  Critical Service  On May 16, the PSC determined Verizon could continue to put
its customers on western Fire Island on Voice Link because “it
is critical that service be available,” the commission’s order
said. It said expansion to rural areas, as the company
requested, would be the subject of further review after getting
public comment.  In the Catskills, seasonal customers who own vacation homes
typically shut off their telephone service when they aren’t
there in the winter. Those returning to their homes this summer
are being put on Voice Link if their landlines were damaged in
the offseason, Schneiderman said in his petition. In cases where
customers demand that they not be put on Voice Link, Verizon
fixes the lines, according to the petition.  One of those customers was Joshua Michaeli, according to an
affidavit that was included in Schneiderman’s petition.  “I declined Verizon’s Voice Link offer, noting that our
unit is in a wooded area where wireless communications may not
work well,” Michaeli said in the affidavit. After being
transferred to the repair department, he was again offered Voice
Link, and declined. A technician came to his home and fixed the
wiring in a box attached to the building. Michaeli didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  Consumer Understanding  “It’s important consumers understand that, outside of
western Fire Island, they do not have to accept Voice Link if
they chose to keep their landline service,” Schneiderman said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Jim Rosenthal , a 51-year-old seasonal resident of Fire
Island said in a telephone interview that he’s already coping
with the loss of his landline and DSL.  “They’re basically saying to Fire Island to effectively
drop dead,” said Rosenthal, whose family has owned a home there
since 1975. “It’s creating a digital divide between those who
will have reliable, robust broadband access and those that
won’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  