-- Verizon’s Network Upgrade Aims to Retake AT&T Speed Title
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-06-26T23:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/verizon-s-network-upgrade-aims-to-retake-at-t-speed-title.html
Verizon Wireless is planning a
sweeping upgrade of its network this year after surging
congestion and deteriorating speed have allowed  AT&T Inc. (T)  to
close the gap on service quality.  Following years of Verizon dominating the industry in speed
and service, its chief rival has jumped ahead. AT&T is now the
performance leader based on  speed  tests conducted by RootMetrics
and  PC Magazine , meaning its network can deliver applications,
websites and other data the fastest. Verizon says it’s starting
service this summer on a network that is twice as fast, to
regain its advantage and fend off AT&T and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
which is being rejuvenated by money from  SoftBank Corp. (9984)   Verizon’s challenge is congestion, said  Bill Moore ,
president of RootMetrics. The carrier is the most popular
mobile-phone service and has continued to add millions more
customers than any of its competitors, boosted by advertising
and word-of-mouth about the speed of its network. All those
users are soaking up the rich bandwidth that once gave Verizon
its edge, in some cases bringing connections to a grinding halt.  “It’s a byproduct of their own success,” said Moore,
whose Bellevue, Washington-based firm analyzes mobile data.
“All the traffic pushes the data speeds down, until they have
to ramp it back up again.”  The network expansion is part of Verizon Wireless’ capital-spending plans of about $8.9 billion this year, similar to last
year’s expenditures.  Playing Catch-Up  With AT&T’s data speeds on a tear, Verizon Wireless is
playing catch-up, trying to manage its congested 2 1/2-year-old
network, while working to get a new faster network online. The
speed-test rating is a reversal for the two top wireless
carriers. After years of facing complaints about poor service
from users of Apple Inc.’s iPhone, AT&T has caught up and, in
some markets, even surpassed Verizon in performance.  Verizon has been building the next phase of its long-term
evolution, or LTE, network using advanced wireless services --
or AWS -- airwaves, a big portion of which were acquired last
year from a group of cable companies led by Comcast Corp. Last
month, the company started selling the first  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. phones that can access the new network.  More Cities  Verizon first started service on its fourth-generation LTE
network in December 2010, nine months before AT&T debuted its
LTE system. Verizon offers the service in about  500  U.S. cities
and towns, while AT&T has it in about  300 .  Speed isn’t the most important quality to focus on, said
Mike Haberman, head of network solutions for Verizon Wireless.  “Speed isn’t sustainable, coverage is -- and that’s the
difference,” Haberman said. “We are a lot more consistent,
even as we have more of a load on our systems.”  RootMetrics tested LTE speeds of the top four carriers in
77 cities and found that AT&T had “blazing fast” service of
18.6 megabits per second on average, while Verizon was second
with “fast” service averaging 14.3 megabits per second. The
report, which was released in March, also showed that the
likelihood of getting on AT&T’s LTE network was 82 percent,
compared with 93 percent for Verizon.  New networks tend to be faster because there is less
traffic. “Congestion typically cuts speed by 25 percent,”
Moore said.  Doubling Speed  Using the AWS spectrum, Verizon will have a 20-megahertz-by-20-megahertz channel, twice the capacity of the channel used
on its original LTE network, Haberman said.  “We will have double the speeds,” he said. “Whatever
speed they claim, in three months it will be dramatically
different.”  He denied that congestion is a concern.  “We are delivering on our promise to customers to deliver
consistently reliable speeds over our 4G LTE network and
disagree with any mischaracterizations of our network as
‘congested,’” Haberman said. “Our AWS spectrum deployment is
designed to anticipate future customer demand and data traffic
growth and continue to offer the same consistently reliable
speeds that our customers enjoy today. Reports to the contrary
are hyperbole.”  While Verizon plans to start the faster service in major
cities, including New York, this summer, AT&T may still have a
leg up in many markets.  “You are always going to find issues of capacity
constraint in cities like New York and San Francisco -- it’s the
nature of the beast,” said Michael Cote, an industry strategist
with the Cote Collaborative based in  Chicago . “There is no
silver bullet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  