-- Voting Rights Act Brought Major Economic Benefits
-- B y   G a v i n   W r i g h t
-- 2013-06-26T18:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/voting-rights-act-brought-major-economic-benefits.html
The  Supreme Court ’s  rejection 
yesterday of a  central element  of the 1965 Voting Rights Act
took aim at a measure that not only broke down barriers to
political participation in the South but also made significant
contributions to the economic wellbeing of black southerners and
to the region as a whole.  Some of the economic benefits were apparent almost
immediately after enactment. Surveys reported more paved roads
and streetlights in black residential areas, better access to
city and county services, and increased black hiring in public-sector jobs, including police and fire departments.  A comparative study of North Carolina (where only 40
counties were covered by the act) found that  VRA  counties
recorded greater increases in black voting and elected
officials,  experienced faster growth in black incomes and
occupational status, and attracted more revenue from both county
and outside government sources. Recent work by the economists
 Ebonya Washington and Elizabeth Cascio  showed that the
elimination of literacy tests in 1965 was systematically
associated with an increase in the share of state transfers to
counties with higher black populations.  Longer-term economic gains were slower in coming, in large
part because the path from  registration  and voting to fair
representation in Southern politics was far from smooth. The
initial response of many white-controlled governments was to
alter jurisdictions and voting rules to dilute the black vote.
It took decades of litigation, reinforced by supportive
congressional votes, before the number of black elected
officials began to reflect black population shares in the South.  Gradual Success  As  North Carolina  Representative Melvin Watt argued in
2006, when the VRA was renewed for 25 years by overwhelming
majorities in the Senate and the House: “Although the successes
of the Voting Rights Act have been substantial, they have not
been fast and furious. Rather, the successes have been gradual
and of recent origin.”  The positive effects of the act have been documented by the
economists  John V.C. Nye, Ilia Rainer and Thomas Stratmann . They
found that the election of a black mayor in a city with a large
black population had a large impact on black employment, labor-force participation and income in both the private and public
sectors.  And the economic gains for blacks didn’t primarily come at
the expense of whites. Contrary to President  Lyndon Johnson ’s
oft-quoted remark that the Civil Rights Act had “handed the
South to the Republicans for a generation,” the VRA actually
resulted in 25 years of vigorous competition between the parties
in the South.  With the backing of new black voters, moderate Democrats
such as John West of South Carolina, Reubin Askew of  Florida ,
and  Jimmy Carter  of  Georgia  defeated segregationist opponents in
gubernatorial races in 1970. The moderate Republican Winthrop Rockefeller won the governorship of  Arkansas  in 1966, only to
lose four years later to moderate Democrat Dale Bumpers (who had
defeated segregationist hero Orval Faubus in a primary runoff).  Knowing the divisiveness of race, these new-breed governors
stressed economic development and education. Improvements in
public education bear directly on long-term economic well-being,
and expenditures on schools in southern states had long lagged
far behind national norms. Despite dire predictions that
desegregation would destroy the public schools, states such as
Georgia, North Carolina,  South Carolina  and  Virginia  saw
accelerated growth in per-pupil spending after 1965. Although it
initially declined during the turbulent years of 1966-1970,
educational spending also increased in Alabama and  Mississippi .  Education Funding  Every state in the former Confederacy enacted funding for
kindergarten between 1968 and 1982. Some of this reflected new
 federal support  for public schools in low-income areas, but most
of it was the result of new state policy priorities, led by the
New South governors.  More recently, however, this biracial political cooperation
and economic progress in the South has lost steam. The reason
may be that two-party competition at the state level dwindled
with the consolidation in the 1990s of conservative Republican
majorities, which make no serious effort to compete for the
black vote.  In many southern states, the effect has been to isolate
blacks politically and to stifle or reverse the programs they
support. After 1990, convergence toward the national average in
per-pupil spending ceased or reversed in Florida, Georgia,
 Louisiana , North Carolina, South Carolina,  Tennessee  and  Texas .
Most ominously, Republican control of the state legislature in
places such as Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina ended
the advance of black legislators to positions of leadership. Not
only has black political influence been diminished, but after
the high black turnout for  Barack Obama  in the presidential
elections of 2008 and 2012, southern states have taken the lead
in enacting measures designed to discourage registration and
make voting more difficult.  This reversal has had economic consequences. In their 2011
book, “Taxing the Poor,” the sociologists  Katherine Newman and
Rourke O’Brien  show that southern states depend on regressive
sales taxes as a source of revenue to a far greater extent than
states in the rest of the country, and that these differences
widened dramatically after 1990.  These  regressive trends  can be turned around. But that will
require the mobilization of an expansive political movement,
sufficiently inclusive to attract Hispanics, low-income white
southerners and African-Americans. That is what’s at stake as
Congress considers the  Supreme Court ’s invitation to revise the
Voting Rights Act for a new era.  (Gavin Wright is the William Robertson Coe professor of
American economic history at  Stanford University . He is the
author of “Sharing the Prize: The Economics of the Civil Rights
Revolution in the American South.”) Read more from  Echoes 
online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Gavin Wright at  write@stanford.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  