-- Wal-Mart India Head Leaves Seven Months After CFO Suspended
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-06-26T10:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/wal-mart-india-unit-ceo-jain-leaves-after-seven-years-at-company.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  said the head
of its Indian unit has left, the latest setback for the world’s
largest retailer in the country where it is in the midst of
government and internal investigations.  Raj Jain, chief executive officer of the Bharti Walmart
Pvt. joint venture, is “no longer” with the company after
working seven years at the retailer and six years in the post,
it said in an e-mailed statement today. Ramnik Narsey, senior
vice president for Walmart International, will serve as interim
leader for India, it said, without specifying why Jain left.  Phone calls and text messages to Jain’s mobile phone
weren’t returned.  The departure of the top executive adds to the retailer’s
pressures in  India  after it suspended some executives at the
joint venture in November, including the local chief financial
officer, as it examined potential violations of U.S anti-bribery
laws. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based company has said it’s
investigating possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act in India,  Brazil  and  China  along with  Mexico .  Pankaj Madan, chief financial officer of the Indian unit,
was among the officials who were suspended in November,
according to Anthony Rose, a Wal-Mart Asia spokesman.  Madan remains on leave from Bharti Walmart, Wal-Mart said
in a separate e-mailed statement today. “We are committed to
conducting a complete and thorough investigation and it would be
inappropriate for us to comment further until we have finished
the investigation,” according to that statement in response to
a query on Madan’s suspension.  Retail Regulations  India in September opened up its retail market to allow
foreign companies to own as much as 51 percent of local ventures
that sell more than one brand. Overseas brands such as Wal-Mart
had been banned from the supermarket industry until then.  An Indian government agency is investigating allegations
that Wal-Mart violated rules governing foreign investment in the
retail industry, Trade Minister Anand Sharma said in December.  Separately, a panel headed by Mukul Mudgal, a former chief
justice, has investigated claims that Wal-Mart broke rules as it
lobbied to enter the country’s retail market.  In 2007, Wal-Mart formed a joint venture in India for
wholesale stores and has been building a supply chain and
logistics network in the country. Wal-Mart owns a 50 percent
stake in the wholesale-venture with Bharti which operates 20
cash and carry stores in the country, according to Wal-Mart
spokeswoman Arti Singh.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
mobile phone carrier, is a part of the Bharti group.  International Division  Wal-Mart in May forecast second-quarter profit that was
less than analysts estimated as the slow U.S. economy and higher
taxes put pressure on consumers. Wal-Mart’s international
division increased first-quarter sales 2.9 percent to $33
billion.  In March, Wal-Mart said it had spent $157 million on probes
of bribery allegations in its international operations and
expects to rack up more costs as the investigations continue. It
last year began investigating allegations that executives in
Mexico paid more than $24 million in bribes to speed the
retailer’s expansion there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  