-- Wenzhou Shadow Banks Unhurt by China Crunch as Rates Steady
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-26T05:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/wenzhou-shadow-banking-unscathed-by-china-crunch-as-rates-steady.html
China ’s efforts to rein in shadow
banking, which contributed to the nation’s worst credit crunch
in at least a decade, haven’t driven up costs for borrowers in
at least one place: Wenzhou.  On June 20, as the nation’s banks demanded a record 30
percent to lend to each other for one day, small businesses in
the export hub paid 23.42 percent for one-month loans from pawn
shops, small lending companies and individuals,  according to
data  from a local government-backed agency. That’s almost
unchanged from this month’s average of 23.17 percent.  Stable borrowing costs in the coastal city that’s a
bellwether for informal lending may support policy makers’
argument that the economy has enough financing. Premier  Li
Keqiang  has urged banks to make better use of existing credit
and the central bank has injected cash into particular lenders,
rather than easing total funding, even after money-market rates
jumped to a record and stocks entered a  bear market .  “If you look at the growth rate of  money supply  or total
social financing, it’s quite obvious that the economy isn’t
short of liquidity,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst
at  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  “It’s just not where it should
be.”  Regulators are seeking to halt Chinese banks’ increased use
of interbank borrowing and short-term deposits known as  wealth
management  products to finance long-term loans and investment in
trusts, some of which are held off-balance sheets. The crackdown
may damage the economy by shrinking the non-bank funding that
smaller companies rely on, Barclays Plc said on May 20.  Shadow Banking  China’s  aggregate financing , which tallies bank loans,
corporate bonds, equity raising and other off-balance-sheet
credit to provide a broad picture of funding, surged 50 percent
in the first five months to a record 9.1 trillion  yuan  ($1.5
trillion), the central bank said this month. About a third of
that went to entrusted loans, trust lending and bills, which
together with underground lending are known as shadow banking.  Shadow lending flourishes in China because an estimated 97
percent of the nation’s 42 million small businesses can’t get
bank loans, according to Citic Securities Co., and savers are
seeking higher returns than banks pay on deposits. The industry
may be valued at 36 trillion yuan, or 69 percent of  gross
domestic product , JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated last month.  China last year picked Wenzhou, a city of 9 million
residents and 400,000 small businesses, for a pilot program to
curb informal lending after more than 80 businessmen committed
suicide or declared bankruptcy over six months. The  Wenzhou
Private Lending Registration Center , the first in the country to
monitor underground loans, matches borrowers with lenders and
tracks data from 350 sources.  Lighters, Eyeglasses  The weighted average lending rate for loans from one month
to one year in Wenzhou, whose entrepreneurs make products
ranging from cigarette lighters to eyewear, stood at 15.6
percent in the week ended June 21, down from a five-week high of
17.2 percent for the previous seven days, according to the
 registration center .  While smaller manufacturers and businesses have been
relatively unscathed by the liquidity crunch,  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of Marketfield Asset Management LLC says regulators’
efforts to rein in credit will tighten financing for real estate
projects.  ‘Bull’s Eye’  “The bull’s eye is on the Chinese housing market and the
Chinese  construction industry ,” Shaoul said in an interview on
Bloomberg TV today. “When a central bank really starts to
address excess credit creation in an economy, it’s always the
sector which has done the best which suffers the most.”  New home prices in Beijing,  Shanghai  and Guangzhou posted
the biggest gains in May since at least January 2011, as 69 of
the 70 cities tracked by the government showed increases last
month, the most since August 2011, according to the statistics
bureau.  Total liquidity in China’s banking system is
“reasonable,” the People’s Bank of China said in a statement
dated June 17 and published June 24. Money-market rates are
fluctuating because of rapid loan growth, the demand for cash
during a public holiday this month, companies making tax
payments and banks meeting mandatory  reserve requirements , the
central bank said yesterday.  Wealth Management  Regulators are requiring trust funds and sellers of wealth
management products -- financial instruments used by banks to
collect deposits for periods from 30 days to a year -- to shift
assets into publicly traded securities, tightening funding for
property developers and local-government financing vehicles.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission in March told banks
to cap investments of client money in debt that isn’t publicly
traded at 35 percent of all funds raised from the sale of wealth
management products.  The squeeze on the  interbank market  is “emblematic of some
of the shadow banking issues coming to the fore as well as some
of the tight liquidity associated with wealth management product
issuance, and the crackdown on some shadow channels,” Charlene Chu, a Beijing-based analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said on June 18
in an interview with Bloomberg TV.  The outstanding amount of wealth management products rose
by 500 billion yuan to 13 trillion yuan in the first five months
of this year, accounting for 16 percent of the nation’s
deposits, according to estimates published by Fitch on June 10.
Such products increased by 4 trillion yuan last year, the
ratings company said.  “What you will see happening from this point on is, the
amount of total social financing starts to decelerate very
quickly in China,” Marketfield’s Shaoul told Bloomberg TV’s Zeb Eckert. “The effect of this change in policy is going to be
fairly dramatic in the next few months.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  