-- Why Markets Aren’t Getting the Fed’s Message
-- B y   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2013-06-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/why-markets-aren-t-getting-the-fed-s-message.html
Try as he might, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  can’t seem to get the market to
understand the central bank’s plans. The problem might be less
his communication skills than what he’s trying to communicate.  Since last week’s Fed meeting, at which Bernanke sought to
clarify the central bank’s plans to decelerate the bond-buying
program known as quantitative easing, investors have acted as if
he signaled a major pullback in stimulus. A simple analysis
suggests the market has overreacted.  The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note, a standard measure
of long-term interest rates, stood at about 2.6 percent on
Monday, up 0.4 percentage point from where it was before last
week’s Fed pronouncements.  It’s worth comparing this with previous market responses to
monetary stimulus. Drawing on a dozen careful academic studies
of quantitative easing, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Jan Hatzius  has estimated that it takes about $1 trillion in bond
purchases to move long-term interest rates by 0.4 percentage
point. In other words, the market’s recent reaction is roughly
what would have occurred if the Fed had revealed a plan to cut
back on quantitative easing by $1 trillion.  The Fed did no such thing. Bernanke said the central bank
expects to start tapering its $85 billion a month in bond
purchases toward the end of this year, with an eye to ceasing
them altogether by the middle of next year -- assuming the
 unemployment  rate has fallen to about 7 percent. At most, he
moved the tapering schedule forward by three months compared
with what the market anticipated. That amounts to just $255
billion less quantitative easing.  Near Zero  So what spooked the market? The answer probably lies in the
way the Fed has sought to distinguish its policy for
quantitative easing from its policy for  interest rates . When
Bernanke set out the parameters for the former, he tried to
emphasize that the latter had not changed. The Fed remained
committed to keeping its short-term interest-rate target at or
near zero until unemployment falls to 6.5 percent. The intended
message: Interest rates will stay low until after the economy
has recovered, so please feel confident to spend, invest and
hire.  Investors, though, perceived the tapering of quantitative
easing as a sign that the Fed would also start raising short-term interest rates sooner than previously thought. Prices in
 futures markets  currently suggest a high probability that the
target rate will rise to 0.25 percent by May 2014. Before last
week, the rate increase wasn’t expected until much later in the
year.  The market’s reaction means that the Fed’s extraordinary
commitment to low interest rates in the future isn’t yielding
the desired effect. Either investors don’t understand the Fed’s
promise, or they fear that the Fed will renege as soon as the
economic outlook improves.  To see why investors aren’t convinced, consider the Fed’s
tortured logic. Fed officials are saying that the  U.S. economy 
has two drivers -- one in charge of quantitative easing, the
other in charge of interest rates. The former is ready to tap on
the brake (or, in Bernanke’s preferred language, to ease off the
gas), while the latter is on cruise control. By the Fed’s view,
we shouldn’t make inferences about one from the behavior of the
other.  To complicate things further, Fed officials have set three
separate destinations: a 7 percent  unemployment rate , beyond
which the central bank will cease new bond purchases; a 6.5
percent unemployment rate, below which it might start raising
interest rates; and a longer-term target unemployment rate of 5
percent to 6 percent.  In reality, both drivers are in the same car, facing the
same weather conditions and getting their instructions from the
same Fed officials. Markets recognize this and have perceived a
willingness to slow the car as a lack of commitment to
stimulating economic growth. As we’ve learned, investors’
interpretations can have all-too-real consequences.  Central bankers are naturally conservative, so making a
commitment to future policy feels somewhat radical. It’s also a
strategy that can have a powerful effect if the public is
convinced. My advice to Bernanke: Choose a single destination,
turn on the cruise control, and make sure the markets know we
have more than enough fuel to get there.  ( Justin Wolfers  is a professor of public policy and
economics at the  University of Michigan , a nonresident senior
fellow of the  Brookings Institution  and a Bloomberg View
columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@umich.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 