-- Why Big Banks Are Insisting They Can Fail
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/why-big-banks-are-insisting-they-can-fail.html
The executives of the largest U.S.
banks have lately been trying to make the case that they are as
subject to market discipline as anyone else: If they get into
trouble, they will be allowed to fail, no matter their size.
Taxpayers won’t have to worry about bailing them out.  If only it were true.  Over the past few decades, the U.S. government has allowed
the failure of only one large, systemically important financial
institution, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The fallout proved so
disastrous that the Treasury soon found itself injecting capital
into all of the country’s largest banks. The message was clear:
If a bank is large and interconnected enough to threaten the
economy, the government will have no choice but to rescue its
creditors in the event of distress.  Regulators say times have changed. Their primary argument
centers on a piece of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the  orderly
liquidation authority . The authority is supposed to give the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. the tools it needs to wind down
any financial institution with minimal collateral damage.  Picture a distressed  bank holding company , with thousands
of subsidiaries doing everything from processing payments to
making loans to trading exotic derivatives. The authority allows
the FDIC to swoop in and take control of the company, while
ensuring that all the systemically important subsidiaries keep
operating. To rebuild equity capital -- the company’s assets
minus what it owes to creditors -- the FDIC can impose losses on
creditors, converting them to equity holders in a “bail in.”
Ideally, one or more smaller, better capitalized enterprises
emerge.  Perpetuating Bailouts  Problem is, there’s no way to be sure the liquidation
authority would work. Some prominent policy makers go so far as
to say that it perpetuates taxpayer-funded bailouts, because it
authorizes the FDIC to use government funds to keep distressed
institutions afloat during the liquidation process. “This looks,
sounds and tastes like a taxpayer bailout, just hidden behind
different language,” Dallas Federal Reserve President  Richard Fisher   said  in congressional testimony June 26.  One important question is how the FDIC could handle a
serious crisis like that of 2008, when several large
institutions got into trouble simultaneously. Panic could cause
asset values to fall so precipitously that officials would be
unable to ascertain the extent of losses, undermining confidence
in the institutions they were trying to save. Foreign
authorities might start seizing overseas assets of large U.S.
banks to cover local creditors’ claims, complicating the FDIC’s
work and fueling further panic. The only way to stop the rot
could be for the government to step in and provide a blanket
guarantee, as it has done consistently in the past.  Markets, for their part, aren’t showing much faith in the
liquidation authority. Creditors are still lending to the large
banks at artificially low  interest rates , suggesting that
they’re counting on getting bailed out in an emergency. Under
international accounting standards, most of the six largest U.S.
banks have so little equity that a mere 3.6 percent drop in
asset values could be enough to render them insolvent.
Nonetheless, as a recent Goldman Sachs  study   shows , they are
able to borrow at roughly the same interest rates as smaller
institutions that could survive much larger shocks.  One real danger is that the government’s resources could
prove inadequate to save the financial system. The assets of the
six largest U.S. banks,  according  to international accounting
rules, stood at more than $15 trillion as of the end of 2012,
roughly equal to the annual output of the  U.S. economy . The
burden of supporting such large institutions would weigh heavily
on the U.S. government’s finances. If markets lost confidence in
the issuer of the world’s reserve currency, it’s hard to imagine
how they would function.  More Equity  Given the stakes and uncertainties, assuming that
regulators can handle big  bank failures  isn’t good enough. It’s
crucial to ensure that banks are less likely to fail in the
first place. Economists have made a  strong case  that a
requirement of one dollar in equity for each five dollars in
assets -- enough to absorb a 20 percent loss -- would make the
banking system a lot more resilient, and would benefit economic
growth by reducing the probability of crises. Two U.S. senators,
Louisiana Republican David Vitter and Ohio Democrat  Sherrod Brown , are trying to address the issue by introducing a  bill 
that would make U.S. equity requirements for the largest banks
high enough to absorb a 15 percent loss.  Make no mistake: The orderly liquidation authority is a
well-intentioned effort to protect taxpayers and the economy
from financial institutions that have become too dangerous.
We’ll be better off if we never have to test it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 