-- Won Rises Most in a Week as China Concerns Ease; Bonds Climb
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-26T07:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/won-rises-most-since-february-as-china-concerns-ease-bonds-fall.html
 The won gained the most in more
than a week as signs of an easing cash crunch in  China  helped
calm concerns economic growth will slow in South Korea’s biggest
export market.  Government bonds  rose.  Asian stocks advanced after China’s central bank said
yesterday it will ensure money-market stability and that the
shortage of cash in Asia’s biggest economy will abate.
Volatility is increasing due to concerns about  China’s economy 
and the market is “overreacting” to a possible liquidity
squeeze, South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in
Seoul today.  The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,154.45 per dollar in
Seoul, the biggest gain since June 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,162.90 yesterday, the
weakest level since June 15, 2012.  “China’s central bank gave assurances on easing the credit
squeeze, which may support Korean assets,” said  Park Hyun , a
currency dealer at  Woori Bank  in Seoul. “Traders will continue
watching China’s market situation. Importers may buy dollars
when the greenback’s gains slow.”  The cost of locking in China’s  interest rates  for one year
fell for a fourth day after the People’s Bank of China pledged
to help ease the nation’s worst cash crunch in a decade. The
central bank also called on commercial lenders to improve their
liquidity management.  Manufacturing Confidence  The won has weakened 2.2 percent in June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. An index of South Korean manufacturers’
expectations for July fell to 78 from 82 in the previous month,
the lowest level since March, the  Bank of Korea  said in a
statement today.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 46 basis
points, or 0.46 percentage point, to 11.77 percent. It fell 104
basis points yesterday, the biggest decline since January.  Emerging-market economies may be forced to tighten monetary
policy to fight against capital outflows and a rise in global
interest rates, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in a
speech prepared for a conference in Seoul today.  South Korea is considering steps to help companies and
households cope with climbing interest rates, including measures
such as extending the maturity of corporate bonds and boosting
debt-market supports, to prevent a possible credit crunch, the
Seoul Economic Daily reported yesterday, citing a government
official it didn’t name.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due June
2016 fell three basis points to 2.98 percent, prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. show. It yesterday posted the biggest decline for
a three-year benchmark since March, sliding 10 basis points.  ING Groep NV raised its end-2013 forecasts for South Korean
three-year bond yields to 3.2 percent from 2.8 percent, in line
with increasing U.S. rates,  Tim Condon , head of Asia research,
wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  