-- Woori Units to Be Split in Government’s Fourth Sale Attempt
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-26T02:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/woori-units-to-be-split-up-in-government-s-fourth-sale-attempt.html
South Korea  will separate  Woori
Finance Holdings Co. (053000) ’s businesses into three parts in the
government’s fourth attempt to sell the nation’s biggest
financial group by assets.  The Public Fund Oversight Committee, which oversees sales
of state assets, plans to put provincial lenders Kwangju Bank
and Kyongnam Bank up for sale on July 15, according to an e-mailed statement from the Financial Services Commission. Bidding
for Woori’s brokerage, asset management and savings bank
businesses will begin in August. Woori Bank, along with the
credit card and other units will be sold next year, it said.  South Korea is reviving the sale of its stake in  Woori
Finance , valued at 4.5 trillion won ($3.9 billion), after
failing to garner buyer interest in the three auctions held
since 2010. The government welcomes bids from both foreign and
local investors, FSC Chairman Shin Je Yoon told reporters today
in  Seoul , adding that it is undecided on how large the Woori
Bank stake sale will be.  “The possibility of a successful sale is very high this
time since the government showed a specific plan on how to
separate the businesses,” Lee Byung Gun, an analyst at Dongbu
Securities Co. in Seoul said in a telephone interview.  Woori Investment & Securities Co. (005940)  along with the company’s
asset management unit and savings bank will be sold separately
or as packages, following a board meeting in July, the FSC said
in today’s statement.  Potential Bidders  Shares of the Seoul-based Woori Finance jumped as much as
3.9 percent to 10,250 won and traded at 10,200 won on the Korea
Exchange as of 11:13 a.m. The benchmark Kospi Index was
unchanged.  Potential bidders have already expressed interest in
Woori’s units, PFOC Chairman Nam Sang Koo said at a press
briefing, declining to identify them.  Kyobo Life Insurance Co. was reported to be studying a
possible takeover of Woori’s provincial bank units, Maeil
Business Newspaper said yesterday, citing unidentified Kyobo and
financial industry officials.  BS Financial Group Inc. (138930) , which owns Busan Bank, is
interested in acquiring Woori Finance’s Kyongnam Bank unit, Moon
Kyung Ho, general manager of BS Financial’s strategy planning
division, said in an interview with  Bloomberg News  last month.  “We need to privatize Woori as soon as possible in order
to improve its competitiveness,” Shin said. “Selling the units
separately will help accelerate the sale as it will lower
buyer’s costs for each deal.”  In the last sale attempt, bidders were required to buy more
than 30 percent of Woori as a whole, according to the PFOC.
Daewoo Securities Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Samsung
Securities Co. were hired in September 2010 to help sell the
stake.  Woori Finance was created in 2001 as a holding company for
lenders rescued by the government after the Asian financial
crisis in 1997-1998, as part of a push to make the banking
industry more competitive. The holding company contains Woori
Bank, Kwangju Bank, Kyongnam Bank and Woori  Credit Card .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  