-- World’s Most Indebted Households Face Rate Pain: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-06-26T12:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/world-s-most-indebted-households-face-rate-pain-nordic-credit.html
Danish  consumers , who owe banks more
than three times their disposable incomes, are about to find out
how sustainable that debt load is as interest rates rise.  Signals from the U.S. Federal Reserve that it’s preparing
to scale back monetary stimulus have already sent mortgage costs
higher as yields rise across global bond markets. The Nykredit
Index of  Denmark ’s most traded mortgage bonds sank this week to
its lowest in more than four months after investors sold assets
once coveted for their haven status.  Though the government and central bank have long argued
Denmark’s private debt burden is backed by some of the world’s
biggest pension savings, record consumer borrowing has prompted
warnings from the European Commission and the International
Monetary Fund. The Systemic Risk Board in Copenhagen said this
week it will investigate private debt growth in response to
international concerns.  “We have decided to initiate an analysis to see if there
is a risk to the systemic stability,” central bank Governor
Lars Rohde, who heads the board, said in an interview. Though
recent studies suggest a “significant level of robustness,”
the board has “noted that others outside the country have a
different understanding.”  Stable AAA  Mortgage holders in Denmark relied on the government’s
stable AAA credit grade to finance debt at record-low rates
during the fiscal crisis in Europe. While the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development estimates Danish households
owed 310 percent of disposable incomes in 2010, government debt
is less than half the euro-zone average at only 45 percent of
gross domestic product this year, the European Commission
estimates.  Yet demand for assets sold out of Denmark, Norway and
 Sweden  has faded amid signals since May that the Fed will start
removing stimulus from the world’s largest economy. Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said last week that the U.S. central bank will
probably taper its $85 billion monthly bond buying in 2013 and
halt it mid-2014 as long as the economy performs in line with
projections.  The yield on Denmark’s benchmark 10-year government bond
soared to 1.96 percent on Monday, its highest since March last
year. The yield on the Nykredit Realkredit A/S 3.5 percent
mortgage bond due October 2044 soared 10 basis points on Monday
to 3.72 percent, according to generic price data compiled by
Bloomberg. That yield was as low as 3.33 percent last month.  Liquidity Focus  “There’s been a sell-off in a lot of markets in part
because of the focus on liquidity,” Christian Heinig, chief
economist at Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage arm of  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said by phone. “We have an extraordinarily high level
of gross debt so households are vulnerable if interest rates
increase.”  Still, any new study will show that Danish borrowers are
backed by “pension savings, and the benefits of the welfare
system, including a safety net for the unemployed,” Heinig
said. “People don’t have to save as much.”  Banks have been warning households of the risk of higher
interest rates, helping them prepare for an increase in
borrowing costs, according to Nordea Kredit, a unit of  Nordea
Bank AB. (NDA)   ‘Negative Impact’  “Rates have gone up considerably, there’s no doubt,” Lise
Nytoft Bergmann, chief analyst and housing economist at Nordea
Kredit, said in a note yesterday. “But the increase has been
expected for some time, even though it’s come later and at a
faster tempo than we’d first anticipated.”  Households are heeding the warnings. Deposits with the
country’s lenders climbed last month by 7 billion kroner to
858.7 billion kroner, the central bank said today.  “Danes’ budgets are well padded,” Johan Juul-Jensen,
consumer economist at Nykredit A/S, said in a note. The record
high savings rate reflects “we are worried about the future and
continue to hold back on consumption,” he said.  Some analysts question the wisdom of relying on pension
savings to offset debt burdens. The IMF warned in December
pension assets can prove hard to tap in times of financial
turmoil.  “We have been concerned about the debt levels for some
time, and we do not believe the pension assets make any real
difference,”  Andreas Hakansson , a Stockholm-based bank analyst
at Exane BNP Paribas, said in an interview. “However, reducing
the debt level is not easy given the negative impact on the real
economy.”  Krone Dynamics  Denmark’s $550 billion mortgage bond system -- the world’s
biggest per capita -- is dominated by top-rated covered bonds.
The market has proven largely immune to a more-than 20 percent
slump in Danish property prices since their 2007 peak as
investors fleeing southern Europe bought up the bonds last year.  Denmark’s haven status forced the central bank to cut rates
last year to unprecedented  lows  as policy makers defended the
krone’s peg to the euro. The bank’s  deposit rate  has been
negative since July last year, while the benchmark lending rate
was cut to 0.2 percent in May, following a quarter-point cut
from the European Central Bank to 0.5 percent.  Yet demand for kroner has faded and the central bank has
started reversing course. Since peaking at 514 billion kroner in
August, the central bank has sold currency to reduce its
 reserves  to 492 billion kroner in May.  The bank has shown in the past it’s ready to act fast to
adjust rates in response to exchange rate swings. In 2008, after
the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., a liquidity crisis
triggered a krone sell-off, forcing the central bank in
Copenhagen to raise its benchmark lending rate as high as 5.5
percent in October of that year.  Countercyclical Buffers  “There are still grounds for looking at dynamic
consequences of the household debt level,” Rohde said.  The Systemic Risk Board also recommended a Jan. 1, 2015,
deadline for establishing rules for imposing additional capital
requirements on banks to counter surges in credit growth. Early
implementation of countercyclical buffers, which could initially
be set at zero, would be a “precaution,” Rohde said.  “It’s sensible to have it in place if we come into a
period with strong credit expansion and a risk of overheating,”
he said. “There is not, at this point, anything that points in
that direction, but it can’t be entirely excluded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  