-- Coal-Power Financing Minimized in World Bank Energy Policy
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/world-bank-to-limit-coal-power-financing-to-rare-circumstances.html
The World Bank plans to restrict its
financing of coal-fired  power plants  to “rare circumstances,”
according to a draft strategy that reflects the lender’s
increased focus on mitigating the effects of climate change.  The Washington-based lender will help countries find
alternatives to coal, according to the draft obtained by
 Bloomberg News  which lays out the bank’s policy on lending to
its member countries. The paper, which is subject to revision,
describes universal access to energy as a priority for the World
Bank’s mission to help end poverty.  The bank “will cease providing financial support for
greenfield coal power generation projects, except in rare
circumstances where there are no feasible alternatives available
to meet basic energy needs and other sources of financing are
absent,” according to the report. Greenfield is a term for a
new facility.  “Private-sector finance will be the preferred option, but
where the  World Bank  Group does engage, the existing screening
criteria for coal projects will apply,” according to the
undated report, titled “Toward a Sustainable Energy Future for
All: Directions for the World Bank Group’s Energy Sector.”  The World Bank, which lends to the developing and emerging
economies among its 188 members countries, committed $8.2
billion to finance energy projects in the 12 months through June
2012, according to its website. Of that, $3.6 billion was for
renewable energy.  July Discussion  World Bank spokesman Frederick Jones said the paper was
submitted to board members ahead of discussion in July. The
bank’s objectives include “universal access to electricity and
safe household fuels,” doubling the share of renewable energy
in the global energy mix and doubling the rate of energy-efficiency improvement, he said in an e-mail yesterday.  The guidelines, circulated to member countries two years
after a failed attempt to limit coal financing to the poorest
nations, reinforce President Jim Yong Kim’s pledge to ease the
impact of  climate change . The bank has not financed a major coal
project since 2010, though it is studying whether to offer
partial guarantees for a lignite-fired power plant in  Kosovo .  “This plan could be a major boost in the transition needed
from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources in the fight
against the climate crisis, in a way that prioritizes the
interests of poor people,” said Nicolas Mombrial, head of the
development charity Oxfam’s  Washington  office. The bank now
needs “improved environmental and social assessments” for its
energy loans, he said.  Efforts to mitigate the risks associated with climate
change were reinforced yesterday by President  Barack Obama ’s
plan to curb  carbon emissions , which he called a central global
challenge of the 21st century, in the U.S.  ‘Reliable’ Supply  The World Bank “recognizes that each country’s transition
to a sustainable energy sector involves a unique mix of resource
opportunities and challenges,” according to the draft. “Every
effort will be made to minimize the financial and environmental
costs of expanding reliable  energy supply .”  World Bank energy projects approved this year include a $35
million electricity expansion inside and outside Liberia’s
capital; a $302 million program in  Turkey  to improve the energy
efficiency of businesses; and a $31 million plan aimed at
reducing carbon emissions from buildings in  China , according to
the bank’s website.  The bank in the draft said it will scale up its engagement
in natural gas while being “committed to the responsible
development of hydropower.” It will not finance nuclear plants.  ‘Very Controversial’  Kim’s view “is that coal is on its way out and that the
bank can help bring about new, cleaner energy sources with the
investments that it makes, that it’s big enough that it can move
things toward cleaner energy sources,” Steve Radelet, a
professor at  Georgetown University  in Washington and a former
deputy assistant secretary at the U.S. Treasury Department, said
in an interview. “That’s going to be very controversial.”  The U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder. A
representative of the U.S. mining industry said fewer coal
plants around the world means fewer American jobs.  “To the extent that you’re preventing the world from using
coal, you’re preventing the U.S. from creating jobs to mine it
and export it,” said  Luke Popovich , a spokesman at the National
Mining Association in Washington. “The economic pain of it will
fall disproportionately on working people.”  Popovich said the U.S. will lose coal mining jobs as a
result of a smaller export market. The association’s members
include  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer.  The U.S. exported a record 125.7 million tons of coal last
year, the third straight year of more than 100 million tons of
exports of the power-plant fuel and steelmaking component,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  