-- Xinjiang Violence Leaves 27 Dead After Clash With Police
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-26T08:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/xinjiang-violence-leaves-27-dead-after-attack-on-police-stations.html
An attack on police stations and a
government building in  China ’s Xinjiang province today left 27
people dead, state media reported, in one of the deadliest
outbreaks of violence in the region in four years.  Nine security officials in Lukqun township were killed
along with eight civilians before police opened fire and killed
10 “rioters,” who also attacked a construction site, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing local Communist
Party officials it didn’t identify.  The township is east of the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi,
where almost 200 people died in clashes between ethnic Uighurs
and majority Han Chinese in 2009. In April, 21 people were
killed, including local officials and police, in a clash that
broke out when officials uncovered a weapons cache.  While about 90 percent of China is ethnic Han, more than 40
percent of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are Uighurs, some of
whom have protested the Beijing government’s decades-long policy
of encouraging Han migration to the area.  “The continuing repression and provocation is a reason for
the conflict,” Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur
Congress, said in an e-mail. “The international community
should take immediate steps to request China stop all policies
that cause unrest.”  The Munich-based group wants Xinjiang to become an
independent country called East Turkestan. Hua Chunying, a
spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry, declined to comment on
the incident when asked about it today at a press conference in
Beijing.  Three people injured in today’s violence were being treated
in the hospital, and police arrested three others, Xinhua
reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  