-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Says Without Apology ‘Excitement’ Caused Post
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-26T14:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/yankees-rodriguez-says-without-apology-excitement-caused-post.html
New York Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  said a Twitter post updating his medical condition was
sent out of “pure excitement,” and offered no apology for
angering team General Manager  Brian Cashman .  Rodriguez hasn’t played this season following hip surgery,
while making off-the-field news for his alleged links to a
performance-enhancing drug investigation.  He posted an update on Twitter yesterday after a meeting
with Bryan Kelly, the doctor who performed the surgery and has
been monitoring his rehabilitation in New York.  “Visit from Dr. Kelly over the weekend, who gave me the
best news - the green light to play games again!” the All-Star’s Twitter post said.  Cashman, asked for a reaction to the comment during the
Yankees’ game last night against the  Texas Rangers , told ESPN
that Rodriguez “should just shut up,” also using an expletive.  “You know what, when the Yankees want to announce
something, [we will],” Cashman said according to the  website .
“That’s it. I’m going to call Alex now.”  Rodriguez responded today with a statement released through
Ron Berkowitz, his spokesman.  “I will continue to work hard until my efforts get me back
in pinstripes and help my team win, the tweet was pure
excitement about Dr. Kelly’s prognosis,” he said in the
statement.  An e-mail seeking comment on Rodriguez’s status from
Yankees spokesman Jason Zillo wasn’t immediately returned.  Cashman said two days ago that Rodriguez hadn’t been
cleared to play in rehab games and that Kelly had no
jurisdiction over Rodriguez’s recovery once he went to the
Yankees’ training facility in Tampa, according to ESPN.  The 37-year-old Rodriguez is among about 20 players who may
face suspensions because of ties to a Miami-area clinic that’s
been accused of supplying banned performance-enhancing drugs.
Rodriguez, a three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
has denied the allegations.  Rodriguez, whose 647 home runs rank fifth in Major League
Baseball history, said in February 2009 that he took banned
substances from 2001 to 2003 as a member of the Rangers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  