-- Yankees’ Teixeira Says He’ll Miss 4-5 Months After Wrist Surgery
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/yankees-mark-teixeira-receives-recommendation-of-wrist-surgery.html
New York Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira said he’ll need four to five months to recover from
surgery to repair his right wrist after rest and rehabilitation
failed to heal the injury initially sustained in March.  Teixeira, 33, yesterday said that he’ll have the procedure
to fix a torn tendon sheath in the wrist early next week.  “The doctor expects me to be 100 percent in six months,”
Teixeira said at a news conference.  Teixeira, a two-time All-Star, missed the first 53 games of
the Major League Baseball season because of the wrist and then
played 15 games before re-aggravating the injury.  Following a recent exam, four doctors “confirmed that the
sheath has not adequately healed,” the Yankees said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Teixeira said he has no regrets about returning to the
Yankees’ lineup in late May. He said he asked one of his doctors
if he now has to worry about wrist injuries for the rest of his
career and was told “absolutely not.”  The Yankees have been beset by injuries all season, opening
the campaign with nine players on the disabled list. Three of
them -- veteran All-Stars Teixeira, shortstop Derek Jeter and
outfielder Curtis Granderson -- returned to the team only to
have a recurrence of their injuries or new ailments.  Teixeira strained his tendon March 5 while practicing with
the U.S. team for the World Baseball Classic. He initially was
projected to miss eight to 10 weeks of action.  Brief Return  Teixeira returned to New York’s lineup on May 31,
batting .151 with three home runs and 12 runs batted in before
aggravating the injury.  “It’s been no secret that I’ve spent more time in the
batting cage over the last two seasons than I ever have,” said
Teixeira, a switch-hitter. “At some point the overuse just got
to me.”  Jeter, who had surgery in October after breaking his left
ankle during last year’s playoffs, was cleared to return March 7
and played during spring training before feeling discomfort.
Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said on April 19 that
exams showed “a small crack in the area of his previous
injuries” and Jeter’s setback would keep him sidelined until
after the mid-July All-Star break.  Granderson, an outfielder who had 43 home runs and drove in
106 runs last year, missed the first 38 games this season after
breaking his right forearm when he was hit by a pitch during his
first spring training at-bat. He returned for eight games, then
broke the knuckle on his left pinkie finger on May 24 when he
was hit by a pitch.  Rodriguez’s Health  Third baseman Alex Rodriguez hasn’t played since last
year’s playoffs, after which he had left hip surgery. He’s also
not scheduled to return before the All-Star break.  Kevin Youkilis, signed to fill in for Rodriguez at third,
had surgery June 20 to repair a herniated disc in his back. The
team said his return is possible in late August.  Catcher Francisco Cervelli might be out until mid-July with
a fractured right hand, shortstop  Eduardo Nunez  has a strained
left oblique that could sideline him until early July and
pitcher Michael Pineda also may return next month from a
shoulder injury.  Teixeira, an 11-year major league veteran, is in his fifth
season with the Yankees. He was an All-Star in 2005 and 2009,
and has won five Gold Gloves for his play at first base,
including last season.  The Yankees, who lost 8-5 to the Texas Rangers last night,
are 42-35 this season, 3 1/2 games behind the division-leading
Boston Red Sox (47-33) in the American League East.  “It’s very tough,” Teixeira said, “especially in a
season where the team could probably use me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  