-- Myanmar Phone Contest Pits Soros Against SingTel: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-06-27T03:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/myanmar-phone-contest-pits-soros-against-singtel-southeast-asia.html
Myanmar’s contest for two
telecommunications licenses attracted bidders from around the
globe seeking a foothold in one of the last remaining untapped
markets, where only one in 10 people has a mobile phone.  The winners are scheduled to be announced today, ending a
six-month race that drew 91 expressions of interest to operate
in the country of 64 million people. Norway’s Telenor ASA,
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , billionaire  George Soros  and
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  are among the 11 remaining bidding groups.  “It’s a tremendous growth opportunity, but it will require
a fair bit of investment, and returns will be long dated too,”
said  Sachin Gupta , a Singapore-based analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “I don’t think it’s going to be an easy exercise for
anyone, but having previous green-field experience and strong
local partnership should help.”  The licenses are among the biggest prizes for foreign
companies since Myanmar President Thein Sein moved to allow
greater political and economic freedom after taking power in
2011. The U.S. and European Union have moved to ease sanctions,
attracting companies such as Coca-Cola Co. and Ford Motor Co. to
the former military-run state even as  human rights  groups warn
of abuses against ethnic and religious minorities.  The government plans to proceed with naming the winners
even after parliamentarians moved to delay the announcement, Set
Aung, deputy minister of national planning and economic
development who is overseeing the process, said today by phone.  “We have selected two winners,” he said. “We will go
ahead and announce the winners today if we don’t get any
intervention from a higher authority.”  No Bias  Set Aung said that while he’d prefer local companies, the
process complied with international practices.  “The playing field should be level,” he said. “We, the
technical team, aren’t biased in the selection of the winners.”  Myanmar plans to boost telecom coverage to as much as 80
percent of the country by 2016. It has a mobile-phone
penetration rate of 9 percent, compared to 70 percent in
 Cambodia , 87 percent in Laos and more than 100 percent in
Thailand, the Communication Ministry said in January.  The government named 12 groups of companies as finalists
for two licenses that will allow carriers to build and operate a
nationwide wireless network in the country for 15 years.  “I have never seen any investors who are not coming to a
country before everything is perfect,” Set Aung said by phone
yesterday. “All the companies understand there are risks. Some
companies probably think there is too much risk, and other
companies think it’s a calculated risk.”  Vodafone Withdraws  Bidders include Bharti Airtel Ltd.,  Telenor ASA (TEL) , Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd., Digicel Group Ltd.,  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) ,
France Telecom SA and  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ,  KDDI Corp. (9433)  and Sumitomo
Corp.,  Millicom International Cellular SA (MIICF) , MTN Group Ltd., Qatar
Telecom QSC, and Vietnam’s Viettel Group. Four of the bidding
groups include a local partner.  Vodafone Group Plc and China Mobile Ltd., the two biggest
mobile-phone companies, withdrew their bid on May 31, saying the
returns wouldn’t justify the investment required.  SingTel, which is bidding with KBZ Group and Myanmar
Telephone Co., would build a mobile network covering 95 percent
of the country’s population within 36 months, according to a
June 11 statement. SingTel has 468 million mobile-phone
customers in countries including  India ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand  and
the  Philippines , according to the company. SingTel also offered
to lend assistance to Myanmar’s efforts to launch a national
satellite.  KDDI and Sumitomo are bidding along with Myanmar
Information and Communication Technology Development Corp. and
A1 Construction, while MTN’s group includes local company Amara
Communications.  Digicel, Soros  The group led by Digicel, Soros and Myanmar property
developer YSH Finance Ltd. pledged to invest $9 billion. The
companies would roll out a so-called fourth-generation mobile
network across the country by Dec. 1, and its wireless service
will reach 96 percent of Myanmar’s population by 2016, the group
said in a statement June 3.  Telenor on April 12 said it would leverage its experience
in operating mobile networks in Thailand, Malaysia, India,
 Bangladesh  and Pakistan “to provide rapid delivery of high-quality mobile network and services throughout Myanmar.” It
didn’t disclose an investment value.  France Telecom strategy chief Elie Girard earlier this
month described Myanmar as “the biggest telecom desert” with
less telephone use than in North Korea or Cuba. The company,
bidding with Japan’s Marubeni, is prepared to spend $1 billion
to build a network by 2019 and will cover more than 75 percent
of the country’s geography in five years, Girard said. Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Richard said June 25 that the company
had a “good chance” of winning a license.  Human Rights  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest mobile carrier, may
spend about $1 billion to set up a network, the Times of India
reported on June 8, citing Chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal.  Myanmar had 5.44 million mobile-phone subscribers as of
December, equivalent to a 9 percent penetration rate, the
government said in January. About 1.3 percent of the population
has access to fixed-phone lines and 0.03 percent has broadband
Internet, according to the  Asian Development Bank .  In May, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  warned that
companies bidding for the licenses risk being linked to human
rights abuses if they invest before laws are in place to protect
against illegal surveillance and censorship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  