-- Yen in ‘Tug of War’ Over Fed Tapering Bets, Ex-MOF Kato Says
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-06-26T06:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-26/yen-in-tug-of-war-over-fed-tapering-bets-ex-mof-kato-says-1-.html
The yen is in a “tug of war” as a
result of speculation the  Federal Reserve  will begin tapering
stimulus this year, according to Takatoshi Kato, a former top
currency official at  Japan ’s Ministry of Finance.  “One of the main objectives of the Fed’s quantitative
easing was to boost asset prices and encourage spending by
providing ample liquidity, but we’re beginning to see some of
the side effects,” Kato, 72, who is now the president of
Japan’s Center for International Finance, said in an interview
yesterday in Tokyo.  Investors are pulling money from  emerging markets  as they
seek to avoid risk, and they’re turning to the yen as a safe
haven, he said. At the same time, the possibility of a reduction
in the pace of the Fed’s bond buying is pushing up Treasury
yields, and raising the appeal of the dollar.  Based on fundamentals, an exchange rate of 100 yen to the
dollar is “just about right,” Kato said.  The yen traded at 97.54 per dollar as of 6:51 a.m. in
 London . It reached a 4 1/2-year low of 103.74 on May 22, after
tumbling 20 percent in the previous six months, the most among
the 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as Japanese policy
makers pursued unprecedented stimulus to end 15 years of
deflation. The yen tends to strengthen during periods of
financial and economic turmoil because Japan isn’t reliant on
foreign capital to fund its deficits.  Fed Tapering  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that the central
bank may begin tapering its bond purchases this year and end it
in mid-2014. The Fed has been buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion of  U.S. government debt  each
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  The announcement helped push the  yield  on 10-year  U.S.
Treasuries  to 2.66 percent on June 24, the highest since August
2011. The same day, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks
tumbled to the lowest in more than a year.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year  yield  touched 1 percent on May
23, the most in more than a year, after tumbling to a record
0.315 percent on April 5, the day after the  Bank of Japan  said
it would double monthly debt purchases to achieve 2 percent
inflation. The yield was little changed at 0.87 percent today.  Price  volatility  for Japanese  government bonds  jumped 61
basis points on April 4, the most since June 2003, before
stabilizing at just below 4 percent this week.  Seeking Stability  Relative to the increase in borrowing costs in the U.S. and
other nations, JGB yields have risen “just a touch,” Kato
said. “A lot of effort is still needed from here to maintain
stability in the JGB market.”  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food were probably
unchanged in May from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists taken before the data on June 28. The
 breakeven rate , a measure of inflation expectations, indicates
annual price increases of 1.16 percent in the next five years,
down from as high as 1.84 percent on May 15.  The central bank’s 2 percent inflation target “is a
desirable goal, but it’s unclear how long it will take,” Kato
said. “It could be said that if the inflation rate is stably
positive, a big part of the goal has been accomplished.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in  Tokyo  at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  