-- Asian Buyers Splurge $65.5 Million in London Art Auctions
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-11-09T12:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/asian-buyers-splurge-65-5-million-in-london-art-auctions.html
Asian buyers battling for rare
Chinese artworks splurged $65.5 million in three days of
auctions in London.  The sales at the U.K. capital’s main auction houses were
topped by an 18th-century vase that sold for 3.1 million pounds
($4.97 million), more than 10 times its estimate. Elsewhere, a
$12 million Chinese bronze food vessel was reserved among the
dealer shows for the U.K. capital’s Asian Art Week event.  The  Sotheby’s (BID) , Christie’s International and Bonhams
auctions raised a total of 40.9 million pounds with fees,
according to figures compiled by  Bloomberg News , even as more
than a third of the material was rejected at all three houses.  “The selectivity is getting even more extreme,” the
London-based dealer  Roger Keverne  said in an interview. “The
market has sorted itself out. The spare money in  China  is
chasing the very best.”  The Yongzheng-period yellow-and-green porcelain vase was
sold by an unidentified European collector at Christie’s on Nov.
5. Estimated at 200,000 pounds to 300,000 pounds, it was similar
to another example in the Palace Museum, Beijing, and had been
in the same private collection since 1961. It was bought by an
Asian dealer, Christie’s said.  Dragon Moonflask  An 18th-century Qianlong blue and copper-red “dragon”
porcelain moonflask sold at Bonhams for 1.5 million pounds,
beating an estimate of 500,000 pounds to 800,000 pounds.  Such Imperial-quality Chinese pieces are in increasingly
short supply after sellers cashed in on a booming market in 2010
and early 2011. A similar series of  London  auctions in May 2011
took 58 million pounds with fees. This month’s auctions had been
estimated to raise a combined figure of as much as 31.7 million
pounds, based on hammer prices, from more than 1,100 lots.  Smaller selections of trophy pieces now attract even more
intense competition from the Asian art traders and agents who
travel to Western sales, attracted by long-standing provenances
that guarantee authenticity, dealers said.  Asian Art in London , now in its 16th year, also included
more than 50 selling exhibitions at commercial galleries.  Mayfair-based  Eskenazi Ltd.  was showing a 3,000 year-old
food vessel that had been included in the 2012  Royal Academy  of
Arts exhibition “Bronze.” The elaborate two-handled “gui”
was distinguished by being signed. Other examples bearing the
same name of Bo Ju are in museums.  The $12 million piece was reserved, with confirmation of
the sale still awaited at the end of the week.  Bronze Buddha  Last month, the mainland-based property developer Zhen
Huaxing paid a record $30.5 million for a bronze Buddha at
Sotheby’s in  Hong Kong .  Meanwhile, museum-quality western objects from earlier
periods struggle to keep up with the soaring values of more
fashionable contemporary art.  Christie’s put an estimate of 500,000 euros ($668,000) to
800,000 euros on a pair of 15th-century alabaster mourners from
the tomb of the Duc de Berry, brother of Charles V, King of
France, at an auction in Paris on Nov. 8.  Owned by the same family since 1807, the sculptures, by
Etienne Bobillet and Paul Mosselmann, were part of a series of
expressive figures of mourners that were carved for French royal
mausoleums in the late medieval period. The Duc de Berry’s tomb
in Bourges was vandalized during the French Revolution. Two
other figures from the same monument are now in the Louvre.  On the day, five telephone bidders pushed the price of
these unique medieval sculptures up to 4 million euros.  Though an impressive performance against estimate, the
result is equivalent to the $5 million to $7 million valuation
that Christie’s has given to the 1996 Louise Bourgeois bronze
sculpture, “Spider IV,” from an edition of six, in its $500-million contemporary art sale in  New York  on Nov. 12.  “These days rich people want to buy works by high-profile
big-name artists,”  Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the
London-based Fine Art Fund, said in an interview. “It’s not an
art historical decision. They’re after brands.”  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Richard Vines 
on food,  Jason Harper  on cars,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater and
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 