-- Asian Stocks Slump for Longest Weekly Losing Streak Since June
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-11-09T01:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/asian-stocks-slump-for-longest-weekly-losing-streak-since-june.html
Asian stocks fell this week, with the
 benchmark measure  capping its longest weekly losing streak since
June, amid concern the U.S. Federal Reserve may soon decide the
economy is strong enough to begin paring stimulus and as
investors awaited a meeting of  China ’s leaders this weekend.  Samsung Electronics Co., which counts America as its
biggest sales market, dropped 6 percent for the week in Seoul.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. fell 3.7 percent in
Hong Kong before China’s leadership plenum begins today.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, lost 2.1 percent
after a profit forecast missed estimates. Japan’s Coca-Cola West
Co. posted the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s fifth-biggest gain of
the week after net income surged.  The regional index dropped 1.6 percent to 138.98 since Nov.
1, capping a 3.1 percent three-week drop. U.S. economic growth
accelerated to a 2.8 percent annualized rate last quarter, data
showed Nov. 7, beating analyst estimates and spurring
speculation that the Federal Reserve may pare asset purchases
sooner than previously anticipated. China’s leaders meet in
Beijing from today to map out reforms as the world’s second-largest economy heads for its slowest growth in more than two
decades.  “The pace of tapering is quite important -- if they go
hard with cutting back stimulus, the markets will get shaken,”
said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic asset allocation
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages $131 billion.
“There is a lot of nervousness ahead of the China plenum.
Expectations of a real aggressive growth strategy are quite
high. It’s positive long-term, but short-term the market may be
disappointed from a lack of details.”  Japan, Hong Kong  Japan ’s Topix index slid 0.6 percent this week.  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.2 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times
Index fell 0.8 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 2.2 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite slid 2 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
slumped 2.7 percent while  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index fell 1.9 percent.  U.S. employers added 204,000 workers in October, the Labor
Department reported Nov. 8, compared with a median estimate for
a 120,000 gain in a Bloomberg survey of economists. That
probably isn’t enough to convince policy makers that it’s time
to start tapering the quantitative easing program, said Stephen
Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  ‘Not Enough Evidence’  “The strength of today’s payroll numbers at least brings
December back on the table,” said Stanley, a former Richmond
Fed researcher. “But in the end they’re not going to have
enough evidence to pull the trigger.”  The Fed decided at its meeting last week to press on with
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying it needs to see
more evidence that the economy will continue to improve.  Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. (1818) , China’s No. 2 gold producer,
tumbled 8.4 percent this week to HK$5.71 in Hong Kong, sinking
for a seventh week and closing at the lowest since Aug. 9. The
precious metal fell 1.5 percent to a three-week low at $1,288.50
an ounce in New York as investors weighed the Fed’s timetable
for paring stimulus.  In China, Communist Party leaders enter a policy-making
summit with services and manufacturing surveys showing the
economy is strengthening.  Exports Rebound  A non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to the
highest level this year in October, a government report showed.
The increase follows faster-than-estimated growth in two
manufacturing indexes last week. Data on Nov. 8 showed that the
country’s exports rebounded by more than estimated last month,
pushing the trade surplus to the widest this year.  Ahead of the plenum, President Xi Jinping said China should
speed up its strategy of using innovation to drive development
and realize full-year economic targets, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China slid 3.7 percent to
HK$5.22. China Construction Bank Corp. fell 2.5 percent to
HK$5.90.  Samsung Electronics sank 6 percent this week to 1,410,000
won in  Seoul , the  biggest drag  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
contract maker of chips, slipped 3.2 percent to NT$106.00.  More than 150 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
released earnings figures this week, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Of the firms that have reported profits so far
this quarter, about half beat analyst estimates, the  data  show.  Toyota Forecast  Toyota dropped 2.1 percent this week to 6,200 yen in Tokyo
after saying net income will probably rise to 1.67 trillion yen
($17 billion) this fiscal year. While that was 13 percent higher
than the carmaker’s previous forecast, it missed the 1.82
trillion yen average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Woori Finance Holdings Co., South Korea’s largest financial
 group  by assets, sank 2.8 percent to 12,000 won after reporting
earnings that missed estimates. Woori’s third-quarter profit
dropped 84 percent from a year earlier to 86.4 billion won ($81
million), missing the 315.5 billion-won average estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Coca-Cola West jumped 11 percent to 2,201 yen in  Tokyo . The
beverage maker reported net income more than tripled to 15.8
billion yen for the nine months through September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  