-- NCAA Can Be Sued by Athletes as Group Over Use of Images
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/athletes-can-sue-ncaa-as-a-group-over-image-use-judge.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  can be sued as a group by former college athletes
seeking the right to negotiate licensing deals for the use of
their images, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland,  California ,
also rejected the athletes’ request to jointly seek revenue from
broadcasts they appeared in.  Yesterday’s ruling, while falling short of a potential
windfall from past game broadcasts, gives a boost to the
plaintiffs challenging the tradition of amateurism in which only
the NCAA, conferences and schools can profit from selling
players’ likenesses, Rob Carey, an attorney for the athletes,
said in a phone interview.  Wilken granted class-action status to thousands of current
and former student athletes who are asking the court to order
the NCAA not to block them from entering into licensing deals to
get paid when they appear in game footage, television broadcasts
or video games. The injunction request will be considered later.  An injunction would be “needed to eliminate the restraints
that the NCAA has allegedly imposed on competition,” Wilken
said. “Without the requested injunctive relief, all class
members -- including both current and former student-athletes --
would potentially be subject to ongoing antitrust harms
resulting from the continued unauthorized use of their names,
images and likenesses.”  Wilken said the former players didn’t present enough
evidence to justify certifying them as a class to seek damages
for past broadcasts.  Legal Claims  Class certification allows people who haven’t filed a
lawsuit to be represented in a single case because their
experiences and legal claims are similar. Class-action status is
less expensive for plaintiffs than filing multiple lawsuits and
provides leverage in settlement talks.  The plaintiffs had sought certification of a class of
former basketball and football players seeking damages for the
use of their images, likenesses or names in game footage or in
video games licensed or sold by the NCAA since July 2005.  Wilken said she couldn’t certify a class for former players
pursuing damages because of the difficulty in determining which
athletes were harmed by the NCAA’s policies.  “They have failed to satisfy the manageability requirement
because they have not identified a feasible way to determine
which members of the damages subclass were actually harmed by
the NCAA’s allegedly anticompetitive conduct,” she said.  ‘One Step’  Donald Remy, chief legal officer for the NCAA, said in a
statement that the ruling is “one step closer to validating”
the organization’s position that the student-athletes’ claims
are wrong.  “We are pleased that the court correctly found that
conducting a class-wide trial for claimed damages for student-athletes who played college football and men’s basketball going
back nearly a decade would be completely unmanageable and
unprecedented,” Remy said. “The plaintiffs in this case were
seeking substantial damages based on erroneous theories for
maintaining a class.”  Carey said the ruling “could still result in a radical
change” in the way the NCAA operates. “If the athletes
prevail, it will have a complete breakdown on how the NCAA
operates.”  Plaintiffs including former college basketball star Edward O’Bannon sought to represent all former student athletes in the
U.S. who competed in Division I basketball or NCAA football’s
top echelon and whose images or names have been included in game
footage or video games since July 2005.  Basketball Championship  O’Bannon played at the  University of California  at  Los
Angeles  and led the Bruins to the NCAA basketball championship
in 1995. He sued the NCAA and its licensing company four years
ago alleging that they agreed to block him and other former
college athletes from getting paid for their likenesses in
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  sports video games after they left school.  O’Bannon’s case was combined with another lawsuit against
NCAA and Electronic Arts Inc. for using  athletes’ likenesses in
video games without permission.  Electronic Arts announced in September that it settled
claims against it and will pay athletes $40 million. The second-largest U.S. video-game publisher also said it was canceling its
college football title for next year because of legal issues.  The NCAA and some regional athletic conferences withdrew
their support for the game, the  Redwood City , California-based
company said Sept. 26.  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts Inc., 09-cv-01967,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  