-- Maverick to Eton Park Rose in October as Funds Gain 0.8%
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/maverick-to-eton-park-rose-in-october-as-funds-gain-0-8-.html
Hedge funds returned an average of
0.8 percent in October as global stocks rallied after U.S.
lawmakers raised the debt ceiling and avoided a default.  Funds run by Maverick Capital Management LP and Eton Park
Capital Management LP reported gains, while Passport Capital LLC
posted a decline.  The funds gained after U.S. President  Barack Obama  signed
into law a measure ending the 16-day partial government shutdown
and extending the nation’s borrowing authority until early next
year. The MSCI ACWI Index of developed and  emerging markets 
returned 4 percent last month, including reinvested dividends.  “It was the right trade for equity hedge and event-driven
managers to have stayed fully invested,” Anthony Lawler,
portfolio manager at $120 billion Swiss asset manager GAM, wrote
in a report released Nov. 5. “Managers with significant equity-related positioning, and to a lesser extent long credit
exposure, benefited, while those primarily trading other asset
classes, such as currencies and rates, generally did not see
strong results.”  The Bloomberg Hedge Funds Aggregate Index is  down  2.2
percent from its July 2007 peak. The index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,376 funds, 1,467 of which have
reported returns for October.  Trailing Stocks  The index, with annual returns dating to 2006, has fallen
short of the MSCI benchmark each year except 2008 and 2011. This
year through October, the funds rose 6.9 percent, compared with
a 20 percent return for worldwide equities.  Maverick, the $9 billion New York-based long-short equity
hedge-fund firm, rose 1.3 percent in October and 11 percent this
year in the Class A shares of its Maverick Fund, according to a
performance update to investors, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Eton Park, the $10 billion New York-based multistrategy
firm founded by Eric Mindich, returned 3.6 percent last month
and 16 percent this year in its Eton Park Fund LP, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Pershing Square Capital Management LP, the $11 billion
activist firm run by  Bill Ackman  out of New York, posted a 7.9
percent net gain in its main strategy in October, according to a
performance update. Pershing Square International’s monthly
return brings its year-to-date return to 8.1 percent. The fund
has $5 billion in assets.  Passport, Citadel  Passport’s $1.3 billion Global Strategy fell 2.2 percent
last month and gained 15 percent in 2013, according to a
performance update obtained by Bloomberg News. The fund is
managed by John Burbank, who runs the $3 billion San Francisco-based firm.  Citadel LLC, the $17 billion Chicago-based firm founded by
Ken Griffin, rose 1.8 percent in October and 17 percent year-to-date in its main Kensington and Wellington funds, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Jana Partners LLC gained 0.9 percent last month and 15
percent this year in its main fund, according to a performance
update to investors. The Jana Nirvana fund increased 1.1 percent
in October and 24 percent this year.  Barry Rosenstein  is
managing partner and co-portfolio manager of the $7 billion New
York-based activist firm, along with David DiDomenico.  Solus Alternative Asset Management LP, the $3.4 billion
firm run by President and Chief Investment Officer Christopher Pucillo, gained 3.1 percent in October and 26 percent this year
in its flagship Sola fund, according to a person briefed on the
returns.  Spokesmen for the hedge-fund firms declined to comment on
the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  