-- Bernanke Says Failing Bank Process Needed to Reduce Crises
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-11-09T00:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/bernanke-says-failing-bank-process-needed-to-reduce-crises-1-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said a process under development that would allow
regulators to take down a failing bank will help ensure
investors discipline weak firms and prevent them from taking
risks without consequence.  “As we try to make the financial system safer, we must
inevitably confront the problem of moral hazard,” Bernanke said
today in remarks at an International Monetary Fund conference in
 Washington . “Market discipline can only limit moral hazard to
the extent that debt and equity holders believe that, in the
event of distress, they will bear costs.”  He addressed the economy only briefly during the panel
discussion, saying that there was still “an awful lot of slack
in the labor market” and said that was justification for the
Fed taking “strong actions to try to support  job creation .”  In response to audience questions, Bernanke said that the
high level of student debt is “another drag on the recovery”
although it is not likely to cause a financial crisis because
most such loans are owned by the government, not financial
institutions.  Financial Crises  Bernanke spoke as part of a panel discussion that included
 Harvard University ’s  Kenneth Rogoff , the co-author of the
history of financial crises titled “This Time Is Different:
Eight Centuries of Financial Folly”; former Bank of Israel
governor  Stanley Fischer ; and former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Larry Summers .  Summers was under consideration by President  Barack Obama 
to become Bernanke’s successor, when his term expires in
January. He withdrew from the process in September, saying the
confirmation would have been “acrimonious.”  The forum today gave Summers an opportunity to discuss
monetary policy in front of the man he would have replaced.  “We’ve done a lot of QE, and the inflation rate in the
 United States  is not conspicuously higher than it was before we
started,” Summers said, as he questioned whether the Fed had
the power to resolve the economy’s weakness on its own.  Bernanke has said monetary policy is “not a panacea” and
has cautioned that fiscal policy is restraining the economy.  In his prepared remarks, Bernanke said regulators have been
working to devise so-called orderly liquidation authority that
would allow a systemically important financial institution, or
SIFI, to be closed down without the chaos that surrounded the
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the bailout of
American International Group Inc. in September 2008.  ‘Terrible Choices’  “In the crisis, the absence of an adequate resolution
process for dealing with a failing SIFI left policy makers with
only the terrible choices of a bailout or allowing a potentially
destabilizing collapse,” Bernanke said. “A credible resolution
mechanism for systemically important firms will be important for
reducing uncertainty, enhancing market discipline, and reducing
moral hazard.”  Bernanke led the central bank through a financial crisis
and 18-month recession that was the longest and deepest since
the Great Depression. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a
12-year low in March 2009. Joblessness peaked at a quarter-century high of 10 percent in October 2009. By March 2010, 10.1
percent of all  mortgage loans  were delinquent, according to data
from the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  The 59-year-old Fed chief devoted most of his prepared
remarks to comparing what happened five years ago to “a classic
financial panic” like the banking panic in 1907 that led to the
creation of the U.S. central bank 100 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  