-- BofA Should Pay $863 Million in Fannie Mae Case: U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   E .   R o v e l l a
-- 2013-11-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/bofa-should-pay-863-million-in-fannie-mae-case-u-s-.html
     Nov. 10 (Bloomberg) --  Bank of America Corp . should pay the
maximum penalty of $863 million for selling defective loans to
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , given the egregiousness of the
fraud, U.S. prosecutors told a federal judge.  Bank of America ’s Countrywide unit was found liable by a
jury in  Manhattan  federal court last month for selling the
government-sponsored entities thousands of defective loans in
the first mortgage-fraud case brought by the U.S. to go to
trial.  The bank’s fraud was “simple but brazen,” prosecutors
wrote in a court filing last night. “They made bad loans and
they knowingly sold those bad loans as good loans to cheat
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  out of money.”  Given the measure of Countrywide’s culpability, the public
injury and the bank’s ability to pay, the government said the
maximum penalty under the law was warranted -- the gross loss
suffered by the entities under the scheme.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over the
trial, told lawyers last month he would determine the amount of
any penalty at a later date. Arguments in the matter are
scheduled for Dec. 5.  The filing represents an increase over what the government
said the gross losses were last month. At the time, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Pierre Armand asked Rakoff to impose a penalty of
$848 million. Armand also offered a more lenient option, telling
Rakoff he could fine Countrywide about $131 million, the
estimated net losses to the two entities.  Executive Liable  The jury also found former Countrywide Financial Corp.
executive Rebecca Mairone liable for defrauding the U.S. Mairone
was the only individual named as a defendant in the government’s
 lawsuit . In its Nov. 8 filing, the government asked the court to
impose a penalty on her commensurate with her ability to pay.  “We believe the filing overstates the volume of loans and
appropriate measure of damages,” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman
for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, said yesterday in
an e-mail.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Mairone, had said his client
would appeal. He said in an e-mail yesterday that he will argue
against the imposition of any penalty for Mairone.  Countrywide, based in Calabasas,  California , was once the
biggest U.S. residential home lender, originating or purchasing
about $1.4 trillion in mortgages from 2005 to 2007. The bulk of
them were sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities. Bank
of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  ‘Swim Lane’  Prosecutors alleged that a division of Countrywide in
August 2007 initiated a loan program called “High Speed Swim
Lane,” or HSSL, that ran until 2008.  Countrywide earned at least $165 million using HSSL,
allowing the company to maintain revenue in a “cratering”
market for subprime mortgages, prosecutors told the jury in
closing arguments. Government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs,
such as  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac bought single-family
mortgages from lenders.  The U.S. last year joined the whistle-blower action against
Bank of America filed by former Countrywide executive Edward
O’Donnell.  Bank of America  rose 3.8 percent to $14.32 in  New York 
Stock Exchange trading on Nov. 8.  The case is U.S. v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 12-cv-01422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David E. Rovella in New York at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at 
 poster@bloomberg.net  