-- BT Wins Rights to Air Champions League, Europa Leagues
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-11-10T14:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/bt-wins-rights-to-live-champions-league-europa-league-games.html
(Corrects total amount in first paragraph of story
published Nov. 9.)  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest U.K. phone
company, said its BT Sport channel will pay $1.4 billion for
exclusive live broadcast rights for the UEFA Champions League
and the UEFA Europa League soccer tournaments.  The rights run for three seasons from 2015-16, the London-based company said in a  statement  today. This is the first time
a U.K. broadcaster has won exclusive rights to all matches for
both tournaments, it said.  BT Sports will replace  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s
 Sky Sports  and  ITV Plc (ITV)  in broadcasting the 350 matches. BT will
pay about 299 million pounds ($478 million) a season for the
rights, a cost it said it can incur without changing its
financial outlook.  “Both tournaments are world-class and firm favorites with
many,” Gavin Patterson, chief executive of BT, said in today’s
statement. “The live rights will give a major boost to BT
Sport.”  The UEFA tournament spending is in addition to the 1
billion pounds BT had previously said it would spend over three
years on rights for the BT Sport and ESPN channels it began
broadcasting Aug. 1, said Dan Thomas, a spokesman for the
company. More than 2 million customers have signed up for BT
Sport and most were existing clients, Patterson told reporters
on Oct. 31.  ‘Armageddon Scenario’  The win by BT announced today is an “Armageddon scenario
in sports rights,” according to Claire Enders, chief executive
officer of Enders Analysis, a media researcher.  “We are already looking at a very distorted market for
sports rights and it is going to get more distorted,” she said
in a phone interview. “We are very concerned about how this
will play out long term for all the players in the market that
have to bear these very substantial costs.”  In a statement today, BSkyB said it bid for the rights to
air the soccer tournaments “with a clear view” of what they
were worth and that BT chose to pay far in excess of their
valuation.  “Nothing changes until 2015 and we look forward to 18 more
months of live  Champions League  on Sky Sports,” BSkyB said.
“We will now re-deploy resources and continue to bring
customers the best choice of TV across our offering.”  BSkyB spends about 2 billion pounds a year on content, with
more than half on sports rights. Its first-quarter revenue beat
estimates in October as it signed more broadband customers in
the face of greater competition from BT.  Shares of BT rose 0.3 percent to 372.10 pence on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  