-- China Inflation Below Target as Leaders Start Reform Summit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-09T05:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/china-s-oct-inflation-accelerates-producer-prices-extend-drop.html
China ’s  consumer prices  rose less
than economists forecast in October and factory-gate deflation
deepened for the first time in five months, reducing odds that
officials will tighten monetary policy.  The consumer price index rose 3.2 percent in October from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing, compared with the 3.3 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey and September’s 3.1 percent. Industrial-production growth unexpectedly accelerated to 10.3 percent, a
separate report showed.  Inflation below the government’s 3.5 percent full-year
target may allow Communist Party leaders, gathering today in
Beijing for an economic summit, to take a measured approach to
reining in credit growth. State media have called the meeting a
“watershed” for reform as China seeks to move to an economy
focused on domestic demand.  “Both CPI inflation and economic growth still remain
within Beijing policy makers’ comfort zone,” said  Qu Hongbin ,
chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. While
there’s “no need for either easing or tightening in the coming
months,” the central bank will have to use its tools to keep
liquidity stable as money inflows keep rising, Qu said.  The gain in factory output compares with a median estimate
of 10 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and September’s 10.2
percent pace. Retail sales rose 13.3 percent in October from a
year earlier, the same pace as the previous month, while
January-to-October fixed asset investment excluding rural areas
expanded 20.1 percent, after a 20.2 percent rate in the first
nine months, statistics bureau data showed.  Inflation Estimates  The central bank is scheduled to release money supply and
lending numbers by Nov. 15.  Price gains have stayed within the government’s 2013 target
of 3.5 percent every month this year.  Estimates (CNCPIYOY)  for October
consumer inflation from 44 analysts ranged from 2.8 percent to
3.5 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey. The median
estimate of 40 economists was for a 1.4 percent drop in producer
prices.  Producer  prices  fell a more-than-projected 1.5 percent,
after a 1.3 percent decline the previous month. It was the 20th
straight month of declining factory-gate prices, the longest
stretch since 2002. “As long as PPI inflation remains negative,
there is little pass-through effect to CPI inflation,” Liu Li-Gang and Zhou Hao, economists at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., said in a note.  Food Prices  The October CPI gain was the highest since February when
the index also rose 3.2 percent.  Food prices  rose 6.5 percent
from a year earlier, the most since April 2012, while non-food
inflation was unchanged from September at 1.6 percent, according
to today’s data. Transportation and communications costs fell
0.6 percent, the most in four months.  Competition is helping keep consumer-price gains muted, as
Chinese online shopping sites gear up for “Singles Day” sales
on Nov. 11 by slashing prices. 360buy Jingdong Inc. began
offering half-price Pampers diapers as of Nov. 1 and will slice
as much as 70 percent off items including slimming belts and
facial moisturizers, according to its website.  The benchmark seven-day repurchase  rate  climbed 85 basis
points to 5.05 percent in October, helping derail a stock market
rally and driving the one-year government bond yield to a record
high. In June, the Shanghai Composite Index of shares sank 7.7
percent after the repo rate touched an all-time high of 10.77
percent.  Comfort Zone  While inflation remains in a “comfortable zone,” it has
begun to “flag an alarm for the monetary authority to keep a
close watch on the trend,” Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong
International Securities Group in Hong Kong, said in a note.  Yuan   positions  at Chinese financial institutions
accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases, a gauge of capital
inflows, rose in September by the most in five months, data
showed last month.  Among other recent signs of potential tightening, the
People’s Bank of China said in a report this week that the
economy “may see a decline in leverage” over a relatively long
period of time, a suggestion that UBS AG said hadn’t been
previously mentioned by a government economic agency. The PBOC
also said that “we can’t be blindly optimistic about the price
situation.”  Meeting Start  Leaders including President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang started a four-day gathering today, the third full
meeting of the party’s current Central Committee, to chart out
China’s long-term economic policies.  Li said in remarks published earlier this week that
“there’s a lot of money in the ‘pool’ and issuing more money
may lead to inflation,” citing the nation’s outstanding M2
 money supply  of more than 100 trillion yuan ($16 trillion) as of
March, about double gross domestic product.  China’s economic  growth  rebounded to 7.8 percent in the
third quarter from 7.5 percent in the second quarter. Data
yesterday showed China’s exports increased a more-than-estimated
5.6 percent in October from a year earlier, rebounding from
September’s unexpected drop. Imports rose 7.6 percent, leaving a
trade surplus of $31.1 billion, the biggest this year.  --Zhou Xin, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Tian Ying and
Penny Peng in Beijing and Ailing Tan in  Singapore . Editors:
Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  