-- China Output Growth Tops Estimates as Recovery Sustains Momentum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-09T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/china-output-growth-tops-estimates-as-recovery-sustains-momentum.html
China ’s  industrial output  growth
unexpectedly accelerated and inflation stayed below a government
target, providing a boost to Communist Party leaders meeting in
Beijing to chart the economy’s course for coming years.  Production rose 10.3 percent from a year earlier, the
 National Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday, exceeding the 10
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
and the previous month’s 10.2 percent. Inflation was a less-than-forecast 3.2 percent and producer prices fell 1.5 percent.  The data, following an unexpectedly large jump in exports
reported Nov. 8, add to a picture of an economy that is gaining
strength. The improvements may bolster the confidence of
President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang  as they wrestle with
the scale and pace of reform at a four-day meeting that state
media say may be a “watershed” in the nation’s development.  “The recovery momentum is slightly stronger and more
sustainable than what markets had expected and inflation is
still not a threat,” said Lu Ting, head of Greater China
economics at Bank of America Corp. The central bank won’t
“significantly tighten monetary policies as new leaders still
need a stable economic and financial environment to consolidate
their power base,” he said.  Lu said he sees “slightly more upside risk” to his
fourth-quarter economic growth estimate of 7.7 percent and
forecasts the increase in gross domestic product in the first
half of next year could be close to 8 percent.  Stable Data  GDP growth rebounded to 7.8 percent in the third quarter
from 7.5 percent in the previous three months. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists last month was
for fourth-quarter expansion of 7.6 percent.  “The government has managed to deliver stable economic
data leading into the plenum driven by policy easing as
evidenced by a sharp rise in  total social financing ” in recent
months, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  Hong Kong , said in a note. “As GDP growth is on track
to achieve the 7.5 percent target for 2013, the political
pressure to deliver good macro numbers will lessen.”  The People’s Bank of China will report October money supply,
new loans and aggregate financing, its broadest measure of
credit, this week. Aggregating financing, which includes bond
and equity sales, entrusted loans and bankers’ acceptance bills,
was probably 1.115 trillion  yuan  last month, according to the
median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey, compared with 1.4
trillion yuan in September and 1.29 trillion yuan a year earlier.  Closer Supervision  China’s top leaders started a four-day meeting in Beijing
yesterday known as the third plenum that may chart out the
biggest economic and societal changes to the country in a
generation. Potential reforms include loosened controls on
 interest rates  and the yuan, and closer supervision of local-government finances, according to analysts including Nomura’s
Zhang.  October’s  retail sales  growth of 13.3 percent compared with
the median projection for a 13.4 percent advance and a 13.3
percent increase the previous month.  Fixed-asset investment 
excluding rural households in the first 10 months of the year
gained 20.1 percent after a 20.2 percent increase in the first
nine months.  Industrial output gains have exceeded 10 percent in each of
the past three months, the longest stretch since the end of 2011,
excluding January and February distortions caused by the timing
of the Lunar New Year holiday.  Factory-Gate Deflation  Rockwell Automation Inc. Chief Executive Officer Keith
Nosbusch said factory demand in China from the auto, export and
energy industries will drive sales at the U.S. maker of factory-efficiency equipment and software after a 2013 slowdown. “We
started to see growth in China in the second half of the year
and that momentum will continue into 2014,” Nosbusch said in a
Nov. 7 interview.  The increase in October’s consumer price index, which
compared with the median estimate of 3.3 percent in a Bloomberg
survey, was the fastest since February when the index also rose
3.2 percent. Factory-gate prices have now fallen for 20 straight
months, the longest stretch since 2002.  While inflation remains in a “comfortable zone,” it has
begun to “flag an alarm for the monetary authority to keep a
close watch on the trend,” Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong
International Securities Group in Hong Kong, said after the data.  The PBOC warned last week that consumer prices are likely
to rise further this quarter and affect inflation expectations.
It also said the economy “may see a decline in leverage” over
a relatively long period of time.  Premier Li said in remarks published last week that
“there’s a lot of money in the ‘pool’ and issuing more money
may lead to inflation,” citing the nation’s outstanding M2
 money supply  of more than 100 trillion yuan ($16 trillion) as of
March, about double GDP.  --Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore , Penny Peng, Aipeng Soo and Tian Ying in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  