-- Dollar Rallies for 2nd Week as Economic Gains Fuel Tapering Bets
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/dollar-rallies-for-2nd-week-as-economic-gains-fuel-tapering-bets.html
The dollar rallied for a second week
and touched an eight-week high as stronger-than-forecast
economic reports boosts bets the Federal Reserve will reduce
stimulus at its next meeting in December.  The euro posted the biggest two-week drop against the
greenback in more than a year after the European Central Bank
unexpectedly cut its main refinancing rate to boost growth in
the 17-member currency region. The pound rallied after the Bank
of England kept its benchmark rate unchanged.  Brazil ’s real
tumbled for a third week on a growing budget deficit.  “Given the right conditions, the Fed would begin the
process” in December, Robert Lynch, a currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, said in a phone interview. “But
there’s a solid five weeks between now and the next Fed meeting,
which includes another jobs report.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, gained 0.6 percent to 1,021.66 this
week in New York. It reached 1,024.31 yesterday, the strongest
level since Sept. 13.  The euro fell 0.9 percent to $1.3367, giving it a two-week
decline of 3.2, the most since July 2012. The shared currency
weakened for a second week versus the yen, dropping 0.5 percent
to 133.42. The Japanese currency dropped 0.4 percent against the
dollar to 99.05, its second weekly fall.  Best, Worst  The pound was the only gainer this week among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts and posted its biggest
weekly increase versus the euro since April as the ECB’s rate
cut contrasted with the Bank of England’s decision to maintain
its monetary policy on the same day.  The pound rose 0.6 percent to $1.6017 from the end of last
week. It climbed 1.5 percent to 83.45 pence per euro, the
biggest rally since the week ended April 26.  “The BOE policy stance looks increasingly out of kilter
with the euro area,” Paul Robson, a London-based foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said
Nov. 7 in a phone interview. “You’ve got one central bank
that’s easing and the other that’s neutral, so that keeps the
pound strong versus the euro. Sterling should do well against
most European currencies.”  Norway’s krone was the biggest loser, tumbling after a
report Nov. 7 showed  manufacturing production  fell 0.2 percent
in September from the month before. The krone dropped 2.8
percent on the week to 6.1366 per dollar and 1.9 percent versus
to 8.2034 per euro.  Real, Koruna  Brazil’s real led declines among Latin American currencies
on concern the nation isn’t doing enough to curb a budget
deficit that swelled to the largest since 2009, prompting plans
by the government to eliminate tax breaks on consumer goods to
shore up public finances.  The currency dropped 2.6 percent this week to 2.3133 per
dollar, after sliding to the lowest level since Sept. 5.  “The fiscal problem is generating a lot of doubts,”
Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at BGC Liquidez DTVM in Sao
Paulo, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “And the focus
is also on what the Fed will do.”  The Czech koruna dropped the most among emerging-market
peers as the central bank began unlimited currency sales “for
as long as needed” to ease monetary policy and keep the
exchange rate near 27 per euro after inflation slowed to the
least in 3 1/2 years. Policy makers kept the benchmark interest
rate at what they call a “technical zero” of 0.05 percent.  The Czech currency fell 5.2 percent this week to 20.177 per
dollar and 4.3 percent to 26.973 against the shared currency.  Surprise Cut  The ECB’s decision to trim its rates on Nov. 7 to a record-low 0.25 percent was predicted only by analysts at Bank of
America Corp., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG among
70 surveyed by Bloomberg News. The remaining 67 called for no
change.  Pledging to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period,” ECB President Mario Draghi said weakening price
pressures justified the decision. Euro-area economic activity
should “benefit from a gradual strengthening of demand for
exports,” he said.  The rate cut “fits into our view that the inflation and
growth profile was going to push the ECB into more action
relative to the Federal Reserve,” Ian Gordon, a New York-based
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
which correctly predicted the move, said in a phone interview.
“That certainly creates an environment that the dollar will do
well.”  Net Longs  Hedge funds and other large speculators  reduced bets  the
euro will rise against the dollar the week ended Nov. 5, figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show. Futures traders were the most bullish on the common
currency since May 2011 in week ended Oct. 22.  The difference in the number of wagers by on a rise in the
euro versus those on a fall -- so-called net longs -- was
33,143, from 70,617 a week earlier.  The dollar jumped Nov. 7 as gross domestic product grew at
a 2.8 percent annualized rate in the third quarter, up from 2.5
percent in the previous three months, according to a Commerce
Department report. Economists forecast a 2 percent expansion.  The greenback extended the advance yesterday after payrolls
in the world’s biggest economy grew by 204,000 in October,
versus the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for a
120,000 gain, Labor Department figures showed.  ‘December Tapering’  The Fed will maintain the level of purchases at  $85 billion
of bonds  a month until March, according to the median estimate
of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey conducted Oct. 17-18. A
survey in September forecast the first reduction would be in
December.  “Markets will be starting to talk about December tapering
again,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“Expectation for this jobs report was subdued, but it was a
sizable surprise to the upside.”  The Fed’s next policy meeting is Dec. 17-18.  Europe’s single currency has gained 5.5 percent this year,
the best performer among 10 developed-market peers tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has fallen 10
percent, the biggest decliner, while the dollar has gained 4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  