-- Liverpool Beats Fulham in Premier League as Chelsea Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-09T19:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/liverpool-beats-fulham-in-premier-league-as-chelsea-steals-draw.html
Liverpool beat Fulham 4-0 to move
into second place in English soccer’s Premier League, as a late
disputed penalty kick earned Chelsea a 2-2 draw with West Brom.  Luis Suarez  scored twice as Liverpool pulled within two
points of first-place Arsenal, which plays  Manchester United (MANU) 
tomorrow.  Eden Hazard scored with a penalty on the last kick in
stoppage time to give Chelsea the home draw. Referee Andre Marriner awarded the spot kick after Ramires went down in the
area, drawing the anger of the West Brom players.  “I’m sure it was a penalty,” Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  told Sky Sports. “I watched it on TV from different
angles and it was a penalty.”  Norwich beat West Ham 3-1, Aston Villa beat Cardiff 2-0,
Southampton defeated Hull 4-1 and Crystal Palace drew 0-0 with
Everton.  Liverpool took the lead in the 23rd minute at Anfield as
Suarez’s header went in off Fernando Amorebieta for an own goal.
 Martin Skrtel  doubled the advantage in the 26th minute and
Suarez made it 3-0 before halftime.  Suarez then scored again in the 54th minute to tie teammate
 Daniel Sturridge  and Manchester City’s  Sergio Aguero  for the
league lead with eight.  Chelsea’s controversial draw prevented Mourinho from
suffering his first home league defeat in 66 games in charge.  Samuel Eto’o gave the Blues the lead just before halftime
before Shane Long and Stephane Sessegnon scored eight minutes
apart in the second half to put West Brom in front 2-1.  Controversial Draw  The Baggies were on the verge of their first league win at
Stamford Bridge since 1978 when Marriner ruled Ramires was
fouled by Steven Reid. West Brom players surrounded the referee
to complain before Hazard stepped up and converted the penalty.  “For me it was very soft,” Reid told  Sky Sports . “It was
shoulder-to-shoulder, there was contact but Ramires went to
ground very easily,” Reid told Sky Sports.  Southampton’s home win over Hull moved it above Chelsea
into third place, three points behind Arsenal. Morgan
Schneiderlein, Rickie Lambert, Adam Lallana and Steven Davis
scored as the Saints extended their unbeaten run in the league
to eight games.  Norwich rebounded from a 7-0 loss to Manchester City last
week by beating West Ham to move out of the three relegation
places at the bottom of the standings.  Gary Hooper , Robert Snodgrass and Leroy Fer scored in the second half as the
Canaries won for the first time in five league games.  Leandro Bacuna and Libor Kozak scored as Aston Villa beat
Cardiff to end a four-game goalless run in the league. Last-place Crystal Palace picked up its first point in eight games by
drawing at home with Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 