-- Navy Suspends Admirals’ Access to Classified Information
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/navy-suspends-admirals-access-to-classified-information.html
The U.S. Navy suspended access to
classified information for two of its top admirals handling
intelligence matters after putting them on leave this week
pending a review of allegations connected to a bribery
investigation.  The Navy yesterday suspended access for Vice Admiral Ted
Branch, director of naval intelligence, and Rear Admiral Bruce
Loveless, director of intelligence operations, according to Rear
Admiral John Kirby, the Navy’s chief spokesman.  “The suspension was deemed prudent given the sensitive
nature of their current duties and to protect and support the
integrity of the investigative process,” Kirby said in a
statement to  Bloomberg News .  The unspecified allegations stem from an investigation into
allegations of illegal and improper relations by Navy officials
with Leonard Glenn Francis, the chief executive officer of Glenn
Defense Marine ( Asia ), a Singapore-based provider of port
services for American ships in  Southeast Asia .  Three Navy officials have been charged with receiving
bribes, including cash and prostitutes, from the contractor.  “The allegations against Branch and Loveless involve
inappropriate conduct prior to their current assignments and
flag officer rank,” Kirby said. “There is no indication nor do
the allegations suggest, that in either case there was any
breach of classified information.”  “The allegations are just that, allegations,” Kirby said.
“Neither officer has been charged with any crime or violation.
Both retain their rank and security clearances. They are on
temporary leave.”  Supplying Ships  The questions involving Loveless concern his time as
intelligence officer on the USS  Blue Ridge  and those on Branch
concern a stint on the USS Nimitz, Kirby said in an interview.
He said he didn’t know the dates of service and that he didn’t
know how the admirals could be reached for comment.  Branch assumed his current post in July, and Loveless did
so in February.  Glenn Defense Marine provides hundreds of millions of
dollars in goods and services, including supplying food, water,
fuel, tugboats and trash removal for the Navy ships in at least
a dozen countries in Southeast Asia.  Francis, who was arrested in September in the bribery
scheme, and two other defendants have pleaded not guilty to the
allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  