-- Obama Urges Infrastructure Spending to Spur U.S. Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/obama-urges-infrastructure-spending-to-spur-u-s-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to put
aside turmoil with the rollout of the federal health insurance
marketplace by focusing on the billions of dollars in public
investments he says the U.S. needs to boost the economy.  Speaking yesterday at the Port of New Orleans, Obama urged
Congress to get past partisan battles and pass a budget that
increases spending on science, research and education, and
upgrades roads, bridges and ports.  “That creates jobs, it puts people to work,” he said.
These are “not partisan issues, they are American issues.”  Obama also prodded lawmakers to pass a farm bill and
immigration legislation, two items on his agenda that he has
said he wants finished by the end of the year.  Lawmakers are negotiating a budget deal before the current
spending authorization runs out Jan. 15.  Obama returned to economic matters after weeks of criticism
over a faulty start for the government website where Americans
can shop for health coverage and a wave of dissent from
Democrats as well as Republicans over cancellations of
individual insurance plans for hundreds of thousands of people.  The president briefly addressed the issues surrounding the
Affordable Health Care Act, the signature legislative
achievement of his first term, saying that the online portal
will be fixed and that ultimately most people will find more
comprehensive and more affordable insurance.  Job Growth  Obama spoke a few hours after the Labor Department reported
that American employers added 204,000 workers to payrolls in
October, more than economists projected. The growth occurred in
the same month as a 16-day partial government shutdown caused by
a standoff between the White House and congressional Republicans
over the budget and raising the federal debt ceiling.  Obama said  exports  can help drive future economic growth.
In 2010, the president announced an initiative to double U.S.
exports between 2009 to 2014, to $3.14 trillion. They totaled
$2.2 trillion last year.  The Port of  New Orleans , at the mouth of the  Mississippi
River , is the fifth largest U.S. port as measured by tonnage
handled, said Matthew Gresham, a spokesman for the New Orleans
Port Authority. The port’s cargo business generated about
160,000 jobs and $17 billion in spending statewide, a port
authority fact sheet said.  Exports through New Orleans have climbed by 140 percent
since 2009, the White House said in a statement.  Port Goods  Major products flowing through the port include steel,
rubber, coffee, containers, chemicals, metals, forest, farm and
manufactured goods. The port’s facilities serve an average of
1,800 vessels, and it has the world’s longest wharf that’s more
than two miles long.  The Obama administration is negotiating two new trade
agreements, one among Pacific nations, and the other with
European nations, that if approved would increase U.S. sales of
goods and services abroad, adding jobs.  To make the U.S. more competitive, Obama has proposed a $50
billion program for infrastructure spending to upgrade the
nation’s bridges, roads and ports.  He’s also proposed a “Fix It First” program that would
identify projects needing the most urgent upgrades. His push is
meant to lure additional private capital to help repair aging
public works projects.  Congress hasn’t taken any action on either proposal.  Miami Fundraisers  Obama later traveled to Miami to attend three fundraisers
to prepare for the 2014 midterm elections, one benefiting the
 Democratic National Committee  and two for the campaign arm of
Senate Democrats. He also raised money Nov. 6 in  Dallas .  Speaking at the home of Jorge Mas, a Cuban American
National Foundation leader and  chairman  of  MasTec Inc. (MTZ) , a
specialty contractor for communications companies, utilities and
governments throughout the U.S., Obama decried delays on an
overhaul of immigration law.  “It’s being held up because there’s a small faction in the
other party that’s decided ‘we don’t’ want to do anything, and
our main goal is obstruction,’” he said, referring to
Republicans affiliated with the Tea Party movement.  The president said he has “a whole drawer full of good
ideas” but “ultimately I’ve got to have a Congress that is
prepared to moved forward, work on those issues where we
agree.”  At a second fundraiser in Miami, hosted by Leslie Miller Saiontz, a philanthropist and real-estate investor, Obama
predicted that the  Republican Party  would soon face an
“adjustment period” in which it would move “back to reason
and common sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in New Orleans at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  