-- Obamacare Contraceptive Mandate Blocked by Appeals Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-11-09T05:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/obama-contraceptive-mandate-blocked-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
A requirement of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law that group insurance plans cover
contraceptives was ordered blocked by a federal appeals court,
the first such ban on enforcement of the mandate.  The 2-1 decision by a U.S. Court of Appeals panel in
Chicago increases the probability the U.S. Supreme Court may
seek to resolve conflicting lower-court rulings, though no
appeals court has made a definitive decision to throw out the
law.  The three-judge panel yesterday reversed lower-court judges
in Illinois and  Indiana , telling them to stay the contraception
coverage requirement contained in the 2010 Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act while the challenges proceed. The cases
were filed separately by two Catholic families and the
businesses they run.  “These cases -- two among many currently pending in courts
around the country -- raise important questions about whether
business owners and their closely held corporations may assert a
religious objection to the contraception mandate and whether
forcing them to provide this coverage substantially burdens
their religious-exercise rights,” U.S. Circuit Judge Diane Sykes wrote in the majority opinion.  Last week, an appeals panel in  Washington  ruled the
contraceptives mandate may violate religious freedom, as did an
appeals court in Denver previously. Federal appeals courts in
Philadelphia and Cincinnati have upheld the law.  Supreme Court  The Obama administration has asked the Supreme Court to
review the Denver decision. Losing plaintiffs in the
Philadelphia and Cincinnati appeals also petitioned the high
court for review.  While the Chicago appellate panel didn’t render a final
decision on whether the requirement violates U.S. Constitutional
guarantees of religious freedom or the federal Religious Freedom
Restoration Act, it ruled that compelling the companies to
comply with the requirement “substantially burdens their
religious exercise rights.”  Joining Sykes, who was appointed to the court by Republican
President George W. Bush in 2004, was U.S. Circuit Judge Joel Flaum, a 1983 appointee of Republican Ronald Reagan.  Ilana Diamond Rovner, the dissenting judge, was named to
the court by President George H.W. Bush in 1992.  ‘Remarkable’ Ruling  “The court’s holding in these cases is as remarkable for
its reasoning as for its result,” Rovner wrote. “In the name
free exercise of religion, the court has relieved two secular
corporations from a statutory obligation to provide health
insurance to their employees that includes coverage of
contraceptive care for the companies’ female employees.”  Employees’ choice to use contraceptives may be inconsistent
with the owners’ religious beliefs, Rovner said, “but it is not
the owners’ choice.” She concluded the requirement doesn’t
burden their religious freedom.  Adora Jenkins, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, didn’t immediately respond to a call after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the order.  “This decision is a disappointment,” Louise Melling,
deputy legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union,
said in an e-mailed statement. The organization said it filed a
friend-of-the-court brief in the case. “Your boss shouldn’t be
able to discriminate against you because of what he or she
believes, plain and simple. People are entitled to their own
religious beliefs, but they don’t have the right to impose those
views on others.”  Company, Owners  The decision is the first appeals court ruling in favor of
both a company and its owners, said Edward L. White III, a
lawyer who represented Highland, Illinois-based Korte &
Luitjohan Contractors Inc. and its principals, Cyril and Jane
Korte. That’s important because it makes clear that either the
owners or the company can sue over the mandate, he said.  “This is an important issue to people who run these small
companies and are dictated by their faith in how they should run
the company,” White said in a phone interview.  The Supreme Court will take up the case because “you have
a conflict on an important national issue,” White said. “We’re
overjoyed.”  During arguments before the appeals court on May 22, White
said his clients owned 88 percent of their 50-year-old business
and set its policies. Most of their decisions are made at the
kitchen table, he said.  Owners’ Beliefs  “The company is an extension of their beliefs,” White
said. “The company is them.”  Justice Department attorney Alisa Klein challenged that
assertion, telling the panel that the Religion Freedom
Restoration Act didn’t alter the basic legal principle that
corporations are distinct from their owners, a distinction she
said the plaintiffs sought to blur.  “I understand the temptation to do it, but it’s wrong,”
Klein said.  Matthew Bowman, a lawyer for Madison, Indiana-based Grote
Industries Inc. and its family owners, told the panel that
“separation between corporations and their owners for some
purposes doesn’t mean separation for all purposes.”  The cases are Korte v. Sebelius, 12-3841, and Grote v.
Sebelius, 13-1077, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  