-- Obama Seeking Fix for Health Insurance Cancellations
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/obama-seeking-fix-for-health-insurance-cancellations.html
President  Barack Obama  has directed
his aides to pursue “administrative solutions” that would halt
the cancellations of individual insurance policies that are
resulting from his health-care law.  “The president did acknowledge that there are some gaps in
the law that need to be repaired,” White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters traveling with Obama yesterday to an
event in  Louisiana , a day after the president said he’s
“sorry” some people are getting cancellation letters from
insurers.  White House staff members met at the Capitol yesterday with
representatives of top House Democrats to present ideas for
changes that wouldn’t require legislation, according to a
leadership aide, who asked not to be identified because the
meeting was private.  Obama and his allies are acting to head off legislative
action to alter the Affordable Care Act, the president’s
signature domestic achievement. The Republican-controlled House
is poised to vote next week on a measure that would allow
health-care plans currently available to continue into next year
without penalty. Two Democratic senators,  Mary Landrieu  of
Louisiana and  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia , also have made
proposals to address signup delays and canceled policies.  Political Concerns  Last month’s faulty rollout of the federal website designed
to enable Americans to shop for coverage and revelations that
hundreds of thousands of people received cancellation notices
from insurers have driven down Obama’s approval ratings and
given ammunition to Republicans opposed to the law.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
yesterday subpoenaed the Obama administration’s technology chief
to testify before the panel on Nov. 13 about the website’s
troubles.  U.S. Chief Technology Officer Todd Park is “the only
invited witness who remains unwilling to appear voluntarily,”
Issa said in a letter to Park released by the panel.  The technical failures and cancellations have also sparked
an outcry among some Democratic lawmakers who are up for re-election next year and face the prospect that their Republican
opponents will use them as campaign issues.  The  National Republican Congressional Committee , the House
Republicans’ campaign arm, is targeting Democrats, urging them
to apologize for problems with the health-care law. A release
titled “It’s Your Turn to Apologize” went out to dozens of
Democratic districts, including those represented by Ron Barber
of  Arizona , Nick Rahall of West Virginia, Joe Garcia of  Florida 
and Jim Himes of  Connecticut .  Changes Urged  Obama’s allies are pushing the White House to make changes,
including delaying penalties and extending the enrollment period
for the insurance policies. Those kinds of fixes could give
Democrats in vulnerable seats a way to acknowledge the problems
with the law without undermining one of their party’s major
achievements.  The law requires all Americans to be covered next year or
pay a penalty. Those who want plans that begin Jan. 1 must
enroll by Dec. 15 -- by mail, phone or through the federal or
state-run exchanges. Many of the plans being canceled don’t meet
the coverage requirements under the law and have been changed by
insurers since the law took effect in 2010.  “The president has said for years now that he is open to
working with members of Congress that have a legitimate interest
in trying to strengthen the Affordable Care Act,” Earnest said,
adding that the White House prefers executive solutions to
congressional legislation.  Obama’s Apology  Obama’s pledge that individuals would be able to keep their
coverage and their doctors was a central selling point of his
health-care overhaul, aimed at calming consumers concerned that
they would be forced to give up policies and doctors they liked
as the program expanded coverage to many of the nation’s 48
million uninsured.  In his apology to Americans who are losing coverage as a
result of the law, Obama said he’s “sorry that they are finding
themselves in this situation based on assurances they got from
me.”  Speaking in a Nov. 7  interview  with NBC News at the White
House, the president said, “We’ve got to work hard to make sure
that they know we hear them and we are going to do everything we
can to deal with folks who find themselves in a tough position
as a consequence of this.”  ‘Truly Sorry’  Republicans seized on the president’s remarks and
criticized him for not supporting legislation they have pushed
that would allow Americans to keep their current plans.  “If the president is truly sorry for breaking his promises
to the American people, he’ll do more than just issue a half-hearted apology on TV,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
a Kentucky Republican, said in a Nov. 7 statement.  Speaking to NBC, Obama asked voters to judge the law based
on the final results -- not the technical issues many have faced
during the enrollment period.  “When you try to do something big like make our health-care system better, there are going to be problems along the
way,” he said. “I hope that people will look at the end
product.”  Obama previously accused his critics of being “grossly
misleading” about how the law works and said those people being
thrown off plans that don’t meet the law’s standards will be
getting better insurance coverage.  Cancellation Notices  Yet, administration officials knew by June 2010 that as
many as 10 million people with individual insurance probably
would be thrown off existing plans. The cancellations are a
result of provisions in the act, which Obama signed into law in
March 2010, that say policies that fail to offer benefits such
as prescription drug coverage and free preventive care can’t be
sold after this year even if they’re cheaper.  As cancellation notices began arriving last month, White
House officials argued that just 5 percent of the population is
affected, and that insurance company practices, not the law,
were to blame.  “In this transition, there are going to be folks who get a
cancellation letter,” Obama said in the interview. “We have to
make sure that they are not feeling as if they’ve been betrayed
by an effort that is designed to help them.”  The president invited Landrieu and 14 other Democratic
senators facing re-election to a two-hour White House meeting on
Nov. 6 to air their complaints. Landrieu also accompanied Obama
on his trip to  New Orleans .  During a speech yesterday in New Orleans, Obama defended
the law and didn’t directly address the coverage issues. He said
he expected critics to continue attacking it “until it’s
working really well, then they’re going to stop calling it
Obamacare.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  