-- Top Diplomats Grapple With Iran Over Half-Built Nuclear Reactor
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-11-09T14:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/top-diplomats-grapple-with-iran-over-half-built-nuclear-reactor.html
Envoys from  Iran  and world powers,
seeking to break a decade-long diplomatic deadlock, grappled
over a partly built reactor that could be configured to produce
plutonium for nuclear weapons.  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said that Iran’s
reluctance to suspend construction of its Arak heavy-water
reactor remained one sticking point along with reducing
stockpiles of 20 percent enriched uranium. A Western diplomat
who asked not to be named because the negotiations are delicate
said the U.S., the European Union and Iran have worked for
months on a proposal and the French objections were overdone.  The Chinese and Russian foreign ministers were due to join
their French, German, U.K. and U.S. counterparts in Geneva for a
third day of talks today, where negotiators were aiming to
complete an accord over  Iran’s nuclear program . Iran’s Deputy
Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi told reporters that negotiations
will be postponed to a future round unless a deal is reached
tonight, the state-run Fars news agency said.  “We are still not there,” Fabius told reporters in Geneva
today. Without an Iranian pledge to stop work at the partially
built Arak reactor, from which plutonium can be extracted and
used for bomb-grade material, “we’ll be faced with a fait
accompli,” he said in an interview with  France  Inter radio.
“We want an agreement, but not a fool’s bargain.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  resumed talks this
afternoon with Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif and
the EU’s foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  after more than
six hours of talks yesterday. The Iranian foreign ministry said
the U.K. and  Germany  are supporting the talks, according to
Iran’s Mehr news agency.  Lifting Sanctions  While talks have yielded compromises on both sides,
diplomats are still struggling to end the deadlock over the
suspected pursuit of weapons of mass destruction that has cast
the specter of another Middle Eastern war. Iran has said it
needs atomic power for energy and medical research, and that
it’s willing to limit the size and scope of nuclear activities
that may lead to weapons. World powers are offering to lift some
sanctions in return.  The Arak reactor “represents a long-term proliferation
risk not a near-term risk,”  Daryl Kimball , executive director
of the Washington-based Arms Control Association, said today by
e-mail. “France and the other P5+1 powers would be making a
mistake if they hold up an interim deal that addresses more
urgent proliferation risks over the final arrangements regarding
Arak.”  Arak Monitoring  Nuclear weapons can be made with highly enriched uranium,
which Iran is already capable of producing, or plutonium
extracted from spent-fuel used in reactors like Arak.  Iran has told United Nations monitors that it would
postpone operation of the heavy-water reactor in Arak. At
technical discussions in Vienna last week, it wouldn’t agree to
shutter or convert the plutonium-producing facility to a light-water reactor, according to a Western diplomat who asked not to
be identified because of the talks’ sensitivity.  “Any reactor of that particular type is a serious
concern,” said  Robert Kelley , a U.S. nuclear engineer who led
UN investigations of  Iraq ’s nuclear program. At the same time,
the facility can be adequately monitored and Iran hasn’t shown
any intent to extract plutonium, meaning “Arak is not an
immediate threat,” he said.  The objective of this negotiating round was an accord that
would serve as a first step toward a comprehensive agreement.
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  sent a message of support
on Twitter late yesterday praising Iran’s negotiators, who have
been criticized by conservatives at home for conceding too much.  ‘Important Gaps’  Kerry tempered expectations on his arrival, saying there
were still “important gaps that have to be closed.”  That message was relayed again today by Britain and
Germany. While making “very good progress,” any accord “has
to be detailed, it has to be exhaustive, it has to be quite
painstakingly arrived at,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
told reporters. “And therefore it is not surprising that there
are detailed negotiations and that they may need to go on for
some time.”  Kerry traveled to Geneva from  Israel , where he’d met Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , one of the most outspoken critics
of the recent diplomacy with Iran.  Netanyahu, who said yesterday that he “utterly rejects”
any agreement that may emerge in Geneva, insists that Iran’s
nuclear program must be dismantled in full. Iran is willing to
limit the “size, scope and dimensions” of  uranium enrichment 
without bringing it to a complete halt, Araghchi said.  The presence of so many top foreign officials may still
signal that a deal is possible.  “Foreign ministers don’t show up to be embarrassed,” said
Jim Walsh, a security analyst at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  in Cambridge, who has traveled to Iran for talks with
nuclear officials. “They’re in town because they’re close
enough to a deal to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in Geneva at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  