-- Priebus Predicts Immigration Action Before 2014 Elections
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/priebus-predicts-immigration-action-before-2014-elections.html
The Republican-run House of
Representatives will enact some major revision of U.S.
immigration laws within the next year, Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said.  “Something significant is going to happen” on
immigration, Priebus said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend. “Most people would agree that something significant
needs to take place. Now what that is, I don’t get to make that
decision.”  President  Barack Obama  is urging the House to approve a
revamp of immigration laws that the Democratic-led Senate passed
in June with bipartisan support. House Republicans leaders are
resisting that proposal, which would offer a path to citizenship
for an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants already
living in the U.S.  A report commissioned by the RNC after 2012 election losses
encouraged the party to boost its voter engagement among racial
and ethnic minorities including Hispanics, who supported Obama’s
re-election with 71 percent of their vote, according to national
exit polls. Republicans within Congress advocating a revision of
immigration laws contend that it will be necessary to compete
with Democrats in the 2016 presidential election.  “It can happen,” Priebus said, explaining that some
Republicans including House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan of
 Wisconsin  “still want something like that to happen.”  Christie’s Promise  Republican Governor Chris Christie of New Jersey, who was
re-elected Nov. 5 with more than 60 percent of the vote, and
Republican Governor Scott Walker of Wisconsin exemplify a
“special kind of candidate” who “makes a promise and keeps a
promise,” Priebus said in the interview.  “He’s certainly going to be a prominent figure in our
party moving forward,” Priebus said of Christie, who is
weighing a 2016 presidential campaign and will lead political
and fundraising efforts to elect Republican governors in the
2014 midterm congressional elections.  Priebus defended his party’s effort in the Nov. 5
governor’s race in Virginia, where Republican state Attorney
General Ken Cuccinelli lost to former Democratic National
Committee chairman Terry McAuliffe by 48 percent to 45 percent.
McAuliffe’s win marked the first time in 40 years that the party
controlling the White House won the  Virginia  governor’s
election.  There were “a lot of reasons” Cuccinelli lost, though
Republicans organized and funded a “phenomenal ground game”
that identified and turned out Republican voters, Priebus said.
Cuccinelli closed the gap with McAuliffe in the final days of
the campaign as Republicans highlighted problems with the
implementation of Obama’s health-care law, Priebus said.  Obamacare’s Role  “You can talk about all kinds of issues and tactics, but
ultimately I think that if there was a few more days I think Ken
would have won,” Priebus said.  About 46 percent of Virginia voters said they support the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that Obama won in
2010 with a goal of insuring millions of Americans lacking
coverage, compared with 53 percent who said they oppose the law,
according to an exit poll of Virginia voters.  A 16-day partial government shutdown last month probably
hurt Cuccinelli’s campaign in a state that includes more than
172,000 federal civilian workers, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau, one of the highest concentrations per capita in the
nation. The agreement ending the fiscal impasse funds the
government through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspended the nation’s
$16.7 trillion  debt  limit until Feb. 7.  “Certainly I don’t think a shutdown is smart for us to go
through that again,” Priebus said. “I wouldn’t want to see
that.”  Younger Voters  In addition to immigration, the House’s Republicans face
another conflict with the Senate, which approved a measure
prohibiting most employers from firing, demoting or refusing to
hire workers because of their sexual orientation on a 64-32 vote
this week, with 10 Republicans joining Democrats.  For many young voters, gay-rights issues “are a gateway”
into whether the Republican Party “is a place they want to
be,” according to the RNC report, formally known as the Growth
and Opportunity Project.  Asked if a failure to enact the gay-rights bill would
affect the Republican Party’s standing with young voters,
Priebus said, “I don’t think so in particular.”  Republicans are “doing pretty well with young voters” who
are helping drive a “libertarian movement that’s sweeping
across college campuses,” Priebus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  