-- Treasuries Decline Most in 2 Months as Jobs Gain Fuels Fed Views
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-11-09T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/treasuries-decline-most-in-2-months-as-jobs-gain-fuels-fed-views.html
Treasuries fell the most in two
months as reports showed the economy expanded in the third
quarter beyond projections and added more jobs in October than
forecast, boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve  is moving
closer to a reduction of its $85 billion of monthly bond-buying.  Benchmark 10-year yields reached the highest level in seven
weeks yesterday after payrolls grew by 204,000 in October versus
the 120,000 median forecast of 91 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  U.S. debt  rallied Oct. 7 after the  European Central Bank 
cut its benchmark interest rate to a record to address prolonged
price weakness. Treasury will auction $70 billion of notes and
bonds next week.  “The Fed’s accommodation and the possibility of a taper
comes right back up to the center of the market’s thinking,”
said  Kevin Giddis , head of fixed income in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
at Raymond James & Associates Inc. “We believed this was a
March event and now you’ve got to put it on the table for
December. It puts pressure on the auctions next week.”  The benchmark U.S.  10-year yield  rose 13 basis points this
week, or 0.13 percentage point, to 2.75 percent in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The price of the 2.5 percent
note due August 2023 lost 1 2/32, or $10.63 per $1,000 face
amount, to 97 28/32.  Yield Levels  The yield rose the most yesterday since July 5 on the way
to the largest weekly move since the week ending on Sept. 6. The
yield was at almost the three-month average of 2.71 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
net-short position in 10-year note futures to the most since
April 2012, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative short positions, or bets prices
will fall, outnumbered long positions by 189,188 contracts on
the Chicago Board of Trade in the week ending Nov. 5.  The benchmark notes are at their cheapest level since Sept.
23, based on the 0.31 percent level on the so-called term
premium, a  valuation model  used by the Fed that is calculated by
using  interest-rate  expectations, economic growth and inflation.
The gauge has averaged negative 0.04 percent this year,
indicating the securities were overvalued. The security is
considered at fair value at a term-premium level between 25
basis points to 75 basis points.  The  difference  between yields on two-year notes and 30-year
bonds widened to 3.54 percentage points yesterday, the most
since August. Historically, a steeper so-called yield curve
reflects investors anticipating faster economic growth.  Growth Measure  U.S. gross domestic product grew at an annualized 2.8
percent rate in the third quarter, exceeding forecasts for a 2
percent gain, the Commerce Department reported Nov. 7. The
report along with yesterday’s payroll’s numbers, increased
speculation the U.S. will be cutting back on stimulus as the ECB
looks to intensify its accommodative policies.  “If the payrolls start to crank up, the market is going to
be getting ready for the future action of the Fed,” said
 William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio manager who helps
oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management Inc., in a
telephone interview from Salem,  Massachusetts . “We’re going to
be data dependent, which means economic releases will have a
heavy weight in market direction. There will be a lot more
volatility as people trade out of positions.”  Yields rose after the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
Oct. 30 that the economy showed signs of “underlying strength”
even as policy makers agreed to continue the monthly bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing.  Fed Outlook  Traders are pricing in a 22.4 percent probability that the
Fed will raise its benchmark overnight rate by its January 2015
meeting, down from a 70.7 percent likelihood on Sept. 5, the day
before the August payroll data was released. The Fed has kept
its target rate unchanged at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  “The market’s going to price in an earlier, versus late
first quarter/early second quarter, taper,” said Richard Schlanger, who helps invest $20 billion in fixed-income
securities as vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .
“This was an October surprise,” he said, referring to the
payrolls report.  The ECB cut it interest rate target to 0.25 percent,
leaving just one more quarter-point cut left before reaching
zero, increasing the likelihood of unconventional tools such as
quantitative easing or a negative deposit rate if prices slow
further or the economic recovery stalls. Euro-area inflation is
less than half the ECB’s target and unemployment is at the
highest level since the currency bloc was formed in 1999.  Economic Reading  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S.
nonmanufacturing index increased to 55.4 in October, exceeding
forecasts for 54 reading and up from 54.4 the prior month, a
report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed Nov. 5. A
report Nov. 1 showed Institute for Supply Management’s factory
index rose to 56.4 in October, the highest since April 2011,
from 56.2 a month earlier.  “Resilient is the word that comes to mind in regards to
the economy,” said Paul Montaquila, fixed-income investment
officer with BNP Paribas SA’s Bank of the West. “The proof is
in the pudding that the shutdown didn’t really affect the
number.”  The Treasury Department is scheduled to auction $30 billion
in three-year notes Nov. 12, $24 billion in 10-year notes on
Nov. 13 and $16 billion in 30-year bonds on Nov 14. The sales
will raise $6.5 billion of new cash as maturing securities total
$63.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  