-- Revel in Atlantic City Mulls Sale 6 Months After Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/revel-casino-in-atlantic-city-to-explore-possible-sale-1-.html
Revel AC Inc. said it’s exploring
strategic options, such as a possible sale, and restructuring
its loans, six months after the $2.6 billion  Atlantic City 
casino emerged from bankruptcy.  The New Jersey casino, owned by investors who took over in
May, hasn’t decided on any specific deal and can’t be certain
one will occur, according to a statement yesterday. The company
also said it obtained $75 million in additional financing.  Once owned by Morgan Stanley, the Revel Casino Hotel opened
last year with the New Jersey resort city’s casinos in a
downward spiral, buffeted by competition from neighboring
states, the lingering effects of nationwide drop in gambling and
later  hurricane Sandy . Revel filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
protection in March, 11 months after opening.  Atlantic City has seen casino revenue shrink 40 percent
over the past six years as neighboring states expanded their
gambling offerings. The parent of the Atlantic Club Casino
Hotel, formerly the Atlantic City Hilton, filed for bankruptcy
court protection on Nov. 6.  Revel said yesterday it doubled the size its first-lien
credit agreement to $150 million. Proceeds will be used to pay
off a $58 million revolving loan and for working capital.  The casino has retained Moelis & Co. as its financial
adviser and White & Case LLP as counsel.  Through six months of 2013, Revel registered an operating
loss of $81.7 million on revenue of $81 million, according to
information  filed  with the state.  Atlantic City’s  casino revenue  fell 9.3 percent to $2.2
billion in the first nine months of this year, according to the
New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement. Revel ranked eighth
among the city’s 12 casinos in terms of gambling revenue in
September, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , re-elected to a second
term this week, jump-started the stalled construction of Revel
in February 2011 with a pledge of as much as $261 million in
state aid. In 2010 he formed a state panel to take over Atlantic
City’s casino district as part of an effort to revive the area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  