-- Venezuela’s Maduro Orders Occupation of Electronics Store
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-11-09T01:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/venezuela-s-maduro-orders-occupation-of-electronics-store.html
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro
today ordered the occupation of a national chain of electronic
stores called Daka as he seeks to battle record inflation and
shortages of  consumer goods .  Maduro, who said he’s taking action against price
speculators waging an “economic war” against his government,
said the retailer was selling consumer goods far above prices
charged by a government program that provides subsidized
household appliances and electronics.  “I have ordered the immediate occupation of that chain of
stores and the sale of goods at a fair price. Let’s not leave
anything on the shelves, nothing in the warehouses. Enough,
enough,” Maduro said.  Venezuela’s annual inflation rate rose more than expected
to 54.3 percent last month, the fastest pace in as many as 16
years, as the scarcity index, which measures the amount of goods
out of stock at any given time, reached 22.4 percent, the
highest level since January 2008. Maduro said on Nov. 6 that the
country would increase currency and price regulations to combat
rising inflation and the decline of the bolivar on the black
market.  The country, which devalued the bolivar by 32 percent in
February to 6.3 per dollar, has been unable to arrest the
decline of the bolivar on the black market, where companies and
individuals unable to access the official rate pay around 60
bolivars per dollar.  Seized Energy  Daka, which on its website says says its largest the
electronics chain in  Venezuela , has five stores in the country
and 500 employees. The company will have to sell goods at prices
used at the start of October, Indepabis consumer agency
president Eduardo Saman said today on state television from the
Daka store in the Caracas neighborhood of Bello Monte.  Venezuelan state television showed images of military
officials in a Caracas Daka inspecting prices of 32-inch flat
screen televisions.  Maduro said that store managers had been arrested and were
being held by the country’s security services. He did not
provide additional information or say how many people had been
detained. Calls placed to Daka after business hours today went
unanswered.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state oil company, last
month seized about $1 million worth of equipment from Houston-based  Superior Energy Services Inc. (SPN)  Former President  Hugo Chavez , who died from an undisclosed type of cancer, seized more
than 1,000 companies or their assets during his 14 years in
office.  Venezuela will also review three e-commerce websites
including MercadoLibre.com as part of efforts to combat price
speculation, Maduro said Nov. 6, also naming TuCarro.com and
TuInmueble.com, which sell cars and real estate, respectively.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  