-- Hypo Alpe-Adria Says Austria Must Inject Fresh Funds This Month
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-11-09T00:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/hypo-alpe-adria-says-austria-must-inject-fresh-funds-this-month.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, a nationalized Austrian lender, said it will drop below
legal capital requirements by the end of November and has
started talks to get new funds from the government.  The bank determined the shortfall based on its current
capital projections and its expectations for the full year, it
said in a statement late yesterday, without elaborating. The
company got 700 million euros ($936 million) from the Austrian
government in September after reporting an 860 million-euro loss
in the first six months of the year.  Hypo Alpe “is in final talks with its owner to ensure it
meets regulatory capital requirements through appropriate
measures” that comply with European Union rules for state aid,
the Klagenfurt-based bank said.  Hypo Alpe, nationalized in 2009 when it was owned by
 Germany ’s Bayerische Landesbank, has been one of the most costly
bank failures of recent years for Austrian taxpayers. The
European Union told the country in September to sell the bank’s
good assets and start winding down the bad ones by 2015 in
return for allowing as much as 8 billion euros in aid.  The bank, whose main business is in the former  Yugoslavia ,
may need as much as 1.3 billion euros in capital this year,
Austrian newspaper Der Standard reported earlier, citing
unidentified people close to the government. Hypo Alpe spokesman
Nikola Donig declined to comment on the number.  Wind Down  In addition to the short-term capital needs, the government
in Vienna will have to decide next month at the latest whether
to add as much as 19 billion euros of Hypo Alpe’s liabilities to
its existing borrowings to wind down the bank, as ordered by the
EU. That would push Austria’s debt to more than 80 percent of
its economic output, a level that might trigger cuts to its
investment-grade credit rating.  Austria lost its top AAA rating at Standard & Poor’s in
January last year together with  France , mostly because the
ratings company saw its banking industry’s worsening assets as a
“contingent liability.”  How to deal with Hypo Alpe is an important part of the
negotiations between the two major Austrian parties on forming a
government after Sept. 29 elections.  The government’s long-term budget plan is off track, said
Karl Aiginger, the head of the government-sponsored Wifo
research institute, in an interview with Austrian state
broadcaster ORF yesterday. He cited the additional aid for the
lender, which isn’t budgeted, as well as underestimated pension
subsidies and overestimated tax revenues.  The new government may face an annual shortfall on its
long-term budget plan of as much as 8 billion euros, or 2.6
percent of gross domestic product, through 2018, Aiginger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  