-- Hyundai Motor Union Returns Moderate Former Leader to Office
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-11-09T02:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-09/hyundai-motor-union-returns-moderate-former-leader-to-office.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  workers returned to
office a former union leader seen as more moderate than the
incumbent, who led strikes that caused record annual production
losses at South Korea’s  largest automaker .  Lee Kyung Hoon, 52, was backed by 52 percent of the 47,000-member union in a vote on Nov. 8, defeating Ha Bu Young, 53,
according to the union’s website.  Lee will replace Moon Yong Moon, whose leadership over the
past two years came to be considered a sign of resurgent
militancy at South Korean labor unions amid a shift of
production overseas. Hyundai Motor, which has suffered strikes
in 22 of the past 26 years, had its longest stretch of
uninterrupted production during Lee’s previous term, from 2009
to 2011.  “Hyundai’s biggest threat and risk has been its union in
 Korea , which would go on strike almost every year,” Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co., said by
phone. “Lee winning the election will be a relief for
investors.”  The Seoul-based carmaker has lost production of more than
1.3 million vehicles valued at 16 trillion won ($15 billion) due
to strikes since the union’s formation in 1987, according to
company estimates. Past worker protests have led to clashes
between police and unionists armed with steel pipes and Molotov
cocktails.  Hyundai, which has suffered strikes in all but four years
since its formation, lost output of more than 215,000 vehicles
equivalent to 4.4 trillion won of sales due to stoppages during
Moon’s term.  Reducing Shifts  Nationwide, the number of work days lost due to labor
disputes more than doubled last year from two years earlier,
according to data from the Ministry of Employment and Labor.  Lee, who joined Hyundai in 1986, has promised to cut
working hours to 40 a week for all employees by reducing
afternoon shifts by an hour, increase base salaries and bonuses,
eliminate conditions for employees to keep working until the age
of 60, and to have the company distribute 60 shares to each
worker, according to his campaign  website .  Hyundai’s profit for the three months ended Sept. 30
increased for the first time in four quarters, climbing 5.6
percent from a year earlier to 2.14 trillion won, the company
said Oct. 24. Rising sales in  emerging markets  including  China ,
where deliveries jumped 15 percent, helped cushion the fallout
from a three-week strike at Hyundai’s South Korean plants that
began Aug. 20.  Challenges Overseas  Hyundai’s South Korean workers approved a wage agreement on
Sept. 9 that raised annual pay by 28.8 million won per worker,
including an average increase in base salaries of 5.1 percent,
according to the union. The pact will expire after one year.  The automaker faces mounting challenges overseas as a
strong won, which has gained about 28 percent against the yen in
the past year, hurts its competitiveness against Japanese
manufacturers in markets including the U.S.  Hyundai  fell  2.2 percent to 248,500 won at the close in
Seoul trading yesterday, compared with a decline of 1 percent
for  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index. The shares have climbed
14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  