-- ‘Military First’ for North Korea May See Submarines as Top Risk for South
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2011-12-22T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/-military-first-for-north-korea-may-see-submarines-as-top-risk-for-south.html
North Korea ’s mini-submarines and
Soviet-era artillery may pose a greater threat to  Asia  than its
nuclear program as Kim Jong Un seeks to cement support among
generals three times his age in the world’s fourth-largest army.  While questions remain over whether Kim will inherit his
deceased father Kim Jong Il’s control of the totalitarian state,
he heads a country whose so-called military-first policy has
kept it on combat alert since the Korean War ended in 1953. It
terms a trade embargo over its nuclear weapons program “vicious
sanctions of the enemy,” and has repeatedly assaulted the South.  “We’re still some ways away from North  Korea  being able to
point a nuclear weapon at someone in any meaningful way,”
Alexander von Rosenbach, U.K.-based senior analyst of armed
forces at IHS Jane’s, said by phone. “There is a risk of a
surprise attack to bolster the regime’s credentials.”  Strikes last year that killed 50 South Koreans demonstrate
the risks posed by more than 250 long-range artillery
installations along the world’s most fortified border in reach
of the  Seoul  area and its 23 million citizens. The U.S.,  China ,
South Korea, Russia and Japan have failed to convince the regime
to drop its nuclear-weapons program in eight years of talks.  Global Consequences  “North Korea’s military forces retain the capability to
inflict lethal, considerable disruption to the ROK with
significant corresponding regional and global economic and
security consequences,” U.S. Forces Korea said in a  report  last
year, referring to South Korea. “North Korean forces are
postured to conduct limited attacks or kinetic provocations
against the Alliance, with little or no warning.”  Last year, North Korea shelled an island in the  Yellow Sea ,
killing four South Koreans, and was blamed by an international
panel for sinking the Cheonan warship, in which 46 sailors died.
North Korea has one of the world’s largest fleets and more than
30 guided-missile patrol boats, according to a  2007 paper  from
the U.S. Army War College’s Strategic Studies Institute.  While North Korea has twice detonated a nuclear device, the
country doesn’t have the technology to deploy one, said analysts
including retired U.S. Admiral  Bill Owens , a former vice
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who has lived in Beijing
and  Hong Kong  for the past five years.  “I don’t think they have the ability to deliver a nuclear
weapon,” Owens said in a telephone interview.  Birth From War  North Korea is a legacy of World War II, which ended
 Japan ’s occupation of the Korean peninsula, and the  Cold War .
The Japanese surrendered to U.S. forces in the south and to
Soviet troops in the north. The  Soviet Union  then installed an
anti-Japanese guerrilla leader,  Kim Il Sung , as head of North
Korea. Kim invaded the South in June 1950, starting a war that
ended three years later without a peace treaty.  Before his death in 1994, Kim authorized operations that
included a 1983 assassination attempt on South Korean President
Chun Doo-hwan in Myanmar that killed more than 20 people, the
bombing of a Korean Air flight that killed all 115 on board, and
the kidnapping of at least 13 Japanese to serve as language
teachers for North Korean spies.  Kim Jong Il succeeded his father and stepped up the
country’s missile and nuclear-weapons development, while
continuing provocations against  South Korea .  ‘Lot of Harm’  The history of attacks “shows a lot of potential for
causing damage, particularly if they aren’t concerned about the
international consequences of their actions,” said Richard
Bitzinger, senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies in  Singapore . “They haven’t really got a
high-tech army overall, but that doesn’t mean it can’t cause a
lot of harm.”  North Korea is estimated to have 1.2 million troops and
another 7.7 million in reserve, according South Korea’s 2010
Defense White Paper. It also has 70 submarines, including an
undetermined number of Yeono-class midget subs, compared with
South Korea’s 10.  The Kim regime allocates a third of its budget to maintain
1,700 aircraft, 800 naval vessels and more than 13,000 artillery
systems, according to the American military, which has 28,500
troops in South Korea. The U.S. estimates that the Pyongyang
government has enough plutonium for a half-dozen nuclear devices
and sells ballistic missiles for cash.  Land Mines   The 4 kilometer (2.5 mile) wide, 248 kilometer-long
demilitarized zone is sown with a million land mines. The waters
off the coast near the border are claimed by both sides and any
military provocations from North Korea would probably revolve
around such disputes, said Gary Li, head of marine and aviation
forecasting at Exclusive Analysis Ltd., a London-based business
advisory firm.  “The submarine force would be a likely candidate for any
action,” Li said. “It would remain covert and you can deny
responsibilities. They have the advantage of telling their own
people one thing and telling the world another because they can
keep the two separate.”  Kim Jong Un, thought to be in his late 20s, was made a
four-star general last year and promoted to a senior position in
the Workers’ Party of Korea. He hasn’t taken his father’s place
as head of the National Defense Commission, a position
designated as the “supreme leader” of the country, according
to its  constitution .  Kim Jong Il , who state media said died of a
heart attack on Dec. 17, took three years after his father
passed away before assuming the country’s highest posts.  Low Morale  North Korea’s capabilities are limited by obsolete weapons,
low morale among soldiers, reduced training and issues with
command control, Dennis C. Blair, then director of National
Intelligence, said in a  2010 annual threat assessment .  “Pyongyang relies on its nuclear program to deter external
attacks on the state and to its regime,” Blair said. “Although
there are other reasons for the North to pursue its nuclear
program, redressing conventional weaknesses is a major factor
and one that Kim and his likely successors will not easily
dismiss.”  North Korea, which conducted nuclear test explosions in
2006 and 2009, said Nov. 30 that construction on a light-water
atomic reactor and production of low-enriched uranium is
“progressing apace.” While work is nearly complete on the
outside walls of the building, the plant may not be operational
for two or three years, according to an analysis of satellite
photos on former U.S. nuclear negotiator Joel Wit’s website,
 38North.org .  U.S. Targets  No public information can verify that North Korea possess
operational nuclear weapons, according to the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute. North Korea wants to
develop ballistic missiles capable of hitting targets in the
continental U.S., according to the Pentagon.  More than 70 percent of North Korean forces are within 100
kilometers of the demilitarized zone established at the end of
the  Korean War . Even so, its constitution calls for “peaceful
reunification” of the peninsula.  North Korea conducted more than 1,400 major provocations
and violations of the demilitarized zone from 1953 to 2003,
according to U.S. military estimates. State media regularly
threatens to turn Seoul into a “sea of fire.”  The U.S. is pledged to defend both South Korea and Japan,
where almost 40,000 troops are stationed. Japan, which has
strengthened its defense capability after North Korea sent a
missile over the island nation in 1998, this week announced the
purchase of 42 Lockheed Martin Corp.  F-35  Joint Strike Fighters.  “The risks we face over the next several years stem from
Kim Jong Un’s weakness, not his strength,” said  Marcus Noland ,
deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in  Washington  and the author of “Avoiding the
Apocalypse: The Future of the Two Koreas.” “You can imagine
other military provocations like the ones we’ve observed over
the last 18 months toward South Korea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  