-- ‘No Labels’ Stops Whining, Offers Political Agenda: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2011-12-22T00:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/-no-labels-stops-whining-and-offers-real-agenda-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
“No Labels.” Even the name is
annoying. For one thing, it’s a label. There’s no branding quite
like anti-branding, which in this case is even perched atop a
slogan: “Not left. Not right. Forward.”  It reminds me of nothing so much as the cartoon character
Kang’s stump speech from “The Simpsons: Treehouse of Horror
VII”: “My fellow Americans. As a young boy, I dreamed of being a
baseball, but tonight I say, we must move forward not backward,
upward not forward, and always twirling, twirling, twirling
toward freedom.”  The problem, of course, is that Americans disagree about
which direction is forward. Is it toward universal  health care ?
Or away from it? Toward policies to curb  climate change ? Or away
from them? Toward more rights for gay and lesbian couples? Or
toward a constitutional amendment enshrining the primacy of
traditional marriage?  Political reform groups like  No Labels  (which was launched
with support from Bloomberg LP founder  Michael Bloomberg ), Unity
08 and Americans Elect tend to buy into the most pernicious myth
in politics: that the answers are easy and obvious, and that all
the political system needs is a firmer commitment to common
sense, bipartisanship or “the American people.” These groups
don’t just deny the very real arguments that divide our
politics, they take themselves out of the game of offering
solutions. They leave everyone else to do the hard work while
they collect accolades for offering a future beyond division and
bickering and ugliness -- and reality.  But last week, No Labels surprised me. They released an
agenda that did the impossible: proposed a plausible path for
moving in that most elusive direction: forward. They did it,
unexpectedly, by refusing to suggest that they themselves knew
which direction ultimately is forward.  Stubborn Architecture  The group’s essential insight is that the American
political system has stopped working for the left and the right
-- not to mention for the middle, wherever that may be. The
basic architecture of the executive and legislative branches has
remained unchanged since the country’s founding. The rules that
govern Congress have been updated more regularly, but the last
major overhaul was in 1975. Think of how much the country has
changed since 1975. Think of how much the political parties have
changed since 1975.  The 1970s, though a tumultuous time for the country, were
still relatively irenic for the  U.S. Congress . The  Republican
Party  still included a large contingent of Northeastern
liberals. The  Democratic Party  still had its Southern
conservatives. The two parties, in other words, were
ideologically diverse, and thus forced to work together.  A decade earlier,  Medicare , a full government takeover of
the health-insurance market for senior citizens, had cleared the
Senate with a two-thirds majority and a substantial number of
Republican votes. Not long after, Republican President  Richard Nixon  proposed a universal health-care law far to the left of
anything President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats considered in
2009. Oh, and he signed the  Clean Air Act , too.  The U.S. political system was built for consensus and, in
that period, the country more or less had it. That’s not to wipe
the slate clean. There were bitter elections and Red baiting,
along with Nixon’s Southern strategy and angry clashes over
 Vietnam . But there were also numerous occasions when service to
the nation’s political institutions trumped partisanship.
Republicans joined Democrats to censure one of their own, Joseph McCarthy, on the Senate floor. Democrat William Fulbright used
the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to
oppose a Democratic president’s handling of Vietnam. And
Republicans joined Democrats in exposing Watergate crimes and
reforming the campaign-finance system.  Calming of Politics  Politics did not stop. But in Congress, in particular, it
calmed. Political scientists have developed models to test
congressional polarization, and the ‘50s, ‘60s and ‘70s were
notable for the moderation of the two parties.  The ‘80s, however, weren’t. That’s when party polarization
accelerated. In the ‘90s, the rise was even faster. In the 1994
election, Republicans all but completed their sweep of the
South, which dragged their party further to the right. Since
2000, polarization has only gotten worse.  American politics, in other words, has changed dramatically
over the past 30 years. American political institutions have
not. They’re built for consensus in an age of extreme
polarization. There were more filibusters in 2009 and 2010 than
in the ‘50s, ‘60s and ‘70s combined. Congressional Republicans
almost forced the U.S. to default on its debt in 1995 and 2011.
That would have been inconceivable in the middle of the century.  Enter No Labels. Rather than confine themselves to wishful
thinking about a third-party candidacy or endless scolding over
partisanship, its members have come out with a robust agenda for
congressional reform.  Some of the items on the agenda are symbolic at best.
Holding bipartisan monthly meetings and seating Democrats and
Republicans together in Congress isn’t likely to usher in a new
age of bipartisanship. Members of Congress are grown-ups
responding to real pressures within their parties, and real
demands from their most engaged constituents. They don’t need
more play dates with the other side. But you know what? More
play dates with the other side aren’t likely to hurt anything,
either. So why not?  Some of the items on No Label’s agenda would transform the
workings of sclerotic and dysfunctional institutions.
Nominations to executive or judicial positions, for instance,
would get an up-or-down vote after 90 days. If the federal
budget was late, members of Congress wouldn’t get paid.
Filibustering senators would actually have to do the Mr.-Smith-
Goes-to-Washington thing and hold the floor of Congress by
talking. No more filibustering without actually working for it.
Oh, and filibusters could only be mounted against the passage of
a bill -- currently, the motion to move to debate is frequently
filibustered, which means the filibuster is used to choke off
debate rather than protect it.  Accountability Lost  When voters give power to one party or another, that party
should be able to staff the government and enact enough of its
policies for voters to be able to judge the results and hold the
party accountable. That’s the theory under which our political
system works: Good outcomes are rewarded with election
victories, and bad ones punished with defeat.  Right now, voters give power to a political party, that
party gets obstructed, then voters hold them accountable for the
results of obstruction on the floor of, in most cases, the  U.S.
Senate . Because most voters don’t follow the ins-and-outs of
congressional procedure, they simply assume that the majority is
driving the decisions and blame them for whatever happens.
Accountability, in other words, is breaking down.  That’s bad for both parties, and it means that, ultimately,
whether you think the nation would be better off going to the
right or the left, neither party is able to move the country
forward. No Labels, to their credit, has made a good start on a
solution.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 