-- Alfred Teo Must Pay $32 Million Over SEC’s Musicland Case, Judge Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-12-22T21:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/alfred-teo-must-pay-32-million-over-sec-s-musicland-case-judge-rules.html
Alfred Teo Sr., a  New Jersey 
plastics maker who went to prison for insider trading, must pay
$32.1 million to resolve a lawsuit by U.S. regulators over his
sale of shares of Musicland Stores Corp., a judge ruled.  Teo and the MAAA Trust must disgorge $17.4 million in
profits from the sale of stock in the record retailer, as well
as prejudgment interest of $14.6 million, U.S. District Judge
Susan Wigenton ordered Dec. 20 in federal court in  Newark , New
Jersey.  Wigenton’s order followed a Sept. 12 opinion that said Teo
owed $21 million for his profit on Musicland share sales
starting in July 1998. In her final judgment, she cut that
figure because of margin interest and a consent judgment that
Teo previously paid. The judge also calculated the interest.  “Mr. Teo intends to file an appeal and will continue to
pursue this matter,” said his attorney, Mary Mulligan of
Friedman Kaplan Seiler & Adelman in  New York .  Teo lost a  jury trial  May 25 after contesting a civil
complaint by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Teo personally began buying Musicland shares in July 1998,
using a trust to hide a stake that grew to 36 percent of its
stock. In January 2001,  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, bought his shares, the SEC
claimed. Teo failed to disclose that his Musicland holding
exceeded 17.5 percent, which should have triggered a dilution of
his shares.  Sigma Plastics  Teo is chairman of the Sigma Plastics Group in Lyndhurst,
New Jersey. He was previously chairman of the Lyndhurst-based
Alpha Industries Group of companies, a maker of plastic bags and
film.  In March 2010, Teo agreed to pay $996,783 to cover the
profit and interest that the SEC said he made through  insider
trading .  Teo pleaded guilty in June 2006 during his insider-trading
trial in Newark, admitting he bought Musicland shares based on
secret information about the sale of the company to Best Buy. He
also pleaded guilty to insider trading when he was a director at
chipmaker  Cirrus Logic Inc. (CRUS)   Teo, who had lived in Kinnelon, New Jersey, and Fisher
Island,  Florida , at first contested the charges. A jury trial
was in its seventh week when he pleaded guilty.  In February 2007, Teo was sentenced to 30 months in prison
by U.S. District Judge Katharine Hayden, who imposed a
$1 million fine.  Teo built his business from scratch after coming to the
U.S. from  China  in 1968 with $70. His fortune reached
$700 million at one point.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Teo,
04-cv-1815, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark). The criminal case is U.S. v. Teo, 04-cr-00583, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in U.S. District Court in Newark, New Jersey, at
   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 