-- Allen Stanford Found Mentally Fit for January Fraud Trial by Federal Judge
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-23T20:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/allen-stanford-found-mentally-fit-to-stand-trial-for-alleged-ponzi-scheme.html
R. Allen Stanford, whose lawyers
failed to convince a judge that he’s mentally unfit to stand
trial, was ordered to face a jury next month on charges he
swindled investors of more than $7 billion. The trial is to
begin with jury selection on Jan. 23.  Stanford’s defense team argued unsuccessfully that his
mental capacity was diminished by head injuries he suffered in a
2009 jailhouse assault and the effects of powerful anxiety
medications prescribed in prison after the beating.  “I have found by a preponderance of the evidence that
Stanford is competent to stand trial,” U.S. District Judge
David Hittner in Houston said yesterday in finding Stanford able
to assist in his defense.  Hittner’s ruling followed 2 1/2 days of debate over the
extent of brain damage Stanford, 61, suffered from the assault
and the extent to which he might be faking  memory loss .  “He wants to con his way out of this case the same way he
conned investors for more than 20 years,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Gregg Costa told Hittner yesterday. “Don’t let him do
it.”  Robert E. Cochrane, the psychologist who was Stanford’s
lead evaluator at the federal prison hospital in Butner,  North
Carolina , testified that the former financier failed every test
designed to expose fakers.  Stanford’s claim of complete retrograde amnesia, the loss
of the memory of what happened before the event responsible, is
“remarkable” because it is so rare, Cochrane said.  First Amnesia Report  Stanford first reported having lost his memory after he
arrived at Butner in February, more than a year after the
assault, the government said.  “Every doctor on the stand agreed that Mr. Stanford is not
suffering from the complete retrograde amnesia he repeatedly
claimed he had,” Costa said. Once it is accepted that Stanford
is exaggerating his memory loss, “it pulls the rug out from
under all the other psychological problems he’s reporting,” the
prosecutor said.  Ali Fazel , Stanford’s lead lawyer, argued that all the
examining doctors agreed “He’s not right. There’s something
wrong with him.”  Fazel said Stanford’s brain trauma and psychological
impairments leave him incapable of assisting his lawyers or
testifying in his own defense.  “Mr. Stanford isn’t running away from anything,” Fazel
said. “He wants to fight.” Fazel said.  Desire to Help  Stanford was assaulted and over-medicated while in
government custody and wanted the “opportunity to get better
and help his counsel,” Fazel argued.  The defense put on testimony from three psychiatrists or
neuropsychologists who all said the former billionaire is
incompetent.  “He says it’s like there’s a blackboard with all his life
written on it, but there are clouds that obscure it,” Victor
Scarano, a forensic psychiatrist who examined Stanford for the
defense, testified Dec. 21. “Every once in a while, a cloud
opens up and he can connect with the memory, and then the clouds
comes back.”  Scarano testified Stanford can’t recall some of his
children, romantic encounters or business details. He retains
“partial pieces” of memory, Scarano said.  Ralph Lilly, a neurologist for Stanford’s defense,
testified Dec. 21 that the ex-financier’s brain damage and
health problems, including depression, heart and liver disease,
have put him “at risk for suicide.”  All-Night Observation  Based on news media reports of that testimony, Stanford was
placed under psychiatric watch Wednesday at the federal lockup
in Houston. He arrived in court yesterday morning complaining
heatedly to his attorneys of having been kept awake and under
observation in the jail’s “psyche hole” all night.  A prison official told Hittner an overnight mental
evaluation was conducted out of “an abundance of caution,”
given Stanford’s high profile and his own doctor’s testimony.
She said Stanford was to be re-evaluated last night to determine
if he can be returned to the general prison population.  Stanford has been held as a flight risk since his June 2009
indictment on charges of defrauding investors through a scheme
built on allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Hittner delayed Stanford’s trial, first set for last
January, after three doctors testified that the financier was
incapable of assisting in his defense because of his drug
dependency and potential effects from the head injury.  Houston Jail  Stanford was sent back to a Houston lockup in November
after Butner medical officials certified him competent to stand
trial.  Prosecutors say Stanford skimmed more than $1 billion of
investor funds to acquire a fleet of jets and yachts, multiple
mansions and a private Caribbean island, as well as to give
money to women with whom he had children. He has denied
wrongdoing.  Stanford’s defense team asked Hittner before the ruling to
delay the start of Stanford’s trial until late April, if he
found the financier fit to face a jury. Hittner said he would
rule on that request next week, as well as issue a more complete
ruling explaining his decision finding Stanford competent for
trial.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 