-- AMR Can Reject Some Engine, Aircraft Leases, Bankruptcy Court Judge Rules
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-22T22:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/amr-can-reject-some-engine-aircraft-leases-bankruptcy-court-judge-rules.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) , the bankrupt parent of
 American Airlines , won permission to pursue a deal to buy 32
planes from  Boeing Co. (BA)  through 2012 and to reject leases on some
aircraft as it reorganizes with a more competitive fleet.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today approved
the requests by the third-largest U.S. airline company. Boeing
was scheduled to deliver two 737-800 planes by now, and
deliveries to  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR will resume on Jan.
10, according to court papers.  “AMR desires to move forward expeditiously, and hopes that
other parties in interest share that desire and make AMR a
competitive vibrant airline leader for the benefit of all of its
economic stakeholders,”  Harvey Miller , the company’s lead
bankruptcy lawyer, said in an e-mail after the court hearing.  The rejection of leases on unwanted planes and the purchase
of new ones are part of AMR’s effort to catch up with rivals.
AMR built a “war chest” of about $4.8 billion in cash and
investments in preparation for the bankruptcy, a lawyer for the
U.S. Trustee, which oversees bankruptcies, said at the hearing.  Once the world’s largest airline, AMR filed for bankruptcy
on Nov. 29 listing debt of almost $30 billion. The airline,
which was headed for a fourth straight yearly loss, has said its
annual labor costs put it at an $800 million disadvantage,
compared with peers in the business.  AMR has a longer term deal to buy as many as 200 planes
from Boeing, including the 32 it asked for today.  Equity Committee  Lane said today that he received a letter asking him to
form an equity committee for AMR shareholders, which he passed
on to the U.S. Trustee’s office for consideration.  Miller said American’s bookings are “high” during the
holidays and the bankruptcy hasn’t had a material effect on
business. Miller complained to Lane that the AMR creditors’
committee “bushwhacked” the company by claiming a victory in
making it restrain spending. He referred to a table of pre-
filing expenses that contained a typographical error as
“inflammatory.”  According to the creditors’ data, AMR was seeking to pay
$937.7 billion in pre-bankruptcy expenses. That figure should
have read $937.7 million. AMR has another $335.5 million of back
wages and employee expenses to pay, according to the creditors.  AMR can continue hedging its jet fuel costs through  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Lane said. According to an order he signed after the
hearing, bankruptcy rules will be lifted to allow AMR to make
payments and grant security to the investment bank. Morgan
Stanley will have a first priority lien on AMR’s collateral,
according to the order. Creditors have asked AMR to let them
know if hedging exceeds 60 percent of fuel consumption.  Lane approved AMR’s request to end lease contracts after
AMR changed its plan to resolve objections by City National
Bank, U.S. Bank National Association and AWAS Aviation Services
Inc.  ‘Languishing’ Equipment  AMR didn’t say at the hearing how much money was involved,
though in filings it has said the aircraft and engines “have
little if any marketable value and are no longer necessary.”
Most of its excess leased equipment has been taken out of
service and is “languishing in expensive storage space without
generating any value,” it has said.  Lane deferred giving final permission for AMR to continue
its current cash and investment practices, after the U.S.
Trustee’s lawyer said some investments that are part of the
airline company’s cash hoard don’t comply with rules. Lane said
he wanted more information from AMR on the risks of its
investments and how much it would cost to bring them into
compliance.  Appropriate Steps  U.S. Bank , involved in contracts for 12 of the leased
aircraft, objected that AMR hadn’t devised a reasonable process
for giving up the airplanes, or a reasonable timeframe.  AMR’s official creditors’ committee, which includes
Chicago-based Boeing, representatives from its unions and
bondholders, has said it intends to work consensually with the
company as it restructures.  The airline entered Chapter 11 reorganization with fewer
scheduled passengers carried and a smaller fleet than either
Delta-Northwest or United-Continental, according to creditors.  Unions for the carrier’s  pilots,  flight attendants and
mechanics joined the committee after failing to reach new
contract agreements with American in  negotiations  that began as
far back as 2006. AMR singled out industry-leading labor costs
as one reason for its Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  