-- Anadarko Can Exclude Evidence From $15.5 Billion Tronox Suit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-12-22T17:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/anadarko-can-limit-some-evidence-in-15-5-billion-tronox-pollution-lawsuit.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  can exclude
some evidence from a $15.5 billion pollution lawsuit brought by
creditors of Tronox Inc., the chemical maker that says it was
driven into bankruptcy after it was saddled with environmental
liabilities.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in  Manhattan  today
agreed to a request from The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko to
limit evidence from an earlier case involving about 4,000 people
in Avoca,  Pennsylvania , who claimed creosote at a wood-treatment
plant made them sick. Some plaintiffs with skin cancer were paid
an average of $117,000 a person in that case.  Creditors for Oklahoma City-based Tronox, which exited
bankruptcy on Feb. 14, are, along with the U.S. government,
suing Anadarko and Kerr-McGee. Tronox said it was saddled with
about 2,800 polluted sites and liability for 70 years’ worth of
pollution when Kerr-McGee spun it off. Anadarko got valuable oil
and gas assets when it bought the rest of Kerr-McGee in 2006 for
$18 billion, Tronox claims.  “What most concerns me is the length of this trial,”
Gropper said. “I’m not trying a creosote case, and I’m not
trying 30 or 40 environmental cases, as to specifics of
liability.”  The trial is set to begin May 15.  The parties today agreed
to work with a mediator to try to resolve the case.  License Suspended  Anadarko said the creosote evidence should be limited
because the founder of the  law firm  that developed it, Robert
Powell of the Pennsylvania-based Powell Law Group, has since had
his law license suspended and because much of what he presented
in his lawsuit was hearsay.  “We think it’s, frankly, garbage,” Thomas Lotterman, a
lawyer for Anadarko, told the judge today. Anadarko would have
to get more witnesses to rebut Powell’s allegations about
matters such as creosote emitted from cooling towers and the
toxicological properties of chemicals, he said.  The creditors have called the Kerr-McGee transactions a
two-step fraud that drove Tronox into bankruptcy. They said the
deals benefited banks, company managers and other investors,
while leaving thousands of sick and dying people harmed by the
company’s pollution.  U.S. government agencies including the Environmental
Protection Agency will get 88 percent of whatever is won in the
lawsuit, while tort claimants such as those in Avoca will get
the remainder, according to court papers. The amounts will be
paid out through a litigation trust.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  