-- Hancock Prospecting Loses Bid for Mediation of Rinehart Dispute
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-22T03:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/hancock-prospecting-loses-bid-for-mediation-of-rinehart-dispute.html
Hancock Prospecting Pty., controlled
by  Australia ’s richest person Gina Rinehart, lost a bid to move
a dispute involving Rinehart and three of her children from
public courts to private mediation.  Hope Rinehart Welker, Bianca Rinehart and  John Hancock  sued
their mother in Australian state court seeking to have her
removed as trustee of the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust, which
holds “no small part” of the family’s fortune, according to
New South Wales Supreme Court Judge Paul Brereton. Ginia, the
youngest of Gina’s four children, is standing by her mother.  Brereton, who had on Oct. 7  dismissed  Gina Rinehart’s bid
to suspend the lawsuit and order the dispute to be resolved in
private mediation, today denied Hancock’s request for the same
proposal.  Hancock claimed the suit would breach an agreement the
family reached that among other things requires the company to
be wholly owned and controlled by members of the family, since
an outside person may be hired as a trustee, Brereton said in
his ruling from the bench today.  It’s “not an inevitable outcome that non-family members
will be the trustee” if the children are successful in their
suit, Brereton said.  He also dismissed Hancock’s claim that the agreement over
the trust prohibits disparagement of other family members.  “Bringing the proceedings against the trustee doesn’t
necessarily bring disparagement,” Brereton said. Even if some
disparagement occurred during the proceedings, that’s not enough
to halt the lawsuit, he said.  Publication Ban  Rinehart had won a ban on publication of arguments made in
court and evidence filed in the case which, even though the New
South Wales Court of Appeal overturned it on Dec. 19, remains in
effect pending a hearing on Jan. 13. Judgments in the case can
be reported.  The extension of the ban was “contrary to the requirement
to treat open justice as a ‘primary objective,’” two of the
appeal judges  said  in the ruling. “The proper conduct of
trustees is a matter which warrants close public scrutiny.”  Rinehart became the first woman to top Forbes Asia’s list
of Australia’s richest people this year as surging  iron ore 
prices and exports more than quadrupled her fortune to $9
billion from a year earlier.  She inherited iron ore mining assets from her father Lang
Hancock. Rinehart controls Hancock Prospecting Ltd. and on Aug.
25 she agreed to sell coal mines in Queensland to GVK Power &
Infrastructure Ltd. for $2.2 billion.  The case is 2011/00285907 (case suppressed) New South Wales
Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  