-- Anna Nicole, Jude Law, Frankenstein Topped 2011 London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2011-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/anna-nicole-jude-law-crazy-frankenstein-topped-2011-london-stage-review.html
This wasn’t a great year for new
writing in  London ’s West End theater district.  Producers put their money behind tried and trusted
formulas. Even then, some bets proved safer than others.  The stylish new musical “Lend Me a Tenor” had great
reviews in June. There were 1930s-style toe-tapping numbers and
a witty, literate book. It had “hit” written all over it. The
show folded after a few weeks. A mystery.  Keeping on surer ground, there were plenty of revivals of
well-known plays or adaptations of familiar works. The  National
Theatre  scored a point in February with “Frankenstein,”
alternating Benedict Cumberbatch and Johnny Lee Miller in the
roles of the scientist and his creature.  The national bard was well served by great actors.  Kevin Spacey  took on Shakespeare’s Richard III at the Old Vic, and
won. His characterization, an unlikely mix of Stalin and Groucho Marx, produced laughs and chills in equal measure.  Michael Sheen  was a tortured, passionate Hamlet at the
Young Vic last month, despite the best efforts of Ian Rickson’s
production to sabotage him. Rickson set the story in a 1970s
mental asylum. It was as bad as it sounds.  Lenny Henry, a popular comic, triumphed in a spectacular
and clever “The Comedy of Errors,” which is still in
repertoire at the National Theatre.  Musical Tricks  Audiences, in general, turned to what was familiar. The
blockbuster new musicals “Shrek,” “Ghost” and “The Wizard
of Oz” were based on pre-existing material.  All deserve their place among the long-runners. “Ghost,”
with its crowd-pleasing magic tricks, sleights of stagecraft and
some ear-catching numbers, just pips them to the top slot.  For the best original play, London had to look to  New York .
Bruce Norris’s superb comedy “Clybourne Park” touched just as
much of a nerve here in February as it had in the U.S. Norris
put race relations under the microscope, and dissected just
about every comforting fiction surrounding the subject. There
were laughs and cringes in equal measure, and no one came out
clean.  The best new theater work was found outside the world of
the spoken word. The opera “Anna Nicole” by Mark-Anthony
Turnage and librettist  Richard Thomas  portrayed the heroine as a
well-meaning simpleton in a world of human commoditization. It
blended comedy and tragedy with sure-footed musical skill, and
was the  Royal Opera House ’s most talked-about world premiere in
years. It’s slated for revival, though the dates aren’t
confirmed.  Jude’s Torso  Some film actors did well. Kristin  Scott Thomas  was
memorably shrewd and fragile in Harold Pinter’s “Betrayal” at
the Comedy Theatre in June. (The venue now has been renamed the
Harold Pinter Theatre in the late author’s honor.)  Jude Law blustered and blathered with delightful energy as
an Irish sailor at the Donmar in August in  Eugene O’Neill ’s
creaky old “Anna Christie.” Law was much better than the play,
and it didn’t hurt that he took his shirt off a lot.  The latter part of the year has produced a comedy boom,
perhaps in response to the worsening financial situation. As
well as “The Comedy of Errors,” the National Theatre’s
rollicking “One Man, Two Guvnors” (in a transfer to the
Adelphi Theatre), and the Old Vic’s terrific farce “Noises
Off” are still causing chuckles.  The Young Vic’s “The Government Inspector,” directed by
 Richard Jones  (who was also behind the staging of “Anna
Nicole”), was another comic delight earlier in June.  Overall, 2011 was a great year for laughs, and not so good
for new writing. Fresh works are the lifeblood of the theater:
Will 2012 bring a much-needed transfusion?  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 