-- Arab League Team Arrives in Syria After Accord on Monitoring
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-12-22T23:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/arab-league-team-due-in-syria-to-monitor-accord-to-end-months-of-violence.html
An  Arab League  mission has arrived
in  Syria  to prepare for monitoring of the accord the government
signed this week to end nine months of violence, as the deadly
crackdown on protests continued.  The team that touched down yesterday included the Arab
League’s assistant secretary-general, Samir Seif Al-Yazal,
according to a report by the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency.
The League has been given assurances that its observers will be
able to travel freely, communicating with whomever they want
without prior approval from Syrian authorities, Dubai-based  Al
Arabiya  television reported.  Syria agreed this week to an Arab League protocol to allow
about 500 observers into the country. The Dec. 19 signing came
as the Arab League prepared to ask the  United Nations  to address
the crisis that has left more than 5,000 people dead, according
to UN estimates. Al Arabiya, citing opposition activists,
reported that 23 people were killed yesterday by security forces
while 70 others were killed in Syria the previous day.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on President Bashar al-Assad. Efforts by the U.S. and  Europe , which have also
imposed sanctions, to get a condemnation of President Bashar al-
Assad’s crackdown at the  Security Council  have been blocked by
Russia and  China .  ‘Safe Zones’  The Syrian National Council, an opposition alliance seeking
to topple Assad’s government, has called for a  Security Council 
meeting to address alleged “massacres” and “large-scale
genocide.”  State forces have killed 250 people in the past 48 hours in
the regions of Idlib, Homs and al-Zawiyah, the council said. The
regions should be declared “safe zones,” it said. Reports of
the latest killings couldn’t be verified as the Syrian
government restricts foreign media access in the country and
places curbs on local journalists.  In a statement yesterday, the Turkish Foreign Ministry
condemned “the Syrian regime’s policy of crackdown that targets
its own people and turns the country into a bloodbath.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  