-- Hard Choices Loom in Boehner’s Home State as Benefits Expiring
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/hard-choices-loom-in-boehner-s-home-state-as-benefits-expiring.html
After trying for two years to find
work, John Reat says he’s renegotiating his mortgage and may
have to tap his retirement savings next month if Congress
doesn’t extend his  unemployment benefits  of $375 a week.  “I’m trying to look at a lot of those things that you
don’t normally look at unless you’re under duress,” Reat, 62,
of Worthington,  Ohio , a Columbus suburb, said in a telephone
interview.  Reat is among 5 million people across the U.S. whose
emergency unemployment benefits will begin to expire at year-end
if Congress doesn’t act to extend them. Those employed will see
their paychecks reduced -- $1,000 a year for a worker earning
$50,000 -- unless a related payroll tax credit is continued. The
Senate has voted for a two-month continuation. House Republicans
rejected it, saying the shortness of the extension creates
uncertainty for employers.  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, called Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  yesterday, asking him to allow a vote on
the Senate legislation, and saying it’s the “only option,”
said  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary.  The stalemate is forcing people such as Reat, who said his
job as a customer-support manager was eliminated in 2009, to
figure out other ways to make ends meet. Reat said he led a
 delegation  to  Washington  earlier this month to lobby Boehner, an
Ohioan from  West Chester , for help and to make the case that
individuals in his home state are struggling.  ‘No Christmas Shopping’  “There’s no Christmas shopping for us right now,” said
Ivan Almendarez, a 36-year-old from the Bronx who makes $47,000
a year before taxes as a janitor at  New York  University. “For a
millionaire it’s not a big deal, but we live paycheck to
paycheck.”  Almendarez is concerned about the prospect of an increase
in the payroll tax after Jan. 1, he said in an interview. That
levy, which funds Social Security, would rise to 6.2 percent
from the current 4.2 percent. For the worker making $50,000 a
year, the White House said it works out to about $40 a paycheck.  The loss of federal unemployment benefits that augment
state assistance may affect as many as  5 million people , Labor
Secretary Hilda Solis said Dec. 2.  In Ohio alone, an estimated 70,000 people will exhaust
unemployment in January without congressional action, according
to data provided by the  Ohio  Department of Job and Family
Services. An additional 95,000 would lose aid in February and in
March, the data show.  Food Banks  Food banks in Ohio already can’t keep up with a surge of
people seeking assistance, and lost benefits in January will
make it worse, said Lisa Hamler-Fugitt, executive director of
the  Ohio Association of Second Harvest Foodbanks .  “People are hurting, and for Congress to go home during
the holidays without acknowledging that we have millions, tens
of millions of people that are out here hurting, it’s
stunning,” Hamler-Fugitt said by telephone from Columbus.  Jean Charte, 53, of  Red Bank ,  New Jersey , said her annual
income of $45,000 to $50,000 as a math and language-arts tutor
has dropped to $920 every two weeks in unemployment benefits.  “I’m panicked,” Charte said yesterday in an interview in
Spotswood, at a town-hall meeting called by Republican Governor
 Chris Christie . “We cut back on groceries. We have two cars.
I’m thinking of going down to one car to cut the insurance. I
just cut my phone plan. I’m going to cut my cable.”  Second Job  Curtis Smith, 22, who said he makes $7.75 an hour as a
sales associate at Macy’s in  Brooklyn , recently visited a nearby
career center to look for a second job. According to the Obama
administration’s  calculator , failure to renew the  payroll tax 
cut will cost Smith about $310 a year.  “I don’t like it,” Smith said in an interview. “We’re
getting taxed enough. The only way I could agree to that is if
you give everybody raises, and I don’t think that’s going to
happen.”  In Westminster,  Colorado , 46-year-old Kelly Wiedemer earns
$7.50 an hour behind the counter at a gas station known as The
Corner Store -- about one-fourth of what she used to make as a
financial analyst, she said in a telephone interview.  “Every penny counts, literally,” Wiedemer said. “There’s
been times when I couldn’t buy things like toothpaste, hairspray
and toilet paper. I’ve even had to think about food for my dog -
- I hate to admit it.”  Michael Reubel of Philadelphia said he couldn’t sleep at
night as the showdown over the payroll  tax-cut  and unemployment
benefits dragged on.  Making the Rent  He won’t be able to make his $450 monthly rent without the
aid, Reubel, 57, said in an interview at  Pennsylvania
CareerLink , a state agency offering job assistance, where he was
sending an employment application to Whole Foods.  “You wake up in the morning and these 83 guys are holding
the country hostage,” said Reubel, referring to  House
Republicans . “Eighty-three people in Congress shouldn’t be
controlling the country.”  Democrats and Republicans in Congress blame each other for
the impasse on extending the tax cut.  On Dec. 20, the White House  blog  asked readers to speak out
on Facebook and Twitter about the payroll tax cut.  “The thousands of responses we’ve had so far are
representative of the hundreds of thousands and millions of
responses you would get if you were and the members of the  House
of Representatives  were to survey their own constituents,”
Carney said at a briefing Dec. 21.  George Vanni, 49, a truck maintenance worker from East
Islip, New York, said the failure to extend the reduced payroll
tax will cost him about $20 a week -- the amount of the raise he
got this year.  “One cancels out the other,” Vanni said in a telephone
interview. “It’s definitely a mental downer, especially this
time of year.”  Reat said he wishes Obama and congressional Republicans
would put their political differences aside.  “Both sides have become entrenched, and the old-fashioned
value of compromise seems to have gone by the wayside,” he
said. “Policymakers are supposed to make policy, and to see
them not getting it done is a real tragedy for this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  