-- Argentine Union Chief Urges Fernandez to Raise Tax Threshold
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-22T19:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/argentine-union-chief-urges-fernandez-to-raise-tax-threshold-1-.html
Argentina  union chief Hugo Moyano
said workers would agree to discuss a “reasonable wage
increase” if the government raises the minimum threshold for
income taxes.  Moyano, who was an ally of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  and of her predecessor and late husband  Nestor Kirchner , said his relationship with the government is “on
stand-by,” after Fernandez characterized union demands as
“extortion” in her Dec. 10 inauguration speech.  “We’ll continue with our demands, no matter who gets upset
with that,” Moyano told reporters today in Buenos Aires. “A
legitimate demand of the workers is not extortion, rather,
extortion is when businessmen don’t respond to that demand.”  Unions plan to begin 2012 salary discussions with companies
executives and the Labor Ministry as soon as March based on the
“supermarket inflation,” instead of the government’s  consumer
price index , Moyano, head of Argentina’s biggest labor
confederation, said. According to the national statistics
agency, consumer prices rose 9.5 percent in November from a year
earlier, compared with 24 percent estimated by private
researchers.  Since Kirchner became president in 2003, Moyano has rubbed
shoulders with Cabinet ministers and orchestrated pro-government
rallies. He has also brokered wage increases of as much as 30
percent, helping fuel what economists estimate may be the
world’s fastest inflation. The labor leader’s relations with the
government soured when Fernandez earlier this year limited the
number of union delegates on her Peronist party’s list of
congressional candidates.  “We would have liked to have had more union men as
candidates,” Moyano said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  