-- Harrisburg Files 2nd Attempt to Restore Bankruptcy of Pennsylvania Capital
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2011-12-22T17:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/harrisburg-files-2nd-attempt-to-restore-bankruptcy-of-pennsylvania-capital.html
A lawyer for the  Harrisburg ,
 Pennsylvania , city council made a second attempt to appeal the
dismissal of the city’s bankruptcy petition.  Mark Schwartz , attorney for the city council, filed court
papers today seeking to overturn an earlier ruling by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  in Harrisburg, who refused to
give the council extra time to file a notice of appeal, the
first step in trying to reinstate the bankruptcy.  “I am convinced that her actions were arbitrary, in
violation of the rules and due process,” Schwartz said in an e-
mail.  The council put the capital city of Pennsylvania into
bankruptcy in October, disregarding a state law that banned such
a filing. Under Chapter 9 of the federal  bankruptcy code , state
authorization is necessary, so France threw out the case.
Schwartz and the council had tried to convince France that the
state ban violates Pennsylvania’s constitution.  France this month refused to allow Schwartz to appeal,
saying he missed a deadline. Schwartz is appealing the refusal.  As it seeks to appeal, the city’s state-appointed receiver,
David Unkovic, continues to work on a recovery plan due Feb. 6.  He wants to look into the privatizing the operations of the
water and sewer systems, currently run by city employees, and he
asked for proposals from bidders interested in buying the
incinerator, said  William J. Cluck , board member of the
Harrisburg Authority, the agency that owns the systems and
facility.  City’s Debt  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, faces a debt five times its
general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of an
incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue. Guaranteed
debt is about $242 million, with $65 million overdue, according
to the bankruptcy petition.  On Dec. 1, a state judge confirmed the appointment of
Unkovic, chief lawyer for the state economic development
department, as a receiver to run the city. Unkovic has the power
to overrule the city council and Harrisburg’s mayor.  The city council has been fighting with Mayor  Linda Thompson  over how best to fix the city’s financial problems.
Thompson opposed the bankruptcy and didn’t oppose the
appointment of the receiver.  The case is In re City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 1:11-
bk-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 