-- Asian Dollar Bonds Favored by UOB, Mizuho on Concern Currencies to Weaken
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2011-12-23T06:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/asian-dollar-bonds-favored-by-uob-mizuho-on-concern-currencies-to-weaken.html
Asian dollar bonds may beat domestic
notes for a second year in 2012 as central banks cut interest
rates to spur economic growth, curbing currency gains, UOB Asset
Management Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Co. said.  The region’s global debt has returned 5.3 percent this
year, compared with 5.1 percent for local-currency securities in
U.S. dollar terms, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. The
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s
10-most traded currencies excluding the yen, weakened 1.1
percent in 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand for
emerging-market assets.  “With global growth likely to slow and several Asian
central banks expected to ease monetary policy in reaction to
slower inflation and economic growth, Asian currencies are
unlikely to gain,” said Chia Tse Chern, co-head for Asian
fixed-income at UOB Asset in Singapore, which manages the
equivalent of $13.6 billion of assets. “This could depress the
performance of Asian local-currency bonds in 2012.”  Indonesia  is preparing to tap the international market
after it was raised to investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  on Dec.
15. The Philippines is also planning to sell dollar bonds after
its outlook was changed to positive by Standard & Poor’s the
following day. Dollar notes from the Philippines and  Indonesia 
are the best-performing in  Asia  in 2011, advancing 11 percent
and 8.8 percent, respectively, HSBC indexes show.  India ’s rupee led declines in Asian currencies this year,
falling 15.2 percent against the dollar, followed by a drop of
4.2 percent in  Thailand ’s baht and 3.8 percent in  Taiwan ’s
dollar.  First Rate Cut  Bank Indonesia was the first major Asian emerging central
bank to cut its benchmark  interest rate  this year, lowering it
by 25 basis points in October and 50 basis points to 6 percent
the following month. The Bank of Thailand followed in November,
reducing its one-day bond repurchase rate by 25 basis points to
3.25 percent.  UOB’s Chia said he favors dollar debt from Indonesia and
Malaysia. His  United Asian Bonds Fund (OUBASIB)  returned 6.1 percent in
2011, exceeding the 1.8 percent average among peers.  Implied volatility, a measure of expected foreign-exchange
swings used to price options, is climbing in the region. The
one-month gauge for  South Korea ’s won averaged 14 percent in the
second half from 10.7 percent in the first, while for
Indonesia’s rupiah it was 11 percent, compared with 6.2 percent
in the first half.  Selling Local Bonds  Foreign ownership  of rupiah debt fell 12 percent as of Dec.
20 from a record high of 251.23 trillion rupiah ($28 billion) on
Sept. 9, according to finance-ministry data. The  amount  of South
Korean fixed-income securities owned by overseas investors fell
by 336.9 billion won ($293 million) to 86.7 trillion won in
November, the biggest drop since January, the Financial
Supervisory Service said on Dec. 4.  Global funds lowered  holdings  of ringgit bonds by 8 percent
to 171.6 billion ringgit ($54 billion) at the end of October
from a record high of 186.5 billion ringgit in July, according
to Bank Negara Malaysia. Foreign ownership of Thai bonds fell to
6.5 percent of the total in the week ended Dec. 16 from 10.5
percent in the last week of 2010, according to data from the
Thai Bond Market  Association .  Emerging market-dedicated bond funds saw an outflow of $599
million in the week ended Dec. 21,  Barclays Capital  said citing
data compiled by EPFR Global. Investors pulled $811 million from
local-currency debt, while they added $267 million in hard-
currency securities, it said.  Dollar Liquidity Better  “There’s less chance of gains from potential currency
appreciation in the current uncertain conditions,” said Tadashi
Tsukaguchi, senior  fund manager  at the asset-management office
in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities, part of  Japan ’s third-largest
bank. “The liquidity of the dollar as a major currency remains
better,” he said, adding that he thought Asian global debt will
beat local-currency bonds in 2012.  HSBC, Europe’s largest lender, recommended in a report on
Dec. 14 that clients hold emerging-market hard-currency notes
versus local-currency securities as policy makers seek weaker
currencies to support growth. Developing economies in Asia will
grow 8 percent in 2012, compared with 1.9 percent for advanced
nations, according to forecasts from the  International Monetary
Fund  in September.  Widening Spread  The yield on Asia’s dollar debt over comparable  U.S.
Treasuries  widened to 238 basis points as of Dec. 21, compared
with 165 basis points at the start of 2011, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Plus Asia  Sovereign Spread  index.  “The spread for the dollar bonds has expanded, increasing
interest income,” said Tatsuya Higuchi, a Tokyo-based senior
portfolio manager at Kokusai Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $51 billion of assets. He said he favors local-
currency debt from India because of its high yield, as well as
such securities from Indonesia and the Philippines. Kokusai
Global Sovereign Open is Asia’s biggest debt fund.  Thomas Kemmsies, the Frankfurt-based head of fixed-income
at Nomura Asset Management Co., which managed $288 billion as of
October, predicts Asia’s dollar debt will do better in the first
half before local bonds end “marginally ahead” in 2012.  ‘Policy Headroom’  “We still believe Asia, in general, has quite a lot of
policy headroom to address any cyclical deceleration,” said
Kemmsies, who manages the  Nomura Asian Bonds Fund (MATASBO) , which has
advanced 4.6 percent in 2011 compared with an 0.08 percent gain
among its peers. He said he favors local-currency bonds from
Thailand, the Philippines and Taiwan because the relatively low
foreign ownership of those notes makes them less vulnerable to
sell-offs.  JPMorgan Asset Management predicts domestic Asian debt will
outperform in 2012 as near-zero interest rates in the developed
world push funds to seek higher yields in Asia.  “We do anticipate the gradual slowing of U.S. growth will
lead to more quantitative easing by the  Federal Reserve  and the
situation in Europe will lead to further liquidity injections,”
said Stephen Chang, Hong Kong-based head of Asian fixed-income
at JPMorgan Asset, which oversees $1.3 trillion worldwide.
“When those measures are in place, we believe Asian currencies
should be outperformers.”  Chang, whose  JF SAR Asian Bond Fund (JFSAABA)  gained 2.7 percent in
2011 compared with an average of 1.7 percent among its peers,
prefers local securities from the Philippines, Indonesia and
India, he said.  Hitoshi Ueda, senior fund manager of the fixed income
investment group at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which
managed about $130 billion at the end of August, also expects
local debt to perform better due to their higher yields.  “Among Asian nations, Indonesia looks to be most
attractive due to its superior position on economic
fundamentals,” Ueda said in an interview last week. Together
with its higher yields in the region, “we expect continued fund
inflows into Indonesia,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  