-- Australian Dollar Rises on Signs of U.S. Economic Recovery, Stock Gains
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2011-12-23T18:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/aussie-new-zealand-dollars-set-for-weekly-advance-on-u-s-data-stocks.html
The Australian dollar rose,
extending its gains this week, reporting suggesting rising U.S.
growth boosted demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The so-called Aussie strengthened to a two-week high
against the yen as Asian stocks extended a rally in global
equities. The  New Zealand  currency, known as the kiwi, briefly
pared a weekly advance after an earthquake struck near the city
of Christchurch. Demand for the South Pacific nations’
currencies was limited as Italy prepares to sell bonds next week
amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will weigh on global growth.  “Everyone’s got their fingers crossed for the Santa rally,
and I think better U.S. economic data is probably enough to give
some better price actions in the higher-yielding currencies like
the Aussie and the kiwi,” said  Robert Rennie , Sydney-based
chief currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s
second-largest lender. “One of the things on the top of my
Santa list is to get an opportunity to sell the Aussie at higher
levels over the holidays.”  The Australian dollar advanced 0.3 percent to $1.0162 at
1:17 p.m. in  New York . It has gained 1.8 percent this week. The
currency rose as much as 0.4 percent to 79.51 yen, the highest
level since Dec. 8, before trading at 79.30.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped as much as 0.3 percent from
yesterday following the quake, before trading at 77.47 U.S.
cents from 77.44 cents in New York. The so-called kiwi has
appreciated 1.7 percent versus the dollar since Dec. 16.  N.Z. Quake  Christchurch, New Zealand’s second-largest city, was struck
by a magnitude-5.8 earthquake and a series of aftershocks
shortly before 2 p.m. today. The temblor was 8 kilometers (5
miles) deep and centered 20 kilometers north-east of the city,
New Zealand’s GeoNet reported. Police said there were no reports
of widespread damage or serious injuries.  “Although today’s Christchurch earthquake has been
reported to have caused little structural damage, the  New
Zealand dollar  has still seen some knee-jerk downward
pressure,”  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 currency strategy
for Asia excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, wrote
in a note to clients today. “We would look to buy into any
further New Zealand dollar dip on the basis of the earthquake.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan  Index (MXAPJ)  rallied 1.3
percent today after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index of stocks
rose 0.8 percent yesterday. Japanese markets are shut today for
a holiday.  U.S. Spending, Goods  Personal spending in the U.S. climbed 0.1 percent for a
second month, while wages and salaries fell 0.1 percent from
October, Commerce Department data showed today in  Washington .
Durable goods orders jumped 3.8 percent in November as a surge
in aircraft bookings masked a drop in demand for business
equipment.  Italy  will offer debt maturing in 2014, 2018, 2021 and 2022
on Dec. 29 after Prime Minister Mario Monti’s 30 billion-euro
($39 billion) emergency budget plan won final approval in
Parliament yesterday. Monti’s Cabinet is scheduled to hold a
meeting today.  Yields  on Italy’s benchmark 10-year debt rose 6 basis
points to 6.98 percent today.  “Europe risks a downward spiral, where fiscal austerity
weakens those local economies,” said Westpac’s Rennie.
“Unfortunately, when we come back in January, I think we’re
going to come back to a pretty bleak outlook.”  The Australian dollar has fallen 0.7 percent against the
greenback this year and the New Zealand dollar has also dropped
0.7 percent.  Australia ’s 10-year bond  yields  slid one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.74 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  