-- Tax Breaks for Company Investments May Be Fading as Job Creator
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/tax-breaks-for-company-investments-may-be-fading-as-job-creator.html
For Joe McGlynn, executive vice
president at Campbell Fittings Inc. in Boyertown,  Pennsylvania ,
the benefits of a tax incentive to spur business investment are
clear.  “It’s putting people to work right now,” McGlynn said.
Campbell Fittings, a maker of industrial hose couplings, used
the break to buy equipment that allowed the family-owned
business about 50 miles northwest of Philadelphia to offer more
innovative products at a lower cost to better compete with
overseas rivals.  The investment paid off, and Campbell doubled its payroll
in the past 18 months to 92 workers, who are receiving training
in skilled labor and improving their standard of living, McGlynn
said.  Overshadowed in the year-end congressional bickering over
extending a payroll tax cut is the fate of so-called bonus
depreciation and other expiring business tax breaks. The
accelerated depreciation tax benefit allowed businesses to write
off 100 percent of some capital investments made this year,
rather than spreading it out over several years.  The incentive costs the  U.S. Treasury  little in forgone
revenue, has bipartisan support and some companies say that in
their experience it is doing what it’s supposed to: stimulate
the economy.  The write-off will drop to 50 percent in 2012 if Congress
doesn’t act to continue the full expensing. The House and Senate
haven’t agreed on whether to include it in a broader tax
measure.  ‘Double Benefit’  President  Barack Obama  included extension of this tax break
in his job-creation proposal in September. The administration
estimated it would cost $5 billion over 10 years and be worth
$85 billion to businesses next year.  “There’s a double benefit,” said Monica McGuire, senior
director of  tax policy  at the  National Association of
Manufacturers , a trade group in  Washington . “You have customers
who want to buy plant machinery and equipment, and you have
sellers and manufacturers who want to make it and sell it.”  That’s been the case at truck-maker Utilimaster Corp. in
Wakarusa,  Indiana . Bonus depreciation gives customers an
incentive to move up replacement of their vehicles, and that
translates into more business and job openings at Utilimaster, a
unit of  Spartan Motors Inc. (SPAR) , said  John Marshall , senior vice
president of sales and marketing.  “Our business this year is up 30 percent,” and while not
all of the growth can be attributed to the expensing tax break,
it’s helping, he said.  Job Creation   The company hired about 300 people this year to bring its
workforce to about 940 people. “Absolutely, it’s helped with
hiring,” Marshall said. That, in turn, is bolstering the area’s
economy because more than 70 percent of Utilimaster’s suppliers
are in a 30-mile radius.  Bonus depreciation of between 30 percent and 50 percent has
been used by U.S. lawmakers as a tool to stimulate the economy
off and on since 2001.  The most recent incentive, passed by Congress in December
2010, lets companies deduct 100 percent of many capital
investments made from Sept. 9, 2010, through the end of 2011.  The benefit doesn’t increase the total amount a company can
write off, it allows the depreciation to be accelerated.
Likewise, the break doesn’t cost the Treasury in the long run;
the revenue just comes in later.  “It’s an attractive policy in an environment where there’s
a desire to stimulate the economy and very real concerns about
the  budget deficit ,” said Matthew Shapiro, an economics
professor at the  University of Michigan .  Effectiveness Questioned  While many businesses hail the benefits, economists differ
on the effectiveness of the tax break and say its benefits for
the economy are difficult to measure.  It’s hard to know whether the depreciation benefit helped
boost overall business investment in capital until trends on
what happens to investment after the break expires can be
measured, Shapiro said.  “Investment is one of the stronger parts in the economy,
and there’s an assumption that bonus depreciation has been a
part of that,” he said.  Business investment  in equipment and software increased
10.7 percent in the first three quarters of this year from the
same period in 2010.  ‘Zero Percent Loan’  Economists such as Neil Dutta at Bank of America Corp. in
 New York , say that, because  interest rates  are low, the cost of
financing is already at a minimum so that dilutes the incentive
to invest based on a tax break.  “Accelerated depreciation is like giving a zero percent
loan when interest rates are already near zero,” he said.  Capital spending  will remain steady over the next year even
if the tax break expires, Dutta said.  “The only reason companies will alter their capital
spending plans is if they think the economy is going to boom in
2012,” he said.  Aneta Markowska, a senior U.S. economist at Societe
Generale SA in New York, disagrees, saying business investment
spurred by the tax break is helping drive momentum in U.S.
economic growth.  Capital expenditures  have been higher than what would
typically be justified given the current economic conditions,
and the boost in investment may help explain why fewer workers
are  filing claims  for jobless benefits, she said. “If you put
equipment in place, you need people to run that equipment.”  Bonus Depreciation  While economists may disagree on the benefits of bonus
depreciation, Jim Parker, chief executive officer of Carter
Machinery Co., a  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  dealer in Salem,  Virginia , has
all the evidence he needs in an uptick in orders for earth-
moving and other machinery.  Purchases that resulted from the tax advantage were about
20 percent of sales, or about $6 million, Parker said.  Contractors who have work to do “are clearly taking
advantage of the bonus depreciation,” Parker said. “It’s an
incredible boon for them and it’s driving the behavior it was
intended to create.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  