-- BA Bags Lufthansa’s BMI, Heathrow Slots in $271 Million Deal
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-22T20:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ba-trumps-virgin-to-win-heathrow-slots-with-deal-buying-bmi-from-lufthansa.html
British Airways  parent IAG sealed
the purchase of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG ’s BMI unit with a 172.5
million-pound ($271 million) bid that edges out Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. and boosts its position at  London  Heathrow airport.  The deal brings as many as 56 daily slot pairs at capacity-
limited Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub, which will be used to
add routes to  emerging markets , London-based IAG, formed from a
merger of BA and Iberia last January, said today in a statement.  BMI presented a “unique” opportunity that IAG couldn’t pass
up, even amid tough economic conditions, Chief Executive Officer
 Willie Walsh  said in an interview.  Germany ’s Lufthansa opted to
sell after the unit racked up 223 million euros ($291 million) 
of operating losses following a forced takeover in 2009.  “The deal bolsters IAG’s market share at a very crowded
and competitive airport,” said Francisco Salvador, a strategist
at FGA/MG Valores in  Madrid . “IAG will have to find economies of
scale and slash costs, but they know very well how to do that as
the company was itself formed through a restructuring process.”  IAG, as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is
known,  rose  as much as 3.1 percent and was trading 3 percent
higher at 149.40 pence as of 12:41 p.m. in London.  Cologne-based  Lufthansa advanced  as much as 2.4 percent and
was later priced up 1.3 percent at 9.14 euros in  Frankfurt .  ‘Painful Break’  “It’s better to make a painful break than draw out the
agony,” said  Jochen Rothenbacher , an analyst at Equinet AG in
Frankfurt with an “accumulate” recommendation on Lufthansa
shares. “They’ve gotten rid of one of their biggest problems.”  BMI holds 8.5 percent of takeoff and landing slots at
Heathrow, which operates at 99 percent of capacity and won’t be
allowed to add a third runway, according to U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron . BA and Iberia together control 44.5 percent.  IAG is better positioned than Lufthansa to squeeze savings
from BMI, Salvador said.  Walsh told Bloomberg Television that there’s an urgent need
to restructure BMI, and that “regrettably that means there will
be some job losses.” On shorter routes, which BMI traditionally
serves, the brand may survive under the IAG umbrella or be
merged into BA, he said. It won’t be used for longer ones.  Asian Targets  British Airways will have the planes available to best
exploit some of BMI’s slots by switching them to inter-
continental routes as it takes delivery of 12 Airbus SAS A380
superjumbos and 24 Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliners starting in 2013.  Today’s deal may allow IAG to boost services to  China  and
offer new destinations including Korea, Vietnam and  Indonesia ,
Walsh said on a conference call.  U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic, which
made a rival bid for BMI, will ask competition authorities to
stop the transaction, saying its completion would “tilt the
competitive landscape dangerously” toward BA, it said today.  “BA is already dominant at Heathrow and their removal of
BMI just tightens their stranglehold at the world’s busiest
international airport,” Branson said in a statement. “We will
fight this monopoly every step of the way as we think it is bad
for the consumer, bad for the industry and bad for Britain.”  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  doesn’t “see any difficulty” with
the acquisition, which it called a logical step in consolidation
of European airlines, the carrier said in a statement.  Walsh said in the interview that competition policy is not
dictated by Virgin or its owner, and that IAG will work with
regulators to clear any antitrust hurdles. The company will
still control a smaller proportion of slots at Heathrow than its
rivals do at their main bases, the CEO has said previously.  Takeover Costs  The acquisition of  Castle Donington , England-based BMI was
forced on Lufthansa when founder  Michael Bishop  exercised an
option to dispose of his stake. Since then, BMI has cut 800 jobs
and 10 planes in an effort to stem losses and attract buyers.  Lufthansa spent about 350 million pounds purchasing BMI,
including an initial stake bought in 1999, through the deal
forced by Bishop as airline stocks fell during the global slump
and the acquisition of a minority holding owned by SAS AB.  There will be a “significant price reduction” if
Lufthansa fails to sell the BMI Regional and low-cost bmibaby
units before the close of the deal, which should happen toward
the end of the first quarter, IAG said today. Lufthansa said
Oct. 28 it was in “advanced” talks to dispose of BMI Regional
to investors associated with that part of the  airline industry .  IAG said the BMI purchase will help boost 2015’s estimated
operating profit of 1.5 billion euros by more than 100 million
euros, and that it will be accretive to earnings per share by
2014 at the latest.  “We believe we can turn this around within two years,”
Walsh said. “It’s going to require some effort on our part and
some investment on our part, but we’re confident that we have
the skills and capability to do that.”  Restructuring costs will be spread over three years and
will be “significantly lower” than BMI’s current annual
losses, said IAG, which will finance the acquisition from its
own funds.  The Anglo-Spanish company was advised on the deal by
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Lufthansa declined to identify its advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 