-- How Bad Ideas Worsen Europe’s Debt Meltdown: John H. Cochrane
-- B y   J o h n   H .   C o c h r a n e
-- 2011-12-22T00:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bad-ideas-worsen-europe-s-debt-meltdown-commentary-by-john-h-cochrane.html
Europe is as full of bad ideas as it
is of bad debts.  Conventional wisdom says that sovereign defaults mean the
end of the euro: If  Greece  defaults it has to leave the single
currency; German taxpayers have to bail out southern governments
to save the union.  This is nonsense. U.S. states and local governments have
defaulted on dollar debts, just as companies default. A currency
is simply a unit of value, as meters are units of length. If the
Greeks had skimped on the olive oil in a liter bottle, that
wouldn’t threaten the metric system.  Bailouts are the real threat to the euro. The  European
Central Bank  has been buying Greek, Italian, Portuguese and
Spanish debt. It has been lending money to banks that, in turn,
buy the debt. There is strong pressure for the ECB to buy or
guarantee more. When the debt finally defaults, either the rest
of Europe will have to raise trillions of euros in fresh taxes
to replenish the central bank, or the euro will inflate away.  Leaving the euro would also be a disaster for Greece,  Italy 
and the others. Reverting to national currencies in a debt
crisis means expropriating savings, commerce-destroying  capital
controls , spiraling inflation and growth-killing isolation. And
getting out won’t help these countries avoid default, because
their debt promises euros, not drachmas or lira.  Perils of Devaluation  Defenders think that devaluing would fool workers into a
bout of “competitiveness,” as if people wouldn’t realize they
were being paid in Monopoly money. If devaluing the currency
made countries competitive,  Zimbabwe  would be the richest
country on Earth. No Chicago voter would want the governor of
 Illinois  to be able to devalue his way out of his state’s budget
and economic troubles. Why do economists think Greek politicians
are so much wiser?  The latest plan calls for  Europe  to be tougher in enforcing
deficit rules that are similar to the ones that they blithely
ignored for 10 years. Sure, a directive from Brussels is really
going to get the Greeks to shape up. Imagine how well it would
work if the  International Monetary Fund  or the  United Nations 
tried to veto  U.S. budget deficits . (That is, if our Congress
passed budgets to begin with.) This plan is mostly a way to let
the ECB save face and buy up bad debt with freshly printed
euros.  More fiscal union hurts the euro. Think of Poland or
Slovakia. Using euros was once a no-brainer: It made sense to
use the same currency as all the other small countries around
them, just as  Illinois  wants to use the same currency as
 Indiana .  Now, it’s not so clear: If using this currency means
signing up to bail out Greece and Italy, then maybe adopting the
euro isn’t such a good idea. A common currency without a fiscal
union could have universal appeal. A currency union with a
bailout-based fiscal union will remain a small affair.  Europeans leaders think their job is to stop “contagion,”
to “calm markets.”  They blame “speculation” for their
troubles. They keep looking for the Big Announcement that will
soothe markets into rolling over another few hundred billion
euros of debt. Alas, the problem is reality, not psychology, and
governments are poor psychologists. You just can’t fill a
trillion-euro hole with psychology.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of  France  said Greece is like
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and its collapse would bring down
the financial system. Greece isn’t Lehman. It doesn’t have
trillions of dollars of offsetting derivatives contracts. It
isn’t a broker-dealer, whose failure would freeze all sorts of
assets. Its creditors don’t have the legal right to seize assets
owed to counterparties. Greece is just a plain-vanilla sovereign
borrower, like those that have been defaulting since Edward III
stiffed the Perruzzi bank in the 1340s.  Banks’ Debt  Sovereign default would damage the financial system,
however, for the simple reason that Europe has allowed its banks
to load up on debt, kept on the books at face value, and treated
as riskless and buffered by no capital.  Indebted governments have been pressuring banks to buy more
debt, not less. As banks have been increasing capital, they have
loaded up even more on “risk-free” sovereign debt, which they
can use as collateral for ECB loans. The big ECB “liquidity
operation” that took place yesterday will give banks hundreds
of billions of euros to increase their sovereign bets. Bank
depositors and creditors have figured this out, and are running
for the exits.  By stuffing the banks with sovereign debt, European
politicians and regulators are making the inevitable default
much more financially dangerous. So much for the faith that
regulation will keep banks safe.  The euro’s fatal flaw then wasn’t to unite areas with
differing levels and types of development under one currency.
After all, Mississippi and  Manhattan  use the same money. Nor was
it to deprive governments of the ephemeral pleasures of
devaluation. Nor was it to envision a currency union without
fiscal union.  Banking misregulation was the euro’s fatal flaw. Sovereign
debt, which can always avoid explicit default when countries
print money, doesn’t remain risk-free in a currency union. Yet
banking regulators and ECB rules continue to pretend otherwise.  So, by artful application of bad ideas, Europe has taken a
plain-vanilla sovereign restructuring and turned it into a
banking crisis, a currency crisis, a fiscal crisis, and now a
political crisis.  When the era of wishful thinking ends, Europe will face a
stark choice. It can have a monetary union without sovereign
defaults. That option means fiscal union, accepting real German
control of Greek and Italian (and maybe French) budgets. Nobody
wants that, with good reason.  Or Europe can have a monetary union without fiscal union.
That would work well, but it needs to be based on two central
ideas: Sovereigns must be able to default just like companies,
and banks, including the central bank, must treat sovereign debt
just like company debt.  The final option is a breakup, probably after a crisis and
inflation. The euro, like the meter, is a great idea. Throwing
it away would be a real and needless tragedy.  (John H. Cochrane, a professor of finance at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business and an adjunct scholar of
the  Cato Institute , is a contributor to  Business Class . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John H. Cochrane at  john.cochrane@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 