-- Bankers’ Complaint of Uncertainty Obscures Reluctant Disclosure
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2011-12-22T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bankers-complaint-of-uncertainty-obscures-reluctant-disclosure.html
While bankers complain that
regulatory uncertainty is hurting growth, their failure to
provide balance-sheet transparency is creating uncertainty for
the taxpayers who bailed them out.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis already claimed  MF Global
Holdings Ltd ., the brokerage run by Jon S. Corzine that
collapsed on Oct. 31, and credit-default swap prices imply a
more than 1-in-5 chance of default for Morgan Stanley,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in the next five
years. That’s up from about 1-in-10 odds at the beginning of
July, according to data provider CMA and a standard credit-swaps
industry-pricing model.  “European-related risks have overwhelmed whatever cost
regulatory uncertainty has imposed on bank lending,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New
York. “The lack of transparency means we don’t really know what
the exposures of major U.S. financial institutions are,” and
“we very much have to be concerned about the possible negative
repercussions.”  Lonski forecast U.S. economic growth of about 2.2 percent
in 2012, above the third quarter’s 2 percent pace. He said it
would be “difficult” to see faster expansion, given that
turmoil in Europe is limiting the supply of credit.  “There’s a fear of taking risk that is endemic throughout
the whole system,” said Milton Ezrati, senior economist and
market strategist at Lord Abbett & Co. in Jersey City,  New
Jersey , which managed about $100 billion as of Sept. 30. “No
one knows where the dangers lie.”  ‘Unintended Consequences’  As the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of financial stocks has
tumbled about  18 percent (S5FINL)  since June on concerns about financial
companies’ ability to weather the euro crisis,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has continued to
complain about the “unintended consequences” of financial
regulation.  Congress passed hundreds of rules last year as part of the
Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial legislation after an
unprecedented bailout of the banking system in 2008. Regulators
worldwide also are devising new  capital requirements .  “There’s growing confusion,” Dimon, 55, said Dec. 7 at
the Goldman Sachs U.S. Financial Services Conference in New
York, citing a chart that shows about 10 federal agencies that
now supervise the industry under the new bank laws. “There’s
huge bureaucracy and we’re going to make mistakes,” and “I
hope that someone goes back and fixes this one day.”  Bernanke Face-Off  His comments followed a face-off with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  during a public forum in June, when Dimon pressed the
central-bank chief on whether regulators have gone too far in
reining in the banking system and hampered the U.S. expansion.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon told Bernanke at a conference of bankers
in Atlanta on June 7.  Goldman Sachs President Gary Cohn said June 2 that while
higher capital standards will “improve the creditworthiness of
the industry,” they “will likely impact the availability of
credit in the system and weigh on economic growth.”  The cost to protect $10 million of New York-based
JPMorgan’s debt against default for five years has jumped 86
percent since June to $145,000 annually, CMA data show. Credit-
default swaps on Goldman Sachs bonds also have more than doubled
to $321,000 per $10 million.  ‘Europe Matters’  “Europe matters much more than uncertainty regarding the
final form of financial-institution regulation,” Lonski said.
“To go ahead and blame reduced access by small businesses to
bank credit on more stringent regulations or regulatory
uncertainty is a bit of a stretch.”  Lonski pointed to the creation of new high-yield, high-risk
bank loans, which amounted to $45 billion a month during the
first half of the year and fell to $20 billion a month from July
through October as the escalating euro crisis sapped appetite
for risk.  JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  haven’t provided
a full picture of their potential gains and losses amid mounting
concern that  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland, Portugal and  Spain  may not
be creditworthy.  Banks generally disclose their net exposure to troubled
countries in Europe, netting out the gains or losses from
contracts used to hedge risk, “but that net exposure means
nothing if the companies on the other side of the contracts
can’t meet their obligations,” said  Paul Miller , an analyst
with FBR Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia, and a
former examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  Balancing Swaps  JPMorgan said in its third-quarter regulatory filing that
more than 98 percent of the credit-default swaps it has written
on GIIPS debt is balanced by swaps on the same bonds. JPMorgan
said its net exposure was no more than $1.5 billion, without
disclosing gross numbers in the Nov. 4 filing or how much came
from swaps.  Dimon, reacting to questions from investors about the
company’s GIIPS exposure, elaborated on Dec. 7 at the Goldman
Sachs conference. JPMorgan has bought or sold a total of about
$100 billion of notional credit derivatives that insures
corporate, financial or sovereign debt in the five countries.
The company’s “net” exposure from loans, derivatives and other
trading relationships in these nations totaled about $15.9
billion, he said.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Very Difficult’  “There’s just not a lot of clear-cut transparency on what
exactly the exposure is, where it lies or who the counterparties
are,” Miller said. It’s “very difficult” to analyze the
exposure without knowing the counterparties, “and no bank gives
that out.”  Goldman Sachs discloses only what it calls “funded”
exposure to GIIPS debt: $4.16 billion before hedges and $2.46
billion after, as of Sept. 30. Those amounts exclude commitments
or contingent payments such as credit-default swaps, Lucas van Praag, a bank spokesman, said last month.  Regulators need to “figure out better ways to present”
banks’ risks, such as their exposure to the European crisis,
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley
said during an Oct. 20 speech in New York. Investors are
“uncertain” how to think about banks with “huge books of
business that net down to more modest net exposures.”  ‘Exaggerated’ Complaints  Banker complaints about the costs of regulation are
“exaggerated,” Dudley has repeatedly said. “More statesman-
like engagement is both warranted and welcome,” and “banking
leaders and industry trade groups should propose smart solutions
to achieve essential financial-stability objectives and not
simply lobby against change,” he said during a Sept. 23 speech
in  Washington .  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment bank whose stock
plunged 14 percent last month after MF Global’s collapse, issued
at least seven statements on its European holdings and cut its
position by about three-quarters as of Nov. 21 in an effort to
reassure investors. MF Global failed after placing losing bets
on European sovereign debt.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO Vikram Pandit, whose bank took a $45
billion taxpayer bailout in 2008, has said financial
institutions should be forced to publish results from stress
tests every three months. The Fed said last month that it will
disclose the results of its stress tests on the 19 largest
institutions. Dodd-Frank requires the central bank to conduct
the tests annually.  Regulatory Backlash  “Whether or not you’re regulated with a supervisory
regulator, just put the information out,” Pandit, 54, said Dec.
6 at the Goldman Sachs conference in response to a question
about the extent of a regulatory backlash from MF Global’s
failure. “If you did that, and you did that consistently over a
lot of institutions over a period of time, I think the markets
would take care of a lot of this stuff as well.”  Citigroup also doesn’t list gross amounts of credit-default
swaps on GIIPS debt in its filings. Its net funded exposure as
of Sept. 30 was $7.2 billion and its unfunded commitments were
$9.2 billion, the New York-based bank said in a filing and a
presentation.  “So I don’t know if there’s a regulatory backlash, but
there’s certainly a lot of head-cracking going on in terms of
what happened, and I think that’s a good thing,” Pandit said.
“It can lead to a safer system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  