-- Banks Kicked ‘When We’re Down’ in Year of Protests, Batali Gibe
-- B y   D e v i n   L e o n a r d
-- 2011-12-22T21:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/banks-kicked-when-we-re-down-in-year-of-protests-batali-gibe.html
Wall Street used to adore  Mario Batali , the Croc-wearing celebrity chef. Bankers crowded his
expensive restaurants and dined on Italian dishes built around
piglet alla paesana or Sardinian lamb. In November, however,
Batali served up something that made bankers gag.  At a Time magazine panel, he compared the financial
industry to Stalin and Hitler, decrying how they had “toppled
the way money is distributed -- and taken most of it into their
hands,” Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Dec. 26 issue.  Batali hastily apologized, but not before outraged Wall
Streeters made their displeasure known.  “Thanks for kicking us when we’re down, MB,” Timothy Chen, a trader at Maxim Group LLC in New York, wrote in a post
in the restaurant news section on the Bloomberg terminal.  It’s rare to hear such an anguished expression from a Wall
Street executive. But then this has been a terrible year for
them. Along with being compared to mass murderers by one of
their favorite restaurateurs, bankers have had to endure tanking
earnings -- in October,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reported its
first quarterly loss since the financial crisis -- layoffs and,
for those who remain, the prospect of reduced bonuses.  On top of all that, a ragtag gang of anarchists,
socialists, labor activists, students and unemployed people
spent much of the fall camping out in the park where brown-
bagging back-office types usually take their lunch, complaining
that bankers were the root of all the nation’s economic ills.  ‘Four Years Behind’  “The irony is that protesters are concerned about high
bank profits,” said Mike Mayo, a veteran banking industry
analyst and author of “Exile on Wall Street: One Analyst’s
Fight to Save the Big Banks from Themselves.” “But profits
haven’t been very good this year. The protesters are four years
behind. They should’ve been out there with their signs in
2007.”  The recovery in the U.S. has been disappointing for the
legions of unemployed people, mortgage holders whose homes are
underwater, and banks that build the products that trade on
these activities. There’s hardly any demand for structured debt.  Before the financial crisis, “there was roughly
$1.3 trillion of commercial paper supporting asset-backed
bonds,” said  Richard Bove , a bank analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC. “Now that number is down to $300 billion, which
means that there are no asset-backed bonds around that anybody
wants to buy.”  Pity-Resistant  Initial public offerings have slowed, along with mergers
and acquisitions. The industry isn’t making much money on loans,
either. While banks can borrow cheaply from the government, they
can’t mark it up much to customers because  interest rates  are so
low. It’s almost enough to make you feel sorry for a class of
people who, until now, have been fairly pity-resistant.  The problems of the  euro zone  only add to their woes. The
markets rise when European leaders announce another patchwork
solution to their sovereign-debt crisis. They fall when the
shortcomings become apparent, as they inevitably do. Traders
like volatility as long as the overall direction of the market
is apparent.  That wasn’t the case in the third quarter; the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  swung violently up and down as panicked
investors bought and sold on the headlines. Investment banks
trading large blocks of securities on behalf of their clients
got mauled. In November, Goldman Sachs reported it lost money
trading on 21 days in the third quarter. Morgan Stanley did the
same on 31 days.  As a result of all these events, U.S. banks may post a
decline in revenue growth for the year of 1 percent.  “That’s the lowest since 1938,” Mayo said.  BofA Below $5  Hedge funds  aren’t doing any better. In the third quarter
of 2011, their returns fell by 6 percent, wiping out
$85 billion, according to Hedge Fund Research. It was the
industry’s worst quarter since the last four months of 2008,
when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. imploded.  Such dismal performance is usually followed by two things:
falling stock prices and layoffs.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  shares
dipped below $5 in December, recalling the dark days of early
2009 when there was talk of bank nationalization. As of mid-
December, financial firms worldwide had cut more than 200,000
jobs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. And it looked as
if their human resources departments were just getting warmed
up.  “This is something really different,” said  Huw Jenkins , a
former UBS AG investment banking chief who is now a managing
partner of  Brazil ’s BTG Pactual in  London . “This is a
structural change. The industry is shrinking.”  Dodd-Frank  There’s more retrenchment on the way. For all the banking
industry’s lobbying efforts, the reforms passed last year as
part of the Dodd-Frank Act are slowly being enacted. Banks are
closing their proprietary-trading desks to comply with the
Volcker rule, which allows them to execute trades for clients
and forbids them from doing so using their own balance sheets.  This has had dire consequences for Goldman Sachs. It relied
on trading for more than 62 percent of its revenue, as of early
November. The government and the industry are still squabbling
over the definition of proprietary trading. But this much is
inevitable: Wall Street’s most powerful firm will have federal
regulators scrutinizing its trades to determine whether they
comply with the new rule.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is in a similarly
awkward position.  “I don’t see how they can survive,” said Peter J. Solomon, chairman of Peter J. Solomon Co., an independent
investment bank in New York. “They’ll survive. But they’ll be
smaller, and they are going to be highly controlled.”  Subprime Boom  Wall Street can no longer afford to blithely take risks as
it once did, not when some of the largest banks are trying to
resolve suits filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission
and angry investors are accusing them of stuffing mortgage-
backed securities with bad loans during the subprime boom.  They are also in talks with numerous state attorneys
general about their use of “robo-signing” mortgage processors
to feed their collateralized-debt-obligation factories.  “The industry has to rethink the way it does business,”
Bove said. “That means it’s going to fire more people. It’s
going to change internal rules and regulations because nobody
wants to get sued again.”  It doesn’t sound like fun. No wonder the happiest bankers
aren’t the ones on Wall Street but those at smaller regional
operations that offer their depositors old-fashioned checking
accounts and loans.  “We have a Bank of America across the street,” said David Provost, chief executive officer of Talmer Bank & Trust in Troy,
 Michigan . “They are our greatest source of new depositors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Leonard in  New York  at 
 dleonard12@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  