-- Basel Regulators Seek to Close Loopholes in Bank-Liquidity Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-12-22T09:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/basel-regulators-seek-to-close-loopholes-in-bank-liquidity-rules.html
Global regulators are targeting
possible loopholes in draft rules to bolster  banks’  liquidity as
they push for agreement on parts of the standard by March, a
member of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said.  Discussions are under way about what assets lenders
should be allowed to count toward their minimum liquidity
reserves and on how to prevent banks from using “regulatory
arbitrage” to get around aspects of the measure, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice president of  Germany ’s central bank, said
in a telephone interview this week.  Banks have argued that a draft of the so-called liquidity
coverage ratio published last year may curtail  loans  by forcing
them to hoard cash and buy up  government bonds . Under the plans
certain assets, such as covered bonds, would be allowed to
account for a maximum of 40 percent of a bank’s total LCR
buffer.  “There is a discussion going on with respect to the
possibility of regulatory arbitrage” concerning the 40 percent
cap, Lautenschlaeger said. “We decided that there needs to be
more work done.”  Bank watchdogs say the liquidity requirements are needed to
prevent a repeat of the collapses of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  and  Dexia SA  that were blamed in part on the lenders
running out of short-term funding. The standard is scheduled to
take effect in 2015.  Credit Squeeze  The Basel group’s LCR would require lenders to hold enough
easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The
ratio was discussed at a meeting of the Basel committee last
week and some parts of the measure may be fine-tuned as soon as
March, Lautenschlaeger said.  “We do have different market structures around the world
and we are still on our way to defining certain liquid assets,”
Lautenschlaeger said. “I think there will be some decisions
made in March.”  The Basel committee’s work also includes examining the
scenarios used by banks and regulators to calculate if funding
reserves are adequate, she said.  The  European Central Bank  this week lent  euro-area banks  a
record amount for three years and more than economists forecast
in an effort to keep credit flowing to the economy during the
sovereign debt crisis.  Banks will experience “very significant funding
constraints” for the “whole” of 2012, ECB President  Mario Draghi  told the European Parliament this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  