-- BBVA Takes $13.1 Billion ‘Funding Cushion,’ Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-12-22T09:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bbva-takes-13-1-billion-funding-cushion-deutsche-bank-says.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, indicated it took 10 billion
euros ($13.1 billion) to 11 billion euros from the  European
Central Bank  as a funding cushion, Deutsche Bank AG said.  The amount taken by BBVA is about equal to the bank’s debt
maturities for 2012, Carlos Berastain, a Madrid-based banking
analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a research note dated
yesterday. Banco Sabadell SA, another Spanish lender, indicated
it took 4 billion euros for the same purpose, he said.  Both banks state that the use of the three-year ECB
offering “is not designed to play the carry and therefore
should be interpreted solely as a funding cushion in the context
of very volatile and unpredictable funding markets,” according
to Berastain.  The 523 euro-zone lenders yesterday took a record 489
billion euros from the Frankfurt-based central bank in 1,134 day
loans. By flooding the banking system with cheap money, policy
makers are attempting to stave off a looming credit crunch by
encouraging banks to maintain lending.  Sabadell (SAB)  will use the money from the ECB as a “funding
cushion,” a spokesman for the bank, who asked not to be
identified by name in line with company policy, said in a phone
interview. He declined to confirm the amount cited by Deutsche.  A spokesman for Bilbao, Spain-based BBVA declined to
comment.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest lender, and  Banco
Popular Espanol SA (POP)  were reluctant to disclose how much they
borrowed, while Bankia SA wasn’t immediately able to do so,
Berastain said in the report.  Euro-zone banks are expected to borrow a total of 600
billion euros from the ECB’s facility after the central bank
holds a second operation at the end of February,  Matt Spick , a
London-based analyst at Deustche Bank, said in a separate
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  