-- BofA, Goldman, Bear Stearns, Deutsche Bank in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-22T13:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bear-stearns-fannie-mae-deutsche-bank-bmo-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  will pay a
record $335 million to compensate Countrywide Financial Corp.
borrowers who were charged more for home loans based on race and
national origin.  Countrywide, acquired by Bank of America in 2008, assessed
higher fees and interest rates to more than 200,000 black and
Hispanic borrowers, the U.S. Department of Justice said
yesterday in a  statement . The lender also steered minorities
into higher-cost subprime mortgages from 2004 to 2007, even when
they qualified for prime loans, the agency said.  The penalty for Bank of America, the second-largest U.S.
lender by deposits, dwarfs the $30 million total for all
previous fair-lending settlements extracted by the agency,
including $6.1 million paid last year by American International
Group Inc. The Obama administration has boosted scrutiny of
banks to discourage loan discrimination after the housing bust
led to record defaults.  “This is huge,” said Warren W. Traiger, a lawyer at New
York-based BuckleySandler LLP who advises financial firms on
fair lending. “While lenders need to be concerned about the
activities of the civil-rights division of the Justice
Department, the magnitude of this flows from a unique set of
facts. Countrywide was a driver of the subprime debacle and
helped create the  Great Recession .”  The review covered 2.5 million loans, including data on
terms and creditworthiness of borrowers, according to the
Justice Department. The agency said Calabasas, California-based
Countrywide allowed loan officers and brokers to vary interest
rates and fees, and knew it was discriminating against
minorities. Whites with similar credit profiles received prime
loans, according to the statement.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan,
52, is cleaning up liabilities inherited with the takeover of
Countrywide that was engineered by his predecessor, Kenneth D.
Lewis. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank has committed
about $40 billion for mortgage refunds, lawsuits and
 foreclosures  since 2007.  “We will not hesitate to hold financial institutions
accountable, including one of the nation’s largest,” Attorney
General Eric Holder said in the statement. “These institutions
should make judgments based on applicants’ creditworthiness, not
on the color of their skin.”  The “alleged historic practices” of Countrywide predate
its purchase by Bank of America, and the firm discontinued
Countrywide products and practices it didn’t agree with, said
Dan Frahm, a company spokesman, in an e-mail. “We are committed
to fair and equal treatment of all our customers.”  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Heungkuk Life Suit Against Goldman Sachs Is Withdrawn  Heungkuk Life Insurance Co. ’s lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  over a collateralized debt obligation was withdrawn
in New York state court after the two sides agreed to seek a
resolution out of court.  Heungkuk sued New York-based Goldman Sachs in federal court
in Manhattan in March over a $1 billion collateralized debt
obligation known as Timberwolf, accusing the company of fraud
and seeking more than $47.3 million in damages. The Seoul-based
insurer filed a similar state-court suit in April.  The federal case was voluntarily dismissed in May,
according to court records. The two sides have agreed to
“pursue the extrajudicial resolution” of the case in state
court, according to court documents filed yesterday. The state
case was withdrawn “without prejudice,” meaning the claims can
be re-filed.  Timberwolf was called “one shi**y deal” by a bank
executive in a 2007 internal e-mail written eight days after the
Heungkuk investment, according to the lawsuits. The e-mail was
released publicly by U.S. Senate lawmakers last year.  Peter E. Calamari, an attorney representing Heungkuk, and
Richard H. Klapper, a lawyer for Goldman Sachs, didn’t reply to
phone messages seeking comment on the withdrawal of the suit.  The cases are Heungkuk Life Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 650978/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan); and Heungkuk Life Insurance Co. v. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., 11-cv-1856, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Bear Stearns Fund Managers Seek Narrowing of SEC Suit  Former  Bear Stearns Cos.  hedge-fund managers Ralph Cioffi
and Matthew Tannin, acquitted in 2009 of criminal charges they
misled investors who lost $1.6 billion, asked a federal judge to
toss out part of a related civil case brought by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Cioffi and Tannin, in their request to U.S. District Judge
Frederic Block in Brooklyn, New York, said they can’t be sued
for statements they didn’t make and over so-called scheme
liability. The request, made in October, was made public Dec.
20.  In November 2009, a federal jury found Cioffi and Tannin
not guilty of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in the
first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 55, was
portfolio manager for the hedge funds. Tannin, 50, was their
chief operating officer.  “Despite the complete acquittal of Mr. Cioffi and Mr.
Tannin, the SEC has persisted in pursuing this action based on
the same underlying facts,” lawyers for the men wrote in the
filing.  The SEC opposed the motion in a November filing, also made
public Dec. 20. The regulator’s case requires a lower standard
of proof than a criminal conviction. Block has set a Feb. 13
trial date for the SEC suit.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  J&J Must Defend Securities-Fraud Lawsuit Over Drug Recalls  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s largest health products
company, must defend a lawsuit claiming it misled investors
about quality control-failures at manufacturing plants that led
to recalls, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson in Trenton,  New Jersey ,
ruled Dec. 19 that the securities fraud suit against J&J,
Colleen Goggins, the former head of its consumer group, and
another executive may go forward. She dismissed claims against
Chief Executive Officer William Weldon and Peter Luther,
president of the McNeil Consumer Healthcare division. The judge
didn’t rule on the merits of the class-action, or group,
lawsuit.  The case focuses on recalls of over-the-counter drugs made
at McNeil plants in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico, and Fort
Washington, Pennsylvania. Investor Ronald Monk said that J&J and
its executives made misleading statements about details of the
recalls and that he suffered stock losses after the true reasons
for the recalls became public. As part of a so-called phantom
recall, J&J even hid its recall of a batch of Motrin tablets,
Monk said.  “Plaintiff’s assertion that Goggins attended the Feb. 19,
2010, meeting where the phantom recall was discussed
sufficiently alleges that she had knowledge of the recall when
she testified” at a Congressional hearing “that she did not
have such knowledge,” Wolfson said in a 55-page opinion.  William Price, a J&J spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling. William Phillips, a lawyer for J&J, Weldon, Goggins and
Luther, didn’t return a call.  The case is Monk v. J&J, 10-cv-4841, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Trenton).  Fortress CEO Mudd Takes Leave Amid SEC’s Fannie Mae Lawsuit  Daniel Mudd  will take a leave of absence as chief executive
officer of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  after he was sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over his role as
former CEO of Fannie Mae.  Fortress co-founder Randal A. Nardone will take over as
interim CEO effective immediately, the New York-based manager of
buyout and hedge funds said daestery in a statement.  “I have requested a leave of absence from my position as
chief executive officer to ensure that any time or attention I
need to focus on matters outside of Fortress will not affect the
business or operations of the company,” Mudd said in the
statement.  Mudd and former Freddie Mac CEO Richard Syron were sued
Dec. 16 for understating by hundreds of billions of dollars the
subprime loans held by the firms.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the government-
sponsored enterprise that issues almost half of all mortgage-
backed securities, and Freddie Mac, the McLean, Virginia-based
mortgage company, had “agreed to accept responsibility” for
their conduct, the SEC said.  In a statement the day the lawsuit was filed in Manhattan
federal court, Mudd denied the charge, saying the U.S.
government and its investors were aware of “every piece of
material data about loans held by Fannie Mae.”  Fortress said in a Dec. 16 statement that the complaint
against Mudd “does not relate to Fortress, and this matter has
not impacted our company or our business operations.”  In the suit, the SEC said it wants financial penalties and
disgorgement, and an order barring Mudd from serving as an
officer or director of another company.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  Sued by California in Foreclosure Probe  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were accused in a lawsuit by
California Attorney General Kamala Harris of hindering her probe
into mortgage lending and foreclosure practices.  Harris wants to know if drug dealing and prostitution occur
in foreclosed homes owned by the companies, whether taxes are
being paid on those houses, and whether military families have
been illegally evicted by loan servicers, according to the two
lawsuits filed Dec. 20 in state court in San Francisco.  Fannie Mae, the government-sponsored enterprise which
issues almost half of all mortgage-backed securities, and
Freddie Mac, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance
company, haven’t responded to those and other questions Harris
sent Nov. 15, according to the complaints.  From January 2007 through June of this year, more than
768,000 mortgages have been foreclosed in California, with
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae together owning more than 60 percent
of mortgages in the state, according to the complaints.  California has withdrawn from settlement negotiations in
which state attorneys general across the U.S. have been trying
to reach an agreement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America
Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc .
The states seek to resolve their probe into foreclosure
practices of the five biggest mortgage servicers.  Michael Cosgrove , a spokesman for Freddie Mac, declined to
comment on the California lawsuit.  Keosha Burns, a spokeswoman at Fannie Mae, referred
questions about the lawsuit to the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, the regulator of mortgage financiers. FHFA spokeswoman
Stefanie Johnson declined to comment on the complaint.  The case is California v. Federal National Mortgage
Association, CPF-11-511771, and California v. Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp., CPF-11-511772, California Superior Court (San
Francisco).  Deutsche Bank Sued by Kingate Fund Over Madoff Settlement  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued by Kingate Global Fund Ltd. over
claims the German bank refused to honor an agreement to buy
bankruptcy claims on the estate of convicted con man Bernard
Madoff.  Kingate Global Fund and Kingate Euro Fund, two so-called
Madoff “feeder funds” based in the British Virgin Islands,
filed their complaint in federal court in New York yesterday,
asking a judge to force Deutsche Bank to follow through on its
commitment to buy the claims.  Deutsche Bank agreed to buy $1.62 billion in claims from
the funds in August, and has refused to complete the purchase
because a proposed settlement between Kingate and Madoff estate
trustee Irving Picard doesn’t provide “sufficient protection”
for the Frankfurt-based bank, according to the complaint.  “The Kingate funds will suffer real and concrete damages
if Deutsche Bank continues its bad faith attempt to either
renegotiate or terminate what everyone understood to be -- and
what plainly states that it is -- a done deal,” lawyers for
Kingate said in the complaint. “The Kingate Funds’ settlement
with the Madoff trustee, which is the result of years of
negotiations, will fall apart.”  Picard in June sued the Kingate funds, which are being
liquidated in the British Virgin Islands, seeking $975 million
in funds they took out of Madoff’s scheme. The funds have been
unable to complete a settlement with Picard because of Deutsche
Bank’s refusal to honor the agreement, lawyers for Kingate said
in the lawsuit.  “Deutsche Bank will purchase Kingate’s claim if both
parties can finalize mutually acceptable documentation,” Renee
Calabro, a New York-based spokeswoman for the bank, said in a
phone interview.  The case is Kingate Global Fund Ltd. v. Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., 11-cv-9364, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials  Stanford Receivers Vie in U.S. Court for Control of Assets  U.S.- and Antiguan-appointed receivers for R. Allen
Stanford’s holdings vied in court for control of his assets as
investors await payment for losses in his alleged $7 billion
fraud scheme.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in Dallas yesterday heard
evidence and arguments from attorneys for Ralph Janvey -- whom
he appointed almost three years ago to marshal and liquidate
Stanford’s business and personal holdings -- and from lawyers
for executives of the global auditing firm Grant Thornton chosen
by an Antiguan court for the same task.  At the heart of Stanford’s alleged fraud are certificates
of deposit sold by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
Ltd. to about 28,000 investors. That makes the island nation the
legal center of interest, the two Grant Thornton receivers
contend. Janvey’s lawyer, Kevin Sadler, disagreed.  “The last thing this receivership needs, the last thing
that investors need, is two liquidators of the bank here in the
U.S.,” Sadler told Godbey. “It duplicates work that has
already been done.”  The claims and distributions could be coordinated between
the U.S. and Antiguan receivers, said Gregory Grossman, lawyer
for the Grant Thornton liquidators. “For reasons that have been
mystifying to me, we have been unable to reach a joint
protocol.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February
2009 sued Stanford, alleging that he and his employees lied
about the CDs, telling investors the proceeds were invested in
safe, liquid assets.  Stanford, who maintains his innocence, is scheduled to be
tried on Jan. 23. At a hearing this week in Houston, defense
lawyers and U.S. prosecutors are asking a judge to determine his
mental fitness to stand trial. Stanford says he suffered severe
memory loss in a jailhouse beating. Prosecutors say he’s faking.  The liquidation proceeding is In re Stanford International
Bank Ltd., 3:09-cv-00721, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-
cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston). The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 3:09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here and here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  SEC’s Court Troubles in Citigroup Settlement Echo in Wisconsin  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, facing growing
judicial scrutiny over how it resolves enforcement matters, was
asked by a federal judge in Milwaukee to provide a “factual
predicate” for a proposed settlement with a company accused of
accounting fraud.  Certain provisions of the SEC’s settlement with Milwaukee-
based  Koss Corp. (KOSS)  were “vague,” U.S. District Judge Rudolph T.
Randa said in a filing Dec. 20. The settlement also didn’t
provide enough information to show that penalties against chief
executive officer Michael Koss were fair, the judge wrote.  Randa’s decision comes less than a month after a federal
judge in New York rejected the agency’s $285 million settlement
with Citigroup Inc., saying he hadn’t been given enough facts to
approve the agreement.  The Citigroup ruling by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
which Randa cited in his opinion, challenged settlement
practices the SEC has had in place for decades and sparked a
debate over whether the agency is reaching expedient agreements
that lack tough sanctions. The SEC has appealed Rakoff’s ruling.  “If other judges start to follow Rakoff’s lead that’s a
big problem for the SEC because they’ll have to try more
cases,” said Adam Pritchard, a securities law professor at the
University of Michigan Law School.  The SEC in October accused Koss Corp., a manufacturer of
stereo headphones, of making materially inaccurate financial
statements for fiscal years 2005 through 2009. The agency said
Michael Koss failed in his roles as CEO and earlier as chief
financial officer in overseeing accounting and finance at the
company.  Randa questioned the adequacy of the Oct. 24 settlement’s
provision that the company promise not to make future violations
of securities laws, saying the agreement is vague and could pose
problems for enforcing it in the future.  Randa also asked the SEC to provide more information to
justify the amount Michael Koss will pay to resolve the claims.
Under the agreement, Koss would forfeit a total of about
$450,000 and 160,000 options, the equivalent of his incentive
bonuses for fiscal years 2008 through 2010, according to the
court filing.  Randa asked the SEC to respond by Jan. 24.  For more, click here.  BMO Harris Bank to Pay $9.4 Million to Settle Overdraft Suit  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Harris Bank agreed to pay $9.4
million to settle a lawsuit that accused the Chicago lender of
illegally charging excessive overdraft fees, according to court
papers.  The settlement reached Nov. 30 ends the bank’s role in the
litigation, according to a filing Dec. 20 in federal court in
Miami. Overdraft suits filed across the U.S. have been
consolidated in that court for pretrial proceedings.  Account holder Stephanie Blahut accused the bank of
manipulating and reordering debited transactions in accounts
from highest to lowest to increase the number of overdraft fees
it can charge. Blahut sued seeking to represent all Harris Bank
customers.  Suits against more than 30 banks have been consolidated
before U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami in so-
called multidistrict litigation. King has been overseeing
pretrial exchanges of information in the cases since June 2009.
The Harris Bank settlement still requires the judge’s approval.  The consolidated case is In re Checking Account Overdraft
Litigation, 09-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  Rambus to Pay $10.8 Million to Settle Options Dating Suit  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  said it will pay $10.8 million to settle one of
two remaining lawsuits over claims the company backdated stock
option grants before 2006.  The settlement resolves a lawsuit brought by investor
Stuart Steele in 2008 and related to grants that were
incorrectly dated or accounted for prior to 2006. The majority
of the grants in dispute occurred between 1998 and 2001, the
company said yesterday in a statement. The case was scheduled to
go to trial in March, Rambus said.  Former Rambus Chairman Geoff Tate quit the board in 2006
after an internal investigation uncovered option backdating, a
practice that can enrich recipients by setting grant dates to
times when the stock traded lower, building in extra profit. The
practice is illegal unless disclosed and recorded as expenses.  In September 2007, the company paid $18 million to settle a
suit brought by shareholders who claimed executives misled them
about Rambus’s financial performance and its options backdating.  The case is Steele v. Rambus, 08-cv-113682, Superior Court
of California, Santa Clara County ( San Jose ).  Expert-Networking Executive Gets 2 1/2 Years in Fraud Scheme  Former Primary Global Research LLC executive James
Fleishman was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for helping
pass confidential information to hedge-fund managers as part of
an insider-trading scheme.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff sentenced Fleishman, 42, of
Santa Clara, California, yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan. A jury convicted him in September of two conspiracy
charges for what the U.S. said was a scheme to obtain and pass
confidential information from technology-company employees who
moonlighted as consultants for Mountain View, California-based
Primary Global, a so-called expert-networking firm.  Rakoff said Fleishman must report to prison Feb. 7. Defense
attorney Ethan A. Balogh asked the judge to recommend Fleishman
serve his time at Taft Correctional Institution in Taft,
California. Rakoff denied Fleishman’s request to remain free on
bail while he appeals his conviction.  Fleishman didn’t speak at his sentencing and Balogh
declined to comment after the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  U.S. Settles With  Exelon (EXC)  Over Constellation Energy Deal  The U.S. Justice Department settled with Exelon Corp. over
its acquisition of  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , requiring
Exelon to sell three electricity generating plants in Maryland.  The department made the announcement yesterday shortly
after it filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Washington,
alleging the deal would eliminate competition and lead to higher
prices for consumers. The agreement must be approved a federal
judge.  “Competition in wholesale electricity markets is vital to
the economic well-being of consumers and businesses,” said
Sharis Pozen, acting assistant attorney general for the
antitrust division, in an e-mailed statement. “These
divestitures will preserve that critical competition for the
benefit of electricity customers throughout the mid-Atlantic.”  Exelon spokeswoman Judith Rader confirmed the settlement.
Exelon had already agreed to the terms, divestiture of their
Maryland power plants, as part of its merger proposal, she said.  The case is U.S. v. Exelon Corp., 11-cv-02276, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  French Doctor Gets Time Served in Hedge-Fund Tipping Case  Yves Benhamou, a French physician who passed inside
information on drug trials to FrontPoint Partners LLC fund
manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron, was sentenced to the time he
already served in custody.  Benhamou pleaded guilty in April to securities fraud,
making false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and two counts of conspiracy for passing tips that  Human Genome
Sciences Inc. (HGSI) ’s hepatitis C drug trials were being halted. He
was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge George Daniels in
Manhattan federal court.  In sentencing Benhamou, 51, to the 24 days he spent in
custody after his arrest in November 2010, Daniels cited his
cooperation with the government’s investigation and his
importance to his patients in France. Benhamou, who was born in
Morocco, is a specialist in diseases of the liver.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Pablo Quinones told Daniels that
Benhamou’s cooperation “put the nail in the coffin” of the
government’s case against Skowron, who pleaded guilty and was
sentenced last month to five years in prison.  “I cannot find the words to express how sorry I am and how
much regret I feel,” Benhamou told Daniels.  Skowron, a Yale University-educated physician from
Greenwich, Connecticut, was sentenced last month to five years
in prison. He admitted that after Benhamou passed him the non-
public information, FrontPoint sold its stock, avoiding $30
million in losses, according to the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 11-CR-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  News Corp. (NWSA)  Must Pay Phone-Hacker’s Legal Fees, Not Coulson’s  Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. is required to pay the legal
fees of  Glenn Mulcaire , the British private detective at the
center of the phone-hacking scandal at its now-defunct News of
the World tabloid, a U.K. judge ruled.  Mulcaire, 41, had a valid contract to have his fees and
potential damages paid by the company in exchange for his
cooperation in dozens of civil lawsuits, a judge ruled yesterday
in London. In a separate judgment yesterday, former News of the
World editor Andy Coulson lost a similar suit to have his fees
covered by the company as he faces a criminal phone-hacking
probe.  Mulcaire “always said he was acting on the instruction”
of the company “and he clearly needs legal representation to
deal with the numerous cases,” his lawyer, Sarah Webb, said in
an e-mailed statement. The ruling will probably result in News
Corp.’s News International unit paying another 750,000 pounds
($1.2 million) in legal fees, she said.  News Corp., based in New York, shut the News of the World
in July to contain damage from the five-year-old scandal, which
triggered a  judge-led inquiry  into the ethics of the U.K. press.
Police probes into phone hacking, computer hacking and police
bribery by journalists have led to the arrests of at least 21
people, including Coulson in July, Mulcaire earlier this month
and a 52-year-old female police officer detained yesterday.  Coulson, who quit as editor in 2007 after Mulcaire pleaded
guilty to phone hacking, may appeal yesterday’s ruling, his
lawyer Jo Rickards said in a statement. The decision is
inconsistent with the ruling in Mulcaire’s case, she said.  “Mr. Coulson’s severance agreement included an explicit
clause specifying that News International would meet the legal
costs arising from his defense of proceedings resulting from his
role as editor of News of the World,” Rickards said. “The
allegations against him clearly relate to that role.”  Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit,
declined to comment. The company had argued the agreement with
Mulcaire wasn’t binding and that he had stopped assisting them
by refusing to name the journalists involved in hacking.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 