-- Madoff Sons Barred From Appeal in $198 Million Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-28T19:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bernard-madoff-s-sons-lose-bid-for-appeal-in-trustee-s-198-million-suit.html
(Corrects judge’s name in fourth paragraph of story
published Dec. 22.)  Bernard Madoff ’s sons can’t appeal a
bankruptcy judge’s decision to permit a $198 million claim
against them to go forward, a federal judge in Manhattan said.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley today declined to hear
an appeal of the September decision in favor of  Irving Picard ,
the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, in his claim against several Madoff family members
including Andrew Madoff and the estate of Mark Madoff, who
committed suicide in December 2010.  In the suit, filed in 2009, Picard claimed Madoff’s family
used the firm as their “family piggy bank” and should be
forced to turn over the money to victims of Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme. He sued Mark and  Andrew Madoff  as well as Bernard
Madoff’s brother Peter Madoff and his niece, Shana Madoff Swanson. All the defendants held senior positions at the Madoff
firm.  Picard claimed that the defendants failed to stop Madoff’s
fraud, instead choosing to profit from it. In the September
ruling, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  ruled that Picard
could pursue most of his claims against the Madoffs and gave him
the opportunity to amend his complaint.  Madoff, 73, who pleaded guilty to charges of masterminding
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history, is serving a 150-year term
in a federal  prison  in North Carolina.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined to comment
on today’s ruling.  Martin Flumenbaum , who represents Andrew
Madoff and Mark Madoff’s estate, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message.  The case is: Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 11-Misc.-379,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 