-- Bini Smaghi Says QE Would Be Appropriate Act If Deflation Becomes a Danger
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-12-23T08:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bini-smaghi-says-ecb-should-use-quantitative-easing-if-deflation-detected.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said that policy makers
shouldn’t shirk from using quantitative easing if deflation
becomes a danger to the euro region.  “I do not understand the quasi-religious discussions about
quantitative easing,” Bini Smaghi, who will leave his post at
the end of the month, said in an interview published yesterday
by the Financial Times. The ECB confirmed the comments. “It is
appropriate if economic conditions justify it, in particular in
countries facing a liquidity trap that may lead to deflation.”  Unlike the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  Bank of England ,
the ECB has offset liquidity created by purchases of government
bonds so that such operations don’t amount to quantitative
easing that stokes inflation. ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark told  Germany ’s Die Welt newspaper in an interview
published today that the central bank doesn’t “have a mandate”
for unlimited purchases of  government bonds .  Growth prospects in Europe “have deteriorated” since
September, U.K. central bank Governor Mervyn King said yesterday
after a  risk assessment  by European officials. Stark, who
resigned in September to protest bond purchases,  said  while the
euro-region economy could shrink at the end of 2011, deflation
threats are “significantly lower” than after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  ‘Clear Mandate’  The euro traded at $1.3080 at 8:59 a.m. in  Frankfurt , up
0.2 percent on the day. The single currency has depreciated 3.1
percent against the dollar over the past three months as
European leaders struggled to contain the region’s debt crisis.  “Central banks are given a clear mandate, to achieve  price
stability , and the independence to achieve it through the
instruments they consider most appropriate,” Bini Smaghi said.
“If conditions changed and the need to further increase
liquidity emerged, I would see no reason why such an instrument,
tailor made for the specific characteristics of the euro area,
should not be used.”  The ECB this month cut its  benchmark interest rate  to 1
percent, and has never followed the Fed or Bank of  England  in
trimming the cost of borrowing below that level. The Frankfurt-
based institution has opposed demands to step up government bond
purchases to cap borrowing costs in Europe’s peripheral nations.  Deflation Risk  Quantitative easing “is implemented in the U.K. and U.S.,
where the central banks consider that there are risks of
deflation and where the policy rate is constrained by the zero
lower bound,” Bini Smaghi said. “This is currently not the
case in the euro area because the ECB currently sees no risk of
deflation.”  Instead of more bond purchases, the ECB has so far opted to
grease the banking system with unlimited liquidity of up to
three years, hoping financial institutions will lend the money
on to companies and households. The institution loaned banks a
record 489 billion euros ($636 billion) for three years on Dec.
21 to avert a credit crunch from the sovereign debt crisis.  “The interest in the long-term refinancing operation may
be a sign of confidence gradually returning,” Bini Smaghi said.
“If this is right,  interest rate  spreads would be pushed down
and create profitable opportunities. It would generate a herd
movement in a positive direction.”  ‘Misplaced Concept’  Bini Smaghi will take up a position at Harvard University’s
Center for International Affairs on Jan. 1. He will also become
chairman of Italian utility Snam Trasporto on the same date, the
company said yesterday.  Bini Smaghi dismissed calls for the ECB to act as a lender
of last resort to distressed governments. “Central banks act as
lender of last resort to the financial system,” he said. “The
concept of lender of last resort to governments is misplaced.”  Risks of a euro area breakup are “low” if “policy makers
and citizens in the euro area are rational,” Bini Smaghi said.  The policy maker said he’s “not sure” if issuing common
euro bonds would be the most effective solution to solve the
crisis. “I could nevertheless envisage a limited amount of
joint and several issuance to finance, for instance, specific
projects, pan-European infrastructure or a common bank
restructuring fund.”  U.K. Role  Asked whether the  Europe  Union should continue integration
without Britain, Bini Smaghi said that “continental Europe
needs the U.K., where the largest financial center is located
and where there is the greatest financial market expertise.”  “The U.K. financial system needs access to the continent
where most of its clients are,” he said. “There can be no
prosperity for either based on beggar-thy-neighbor policies.”  He added that it’s in the interest of the  City of London 
“that the euro succeeds.”  Bini Smaghi criticized rating companies for threatening to
downgrade countries that “over the past few months have
undertaken the toughest fiscal adjustment program, and thus
improved their fundamentals,” while “those that have postponed
adjustment, gaining time in particular through easy financing by
the central bank, have been considered to be in better shape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  