-- BNY Mellon Settles Auction-Rate Investigation
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2011-12-22T22:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bny-mellon-will-pay-1-3-million-to-settle-probe-into-auction-rate-trading.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BNY)  will
pay $1.3 million to New York,  Texas  and  Florida  to resolve a
probe into manipulative trading of auction-rate securities.  The joint investigation by the Texas State Securities
Board, the Florida Office of Financial Regulation and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  was tied to the actions of
Mellon Financial Markets as an intermediary broker on behalf of
Citizens Property Insurance Corp. of Florida, according to
statements from Schneiderman’s office and the Florida and Texas
agencies. The settlement includes penalties, fees and costs.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. The market for the
securities collapsed in February 2008 after major dealers
withdrew their support for the auctions, causing most to fail.  “The manipulative trading of auction-rate securities in
 New York  will not be tolerated under any circumstances,”
Schneiderman said in a statement. “My office will continue to
protect the integrity of New York’s global financial markets at
all costs.”  Mellon Financial in January and February 2008 enabled
Citizens Property to buy large quantities of its own auction-
rate securities by placing bids in its own auctions as if it
were an independent third-party buyer, Schneiderman’s office
said in a statement.  Help From Mellon  Citizens Property knew that broker-dealers who were
managing the securities would have rejected the bids and asked
for help from Mellon Financial Markets, which agreed to submit
the trades to help the Florida insurer avoid detection,
Schneiderman’s office said.  Citizens Property’s bids were below market rates and
resulted in the auctions’ clearing at rates lower than they
would have had the insurer not intervened, Schneiderman’s office
said. Investors earned $6.7 million less in interest than they
would have if Citizens hadn’t joined the auctions, the  Texas
State Securities Board  said.  Mellon Financial “traders and their managers understood
that CPIC’s bidding would set clearing rates lower than they
would have been in the absence of such bidding, and that this
would be both detrimental and objectionable to other investors
bidding on or holding CPIC’s auction rate securities,”
Schneiderman’s office said.  Fees Earned  Mellon Financial earned about $300,000 in fees from the
conduct, Schneiderman’s office and the Texas board said. Florida
will receive $400,000 of the settlement and Texas will receive
$500,000, which will go to the state’s general revenue fund.  At least one broker at Mellon Financial described the
trading scenario as “unique” and brought the issue to his
supervisor, who didn’t seek legal advice or discuss it with the
company’s compliance department, the Texas board said.  After the market collapsed, a broker-dealer, suspicious
that Mellon Financial was bidding for Citizens, said orders
wouldn’t be accepted on behalf of a company bidding on its own
securities, the Texas agency said.  Traders continued the practice until Bank of New York
Mellon ordered it to stop, authorities said. One trader said the
activity allowed Citizens to “gouge people,” the Texas State
Securities Board said.  “BNY Mellon Capital Markets is pleased to have resolved
this matter, which centered on the isolated conduct of three
individuals who are no longer with the company,”  Ron Sommer , a
Bank of New York Mellon spokesman, said in a statement.  Two Entities  Mellon Financial Markets was a separate financial entity at
the time the activity occurred, the Texas agency said.  It would be inappropriate for Citizens Property Insurance
to comment on the settlement, Christine Ashburn, director of
legislative and external affairs for the Tallahassee-based
company, said in an e-mail.  “It is important to recognize that Citizens was vigilant
in obtaining guidance from outside legal counsel prior to
engaging in these transactions,” Ashburn said. “We continue to
believe that our actions were legally permissible, and we remain
committed to providing any information regulators may request.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 