-- Bond Auction Overload Eased by $9.5 Billion Fund Program: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2011-12-23T05:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/bonds-rally-as-9-5-billion-fund-plan-eases-auction-overload-india-credit.html
A government plan to borrow 500
billion rupees ($9.5 billion) from state banks will reduce the
need to increase record sales of new bonds and help the market
extend the best rally among the biggest emerging nations.  The country may use land and shares as collateral to raise
the money, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter
said yesterday. Rupee-denominated notes returned 2.7 percent
this month, JPMorgan & Chase Co. data show, as 10-year yields
slid 34 basis points to 8.40 percent. Local-currency debt earned
0.8 percent in  Brazil , 1.1 percent in China and 0.06 percent in
 Russia , the data show.  Sovereign bonds have surged the most this month since May
2010 as the Reserve Bank of  India  halted a record run of
interest-rate increases on the first contraction in factory
output since 2009. Nomura Holdings Inc. and Standard Chartered
Plc predict that the government will raise its debt-sale target
for a second time in the fiscal year ending March 31 as the
deepening  slump  erodes revenue.  “This would help the government’s budget management and
lowers the chances of another increase in market borrowings,”
Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at Nomura,
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage, said in an interview yesterday. “If
indeed there is no further increase in debt supply, then we
could see benchmark bonds rallying further.”  India will set up a fund by Jan. 15 that will use
government stakes in non-state companies including  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,
 Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  as collateral, the
officials said, declining to be identified before a public
announcement on the deal. The company will use the funds raised
to buy the government’s stakes in state-run firms, the officials
said, boosting federal revenue and supporting Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee ’s efforts to trim the budget  deficit .  Delayed Sales  The plan may help the nation use assets the officials said
are valued at 1 trillion rupees and prevent the failure of an
earlier government proposal to raise 400 billion rupees in the
fiscal year ending March 31 from sales of shares in state-owned
companies.  A 23 percent drop in the benchmark  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  of shares this year prompted Mukherjee to delay selling
stock of Oil & Natural Gas Corp., Steel Authority of India Ltd.
and Indian Oil Corp. The minister has raised 11.44 billion
rupees through asset sales this fiscal year compared with 227.63
billion rupees in the 12 months through March, 2011, according
to data provided by the Department of Disinvestment.  Deficit Challenge  The government plans to cut the revenue  shortfall  to a
four-year low of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product by March
31, according to budget estimates. Moody’s Investors Service
said this week that the deficit will widen to 7.6 percent this
year. The  Finance Ministry  increased its annual debt-sale target
by 13 percent in September to a record 4.7 trillion rupees.  Bond risk in India surged the most among the largest
developing nations in 2011 amid concern public finances will
worsen.  The cost of  protecting  the debt of  State Bank  of India,
seen as a proxy for the nation, against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps jumped 231 basis points this
year to 392 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Contracts on  China ’s  government bonds  increased 77 basis
points to 149, while Russia’s climbed 132 to 279 and Brazil’s
added 50 to 161. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 52.70 a dollar today.  ‘Surprise Move’  “There’s no doubt that this surprise move by India will
help in meeting the deficit target and have a benign impact on
 market sentiment ,” Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer at a
local unit of  South Korea ’s Mirae Asset Financial Group in
Mumbai, said in an interview yesterday. “Everybody will be
keenly watching how quickly and effectively the government works
out the modalities.”  Yields on benchmark 8.79 percent notes due in November 2021
declined 15 basis points after a government report on Dec. 12
showed that  industrial production  shrank 5.1 percent in October
from a year earlier. The yield, which rose five basis points
today, will drop to 8.25 percent next month, should the
government refrain from increasing debt sales, Nomura predicts.  Growth Forecast Cut  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled yesterday
that  Asia ’s third-largest economy may expand less than an
earlier estimate of 7.6 percent in the year through March 2012.
Indian  inflation , which slowed to 9.11 percent last month from
9.73 percent in October, will decelerate to 7 percent by March,
the central bank predicts.  “Growth worries are probably beginning to outweigh
inflation concerns,” M. Natarajan, Mumbai-based head of
treasury at the Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in an interview on
Dec. 20. “Investors now expect the  Reserve Bank  to cut rates in
January instead of waiting until March or April.”  Slower inflation is encouraging international investors to
boost investments in Indian bonds, which yield more than four
times as much as U.S. Treasuries. Overseas funds bolstered
 holdings  of rupee government and corporate debt by $8.2 billion
this year to a record $25.8 billion on Dec. 20. The  extra yield 
demanded on 10-year Indian government debt over similar-dated
Treasuries was 638 basis points today.  Government bonds are also rallying after the central bank
resumed open-market purchases of sovereign debt last month for
the first time since January to boost the amount of cash in the
banking system. The monetary authority has purchased 331 billion
rupees of government debt at auctions in the past month, central
bank data show.  “The outlook for bonds is positive in the medium term as
the monetary cycle may turn,”  Roy Paul , deputy general manager
of treasury at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, said in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  