-- Boustead Keen on Exxon Malaysia Assets If San Miguel Fails
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2011-12-22T07:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/boustead-keen-on-exxon-malaysia-assets-if-san-miguel-fails-2-.html
Boustead Holdings Bhd. (BOUS) , a Malaysian
plantations, engineering and financial services group, is still
interested in buying Exxon Mobil Corp.’s oil and gas assets in
the Southeast Asian nation if  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) ’s planned
acquisition falls through, Group Managing Director Lodin Wok Kamaruddin said.  Exxon agreed in August to sell its entire 65 percent stake
in  Esso Malaysia Bhd. (ESSO)  and some other assets in the country to
the Philippine beer-maker for $610 million. While this won
Malaysian government approval last month, the transaction has
yet to be concluded.  “We first had a discussion with Esso in August last
year,” Lodin told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “If there
is a review with whomever they have made an agreement with, we
are open and prepared to talk to anyone.”  San Miguel (SMC)  agreed to acquire Exxon’s entire 65 percent
stake in Kuala Lumpur-listed Esso Malaysia for about $206
million, or 3.50 ringgit per share, giving it control over a
chain of gasoline stations and one refinery with a capacity of
88,000 barrels a day. The Philippines’ largest food and drinks
company also agreed to purchase all of unlisted ExxonMobil
Malaysia Sdn. and Exxon Mobil Borneo Sdn. for a combined $403
million.  The takeovers would provide the Manila-based company with
downstream interests including seven fuel distribution terminals
and a network of 560 service stations.  This would be  San Miguel ’s first overseas expansion in the
oil and gas sector. It already owns Petron Corp., the largest of
the  Philippines ’ two oil refiners. Boustead operates more than
300 service stations in Malaysia under BH Petrol brand.  San Miguel President Ramon Ang wasn’t immediately available
for comment when text-messaged in Manila today.  Boustead shares gained 2.1 percent to 5.78 ringgit at 3:02
p.m. in Kuala Lumpur trading, while Esso Malaysia climbed 0.6
percent to 3.41 ringgit. The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index was 0.1 percent higher.  Separately, Lembaga Tabung Angkatan Tentera, a Malaysian
armed forces fund, may dilute its stake in Boustead to about 50
percent in the name of good corporate governance, Lodin said.
The fund currently holds 61.2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  