-- Brazil Jobless Rate Falls to Record as Central Bank Warns of Inflation
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2011-12-22T17:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/brazil-jobless-rate-falls-to-record-as-central-bank-warns-of-inflation.html
Brazil ’s  unemployment  rate fell to a
record in November as the central bank warned that a tight labor
market and robust demand continue to pose “significant”
 inflation  risks. Interest-rate futures yields rose.  The jobless rate in the world’s second largest developing
economy declined to 5.2 percent last month, the lowest since
records began in 2002, from 5.8 percent in October, a government
report today showed. Economists expected the November rate at
5.7 percent, according to the median estimate from 36 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The central bank doesn’t have much more room to  cut 
interest rates,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “To
try to bring  interest rate  to single-digits in 2012 would be
complicated.”  There is “significant resistance” preventing inflation
from slowing in Brazil as current price increases feeds into
future inflation, policy makers said today in their quarterly
inflation report. They reiterated that “moderate” rate cuts
are the adequate strategy to shield the $2.1 trillion economy
from the global slump without jeopardizing their 4.5 inflation
target.  Traders pared bets that policy makers will cut interest
rates much further after three reductions since August to
reinvigorate economic growth that stalled in the third quarter.
The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 15 basis-points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 9.98 percent at 3:30 p.m.  More Rate Cuts  While Brazil’s economy shrank in the third quarter for the
first time since 2009, Brazil’s low  unemployment rate  keeps
bolstering  consumer confidence . The tight labor market, combined
with government stimulus efforts and an 18 percent surge in
lending this year, are fueling spending even as  Europe ’s
deepening debt crisis reduces demand for Brazil’s exports.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini last month cut the
key interest rate by half a percentage point for a third
straight meeting, pushing it to 11 percent even as inflation
hovers near a six-year high.  While Tombini pledged to bring inflation back to its 4.5
percent target next year, the central bank’s inflation estimates
published today show he misses the goal for at least two more
years.  The bank said that  inflation  would slow to 4.7 percent next
year and in 2013, after ending this year at the 6.5 percent
upper limit of the bank’s target range, should interest rates
remain unchanged at 11 percent.  Analysts are less optimistic. They see inflation exceeding
the 6.5 percent upper limit for the first time in eight years in
2011 and falling to only 5.39 percent next year, according to a
Dec. 16 central bank survey.  Rate Reversal?  “If necessary, interest rates will go up,” Central Bank’s
Economic Policy Director Carlos Hamilton told reporters today in
Brasilia.  He said inflation will quicken in 2013, after slowing to
target in 2012, as lower interest rates fuel price increases.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is trying to
reignite growth through interest rate cuts, tax breaks and
credit expansion after gross domestic product shrank 0.04
percent in the first quarter, the first contraction since 2009.  For now, the biggest fallout in Brazil from the global
slump has been on manufacturers, who saw output decline 2.2
percent in October from a year earlier, and on the nation’s
agricultural and commodity exports.  Jobs Growth  In contrast, employers continue to add jobs as Brazil
develops the biggest oil finds in the Americas in three decades
and the country renovates roads, airports and stadiums to host
the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Summer Olympics. Analysts expect
foreign direct investment to exceed $60 billion this year and
$54 billion in 2012, according to the most-recent bank survey.  Automakers are among companies adding jobs in Brazil as
they try to profit from the country’s expanding middle-class.  Nissan Motor Co. is investing 2.6 billion reais ($1.4
billion) to build an assembly plant near  Rio de Janeiro  that
will employ 2,000 workers and open in 2013. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , said
this month that it also plans to set up a factory in Brazil to
help sustain global sales.  The hiring frenzy has helped boost Rousseff’s approval
rating, which stood at 72 percent a year after taking office,
according to an Ibope poll published Dec. 16 and commissioned by
the National Industry Confederation in Brasilia. Her mentor and
predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , enjoyed 66 percent
support at the end of his first year in 2003.  “Employment was never so strong,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a phone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “We can’t expect rate cuts to accelerate.”  ‘Robust’ Demand  The central bank said today that domestic demand remains
“robust” because of wage gains and credit expansion. The tight
labor market is “a significant but declining risk” for
inflation, policy makers said. Economic growth will accelerate
to 3.5 percent in 2012 from 3 percent this year, the bank said.  While job growth has shown signs of easing -- employers in
November added the fewest number of jobs for the month since
2008 -- the unemployment rate may fall again in December as
seasonal hiring continues. In January, the jobless rate usually
rises as part-time workers are let go.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 