-- Brazil Central Bank Changes Rules to Boost Funding for Smaller Lenders
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2011-12-23T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/brazil-central-bank-changes-rules-to-boost-funding-for-smaller-lenders.html
Brazil’s central bank provided a
lifeline to small-sized lenders facing a funding squeeze amid
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis by encouraging bigger rivals to
purchase some of their assets.  Under new rules announced yesterday by the monetary
authority banks will be allowed to use part of their  reserve
requirements  to purchase credit portfolios and longer-term bonds
known as letras financeiras from banks whose capital doesn’t
exceed 2.2 billion reais ($1.2 billion). If they don’t, they’ll
be punished by losing 11 percent interest payments on some of
the funds they’re required to deposit at the central bank.  “The measure is positive and helps increase the volume of
credit in the Brazilian economy because middle-sized banks have
a capacity to generate credit that bigger ones don’t,” said
Ricardo Gelbaum, executive financial director for Banco BMG SA,
which in June reported 2.1 billion reais of equity.  The shift in reserve rules are the latest attempt by policy
makers to prop up smaller banks that have been under scrutiny
since  Brazil ’s deposit fund stepped in to facilitate the 2010
bailout of Banco Panamericano SA. It also comes as President
Dilma Rousseff’s administration is trying to expand credit to
reignite economic growth that  stalled  in the third quarter.  Starting Feb. 24, the central bank will no longer pay
interest on 27 percent of funds that banks are required to hold
at the monetary authority as reserve requirements for  time
deposits . That threshold will rise to 36 percent starting April
27. Currently reserve requirements on time deposits are paid the
country’s benchmark rate, which stands at 11 percent.  Consolidation  Authorities have boosted efforts in the past year to
promote consolidation in Brazil’s banking industry as
overleveraged, smaller lenders lose access to overseas funding
at the same time they’re preparing to adhere to tougher, new
accounting standards.  In April, the nation’s guarantee deposit bank, known as the
FGC, funded the acquisition of Banco Schahin SA by Banco BMG SA,
a lender focused on payroll-deductible loans. In October, the
central bank then ordered the liquidation of Banco Morada SA.  “The international crisis, Panamericano and Morada cases
have dried up the market for credit portfolios, leaving some of
this banks in a difficult situation,”  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at brokerage firm Votorantim Corretora SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in a phone interview.  Pending Deals  Aldo Mendes, the central bank director in charge of
monetary policy, said there are about 30 billion reais in
transactions that can be made as a result of the changes to the
reserve requirement rules. By February Brazil will have fully
established a clearing house to make it safer to buy and sell
these assets, he said.  “There is no concern over the health of banks,’ Mendes
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “We are trying to
rationalize the liquidity in the system.”  This month, Brazil lowered the so-called IOF transaction
tax on  consumer credit  to 2.5 percent from 3 percent in a bid to
strengthen domestic demand amid the global economic slump. The
central bank has also cut the benchmark Selic rate three times
since August and also begun to unwind measures taken last year
to prevent a consumer credit bubble.  Latin America ’s biggest economy is expected to grow this
year less than half the 7.5 percent pace it did in 2010, which
was the fastest in two decades.  -- Editors: Joshua Goodman, Andre Soliani  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo newsroom at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 