-- Brazil Unemployment Fell to Record Low 5.2%, Limiting Scope for Rate Cuts
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2011-12-22T11:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/brazil-s-unemployment-rate-tumbled-to-record-low-5-2-percent-in-november.html
Brazil ’s  unemployment  rate fell to
its lowest on record in November, showing a resilience in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy that may limit policymakers ability to
enact further rate cuts.  Interest-rate  futures rose.  Unemployment fell to 5.2 percent last month, the agency
said today. Economists expected an unemployment rate of 5.7
percent, according to the median estimate from 36 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  While Brazil’s economy shrank in the third quarter for the
first time since 2009, Brazil’s low unemployment rate keeps
bolstering  consumer confidence . The tight labor market, combined
with government efforts to stimulate growth, are driving demand
and inflationary pressures that may limit policy makers’ leeway
to keep cutting rates in 2012, said Mauricio Rosal, chief
economist at Raymond James in  Sao Paulo , in a phone interview
before the report was released.  The yield on interest rate future contracts due January
2013 rose 6 basis points, or 00.06 percentage point, to 9.89
percent at 9:06 a.m. Brasilia time. The real rose 0.2 percent to
1.8552 per dollar.  November’s jobs report reflects a surge in seasonal hiring,
as retailers add temporary jobs in advance of the  Christmas
shopping season .  Reinvigorate Growth  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is trying to
reinvigorate Brazil’s economy as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
deepens with a mix of tax cuts, lower borrowing costs and looser
bank lending requirements.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini last month cut the
key interest rate for a third straight meeting, pushing it to 11
percent. Rousseff has said Brazil will target growth of 5
percent in 2012, and is ready to use lower borrowing costs to
bolster growth.  The government stimulus has already boosted credit markets.
Lending rose at its second-fastest pace this year in November,
1.9 percent from the previous month, as banks began charging
less for credit following the central bank’s rate reductions.  Even as the economy falters, inflation remains above the
6.5 percent upper limit of the central bank’s target range. A
report yesterday showed that consumer prices, as measured by the
IPCA-15 index, rose 6.56 percent through mid-December.  Breaching Target  The annual inflation rate will end 2011 above the top of
the target range for the first time since 2003, according to a
Dec. 16 central bank survey of about 100 economists. Tombini
will also fail to meet the bank’s goal of bringing inflation
back to the 4.5 percent midpoint of the target range next year,
the same survey showed.  Brazil’s gross domestic product shrank 0.04 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, the first
contraction since the first quarter of 2009.  Still, for now, the biggest fallout from the global slump
has been on manufacturers, who saw output decline 2.2 percent in
October from a year earlier, and on the nation’s agricultural
and commodity exports.  Jobs growth in Brazil has also showed signs of easing.
Employers added 42,735 jobs in November, the least for the month
since 2008, the Labor Ministry said Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  