-- Brazil to Invest in Two State Banks to Raise Lending
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2011-12-22T18:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/brazil-s-government-to-invest-in-state-banks-to-raise-lending.html
Brazil’s government plans to invest
in two state-controlled banks to enable them to boost lending
and ease the impact of weaker global growth, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said.  The government will re-capitalize federally controlled
Caixa Economica Federal with 450 million reais ($242 million)
and the BNDES state development bank with 500 million reais,
Mantega told journalists today in Brasilia.  The new funds will enable state banks to increase their
loan portfolio faster than private lenders next year, Mantega
said. President Dilma Rousseff’s government is trying to
reinvigorate Brazil’s economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens
with a mix of tax cuts, interest rate reductions and looser bank
lending requirements.  “Next year will start different from 2011,” Mantega said.
“Let´s start it by reducing the cost of credit. Credit from
Caixa should rise 40 percent this year, against the average 17
percent for the banking sector.”  The Treasury has been giving loans to BNDES since 2008 to
finance investments. This year, the total reached 45 billion
reais, while another 10 billion reais will be lent in January,
according to the deputy head of the Debt´s Public Operations
Department, Jose Franco de Morais.  Today’s announcement contradicts comments by Deputy Finance
Minister Nelson Barbosa in a Dec. 9 interview, when he said
 Brazil  won’t use state-controlled banks to fuel anti-cyclical
investment. The government has no plans to inject more capital
into BNDES, beyond the 25 billion reais it had already
announced, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 