-- British Cyclist Mark Cavendish Wins 2011 BBC Sports Personality Award
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-23T00:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/british-cyclist-mark-cavendish-wins-2011-bbc-sports-personality-award.html
Mark Cavendish  won the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s Sports Personality of the Year Award,
becoming the third cyclist to capture the honor.  The 26-year-old from the Isle of Man, who had five stage
wins in this year’s Tour de  France , topped a public poll ahead
of British Open golf champion Darren Clarke and runner Mo
Farrah, the 5,000-meter world champion.  “I’m absolutely speechless,” Cavendish, who joins Tommy
Simpson and Chris Hoy as cyclists to win the award, said at last
night’s televised ceremony in Salford, England. “A few of my
teammates here will say that’s a rare thing. Without those guys,
this wouldn’t even be close to possible.”  The sprint specialist claimed the green jersey for topping
the points competition at the Tour de France. His victories
included the final day of the race on the traditional ride along
the  Champs Elysees  in Paris. Cavendish has a total of 20 stage
wins in the sport’s premier event.  Cavendish, known as the Manx Missile, also this year became
the first Briton to win the road race world title since Tom
Simpson in 1965.  The BBC award is one of the most prestigious accolades in
U.K. sport. Previous winners include soccer player  David Beckham , cricketer Andrew Flintoff and Olympic gold-medal runner
Kelly Holmes. Jockey  Tony McCoy  took the honor last year.  Cricketers Alastair Cook and Andrew Strauss, golfers Rory McIlroy and Luke Donald, hurdler Dai Greene, boxer Amir Khan and
tennis player Andy Murray were the other finalists.  The finalist list received some criticism after no women
were included. The  BBC  said last month it would review the
shortlisting process while saying it stood by the current
system. The final winner is determined by a public vote.  The England Test cricket squad was honored twice -- it was
named team of the year, while  Andy Flower  was selected as coach
of the year. Five-time Olympic gold-medal rower Steve Redgrave
won the Lifetime Achievement Award and top-ranked tennis player
Novak Djokovic of Serbia took the overseas personality honor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  