-- Caffeine Inhaler Is a Dangerous ‘Club Drug,’ Senator Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2011-12-22T18:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/caffeine-inhaler-is-a-dangerous-club-drug-senator-says-1-.html
Breathable caffeine  dispensed from
canisters that fit in jean pockets and are allowed in carry-on
luggage is a ‘club drug’ that may be dangerous to teenagers, a
 New York  senator said.  Democrat  Charles Schumer  wrote Food and Drug Administration
Commissioner Margaret Hamburg today asking her to review the
safety and legality of the AeroShot Pure Energy caffeine
inhaler, a yellow and gray canister of caffeine powder and B
vitamins resembling a tube of lipstick. The inhaler is set to
hit store shelves in New York and  Boston  next month.  AeroShot will be sold over the counter with no age
restrictions and is touted for its convenience and zero
calories. If taken with alcohol, the mixture may have effects
similar to caffeinated alcohol drinks tied to hospitalizations
in the past, Schumer said. Doctors say it may carry neurological
and cardiovascular risks.  “The product is nothing more than a club drug designed to
give users the ability to drink until they drop,” Schumer said.  The FDA will review information about the product, Doug Karas, a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail. The agency
will respond directly to Schumer on the issues he raised.  Alcoholic Drinks  Last year, at Schumer’s urging, the FDA stopped sales of
caffeinated alcoholic beverages after they were linked to
hospitalizations and deaths.  The inhaler is sold online by Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Breathable Foods Inc. and The Lab Store, in Paris.
AeroShot advertising in  Europe  focuses on drinking and partying,
Schumer said in a statement, adding that he’s concerned it could
be a health hazard to teens.  The inhaler was created by David Edwards, a professor at
Harvard University’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences,
who also invented Le Whif, a calorie-free inhalable chocolate.  AeroShot delivers 100 milligrams of caffeine, the same
amount in a large cup of coffee. The caffeine is absorbed in the
mouth and digestive tract, not through the lungs, according to a
fact sheet from Breathable Foods. AeroShot is priced at $2.99
and is not intended for anyone younger than 12, according to the
product’s website.  “It is a safe product that delivers caffeine and a mix
of B vitamins to the mouth, and it does not contain the mystery
chemicals found in other energy products like taurine or
glucuronic acid,” said Tom Hadfield, chief executive officer of
Breathable Foods, in an e-mail.  The company’s claims are unsubstantiated, Schumer said,
noting the  American Academy  of Pediatrics discourages the non-
medical use of caffeine by children and adolescents. The Elk
Grove Village, Illinois-based doctor’s group wrote AeroShot’s
manufacturer yesterday about concerns over caffeine’s effect on
developing neurologic and cardiovascular systems and the
potential for the product to exacerbate asthma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 