-- California Nurses Say Strike Champions Patients Over Profits at Hospitals
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2011-12-22T22:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/california-nurses-say-strike-champions-patients-over-profits.html
Efren Garza and Margie Keenan, two
 California  nurses with 70 years of combined experience, said
they’re skipping work today for the sake of their patients.  Garza, employed in Berkeley, said if his bosses eliminate
sick leave, nurses will come to work ill. Keenan, who has been
at the same Long Beach hospital for 38 years, said limiting
staff size and time off may cause overworked nurses to make
potentially deadly medical mistakes.  Keenan and Garza are among 6,000 nurses taking part in a
one-day strike today in California against proposed benefit cuts
at hospitals in the San Francisco Bay Area and Long Beach.
Nurses in New York City are pushing the same message and will
walk out at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center on Jan. 3.
Hospitals say they’re bracing for reduced federal and state
funding and added mandates under the U.S. health-care law.  “The nurses have to be the advocates for safe patient care
during cuts,” said Garza, who is employed by a hospital run by
the  Sutter Health  system. “It’s a national trend.”  About 1,000 nurses lined both sides of the street in front
of  Long Beach  Memorial Medical Center, said DeAnn McEwen, who
protested as cars honked in support. In Berkeley, nurses arrived
at 7 a.m. local time in front of the Alta Bates Summit Medical
Center holding signs that said “Sutter is the Grinch” and
chanting “Sutter, Sutter, you can’t hide, we can see your
greedy side” and “union busting, that’s disgusting.’  Sutter Pay  Sutter pays nurses an average $136,000 salary and a  pension
plan  worth $84,000, said Bill Gleeson, a spokesman for the
group. At the same time, the system is facing reimbursement cuts
from taxpayer-supported health plans, costly new mandates from
the U.S. health-care law signed in 2010, about $400 million in
spending to extend its electronic records program, and almost as
much to bring its buildings into line with California’s
earthquake safety standards, he said.  The overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed last year will
trim $157 billion in U.S. payments to hospitals through 2019,
according to  estimates  by the  Congressional Budget Office . The
hospital industry agreed to the cuts, figuring the loss would be
offset by about 32 million potential patients who are expected
to gain insurance coverage after 2014.  Medical providers, though, didn’t count on further
reductions as Congress tackled the growing national debt this
year. In 2013, Medicare payments will be trimmed 2 percent. New
Medicare initiatives aimed at reducing medical errors and
preventable readmissions also threaten payments if hospitals
can’t improve service.  ‘Not Hurting Financially’  “It’s their pretext to make a cut,” said Joe Lindsay, a
negotiator for union National Nurses United, representing
workers at Alta Bates, the largest hospital facing the strike.
“They’re not hurting financially.”  When nurses strike, the hospitals must find temporary
replacements to continue operating.  Today’s work action cost Long Beach Memorial Medical Center
“millions,” said Myra Gregorian, vice president of human
resources.  Nurses’ strikes in  New York  between 1984 and 2004 increased
in-hospital deaths by 19.4 percent and 30-day readmission by 6.5
percent, according to a March 2010 study by the National Bureau
of  Economic Research  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “This is going to cost the country,” Garza said.  A patient died the weekend of Sept. 22, the last time
nurses went on strike at Sutter hospitals, said Kami Lloyd, a
Sutter spokeswoman.  Teresa Mullen, 36, is striking today in front of Alta
Bates’s Oakland campus. She said, this time, the hospital can
call specific nurses back to work if there’s an emergency.  Feeling Anxious  “We absolutely feel anxious to leave our patients,” she
said. “Ultimately this will help them.”  Eleanor Bates, 84, went to Alta Bates for her husband, who
was seeing a cardiologist. She remembers a time he needed back
surgery during a strike in 2006, when replacement nurses were
“frazzled.”  “It’s not right because they don’t know the patients,”
she said.  At the hospital in Long Beach, an estimated 30 percent of
nurses crossed the picket line to serve their patients,
especially in areas like pediatric cancer care and the emergency
room, said Susan Melvin, the associate chief medical officer, in
a phone interview.  Hospital Consolidation  Sutter, like many of the industry’s hospital systems,
expanded through acquiring sites and buildings, spending about
$8 billion on capital projects since 2000, Gleeson said. As
hospital companies grow, they focus on providing profitable
services for less money, which isn’t good for patients, said
Karen Higgins, co-president of NNU.  “Consolidation is a significant trend that’s going to
continue,” said Tom Gallucci, an analyst with Lazard Capital
Markets in New York. “If hospitals consolidate into a system,
you can have increased flexibility with staffing.”  The strike involves 2,000 registered nurses at Long Beach
Memorial Medical Center and Miller Children’s Hospital and 4,000
who work at eight of Sutter’s Bay Area hospitals, including Alta
Bates.  Evan Westrup, a spokesman for Governor  Jerry Brown , said he
had no comment on the nurses’ strike. Spokesmen for state
Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Los Angeles Democrat, and Senate
President Pro-Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Sacramento Democrat,
didn’t return calls or declined to comment on the work stoppage.  New York Nurses  About 6,000 unionized nurses at three  New York City 
hospitals may stage their biggest strike in at least a decade if
an agreement on health benefits can’t be reached. Nurses at the
three hospitals have been working without a contract since the
beginning of 2011, said Mark Genovese, a spokesman for the New
York State Nurses’ Association.  The 1,300 nurses at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt gave notice they
will strike after an 18-hour bargaining session that ended early
today. Nurses wouldn’t agree to having no raise, along with
increased health care and medication costs, said Ralph Spencer,
a nurse who got home at 6 a.m. after bargaining.  Jeff Jacomowitz, a spokesman for St. Luke’s, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Nurses at Mount Sinai Hospital and Montefiore Medical
Center will strike if they don’t reach an agreement. The nurses
will give 10 days’ notice before walking out, Genovese said.
Nurses at the three hospitals work about 3,800 patient beds and
handle hundreds of thousands of annual visits.  “My concern is that this is only going to get worse,”
said Higgins, who is a nurse in Massachusetts. “Everywhere,
you’re worried. I don’t think it ever leaves your mind
anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  