-- Canada October Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2011-12-22T13:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/canada-october-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment, earnings, and hours report for October
released by Statistics Canada.  In October, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees increased 1.4% to $885.36 from the previous month. On
a year-over-year basis, average weekly earnings rose 2.7%.  Year-to-year change in average weekly hours and average weekly
earnings  Chart description: Year-to-year change in average weekly hours
and average weekly earnings
Increases in average weekly earnings reflect a number of
factors, such as wage growth and changes in the composition of
employment by industry, by occupation and by level of job
experience.  Average hours worked per week can also influence growth in year-
over-year earnings. However, the average work week was unchanged
from October 2010 at 33.0 hours.  Note to readers
The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada  also produces employment estimates from its
monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household survey
whose main objective is to divide the working-age population
into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed (including
the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour force. This
survey is the official source for the  unemployment rate  and
collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics of all
those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and salaried
employees, as well as the “other employees” category, which
includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried employees
only and exclude businesses that could not be classified to a
North American Industry Classification System code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude businesses
that could not be classified to a North American Industry
Classification System code.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total weekly
earnings by the number of employees.  Average weekly earnings by sector
The monthly increase in average weekly earnings was highest in
finance and insurance; education; real estate and rental
leasing; utilities; mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction;
and manufacturing.  Year-to-year change in average weekly earnings in the 10 largest
sectors, October 2010 to October 2011  Chart description: Year-to-year change in average weekly
earnings in the 10 largest sectors, October 2010 to October 2011
Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings exceeded the
national average of 2.7% in four of Canada’s largest industrial
sectors: administrative and support services; professional,
scientific and technical services; health care and social
assistance; and education.  In administration and support services, average weekly earnings
rose 6.8% to $747.82. Year-over-year growth was widespread
across the industries in this sector.  In the 12 months to October, average weekly earnings in
professional, scientific and technical services were up 3.6% to
$1,236.53. Increases were particularly pronounced in management,
scientific and technical consulting, and in architectural,
engineering and related services.  Average weekly earnings in health care and social assistance
increased 3.4% to $819.15. Growth in this sector was most
notable in hospitals.  Growth in earnings also surpassed the national average in some
smaller sectors. From October 2010 to October 2011, earnings
increased in the two highest paying industries. In utilities,
earnings increased 9.3% to $1,691.32, while earnings for
employees in mining, quarrying, oil and gas extraction rose 4.7%
to $1,800.70.  Average weekly earnings up in every province
Average weekly earnings rose in every province in the 12 months
to October, led by growth in Newfoundland and Labrador and
 Alberta . The lowest rate of growth was in  Nova Scotia .  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings by province,
October 2010 to October 2011  Chart description: Year-over-year growth in average weekly
earnings by province, October 2010 to October 2011
In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings were
$901.83 in October, up 7.7% from the same month a year earlier.
Earnings in this province have grown at a higher rate than the
national average since December 2010.  In Alberta, average weekly earnings increased 4.5% over the 12
months to $1,049.31 in October, and remained the highest level
of earnings among the provinces.  The lowest year-over-year growth occurred in Nova Scotia
(+0.4%), where the average weekly earnings were $770.25 in
October.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector
From September to October, non-farm payroll employment declined
by 24,500. On a year-over-year basis, the number of employees
rose 228,900 (+1.5%).  The monthly decrease in payroll employment in October occurred
in both goods and services, with the largest declines in public
administration, manufacturing, and retail trade.  Declines within both public administration and manufacturing
were widespread. In retail trade, most of the monthly job losses
were in building material and garden equipment stores, gasoline
stations and clothing stores.  Payroll employment in mining, quarrying and oil and gas
extraction was little changed in October. However, the sector
posted the fastest year-over-year growth in payroll employment
(+8.7% or +16,700) of all sectors. Growth in this sector was
driven by gains in support activities for mining and oil and gas
extraction, as well as metal ore mining.  The utilities sector also showed strong year-over-year job
growth (+5.9% or +6,900). Most of the increase came from
electric power generation, transmission and distribution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  