-- Catalonia Calls on Citizens, Spain Government for 2012 Funds
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2011-12-23T11:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/catalonia-counts-on-citizens-spain-government-to-meeting-funding-for-2012.html
Catalonia will coax its citizens to
buy bonds and seek help from the new government in  Madrid  to
meet its funding needs in 2012 as the spread of the sovereign
debt crisis keeps  Spain ’s largest region shut out of markets.  “The situation on the markets is very difficult now,”
Artur Mas, president of the wealthiest of Spain’s 17 semi-
autonomous regions, said in an interview in Barcelona yesterday.
“The central government has to financially help the regions in
order to stabilize the situation in Spain.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who is holding his first
Cabinet meeting today after an election victory on Nov. 20, has
pledged to tackle the euro area’s  third-largest budget deficit 
to regain Spain’s AAA rating. The regions’ efforts are key to
convincing investors the nation can tame borrowing costs and
avoid contagion from the debt crisis because they control more
than a third of public spending, including health and education.  Battling with a cash squeeze, the administration in
Barcelona has negotiated with the central government to postpone
to Jan. 20 the payment of income tax due in November and
December, a spokeswoman who declined to be named in line with
regional policy said today. It’s in talks about a similar delay
for the payment of social-security contributions, she said.  Catalonia will seek to tap citizens in 2012 for half to
three-quarters of its estimated 10 billion euros ($13 billion)
in financing needs, the same level as this year, Mas said.  ‘Difficult for Us’  “We are trying to focus on the domestic market instead of
going to the wholesale market, which is at the present time more
difficult for us,” he said.  “If the central government doesn’t help the regions, the
whole Spanish state will collapse,” said Mas, adding that it
can assist by granting loans and sharing debt issuances across
regions. “It is not logical that being an essential part of the
Spanish state, we are paying one or two more percentage points
more than the central government for our debt.”  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark  bond rose to 5.368
percent today from 5.363 percent yesterday, widening the spread
with the yield on similar German maturities to 343 basis points.  Catalonia will cut the wages of 200,000 public-sector
workers by 5 percent next year as part of a plan to half its
deficit to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product from 2.66
percent this year, Mas said.  “Instead of only reducing public services, we will reduce
wages, sell public companies and introduce new taxes,” he said.  Catalonia, which accounts for more than a quarter of
Spain’s exports, will support Rajoy’s efforts to implement
structural changes to the nation’s  economy , Mas said.  It’s “possible” that Catalonia’s creditworthiness will be
cut this month, he said.  Fitch Ratings , which downgraded the
region on Sept. 14, put its rating on negative watch yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  