-- Chelsea’s Fernando Torres Interests AC Milan, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-12-22T11:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/chelsea-s-fernando-torres-interests-ac-milan-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Torres Milan Loan  AC Milan is trying to convince Chelsea to let Fernando Torres move to  Italy  on loan, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Milan has turned to the Spaniard because it can’t come up
with a financial package to take  Carlos Tevez  from  Manchester
City , the Mirror said.  Chelsea has said it won’t sanction a move for Torres even
though he’s struggled since joining for a record 50 million
pounds from Liverpool in January. He’s benched after scoring 5
goals in 35 matches since arriving at Stamford Bridge.  Milan would pay Torres’s entire salary and include an
option to buy him for 30 million pounds at the end of the
season.  Newcastle Chasing Ajax Star  Newcastle has joined Manchester City, Arsenal and Tottenham
Hotspur in the race for Ajax centre-back Jan Vertonghen, the  Sun 
reported.  The Belgian, who is valued at 10 million pounds ($16
million), helped Ajax win the Eredivisie last season. The 24-
year-old has scored 23 goals in 201 appearances for the
Amsterdam side. Vertonghen’s contract runs until 2013.  Moyes Reacts to Kean Abuse  Everton manager David Moyes walked out at halftime during
Blackburn’s defeat to Bolton this week because of the abuse home
fans were giving Rovers manager  Steve Kean , the Mirror  reported .  Moyes who was in the stands watching the match told people
he was “disgusted” before leaving  Ewood Park , the newspaper
said.  Kean has been the subject of fan protests as his team has
been mired in the relegation zone for most of the season.  Stoke Mull Hoilett Bid  Stoke may offer as much as 8 million pounds for Blackburn
Rovers player Junior Hoilett, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Hoilett, 21, will be out of contract in the summer. Queens
Park Rangers and Tottenham are also interested in the winger,
the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 