-- Chevron, Transocean Face Brazil Indictment Over Oil Leak
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2011-12-22T21:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/chevron-executives-face-brazil-indictments-over-offshore-leaks.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the operator of the
Brazilian offshore well that triggered oil leaks, and rig owner
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  will defend executives threatened with criminal
indictments in the South American nation.  Chevron learned that Brazil’s federal police intend to
indict employees involved in the drilling that led to the Nov. 7
leaks from seafloor fissures near the $3.6 billion Frade
development,  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman for the San Ramon,
California-based company, said in a statement late yesterday.
Transocean, in a separate statement late yesterday, said it will
“vigorously defend the company and its collaborators.”  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. energy company by market
value, has been fined 50 million reais ($26.9 million) and
ordered to halt all drilling and crude production off  Brazil ’s
coast after discovering the leaks last month. Chevron estimated
the volume of the seeps at 3,000 barrels during the eight days
it took for the company to locate and halt the leaks.  Chevron and other offshore oil explorers are facing
increased scrutiny of their drilling practices in the wake of BP
Plc’s 2010 blowout of a well in the Gulf of Mexico that killed
11 workers and led to the worst U.S. offshore crude spill.  In Brazil, the concerns have been compounded as the coastal
city  Rio de Janeiro  prepares to host the 2014  World Cup  and the
 Olympic Games  two years later. Chevron’s Frade oil field is
about 230 miles (370 kilometers) northeast of Rio in a region of
the Atlantic Ocean known as the Campos Basin.  Employees Indicted  Chevron underestimated the amount of pressure at an oil
deposit it was exploring, and crude leaked from the reservoir
for about eight days,  George Buck , president of Chevron’s
Brazilian subsidiary, said on Nov. 20. Buck was among 17 Chevron
and Transocean employees targeted for indictments, the Folha de
S. Paulo newspaper reported yesterday. Glaubitz declined to
identify the employees targeted for indictment. George wasn’t
available to comment, the spokesman said.  Anthony Dovkants, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-
based Transocean, said in an e-mailed statement that the
allegations were without merit.  Chevron rose 0.8 percent to $106.31 at the close as  oil
prices  climbed above $100 a barrel in  New York . Transocean rose
0.4 percent to $40.04.  BP has booked more than $40 billion in losses related to
last year’s Gulf disaster that sank Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon rig and spilled an estimated 4.9 million barrels of
crude. The London-based oil producer also faces hundreds of
lawsuits by fishermen, hoteliers and property owners in coastal
areas where crude washed ashore.  Other Oil Spills  ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company, said
yesterday it’s taking responsibility for two oil spills in
China’s Bohai Bay in June and is setting up compensation funds
to support environmental research and affected communities.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest oil company, shut
its 200,000 barrel-a-day Bonga field off Nigeria after a leak
during a tanker loading caused what may be the country’s worst
offshore spill in more than a decade. The Bonga deep-water
discovery produces almost 10 percent of Nigeria’s crude.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas, is the biggest U.S.
energy company by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  