-- Chilean Interbank Rates Jump Even After Central Bank Acts to Add Liquidity
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-22T20:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/chile-central-bank-to-boost-peso-liquidity-as-yields-spike-3-.html
Chilean short-term bank borrowing
costs continued to  rise  today even after the central bank
announced an extra liquidity package aimed at bringing rates
down.  The  30-day nominal  interbank financing rate jumped 34 basis
points, or 0.34 percentage point, to 7.64 percent, the highest
since the national banking association started calculating it on
an annualized basis in May 2010. The rate has increased 99 basis
points in the past week. The  90-day rate  rose 35 basis points,
the most in 17 months, to a record 7.45 percent.  The central bank today announced 91-day  repurchase
operations , in which lenders can sell assets to the bank then
buy them back for a fee, after yields on short-term debt surged.
While Chilean money markets often suffer a liquidity squeeze at
the end of the year as companies sell mutual funds that invest
in short-term debt in order to have cash on their balance
sheets, this year the squeeze has been exacerbated by concern
the European debt crisis will affect Chilean banks.  “The effective  monetary policy  rate is rising, and that
affects internal demand and may require bigger rate cuts than
would otherwise have been the case,” said Dalibor Eterovic,
chief economist at Banco Security in Santiago. “If the market
doesn’t react in the desired direction the central bank could
make the measures more forceful. If the bank wants to reduce
spreads it has the capacity to do so, so don’t bet against it.”  Monetary Policy  The central bank will accept as collateral assets that
mature in 28 days or more, it said today. This is the first
change in monetary policy since  Rodrigo Vergara  took over as
central bank president on Dec. 9.  The decision to open the facility increases the odds of a
central  bank rate  cut next month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economist  Alberto Ramos  wrote today in a note to clients.  The peso climbed 0.6 percent to 519.94 per  U.S. dollar 
today, from 523.05 yesterday.  The yield on 10-year central bank bonds in pesos fell four
basis points to 5.25 percent, while the yield on similar
inflation-linked bonds increased two basis points to 2.6
percent. The central bank declared void an auction of 91-day and
28-day paper.  Interbank Rates  Inflation-linked interbank lending rates  have climbed  in
the fourth quarter every year since 2001.  The year-end credit crunch in  Chile  often results in an
increase of about 30 basis points in yields on term deposits in
which money-market funds invest. The average rate spiked 48
basis points on Dec. 20 to 6.72 percent, the highest since
February 2009, according to central bank data.  “It has been getting slowly worse for about a month,”
said Matias  Madrid , chief economist of Banco Penta in Santiago.
“Banks and companies always require more liquidity at the end
of the year, but there is also the expectation that credit lines
from  Europe  may get cut.”  The jump in yields forced fund managers that buy short-term
debt to change the valuation method they use and recognize
losses. Money-market funds run by 13 fund managers reported
losses of more than 0.1 percent for Dec. 20. They were led by
BCI Asset Management Administradora General de Fondos SA’s Fondo
Mutuo BCI Eficiente, which lost 0.2 percent, according to data
compiled by the mutual funds association.  The local fund management units of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, ING Groep NV and Itau Unibanco Holding SA were
among those announcing changes to fund valuations.  Term Deposits  Yields on term deposits were little changed today, said
Andres de la Cerda, a money-markets trader at Bice Inversiones.  Chile’s  Finance Ministry  plans to use dollars from its
current account to invest in term deposits starting next week,
it said today in a statement. The ministry has been investing
pesos from the same account since July, it said.  This year Chilean lenders have been trying to sell more
deposits as a “preventive measure,” then using the funds to
buy liquid assets in case the debt crisis in Europe worsens,
said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito e
Inversiones in Santiago.  Chile’s financial system is the most exposed to Europe in
 Latin America . The country’s claims on European banks are worth
41 percent of its gross domestic product, according to a Dec. 12
research report from Morgan Stanley.  The average yield on 30-day term deposits climbed to 6.72
percent on Dec. 20 from 5.64 percent a month earlier, according
to central bank data.  The central bank will charge a floating rate on the repo
facility, it said.  Yesterday  it opened a 19-day repurchase
window at the benchmark interest rate of 5.25 percent.  In December 2008, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. policy makers started offering weekly repurchase
operations. In repos, the central bank buys assets from dealers
for a set period, temporarily boosting the amount of money
available in the banking system. At maturity, the assets are
returned to the dealers, and the cash to the monetary authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  