-- China Mobile Drives Up NY Index as Focus Rises: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2011-12-22T22:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/china-mobile-leads-n-y-stocks-as-focus-rises-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  listed in  New York 
rose, erasing the benchmark’s losses for the week, after surveys
showed bankers expect the government to take further measures to
increase loan growth in the Asian nation.  The Bloomberg China-US 55  Index (SPX)  also climbed as better-than-forecast jobless claims and  consumer confidence  in the U.S.
boosted stocks. Telecom shares led gains in the gauge, which
added 1.4 percent to 94.98 as trading closed in New York. Focus
Media Holding Ltd. jumped 5 percent to a one-week high as a
survey confirmed the size of its digital advertising network.
 China Telecom Corp. (CHA)  increased the most this month after Pacific
Crest Securities Inc. upgraded the company to “outperform.”  More Chinese bankers expect authorities to loosen monetary
policy further after cutting the amount of cash lenders must set
aside as reserves this month for the first time since 2008,
quarterly surveys by the central bank showed.  China’s economy 
expanded at the slowest pace in two years in the third quarter,
while inflation cooled to the slowest in 14 months in November.  “Monetary easing that’s going on now” in  China  will help
growth to pick up in the second half of next year, Enzio von Pfeil, chief executive officer of Commercial Economics Asia
Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “They are
creating an excess supply of money.”  The American depositary receipts of China Mobile, the
nation’s biggest wireless network operator, rose 1.2 percent to
$47.42. China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., the second largest and
the only carrier offering Apple Inc.’s iPhone with a service
contract, gained 1.4 percent to a nine-day high of $21.13,
trading at a 2-cent premium per share over stock in Hong Kong.  China Mobile  China Telecom Corp., the smallest of the three mobile-phone
companies, surged 3.6 percent to $57.98 after the company was
upgraded to “outperform” from “sector perform” by analyst
 Steve Clement  at Pacific Crest Securities.  China Mobile added 2.68 million 3G users in November,
compared with 3.38 million at China Unicom and 2.16 million for
China Telecom, according to the companies’ websites. China
Unicom will introduce Apple’s 4S as early as the end of
December,  China Daily  reported Dec. 13, citing Yu Yingtao, the
company’s sales and marketing head.  “Given the structural drivers to Unicom’s net additions
momentum, we see its strong momentum continuing into next
year,” analysts led by Anand Ramachandran at Barclays Capital
Inc. said in a Dec. 20 note. They favored China Unicom and China
Telecom over China Mobile, according to the report.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.8 percent to
1,254.00. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid for a fourth day,
losing 0.2 percent to 2,186.30 yesterday.  Index Valuations  The Shanghai measure is trading at an estimated  price-earnings ratio  of 10.5 times, a record low, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg that began tracking the multiple in
2006. That compared with 13.7 for Indian stocks, 10.2 for
Brazilian shares and 4.6 for Russian equities.  The ADRs of Shanghai-based Focus Media leaped 5 percent to
$21.03, the most since Dec. 12. A survey by market research
company Synovate showed that the number of LCD screens and
poster frames Focus claimed to have by Nov. 28 was more than
99.95 percent accurate, Focus said in a statement yesterday.  The report is the second this month from Focus stating
survey results confirming its advertising network size after
short-selling firm Muddy Waters LLC said last month that the
company was overstating it.  The  ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.6 percent to a nine-day
high of $35.31. The Chinese  yuan  was little changed at 6.3390 a
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the country’s largest
online book retailer, surged 9.6 percent to $4.66, the most in
two weeks. The company said Dec. 21 it started a website for
digital books, providing approximately 50,000 book titles which
can be downloaded on some smartphones and computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  