-- North Korean Stores Close, Gambling Halted as Nation Mourns Death of Kim
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n
-- 2011-12-22T12:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/chinese-travel-agent-suspends-pyongyang-tours-after-kim-s-death.html
Hong Kong Billionaire Albert Yeung’s
casino in  North Korea  suspended operations, while shops and
diners in the communist state stopped taking customers as the
nation mourns the death of their leader of 17 years.  Yeung’s  Emperor Group (163) , which invests in hotels and
financial services, said yesterday it stopped its gambling
operations in North Korea. Retailers temporarily closed and
travel agencies specializing in North Korean tours stopped
accepting bookings.  “Places like shops, restaurants, theaters, cinemas and
supermarkets are all closed,” Gunter Unterbeck, a German
national who’s lived in Pyongyang since 1996, said in a
telephone interview from the North Korean capital. “Twice or
three times, I saw elderly women fainting when they heard the
news of the death of Kim Jong Il.”  The moves illustrate how business activity may be coming to
a halt in the communist state while it’s in a mourning period
until Dec. 29. North Korean state media, whose coverage was
dominated all week with tributes to the late  Kim Jong Il  and
scenes of weeping citizens nationwide, reported all institutions
and businesses will be holding “mourning events.”  Beijing-based  Koryo Tours , run by U.K. nationals, and
DanDong China International Travel Service Co. said they’ve
suspended group tour packages for Pyongyang, though they said
the discontinued bookings were unrelated to Kim’s death.  DanDong plans to resume the tour packages from Jan. 15,
said Zhang Yong Qiang, a sales and marketing executive at the
travel agency. Simon Cockerell at Koryo Tours said the
suspension started Dec. 15, which is routine for this time of
year.  Casino Lure  “At the present time we do not know how the death of Kim
Jong Il will affect tourism in the first part of 2012,” Koryo
Tours said on its website. The company will “update everyone
who has booked a tour at the earliest opportunity,” it said.  Pyongyang has been trying to entice Chinese tourists and
casinos are one of the major attractions, Zhang said. North
Korean casinos are closer to Chinese northeastern provinces --
such as Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang -- than those in
destinations such as Macau and  Singapore .  Yeung’s group, which has run the five-star Emperor Hotel &
Casino at the Rason Special Economic Zone in North Korea since
1999, suspended the gambling business this week, though its
hotel is operating as usual, Sherman Wu, a spokeswoman at the
group, said yesterday.  North Korean Casinos  Casino magnate  Stanley Ho  in 1998 opened the first casino
in Pyongyang, North Korea’s capital, through his Sociedade de
Turismo e Diversoes de Macau S.A.. He has invested $30 million
in the casino. Sociedade de Turismo was not immediately
available for comments.  Shares of Emperor International Holdings Ltd. and  Shun Tak
Holdings Ltd. (242) , which owns 11.5 percent of Sociedade de Turismo,
fell in Hong Kong trading today. Adeline Law, a spokeswoman at
Shun Tak, declined to comment.  While businesses wait to resume operations, government
officials continued their efforts to deal with the prospect of a
nuclear-armed North Korea run by the late Kim’s third son, Kim Jong Un, who’s in his late 20s.  South Korea sent Lim Sung Nam, its chief negotiator on the
North’s nuclear program, to Beijing today and tomorrow to hold
talks with his Chinese counterpart,  Wu Dawei .  The two will “evaluate the situation on the Korean
peninsula following Kim Jong Il’s death and discuss the
direction of future plans for the North Korean nuclear issue,”
 South Korea ’s foreign ministry said today.  Avoiding Hostility  Officials from South Korea, China, the U.S.,  Japan  and
 Russia  are assessing the impact of the leadership change in the
regime following Kim’s death. Talks between the five countries
and North Korea have stalled since December 2008 after the
government in Pyongyang refused to allow inspectors to take
samples from a nuclear reactor.  South Korea has been careful to ensure that its moves since
the death of Kim do not look hostile to North Korea, President
 Lee Myung Bak  said in a statement on his website today. South
Korean army units near the border are on “low-level alert,”
according to the statement.  China  may provide a substantial amount of food aid to North
Korea after Kim Jong Il’s funeral, Yonhap News reported today,
citing an unidentified person in Beijing.  Next Generation  Among civilians, 48 percent of South Koreans expect Kim Jong Un to turn the North’s regime more open than his late
father, compared with 42 percent saying they expect no change
from Pyongyang, Gallup Korea said today, citing its telephone
poll of 532 adults. The survey has a margin of error of 4.2
percentage points.  The late Kim stepped up his nuclear brinkmanship with the
outside world in 2003, when he withdrew from the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, triggering a flurry of diplomatic activity
that spawned the six-party talks involving the U.S., Japan,
Russia, South Korea and China.  Negotiations intensified after a 2006 nuclear detonation,
with North Korea agreeing to shut its nuclear reactor in
exchange for shipments of fuel.  Tensions flared again in April 2009 after the  United
Nations  denounced a ballistic missile test and North Korea said
it would withdraw permanently from six-party negotiations and
resume  uranium enrichment . The regime detonated a second nuclear
device the following month and fired 17 short-range missiles
between May and July.  The UN Security Council on July 17 barred five North Korean
officials from leaving their country and ordered their foreign
assets frozen as punishment for working on nuclear weapons and
missiles.  In November this year North Korea said it was making
progress in building a light-water atomic reactor and producing
low-enriched uranium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Cheng Herng Shinn in Tokyo at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  