-- China Sovereign Fund Buys 25% Stake in South Africa’s Shanduka
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-12-22T18:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/china-s-cic-to-acquire-25-of-ramaphosa-s-shanduka-group-for-245-million.html
China Investment Corp ., the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, will buy 25 percent of former South
African politician Cyril Ramaphosa’s Shanduka Group for 2
billion rand ($245 million), Shanduka said.  CIC will acquire its shares mainly from Old Mutual Private
Equity and  Investec (INVP) , which are selling their holdings,
Johannesburg-based Shanduka said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Shanduka, with investments including coal and
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchises, is led by Ramaphosa, who founded
the  National Union of Mineworkers , South  Africa ’s biggest labor
union, in the 1980s.  “Africa, with its growth potential, excites a lot of
people and as  China  looks to diversify its sovereign funds, and
what it invests in, out of the dollar, that growth potential is
attractive,” said Craig Pheiffer, general manager of
investments at Absa Asset Management Private Clients in
Johannesburg. “We’ve seen a lot of jostling for position” for
resources.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest bank by market value, bought a 20 percent stake in
Johannesburg-based  Standard Bank  Group Ltd., Africa’s largest
lender, for 36.7 billion rand in 2008, the biggest Chinese
investment in the country.  Jinchuan Group Ltd. and China-Africa Development Fund
acquired 45 percent of Wesizwe Platinum Ltd. earlier this year
and provided funding to dig Wesizwe’s first mine in an $877
million transaction. Citic Group, China’s biggest state-owned
investment company, and partners took over Gold One
International Ltd., a South African gold producer, this month in
a $469 million deal.  Apartheid’s End  China Investment managed $409.6 billion at the end of 2010,
making it the world’s fifth-largest national fund, according to
Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  “This partnership will allow us to jointly explore future
investment opportunities in  South Africa  and other parts of
Africa,” Ramaphosa said in the statement.  Shanduka Group last week said it will increase its stake in
Shanduka Coal to 50.01 percent from 30 percent, buying shares
from  Glencore International Plc . Shanduka is increasing its
holdings in its main businesses, Chief Executive Officer Phuti
Malabie said in a Dec. 13 interview.  Ramaphosa is a former secretary-general of the ruling
 African National Congress  and leader of the African National
Congress team that negotiated the end of apartheid. He left
politics after Thabo Mbeki was chosen ahead of him as deputy
national president under Nelson Mandela, the country’s first
black leader.  Old Mutual’s exit “is part of its regular course of
activities which include finite terms for its funds’
investments,” Jacci Myburgh, a portfolio manager at  Old Mutual (OML) ,
said in the statement.  Standard Bank acted as the exclusive financial adviser to
Shanduka and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  acted as exclusive financial
adviser to CIC on the transaction, Shanduka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  