-- China’s State-Run Newspapers Praise Government Handling of Wukan Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-22T04:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/china-s-state-run-newspapers-praise-government-handling-of-wukan-protests.html
State-run Chinese newspapers today
praised a government-brokered agreement that ended a two-week
protest over land in the southern village of Wukan after having
carried almost no coverage of the standoff this month.  The People’s Daily said officials promised to meet
protesters’ demands with “sincerity” in a commentary published
today while a  China  Business News article said the government
had handled the issue “very well.” A Global Times editorial,
titled “Put public first when solving land disputes,” called
the villagers’ demands reasonable.  Wukan’s residents called off a protest march yesterday
after a senior Communist Party official from  Guangdong province 
promised to release villagers detained by police, address flaws
in electing local officials and redistribute land that had been
sold off unfairly. Barriers that had been blocking police from
the village were taken down, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday.  Local government officials should aim to put the public
first and help them “fulfill reasonable interests,” the Global
Times editorial said.  Until today, there had been little coverage of the Wukan
protest in domestic Chinese press. On Dec. 19, when the protest
was under way, there were no mentions of Wukan in more than 200
Chinese newspapers, according to the  China Media Project .  Village Elections  The unrest in Wukan first began in September, when disputes
over land, local elections and village finances between
residents and local officials led protesters to attack police
and overturn cars, according to the Shanwei city government.
Protests flared again this month after police detained five
villagers on accusations that they had led demonstrations and
one of the men, Xue Jinbo, died while in custody on Dec. 11.  The decision to meet the villagers’ demands is part of a
wider government strategy aimed at containing such protests
before they spread, said  Joseph Cheng , a politics professor at
the  City University  of  Hong Kong . The standoff and other
protests have sparked concerns that unrest stemming from China’s
growth could undermine the Communist Party’s rule.  The “flaw” in initial efforts by local officials to
resolve the conflict was that they didn’t deal directly with the
villagers’ “fair” demands, according to the People’s Daily
commentary written by Zhang Tie. The article didn’t give more
details of Zhang’s identity.  Another report, published in today’s Guangzhou Daily, said
Wukan’s residents would cooperate with a team investigating the
protest. The article described the scene as being “peaceful”
with the village’s small shops operating as usual and local
children running “happily.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  