-- Christie Chief of Staff Bagger Taking Private-Sector Job, Governor Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2011-12-22T18:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/christie-announces-new-jersey-senior-post-changes-as-chief-of-staff-leaves.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
announced several changes among his top advisers as he prepares
for the second half of his first term, including the resignation
of his chief of staff, Richard Bagger.  Bagger will become senior vice president of corporate
affairs at  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , a Summit, New Jersey-based drugmaker,
Christie told reporters today during a press conference at the
Statehouse. The governor said he will promote Kevin O’Dowd,
deputy chief counsel, to replace Bagger.  Christie, a Republican who feuded with lawmakers and unions
over a cap on property-tax growth and pension changes, said the
shakeup won’t sway his priorities, such as ending payouts for
unused sick time and overhauling public schools. Most of his
senior staff are still there from the day he took office in
January 2010, he said.  “I don’t think it will change the agenda at all because in
the end it’s my agenda,” Christie, 49, told reporters in
Trenton. He and Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno were “the ones
who were elected. We set the agenda and they help us implement
it. Of course, in that process they give us good advice and
counsel.”  Bagger, who has said he didn’t plan to remain for
Christie’s entire term, will be responsible for government and
public affairs, strategic market access and communications,
Celgene said in a release. He was a vice president of public
affairs and policy at Pfizer Inc. prior to joining the
governor’s office, and is a former state senator.  ‘Extended Sabbatical’  “When I took this position two years ago it was always my
intention that this would be an extended sabbatical from the
private sector,” he said during the news conference. “This is
perhaps the best-functioning team I’ve ever been on.”  Charles McKenna, the state’s homeland security director,
will become chief counsel, replacing Jeff Chiesa, a former
prosecutor under Christie in the U.S. Attorney’s Office who was
nominated earlier this month to be attorney general.  Wayne Hasenbalg, deputy chief of staff for policy, will
become president and chief executive officer of the New Jersey
Sports & Exposition Authority, Christie said. In that post,
he’ll oversee the state’s hosting of the  National Football
League ’s 2014 Super Bowl to be held at the MetLife Stadium in
 East Rutherford .  Christie said the turnover is normal at the halfway mark of
a governor’s administration. All of the changes will take effect
Jan. 31, he said.  About half of Christie’s senior staff consists of former
prosecutors he worked with in  Newark  when he was U.S. Attorney,
he said.  “The only things that I cannot teach are trust, loyalty
and hard work,” the governor said. “The people you see around
me, I’ve gotten to learn over a period of time, from the
lieutenant governor on down, I can trust, are loyal and work
really hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  