-- Chronic Fatigue-Virus Link Research From 2009 Retracted by Science Journal
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2011-12-22T15:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/chronic-fatigue-virus-link-research-from-2009-retracted-by-science-journal.html
A 2009 study that linked chronic
fatigue syndrome to a mouse virus and led to a blood-donation
ban has been retracted by the journal Science because it hasn’t
been replicated and had poor quality control.  The journal has “lost confidence in the report and the
validity” of a potential link between the mouse virus XMRV and
chronic fatigue, said Bruce Alberts, Science’s editor-in-chief,
in a statement. The statement will appear in the Dec. 23 issue.  In December 2010, the American Red Cross stopped accepting
blood from people diagnosed with chronic fatigue because of the
risk it carried XMRV. The syndrome is characterized by severe,
sustained tiredness not relieved by rest. In October, reports
from the  American Association  of Blood Banks in  San Diego 
indicated that XMRV isn’t transmitted through blood.  At least 10 trials have failed to replicate the study
results, and subsequent research has indicated the blood samples
used in 2009 were likely contaminated by the virus in the
laboratory. While most of the study authors agreed to a
retraction, they have been unable to word a statement on their
own and such a declaration “is unlikely to be forthcoming,”
the journal said in explaining its decision.  “We regret the time and resources that the scientific
community has devoted to the unsuccessful attempts to replicate
these results,” Alberts wrote.  Former Researcher Jailed  Judy Mikovits, formerly with the Whittemore Peterson
Institute for Neuro-Immune Diseases in Reno,  Nevada , was among
the study authors who didn’t sign a retraction, according to
Science spokeswoman Kathy Wren.  Mikovits was arrested and jailed in Santa Paula,
 California , according to a  November report  from Science News.
She was being held for extradition to Reno, Nevada, in relation
to a November lawsuit by the institute alleging she had
wrongfully kept data from her employer.  A study of 150 patients with chronic fatigue syndrome and
150 healthy volunteers is being led by Ian Lipkin, a professor
of epidemiology at  Columbia University  in New York. It should be
complete by early 2012.  More than 1 million people in the U.S. have chronic fatigue
syndrome, more than those with multiple sclerosis, lupus, or
 lung cancer , according to the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  in Atlanta. The condition, which saps people of
energy for months or years, has no proven cause and mostly
affects women ages 30 to 50, according to the U.S.  National
Institutes of Health . Women are four times more likely than men
to develop the disease.  Stephanie Millian, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based
American Red Cross, wasn’t immediately available to comment.
Audrey Young, a spokeswoman for the Whittemore Peterson
Institute, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  The retracted study, published in October 2009, found XMRV
in the blood of two-thirds of tissue samples taken from people
with the condition and 3.7 percent of a group of healthy
individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 