-- Colombia GDP Expanded 7.7% in Third Quarter Amid Fastest Growth Since 2006
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2011-12-22T19:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/colombia-gdp-may-have-grown-most-in-three-years-in-third-quarter.html
Colombia ’s economic expanded at the
fastest pace since 2006 in the third quarter, putting the
country in a better position than its neighbors to weather a
European debt crisis that’s curbing appetite for riskier assets.  The 7.7 percent surge exceeded all 30 analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg survey, whose median forecast was for 6 percent
annual growth. Since the series began in 2000, gross domestic
product expanded at the current pace only once before, in the
final quarter of 2006. GDP expanded 1.7 percent from the second
quarter, the statistics agency said in Bogota today.  Colombia’s economy is gaining strength, while growth cools
in other investment-grade rated countries like  Brazil  and Chile,
as a result of a surge in spending on infrastructure and record
foreign direct investment. GDP is expected to expand 4.5 percent
next year, more than the 3.7 percent forecast for the rest of
Latin America in a report yesterday by the  United Nations .  “Colombia’s growth momentum is much stronger than anywhere
else in the region,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , said in a phone interview. “If a
crisis comes it will hit Colombia when it’s in a position of
cyclical strength.”  Colombia’s peso bonds fell, sending yields higher, after
the report. The yield on the nation’s 9.25 percent bonds due in
May 2024 rose six basis points to 6.18 percent at 11:31 a.m. in
Bogota, according to the stock exchange.  Construction  Growth in the third quarter was helped by a break in heavy
rains and deadly flooding, clearing the way for the government
to complete work on several road, energy and mining projects.  GDP expanded a revised 5.1 percent in the second quarter,
the national statistics agency said in today’s report.
Construction and mining activity each jumped more than 18
percent in the July-September period from a year ago, today’s
GDP report showed.  The strong growth has helped lower unemployment, which at 9
percent is still the highest among major economies in  Latin
America . It’s also shielded the economy against a third-quarter
drop in commodity prices as the benchmark West Texas
intermediate crude fell 17 percent and the  S&P GSCI Index  of 24
raw materials fell 12 percent. Oil, coal and coffee account for
about two-thirds of Colombia’s exports by revenue.  ‘Magnificent News’  “This is magnificent news,”     President  Juan Manuel Santos 
said in a message posted on his Twitter account after today’s
report. Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry in a statement
compared Colombia’s economy to “a table standing on many legs”
as growth is driven by a diverse range of industries, everything
from construction to transportation.  After today’s report Goldman Sachs raised its forecast for
growth this year to 5.7 percent, up from 5.3 percent previous.
Growth should ease next year to about 4 percent before
accelerating again in 2013 to 5.1 percent, Ramos said.  “Other business cycles like in  Chile  and Brazil were
maturing early in the year and now are on the downward part of
the cycle, said Ramos. “You didn’t see a V-shaped recovery in
Colombia, so they’re in great shape.”  Brazil’s economy contracted in the third quarter for the
first time since 2009, and is expected to grow this year at less
than half the 7.5 percent pace seen in 2010. Growth in Chile and
 Peru  also slowed in the July-September period.  Faster growth may reignite concern about inflation, forcing
investors to increase bets that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs “sooner rather than later,” said David Moreno,
a fixed-income analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Cia. de
Profesionales de Bolsa SA.  Rate Outlook  Policy makers in November raised the overnight lending rate
a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent, citing the need to
bolster the central bank’s credibility after “strong” growth
drove up inflation expectations, according to minutes of the
meeting. Banco de la Republica left the rate unchanged in the
Dec. 16 meeting. Moreno expects policy makers to begin raising
the key rate in the second half of 2012.  Annual inflation slowed more than expected in November, to
3.96 percent, after breaching the upper limit of the bank’s
target range in October for the first time since 2009. Colombia
targets inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent.  “Investment in the mining sector has helped a lot,
 consumer confidence  is at high levels and inflation is
relatively under control,” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at
Bogota-based brokerage Interbolsa SA.  Record FDI  Inroads against guerrillas that increase security have
drawn investors to Colombia including billionaires  Eike Batista 
and Mexico’s  Carlos Slim . Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB bought a stake
this year in Geoprocesados SA’s Tabasco Oil Co., which owns
rights to explore in eastern Colombia near fields owned by
Ecopetrol.  Foreign direct investment by oil and mining may reach a
record $15 billion this year, Juana Tellez, chief economist at
Bogota-based BBVA Colombia SA, said in a Dec. 20 presentation.  The flows have helped stabilize the peso, which has
weakened just 1.3 percent this year compared with more than 10
percent declines for currencies in Chile,  Mexico  and Brazil as
investors avoid riskier assets amid  Europe ’s deepening debt
crisis.  Some economic data point to a cooling in the economy,
calming investors’ fears of overheating, said Marquez.  Retail sales rose 6.1 percent in October from a year
earlier, slower than the 7.8 percent forecast in a Bloomberg
survey. Industrial output grew 5 percent from the year before,
down from 5.2 percent a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  