-- Commercial Paper Market Decreases for Third Week, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2011-12-22T19:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/commercial-paper-market-decreases-for-third-week-fed-says-2-.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper  fell for a third week, led by
foreign banks’ short-term IOUs on concern that efforts by
European leaders to ease lending strains may fail to stop the
debt crisis from tainting bank balance sheets globally.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding declined by $5.2 billion to $986.5 billion in the
week ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said on its website.
It’s the lowest level since the period ended Nov. 9 and the
longest stretch of declines since the period ended Oct. 19, when
the market contracted for 14 weeks, the biggest losing streak in
more than a decade, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. money-market mutual funds, among the biggest buyers of
commercial paper, are reducing their holdings of European banks’
short-term obligations. The eight largest prime U.S. money-
market mutual funds cut their stakes in debt of French banks by
68 percent in November, according to an analysis of fund
disclosures by the Bloomberg Risk newsletter. The Frankfurt-
based European Central Bank yesterday extended to the region’s
banks 489 billion euros ($639 billion) in three-year loans to
alleviate funding stress.  “While domestic banks are not in the same category as
European banks, markets recognize the possibility of contagion
and want to avoid holding unsecured obligations as we move into
the year-end reporting period,” said Howard Simons, strategist
at Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago .  CP Levels Fall  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
dropped by $5 billion to $159.5 billion outstanding, the lowest
level since August 2009. The  amount issued by U.S.-based banks 
decreased by $1 billion, according to the Fed. Both categories
fell for a third straight week. Corporations sell commercial
paper to fund everyday activities such as paying rent and
salaries.  “You would rather pay an interest-rate penalty and hold
Treasury bills than receive a small payment for commercial bank
CP,” Simons said.  Prime money-market funds rated by Moody’s Investors Service
had no direct exposure to financial institutions in  Greece ,
Ireland or  Portugal  as of October, Moody’s analysts led by
Robert Callagy in  New York  wrote in a report today.  By shortening the maturities of their investments, money-
market funds have been able to reduce the risk of their European
bank holdings and have often moved investments into stronger
banks within  Europe  and to banks in countries such as  Canada ,
Australia and  Japan , the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  