-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Climbs More Than Forecast in Michigan Index
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-22T15:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-increases-more-than-forecast-in-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
more than forecast in December, to a six-month high, as
Americans began wrapping up their holiday spending.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  climbed to 69.9 from 64.1 at the end of
November. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for 68 after a preliminary reading of 67.7. The gauge averaged
89 in the five years leading up to the recession that began in
December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  A drop in  unemployment  and lower gasoline prices may be
boosting confidence, raising the odds that the pickup in
household spending will continue into 2012. Still, gridlock over
deficit-cutting measures in Congress and taxes may limit further
gains in sentiment.  “Income growth and a reviving job market are helping
restore confidence,”  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before the
report. “Recent decline in jobless claims and gasoline prices
are a positive.”  Estimates for sentiment in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
64 to 70. The index averaged 64.2 during the 18-month recession.  The labor market is showing more signs of improving.  First-
time claims  for jobless benefits unexpectedly declined last
week, falling by 4,000 to 364,000, the lowest since April 2008,
the Labor Department reported today.  The index of U.S. leading indicators climbed more than
forecast in November, a sign the world’s biggest economy will
keep growing in early 2012.  Leading Indicators  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.5 percent after a 0.9 percent October
increase, the New York-based research group said today. The
median forecast of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected
the gauge would advance 0.3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index held earlier gains after
the reports, rising 0.5 percent to 1,249.49 at 10:09 a.m. in  New
York .  The Michigan index compares with the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort  Index , which climbed to minus 45 in the period ended
Dec. 18 from a reading of minus 49.9 the prior week, marking the
biggest seven-day gain since January. The monthly  expectations
gauge  climbed to minus 17 for December, a seven-month high.  The Michigan survey’s index of  consumer expectations  for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of  consumer spending , rose to 63.6 this month from 55.4 in
November. It marked the fourth straight gain and the biggest
point increase since May.  Current Conditions  The index of  current conditions , which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether they
consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
increased to 79.6, the highest since June, from 77.6 the prior
month.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next 12 months, down from
3.2 percent in November.  Over the next five years, the range tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expect a 2.7 percent rate of
inflation, the same as the prior two months.  A gallon of regular  unleaded gasoline  fell to $3.20 on Dec.
20, the lowest since February, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest automobile association. The  unemployment rate  in
November fell to 8.6 percent, the lowest in more than two years,
while the  S&P 500  gained 7.3 percent from Nov. 25 through
yesterday.  Early holiday season sales, which traditionally begin the
day after Thanksgiving, provided a mixed picture. Limited Brands
Inc. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  posted November same-store sales that
topped analysts’ estimates as Thanksgiving weekend deals drew
record crowds, while stores that missed out on the shopping
blitz trailed expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  