-- Curbing DVA, Dexia Probe, Lehman Rascals: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-22T13:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/curbing-dva-dexia-eu-probe-lehman-rascals-facebook-europe-compliance.html
Global regulators are seeking to
curb  banks’ (SX7P)  use of an accounting rule allowing lenders to boost
their profits and capital by writing down the value of their own
debt and derivatives when market prices fall.  The rule, known as debt or debit-valuation adjustment, says
that banks can book financial gains when the value of their own
bonds and derivatives falls, under the theory that a profit
would be realized if the liabilities were repurchased at a
discount.  Banks shouldn’t be able to count such gains toward their
capital reserves, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
said in a statement published on its website. The committee is
seeking “full deduction” of debit-valuation adjustments from
lenders’ core reserves, including that arising from derivatives.  Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
each booked more than $1.5 billion of gains from DVA in the
third quarter as bank credit spreads widened.  Global regulators agreed last year to more than triple the
core capital that lenders must hold to guard against insolvency
and also to force them to stockpile easily sellable assets to
survive a short-term funding squeeze. They will be expected to
have core capital equivalent to seven percent of their assets,
weighted according to their riskiness, by 2019.  Under Basel rules, a bank’s core capital consists mainly of
retained earnings and ordinary shares. The Basel committee will
seek views on its decision until Feb. 17, it said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Basel Regulators Seek to Close Loopholes in Bank-Liquidity Rules  Global regulators are targeting possible loopholes in draft
rules to bolster  banks’  liquidity as they push for agreement on
parts of the standard by March, a member of the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision said.  Discussions are under way about what assets lenders should
be allowed to count toward their minimum liquidity reserves and
on how to prevent banks from using “regulatory arbitrage” to
get around aspects of the measure, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice
president of Germany’s central bank, said in a telephone
interview this week.  Banks have argued that a draft of the so-called liquidity
coverage ratio published last year may curtail  loans  by forcing
them to hoard cash and buy up  government bonds . Under the plans
certain assets, such as covered bonds, would be allowed to
account for a maximum of 40 percent of a bank’s total LCR
buffer.  Bank watchdogs say the liquidity requirements are needed to
prevent a repeat of the collapses of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  and  Dexia SA  that were blamed in part on the lenders
running out of short-term funding. The standard is scheduled to
take effect in 2015.  The Basel group’s LCR would require lenders to hold enough
easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The
ratio was discussed at a meeting of the Basel committee last
week and some parts of the measure may be fine-tuned as soon as
March, Lautenschlaeger said.  SEC Adopts Dodd-Frank Rules on Accredited Investors, Mine Safety  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a pair
of final Dodd-Frank Act rules that set asset requirements for
“accredited investors” and require mining companies to
disclose safety information, according to statements released
yesterday by the agency.  The new standard for accredited investors, who are allowed
to make higher-risk investments not available to the general
public, requires individuals to have at least $1 million in net
worth, not including their primary residence. The agency must
review the standard regularly to decide whether it needs further
adjustments.  The second rule calls for mining companies to include
“mine-by-mine” safety and health information in routine public
disclosures.  Dodd-Frank directed the SEC to write about a hundred rules
in an effort to overhaul the U.S. financial system in the wake
of the 2008 credit crisis.  Compliance Action  EU Approves Capital Injection for  National Bank of Greece (ETE)   The  European Commission  gave temporary approval for a 1
billion-euro capital injection to National Bank of Greece.  It said the approval is temporary and that the authorities
must submit a restructuring plan to the Brussels-based
regulator.  Daimler Truck Criminal Cartel Probe Dropped by U.K. Regulator  Britain’s antitrust regulator said it doesn’t have enough
evidence to continue a criminal probe in a suspected truck-
manufacturing cartel that resulted in the arrest last year of a
 Daimler AG (DAI)  executive.  The criminal case, started in September 2010, was dropped
yesterday by the Office of Fair Trading after a “thorough
investigation,” the watchdog said on its  website . The OFT,
which prosecutes competition violations, is continuing a civil
probe of at least five companies including Daimler’s U.K.
Mercedes-Benz unit and  Volvo AB. (VOLVB)   The European Union’s antitrust regulator in Brussels is
still probing the companies for possible competition violations.
Ian Jones, the head of the U.K. Mercedes-Benz truck division,
was detained by police and then released on bail when the probe
began last year. Daimler, the world’s largest truck maker, said
at the time that the OFT raided its offices in Tongwell,
England. The civil probe also includes  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Iveco unit,
 Scania AB (SCVB)  and Volvo and Renault truck-making subsidiaries.  A call to Daimler’s press office wasn’t immediately
returned.  Dexia Faces EU Probe Over Belgian, French, State Guarantees  Dexia SA, the French-Belgian lender that’s being broken up,
faces a European Union investigation into as much as 45 billion
euros ($59 billion) in guarantees from Belgium, France and
Luxembourg.  The  European Commission  gave temporary approval for the
guarantees and said final authorization would be based on a
restructuring plan that the governments must submit within three
months, the Brussels-based commission said in a statement
yesterday.  The temporary guarantees for Dexia and its unit Dexia
Credit Local “mark a significant change compared with” EU
conditions for a 2008 bailout, the regulator said. Belgium’s
credit rating was cut two steps by Moody’s Investors Service
last week, which said rising borrowing costs, slowing growth and
liabilities from Dexia’s breakup threaten to inflate the euro
area’s fifth-highest debt load.  The EU approval means Dexia can use the guarantees to raise
funding from Dec. 22, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.
“The implementation of the guarantee will enable the Dexia
Group to reduce the amount of its central bank refinancing and,
gradually, the financing” for Dexia Bank Belgium which was
taken over by the Belgian government in October.  The guarantees will cover loans with maturities of as much
as three years and will expire on May 31 unless the EU and the
three governments agree to an extension, Dexia said.  For more, click here.  Separately,  Dexia SA (DEXB)  and its former chief executive officer
Pierre Marinai are being sued by Lynx Capital Sprl over claims
they provided “false information” about the value of the
bank’s shares it purchased on Sept. 5 before the bank was
rescued by the Belgian, French and Luxembourg governments, Lynx
said in court filing last week.  Ulrike Pommee, a spokeswoman for Dexia in Brussels,
declined to comment on behalf of Dexia and Mariani.  Facebook to Change European Service After Data-Privacy Probe  Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest social networking site,
will overhaul its service in Europe over the next six months as
a result of an investigation into how the social network handles
personal data.  Facebook “has agreed to a wide range of best practice
improvements” to its service that will get a formal review in
July, the Irish data-protection agency said yesterday, after
concluding a three-month audit. Facebook’s Ireland operation is
responsible for all the Palo Alto, California-based company’s
users outside the U.S. and Canada, the agency said.  The  report  said there has to be “increased transparency
and controls for the use of personal data for advertising
purposes” and “the deletion of data held from user
interactions with the site much sooner.”  The agency began reviewing Facebook’s compliance with Irish
and European Union data-protection rules three months ago and
conducted an on-site audit of the U.S. company’s offices there.  Facebook agreed to improve the information users get on
what happens to deleted or removed content and to simplify
explanations of its privacy policies. The company said it would
work closely with privacy commissioners and regulators to
demonstrate its compliance with legal requirements.  For more, click here.  Courts  Chinese Company Citing Racism Gets Court to Bar Nasdaq Delisting  Nasdaq Stock Market was blocked from delisting a Chinese
maker of wind towers after the company sued in  New York  state
court, claiming the procedures for kicking it out are marred by
racism.  CleanTech Innovations Inc. (CTEK) , based in Tieling, China,
alleged the exchange violated its own rules and the company’s
right to due process in “arbitrarily and capriciously” seeking
to remove it. New York State Supreme Court Justice Melvin
Schweitzer put the delisting on hold and set a hearing next
month for Nasdaq to show why the court shouldn’t let the suit
proceed with expedited pretrial evidence gathering.  Joseph Christinat, a spokesman for New York-based  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the parent company of the Nasdaq exchange,
declined to comment.  CleanTech has been fighting removal since January, when
Nasdaq asserted that the company intentionally withheld material
information about $20 million in financing during its listing
application. The company says it provided all necessary
information in a timely manner. CleanTech has retained as
counsel former U.S. Senator Arlen Specter.  The court action is part of the fallout from a series of
cases alleging fraud involving China-based companies.  For more, click here.  SEC’s Court Troubles in Citigroup Settlement Echo in Wisconsin  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, facing growing
judicial scrutiny over how it resolves enforcement matters, was
asked by a federal judge in Milwaukee to provide a “factual
predicate” for a proposed settlement with a company accused of
accounting fraud.  Certain provisions of the SEC’s settlement with Milwaukee-
based  Koss Corp. (KOSS)  were “vague,” U.S. District Judge Rudolph T.
Randa said in a filing yesterday. The settlement also didn’t
provide enough information to show that penalties against chief
executive officer Michael Koss were fair, the judge wrote.  Randa asked the SEC to respond by Jan. 24.  The judge’s decision comes less than a month after a
federal judge in New York rejected the agency’s $285 million
settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C) , saying he hadn’t been given
enough facts to approve the agreement.  The Citigroup ruling by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
which Randa cited in his opinion, challenged settlement
practices the SEC has had in place for decades and sparked a
debate over whether the agency is reaching expedient agreements
that lack tough sanctions. The SEC has appealed Rakoff’s ruling.  The SEC in October accused Koss Corp., a manufacturer of
stereo headphones, of making materially inaccurate financial
statements for fiscal years 2005 through 2009.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Koss
Corp., 11-cv-00991, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Wyoming (Milwaukee).  Lehman Swiss Unit Loses Bid for $1.5 Billion Rascals Assets  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s former Swiss unit lost its
bid to seize some of the $1.5 billion of securities frozen at
the bank’s  London  operation after its failure.  The U.K. Court of Appeal rejected Switzerland-based Lehman
Brothers Finance SA’s claim to the so-called Rascals assets,
which were caught up in the bank’s internal-settlement system
when it collapsed into administration in September 2008.  While the Swiss unit said it was the owner of securities
acquired on its behalf, Judge Timothy Lloyd ruled the assets
should remain with Lehman Brothers International Europe and its
administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Lehman used internal repurchase agreements and stock loans
to avoid regulatory charges on securities held by its European
units, a system Lloyd described as “a mess” in his written
judgment. Securities were purchased through the U.K unit and
placed into the “Regulation and Administration of Safe Custody
and Global Settlement” system, known as Rascals, before being
sold to clients, according to the judgment.  Lehman filed bankruptcy in September 2008, plunging global
financial markets into turmoil. The status of the Rascals assets
and billions of dollars in other funds frozen at the time has
been the subject of lawsuits. The Swiss unit can still appeal
against yesterday’s decision at the U.K. Supreme Court.  The case is: In the Matter of Lehman Brothers International
(Europe)(In Administration), case no. 7942/2008, High Court of
Justice, Chancery Division (London).  Six Men Guilty of Tax Evasion in Deutsche Bank CO2 Trades  Six men were convicted of tax evasion by a German court
yesterday following a fraud linked to the sale of carbon-
emission certificates to  Deutsche Bank AG .  The six helped to start a chain of trades with the sole
purpose of evading value-added tax, Presiding Judge Martin Bach
said at a hearing yesterday as he sentenced them to as long as
seven years and 10 months in jail. Deutsche Bank, which bought
the securities, should have known the trades were illegal, he
said, noting the sales “had no economic sense.”  The case is part of the biggest crackdown on emissions-
related tax crimes since Europe began its cap-and-trade system
in 2005. The men in court yesterday worked at small trading
companies that bought certificates from suppliers overseas and
resold them.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on the case, saying the bank was without
access to the public prosecutor’s files. He said an internal
investigation by an outside law firm has so far shown no sign of
criminal involvement by the bank’s employees.  Germany changed its rules in 2010 to end the tax evasion
practice, Bach judge said.  Comings and Goings  Fortress CEO Mudd Takes Leave Amid SEC’s  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  Lawsuit  Daniel Mudd  will take a leave of absence as chief executive
officer of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  after he was sued by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over his role as
former CEO of Fannie Mae.  Fortress co-founder Randal A. Nardone will take over as
interim CEO effective immediately, the New York-based manager of
buyout and hedge funds said yesterday in a statement.  Mudd said in the statement that he requested the leave of
absence “to ensure that any time or attention I need to focus
on matters outside of Fortress will not affect the business or
operations of the company.”  Mudd and former Freddie Mac CEO Richard Syron were sued
Dec. 16 for understating by hundreds of billions of dollars the
subprime loans held by the firms. In a statement the day the
lawsuit was filed in Manhattan federal court, Mudd denied the
charge, saying the U.S. government and its investors were aware
of “every piece of material data about loans held by Fannie
Mae.”  Fortress said in a Dec. 16 statement that the complaint
against Mudd “does not relate to Fortress, and this matter has
not impacted our company or our business operations.”  For more, click here.  Turner to Stand Down as Head of U.K. Climate Change Committee  Adair Turner, the first chairman of the U.K.’s  Climate
Change Committee , will step down from spring 2012 to focus on
his role as chairman of the Financial Services Authority.  A new chairman of the committee, which advises government
on greenhouse gas limits set in law, is expected to be appointed
by the end of March, the committee said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 