-- Cyber Attack on U.S. Chamber Pressures Congress to Speed Web Rule Rewrite
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/cyber-attack-on-u-s-chamber-presses-congress-to-fix-web-rules.html
A cyber attack on the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce will intensify pressure on Congress to overhaul Web
security regulations written before the existence of Facebook
Inc., Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail.  Concern that computer systems for banks, power companies
and  Internet providers  are vulnerable rose after hackers with
ties to China stole confidential e-mails and documents from the
chamber, the biggest U.S. business lobbying organization.  “Congress and the administration have been dithering over
cybersecurity for years,” said Stewart Baker, a former
assistant secretary for policy at the Homeland Security
Department and a partner at the  Steptoe & Johnson LLP  law firm
in Washington. “In that time, American companies have been
robbed blind. This does underline, if any underlining is
necessary, that we need a strong cybersecurity bill.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  plans to take up
cybersecurity legislation as early as next month to rewrite
rules set after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. A U.S.
report released last month found that  China  was the biggest
hacker threat to American firms, and those attacks breached the
networks of at least 760 companies.  The chamber breach, confirmed by the organization
yesterday, shows that even House and Senate members may be
vulnerable to foreign hackers, said Jessica Herrera-Flanigan, a
former staff director for the House Homeland Security Committee,
in an interview.  “This latest compromise should especially be of concern as
the hackers potentially could have gotten hold of sensitive and
strategic e-mails to and from the chamber and these officials,”
said Herrera-Flanigan, who’s now a partner at Monument Policy
Group in Washington.  Spy Versus Lobbyist  The chamber, representing more than 3 million members, said
yesterday that communications with fewer than 50 of its members
were affected by the 2010 attack. It said it hasn’t seen
evidence of harm to members or the organization. The security
breach was first reported by the Wall Street Journal.  Republican Representatives  Peter King  of  New York  and Dan Lungren of  California , and Independent Senator  Joseph Lieberman 
of  Connecticut , all sponsors of cyber protection bills, said the
latest attack shows the need for such legislation.  “Reports like this should serve as a reminder of how
important it is for the federal government to secure its
networks,” King said in a statement.  Social Network Hackers  New legislation would update a 2002 law that created the
Homeland Security Department, predating social media sites that
security firms such as  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  say are targets.  Hackers exploit some social-networking sites where Web
users often let down their guard, according to Symantec.  The company issued 10 million updates and recorded 3.1
billion malware attacks last year, up from about 20,000 software
updates in 2002, said Cris Paden, a spokesman for Symantec.  Two House bills are aimed at protecting critical systems
and improving the sharing of classified cyber-threat data
between companies and government.                   One, H.R. 3674, introduced Dec. 15 by Republicans Lungren
and King, who leads the Homeland Security Committee, lets the
Homeland Security Department identify and suggest ways to thwart
the biggest risks.  Preventing Cyber Attacks  The regulators of specific industries -- not the homeland
security agency -- would have primary responsibility for writing
rules governing cybersecurity operations in their areas, Lungren
said in a statement.  The bill creates a U.S. information-sharing organization as
a clearinghouse for the government and companies to exchange
cyber-threat data. The measure authorizes $10 million in annual
government funding for three years to start the organization,
Lungren said.  The second House bill, H.R. 3523, was introduced Nov. 30 by
Representatives Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who leads the
House Intelligence Committee, and C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger
of  Maryland , the panel’s top Democrat.  The bill would give companies protections from lawsuits
when they tell the government about attacks against their
networks, while the government could provide companies with
classified cyber-threat data.  Data that companies give the government would be exempt
from Freedom of Information Act requests and couldn’t be used by
the government to mandate regulations, according to the bill.  “Protecting critical infrastructure won’t happen
spontaneously -- there is no business case for it and the market
will never deliver,” said  James Lewis , director of the
technology and public policy programs at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, in an e-mail. “That’s why
we need legislation or we’ll wake up some day to find that the
lights don’t work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steve Walsh  at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  