-- Dalai Lama Weeps for Japan’s Quake Victims as Golfers Play On: Pico Iyer
-- B y   P i c o   I y e r
-- 2011-12-22T07:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/dalai-lama-weeps-for-japan-s-quake-victims-as-golfers-play-on-pico-iyer.html
The scenes around the northern
Japanese city of Sendai are still shocking. Clothes set out to
dry hang outside two-story houses whose first floors are
entirely crushed and hollowed out; the second floors are
generally untouched.  A solitary chair sits in the smashed wreckage of what must
recently have been a living room. Cars can be seen floating on
small rivers, and telephone poles teeter at crazy angles. Giant
rectangles of scrap metal stand all along what were in January
typically spotless and sleek Japanese highways, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Dec. 26 issue.  In November, I traveled up to the little fishing village of
Ishinomaki, an hour from Sendai, with the  Dalai Lama . Almost
eight months after the earthquake and tsunami of March 11, the
sense of devastation was hard to bear.  An old wooden temple still stood firm against a hill, but
the gravestones in front of it were broken or tilting over. Tidy
boxed remains of the recently departed, accompanied by snapshots
-- here a teenage schoolboy, there a smiling grandmother -- sat
in rows by the altar, but no survivor had come to claim them,
and there were perhaps no homes to take them back to.  When the Dalai Lama stepped out of his car to greet and
console the hundreds who had gathered in the street to see him,
women began wailing and sobbing, “Thank you, thank you.”  He told them to look forward, not back; to honor the dead
with something more concrete than tears; to rebuild their
community as their nation had so stirringly rebuilt itself in
the wake of World War II. As he turned round, however, I noticed
that the usually unshakable Tibetan was wiping a tear from his
eye.  Exclusion Zone  Only two weeks earlier, by chance, I’d gone up to the
little town of Iwaki Yumoto, just outside the “exclusion
zone,” which surrounds the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi  nuclear
plant (9501)  for 20 kilometers in every direction.  Three of the plant’s six reactors melted down in the wake
of the tsunami and fires broke out in a fourth, making it the
worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl, a quarter of a century
earlier, ensuring the effect will be felt for decades.  Once a hot springs resort, Iwaki Yumoto is eerily deserted
now. Most of the people I saw had traveled from all over Japan
to work in often very dangerous conditions clearing up the plant.
They’d come to rescue their nation in its time of need, several
told me, but another reason was surely that jobs are scarce in
Japan today. The tsunami came along as the country was beginning
to recover after two decades of economic misery.  Cosmic Test  The year just passed might have been a terrible cosmic test
for  Japan : In Sendai, people were just beginning to rebuild
their houses (and lives) when a typhoon in September reduced the
new structures to rubble.  Some young people I know in Tokyo were so traumatized by
the earthquake that, the following day, they moved to the
southern island of Kyushu. Many elderly people fleeing the
devastation around Fukushima came to the nearby prefecture of
Yamagata, a Japanese friend who lives there told me. Having
safely arrived, they looked around -- their families gone, no
homes to return to, not much of a future -- and some quietly
took their own lives.  Yet for all the sadness that will not go away, I can’t help
feeling, after almost 20 years of living in Japan, that it’s the
country’s strengths, more than its weaknesses, that have been
and will be highlighted by the recent cataclysms.  Weathering Disasters  For a thousand years or more, after all, the island nation
has weathered earthquakes and fires and wars and nuclear bombs;
in some respects -- a little like the Britain in which I grew up
-- it almost seems made for dealing with calamity. Resilience,
stoicism, and community-mindedness have been binding and guiding
the nation for centuries.  Rather than the “pursuit of happiness,” Japan is built,
at some deep, invisible level, around the Buddhist law of the
reality of suffering; my Japanese family and neighbors are not
inclined to complain about circumstances so much as to deal,
silently and efficiently, with the hands they’re dealt.  Some years ago, an Osaka painter in his 90s told me, “We
used to believe that people should pay for suffering. It is such
an instruction and help in growing up.” One of the most
celebrated geishas in Kyoto has written, “I believe that self-
discipline is the key to beauty.”  For all its zany and promiscuous Western surfaces, Japan
remains a profoundly traditional culture in which most
individuals believe that their destinies are assigned to them by
gods or fates or the laws of nature. They may not trust their
government or corporations -- which were typically equivocating,
evasive, and immobile after the disasters in March -- but they
do seem to trust the larger forces around them. That sense of
faith, or fatalism, can be a blessing when it comes to natural
or man-made catastrophe.  ‘Like Somalia’  In Nara, where I live, my friends take pains not to talk
about this year’s tragedies; many have been through worse. A
well-traveled local pal with whom I play Ping-Pong every day
recalled how, during the war, “Japan was like Somalia. No food
and so much danger.”  The decades of hard work that built up the economy after
the war can be seen as an invisible savings account on which to
draw in an emergency. The area around Sendai is a wreck, but
most of my Japanese neighbors know they’re blessed in comparison
with the earthquake victims of Port-au-Prince.  When I went up to the area around the nuclear plant in
October, I found myself staying in, of all places, a golf resort
by the sea. Many of the locals had left the area after the
disaster, I was told. When I arrived, late at night, the big
hotel looked like a ghost town. Only a handful of kimono-clad
guests were enjoying the tea lounge and the play area.  Next morning, I awoke early and went into the breakfast
room at 6:15 to find every table packed. Dapper golfers from
 Tokyo  were busy scarfing down their eggs, about to head out for
their first round, undeterred by pelting rain and the belching
factories that surround the seaside course.  In some places this could look like recklessness or
indifference; in Japan it seemed to stand for fortitude.  Editors: Bryant Urstadt, Adam Majendie, Lars Klemming.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at   bwieners@bloomberg.net . 