-- Damon Upstaged by Cute Monkey; Jolie’s War-Torn Affair: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-22T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/damon-upstaged-by-cute-monkey-jolie-s-war-torn-affair-movies.html
A fixer-upper usually needs a new
kitchen, a spruced-up bathroom or maybe a paint job.  Not in “ We Bought a Zoo ,” where single dad Benjamin Mee
( Matt Damon ) quits his job as a  Los Angeles  newspaper columnist
and moves to a rundown rural property whose animal residents
require new living quarters, expensive diets and constant
attention.  The story of how Mee became an accidental zookeeper,
originally told in his 2008 memoir, has been turned into a
mawkish film by Cameron Crowe.  Crowe created iconic characters in “Almost Famous” and
“Jerry Maguire.” The most memorable one in “We Bought a Zoo”
is Crystal, a cute, clothes-wearing capuchin monkey who rests on
the shoulder of the zoo’s handyman.  If you’re an animal lover like me, you may get a kick out
of seeing lions, tigers, grizzlies, baboons, zebras, flamingos,
camels and kangaroos share the screen with Damon and co-star
 Scarlett Johansson .  The humans, including Mee’s two precocious children (Colin
Ford and Maggie Elizabeth Jones), aren’t as compelling despite
Crowe’s strained efforts to milk the drama for pathos. (One
glaring example: Damon’s character is portrayed as a widower,
even though Mee’s wife was alive when they took over the zoo.)  Crowe’s attempts at humor also fall flat, especially a
running gag involving a prickly zoo inspector (John Michael
Higgins). Higgins’s deadpan delivery, so perfect in those
Christopher Guest mockumentaries, seems oddly out of place here.  Damon and Johansson, who plays the head zookeeper, are
hamstrung by thinly written roles. Ditto for Thomas Haden Church
as Mee’s sensible brother and  Elle Fanning  as a zoo worker who
flirts with Mee’s son. The soundtrack, which includes enough  Bob Dylan ,  Neil Young ,  Joni Mitchell  and Simon & Garfunkel to
program a classic-rock radio station, provides a welcome
distraction.  “We Bought a Zoo,” from 20th Century Fox, opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘Blood and Honey’  Angelina Jolie  picked a brutal subject for her writing and
directing debut.  “ In the Land of Blood and Honey ” takes place during the
Bosnian War in the early 1990s, when a Serbian soldier and a
Muslim artist have an illicit affair during the ethnic conflict
that destroyed the former  Yugoslavia .  Jolie handles the material with care, though the film
sometimes slips into simplistic moralizing. While she doesn’t
downplay the violence and ethnic hatred, she also knows that
wars can produce moments of humanity and kindness.  Ruthless General  The cast includes Serbs, Bosnians and Croatians who lived
through the war that pitted friends and neighbors against each
other. Their visceral attachment to the subject gives the film
authenticity, as does hearing them speak in their native
languages. (Jolie also filmed an English-language version).  Danijel (Goran Kostic) and Ajla (Zana Marjanovic), who had
a brief romance before the war, are reunited when Ajla is sent
to a prison run by soldiers under Danijel’s command.  Danijel is torn between his love for Ajla and the demands
of his father, a coldblooded Serbian general played with
ferocity by Rade Serbedzija. Ajla appreciates her special status
-- as the prison’s official painter, she has her own small
studio -- but feels guilty when she sees fellow inmates raped
and beaten.  When Danijel’s father learns of the affair he demands to
see Ajla, who draws his portrait. He seems touched, but only
briefly. To him, she’s just an enemy with a canvas.  “In the Land of Blood and Honey,” from FilmDistrict,
opens tomorrow in  New York  and Los Angeles. It will be released
in more U.S. cities on Jan. 6. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 