-- Dana Gas Slumps to Lowest on Record on Egypt Delay Report
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2011-12-22T09:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/dana-gas-slumps-to-lowest-on-record-on-egypt-delay-report-1-.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , a fuel producer with
most of its output coming from  Egypt , tumbled to a record low in
its longest stretch of losses in three years after Al Bayan
reported that Egypt wants to delay a $148 million payment.  The shares declined 4.3 percent to 45 fils at 12:42 p.m. in
 Abu Dhabi , the lowest intraday level since the company’s shares
were listed in December 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock, down for a sixth day, has lost 38 percent
this year compared with a drop of 14 percent in the benchmark
 ADX General Index. (ADSMI)   Egypt’s government and Dana Gas are in talks on paying part
of the money owed and obtaining a grace period of a year or more
for the remainder,  Al Bayan  reported, citing Hany El Sharkawi,
the company’s president for Egypt. Dana Gas officials didn’t
immediately respond to questions from Bloomberg News.  “The stock has been underperforming the market for a long
time, and with Egypt thinking to change the agreement they had
with the company, this won’t be in their favor,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal
Capital. “They have a $1 billion dollar sukuk to be paid in
October 2012, and if you look at the cash flow statement, it
looks very weak.”  The yield on Dana Gas’s 7.5 percent sukuk maturing in
October 2012 soared 50 basis points today to 36.6 percent, the
highest since March 2009. The company’s market capitalization
has declined to about 3 billion dirhams ($817 million) today
from 13.1 billion dirhams at the end of 2007.  Dana Gas is in talks with a number of banks for advice on
refinancing of sukuk, debt that complies with Islam’s ban on
interest, as well as financial strategy, and plans to list its
exploration and production business on the London Stock
Exchange, according to a company statement last month.  “The recent yield widening in the Dana Gas 2012 sukuk to
record levels is indicative of investors’ yearning for guidance
and details pertaining to the company’s blueprint to redeeming
the upcoming sukuk,” Malek Khodr Temsah, assistant vice
president of treasury and investment at Albaraka Banking Group
BSC in Bahrain, said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  