-- Debt Squeeze Points to Biggest Restructuring Wave Since Lehman
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/debt-squeeze-points-to-biggest-restructuring-wave-since-lehman.html
For bankers advising  Europe ’s
lenders on debt negotiations with the Greek government or the
bankruptcy of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , it’s starting to feel
like the aftermath of the financial crisis all over again.  After a dearth of assignments in the industry for much of
2011, turnaround advisers at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Moelis & Co.
and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  say they have the heaviest workload since the
credit freeze that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “We’re starting to get very busy,” said William Derrough,
co-head of restructuring at New York-based Moelis, which is
advising bankrupt shipping company General Maritime Corp. “This
time, we’re dealing with broader issues, like the contraction of
credit in Europe and a lackluster  U.S. economy .”  Concern about global growth and the sovereign debt crisis
in Europe has curbed investor appetite for risky securities,
limiting options for speculative-grade companies looking to
refinance their borrowings. Moody’s Investors Service predicts
the global default rate on high-yield debt may climb to 2.4
percent by November 2012 from a projected 1.7 percent at year-
end after junk-rated debt sales slumped in the second half.  In the past two months, MF Global filed the eighth-largest
bankruptcy in U.S. history, while American Airlines owner  AMR
Corp. (AMR)  sought protection from creditors. MF is being advised by
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , and AMR is working with Rothschild. A
group of more than 450 financial institutions is negotiating
terms of a voluntary debt restructuring with Greece.  ‘So Expensive’  “Highly leveraged businesses across all sectors find it
increasingly difficult to raise debt capital at all, and even if
they can, pricing often is so expensive that it worsens rather
than fixes the problem,” said Marc Puntus, co-head of
restructuring for boutique investment bank Centerview Partners
LLP, which started a restructuring practice in July.  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade
bonds rather than  U.S. government debt  has climbed 1.96
percentage points since the end of July to 7.54 percentage
points as of Dec. 20, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. The spread reached 9.1
percentage points on Oct. 4, the highest level since September
2009.  Hawker Beechcraft Corp., a jet maker that has posted annual
losses since 2008, said Dec. 12 it is seeking an amendment to
the terms of its revolving  credit line  and hired Perella
Weinberg Partners LP. Business would have to improve for the
company to refinance at “reasonable rates,” Christopher DeNicolo, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York , said this
month.  Newspaper Bankruptcy  Lee Enterprises Inc. , owner of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch
and 47 other daily U.S. newspapers, filed for protection from
creditors on Dec. 12 to modify and extend the maturity of notes
with a 9.05 percent interest rate coming due in April 2012. The
publisher said earlier this year it was seeking to refinance its
debt.  Another newspaper publisher, Media General Inc., in October
cited challenging credit markets as it tries to refinance bank
debt due in March 2013. The company, which operates 18
television stations and more than 20 newspapers, is working with
Peter J. Solomon on its financial options.  Risk Averse  Investors “abruptly” lost their appetite for risk,
causing new issuance of speculative-grade bonds to slow after a
record first half of 2011, S&P said in a report last month. Only
$19.5 billion in debt came to market in the third quarter after
$70 billion in the second quarter and $64.5 billion in the
first, S&P said. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated lower than
BBB- at S&P.  In the last credit crunch, the crisis came to a head more
than a year after high-yield markets tightened around mid-2007.  “If the high yield market stays closed for another 6 to 12
months, we could be looking at something similar,” said David Ying, a senior managing director at Evercore Partners, who co-
founded the firm’s restructuring and  debt capital  markets group.
Inquiries about restructuring “have picked back up in the past
few months.”  The U.S. credit markets have been unable to decouple from
Europe, and trading of the two regions’ interest-rate swap
spreads, a measure of risk, is the most correlated since 2007.
Still, the extra yield investors demand to hold European
corporate bonds rather than government debt was 3.16 percentage
points as of Dec. 19, compared with 2.62 percentage points in
the U.S., Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “What’s coming in Europe has the potential to be as
difficult as what we saw in the U.S. in 2008 and 2009,” said
Timothy Coleman, senior managing director and head of
restructuring at New York-based Blackstone. “Europe will need
major restructuring even if there is a solution in  Greece .”  Manroland, Saab  Blackstone is advising a steering committee on the debt-
swap talks that include representatives from Axa SA, Commerzbank
AG, ING Groep NV and National Bank of Greece SA, people familiar
with the matter said this month. The Greek government is being
advised by three banks on the debt exchange and hired Lazard as
a financial adviser.  Manroland AG, the German printing-press maker, filed for
insolvency on Nov. 25 in the country’s biggest corporate failure
since retailer Arcandor AG collapsed two years ago. Saab
Automobile, which General Motors Co. sold to Swedish Automobile
NV predecessor Spyker Cars NV in February 2010, filed for
bankruptcy this week after failing to find investors to rescue
the 74-year-old company.  No Way Out  Companies now have fewer options to overhaul their finances
or operations than they did during the 2008 and 2009 financial
crisis, according to Barry Ridings, Lazard’s global co-head of
restructuring. Some were aided at that time by government
intervention and eventual openings in the high-yield  debt
market , allowing them to duck hard decisions such as large-scale
job cuts or a bankruptcy filing, he said.  “Many current restructuring situations are companies where
they kicked the can down the road several times,” said Ridings,
whose firm is advising unions at  American Airlines  and the U.S.
Postal Service. “Things haven’t improved and now the companies
and creditors have to deal with the situation.”  William Lyon Homes, the builder that went private in 2006
and borrowed $206 million from Thomas Barrack’s Colony Capital
LLC and Colony Financial Inc. in 2009, filed for bankruptcy this
month after agreeing on a reorganization plan with lenders.  Distress Ratio  Standard & Poor’s distress ratio, or the number of
distressed securities divided by the total number of
speculative-grade rated issues, jumped to 16.6 percent in
December from 3.56 percent in April, after peaking at 19.3
percent in October. Distressed securities are speculative-grade
rated issues that have spreads of more than 1,000 basis points
relative to Treasuries.  “The distress ratio is a leading indicator of our
expectation that defaults will rise,” said  Diane Vazza , the
head of New York-based S&P’s global fixed income research.  Ridings at Lazard said his firm looks at the number of
ratings raised and cut by S&P and Moody’s to gauge what lies
ahead.  “For the past several months there have been more
downgrades than upgrades,” Ridings said. “That is an early
warning sign that more restructurings are coming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  