-- Decline in U.S. Home Values to Be Smallest in Four Years, Zillow Reports
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/decline-in-u-s-home-values-to-be-smallest-in-four-years-zillow-reports.html
U.S. home values probably will have
their smallest decrease in four years in 2011 after the decline
in property prices slowed,  Zillow Inc.  said today.  The total value of the country’s housing probably fell by
more than $681 billion, about 35 percent less than the $1.1 
trillion lost in 2010, the Seattle-based company said in a 
statement today. A projected decline of $227 billion from July 
to the end of this month compares with $454 billion lost in the
first half of the year, according to Zillow.  An increase in buyer demand is needed before property
values can begin to recover, Zillow said. Low borrowing costs
may be helping, with sales of existing homes rising in November
to a 10-month high, according to a National Association of
Realtors report yesterday.  “While homeowners suffered through another year of steep
losses, the good news is that homes are losing value at a
substantially slower pace as the market works its way towards
the bottom,”  Stan Humphries , Zillow’s chief economist, said in
today’s statement.  While property values declined at a slower pace this year,
an oversupply of homes for sale, low consumer confidence and an
8.6 percent unemployment rate will continue to weigh on the
market and probably keep it from recovering until late next year
or early 2013, Humphries said.  Ninety-two percent of markets analyzed by Zillow had home-
value decreases this year, with the biggest declines in the Los
Angeles,  New York  and Chicago metropolitan areas, in terms of
total value lost, Zillow said. Values rose in nine of the 128
markets tracked, led by  New Orleans , with a $3.5 billion gain,
and Pittsburgh, with a $2.7 billion increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  