-- Yen Falls Versus Peers as Stocks Climb Amid Fading Demand for Haven Assets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-22T22:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/dollar-weakens-versus-euro-as-stocks-climb-krona-approaches-one-week-high.html
The yen fell against most of its
major peers as stock markets climbed amid reduced demand for
haven assets and signs the  U.S. economy  is strengthening.  The Japanese currency slipped as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.8 percent after the number of applications for
U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped last week and
consumer sentiment improved, signaling the economy may resist
turmoil from  Europe ’s debt crisis. The euro fluctuated against
the dollar as Italy’s Senate approved Prime Minister Mario Monti’s 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) emergency budget plan.  “The yen is finally starting to respond to positive U.S.
economic data,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “The market is
finally starting to price in the possibility that U.S. growth
might start to perk up.”  The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 78.17 dollars at 5 p.m.  New
York  time.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 102.02 against
the euro. The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3050 per
euro.  The yen has appreciated 3.5 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts as Europe’s crisis intensified,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The dollar has advanced 1 percent and the euro has fallen 1.4
percent.  Winners, Losers  South Africa’s rand has declined 19 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s most-traded
peers, followed by  Mexico ’s peso with a 10.7 percent loss. The
yen has advanced 3.8 percent for the largest gain against the
greenback, while the pound is up 0.4 percent.  Equities gained after the number of Americans applying for
 unemployment benefits  decreased to 364,000, the fewest since
April 2008, while the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
index of consumer sentiment topped the median economist
forecast. U.S. gross-domestic-product expanded at a 1.8 percent
rate in the third quarter, slower than the 2 percent median
growth projection in a Bloomberg survey.  “I’m nonplussed by today’s downward revision” in GDP,
said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak
& Co. in New York. “I’m not overly concerned by that at this
point because we’re seeing strong anecdotal evidence of a pretty
resilient consumer.”  Canada ’s dollar appreciated for a third day against its
U.S. counterpart on speculation the world’s largest economy is
recovering. The currency added 0.6 percent to C$1.0203 per  U.S.
dollar .  Europe’s Loans  The European Central Bank said yesterday that it had
awarded 489 billion euros ($638 billion) in 1,134-day loans to
banks, more than the 293 billion euros forecast by economists.
The auction sparked speculation that European banks may use the
loans to buy sovereign debt, which the central bank under
President  Mario Draghi  has resisted doing.  While investors had hoped the move would indirectly ease
borrowing costs for European governments, concerns have also
emerged that banks will hold the cash rather than buying
sovereign debt to provide for their own funding needs,
Schlossberg said.  “There’s fear that the banks are going to hoard the
capital instead of buying sovereign bonds,” he said.  European financial institutions are paying triple what
banks in  London  say it costs them for three-month unsecured
dollar funding as credit to the region dries up while the
sovereign-debt crisis moves into its third year.  The rate global financial firms are paying to fund
themselves for three months in dollars, as implied by the
foreign-exchange market, exceeds the British Bankers’
Association’s dollar London interbank offered rate by more than
three times.  Currency Future  The future of the euro will be decided in the next six
months and the joint currency has “no future” unless  Germany 
changes its stand,  Peter Bofinger , a member of Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s council of economic advisers, was quoted as saying by
Wirtschaftswoche.  While measures agreed to by European policy makers will
take one to two years to enter into force, the  European Central
Bank  could help by setting a cap for the long-term yields on
Italian and Spanish government bonds, the Dusseldorf-based
magazine quoted Bofinger as saying in an interview released
today to other media ahead of publication.  “A little more honesty is welcomed because it’s better
than burying your head in the sand,” said  Win Thin , head of
emerging market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York, about Bofinger’s comments. “Peripheral spreads are still
elevated.”  Italy’s two-year yields advanced three basis points to 5.01
percent, after falling to 4.74 percent, the least since Oct. 31.
They yield has declined 1.1 percentage points since Draghi
announced the unprecedented ECB loans on Dec. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  