-- Mead Johnson Drops as Wal-Mart Pulls Formula After Death
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-22T22:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/mead-johnson-drops-as-wal-mart-pulls-formula-after-death-5-.html
Mead Johnson Nutrition Co., maker of
the Enfamil baby formula, fell the most ever after  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  pulled a batch of the powdered product after a
newborn given it died. There is no evidence the second infant
who was sickened was given the same formula, Mead Johnson said.  Mead Johnson dropped 10 percent to $68.76 at the close of
New York trading. The decrease was the biggest drop since
February 2009, when the Glenview, Illinois-based company’s
shares were first publicly traded.  The baby who died in Lebanon, Missouri, tested positive for
Cronobacter, a microorganism found in the environment that can
cause serious illness, wrote Chris Perille, a spokesman for Mead
Johnson, in an e-mailed statement today. The batch used by the
child’s family tested negative when it was made and packaged,
and the results were reconfirmed after the news, he wrote.  “The family purchased the formula at a Wal-Mart store, and
‘out of an abundance of caution’ Wal-Mart decided to voluntarily
‘pull & hold’ the same size cans (12.5 oz.) of  Enfamil  Newborn
from the same batch code until the investigation is completed,”
Perille said.  Health officials will examine a range of possible sources
of the bacteria, including the formula consumed and the water
used to prepare it, Perille said.  Second Newborn  A second newborn given powdered formula also became
infected with the bacteria and has recovered, the  Missouri 
Department of Health and Senior Services said in a  statement  on
its website.  Mead Johnson has received any complaint or requests for
samples related to the infection, Perille said.  “As far as we know, there is no connection between Enfamil
Newborn and this second case,” Perille said. “Clearly if
this other case was connected to Enfamil Newborn, we would have
received case information and been contacted for samples.”  Whether the formulas were made by the same manufacturer is
still under investigation, said Lola Russell, a spokeswoman for
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The newborn who survived was from Illinois, said Gena
Terlizzi spokeswoman for the Missouri health department. She
referred questions on the formula to that state’s health
officials  Sabrina Miller, spokeswoman for  Illinois  Department of
 Public Health , said she didn’t have any information on the
formula.  Collecting Samples  Missouri and U.S. public health agencies are collecting
several samples from powered infant formula from the infants’
homes, as well as samples from clothes and water.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  investigates about
four to six such cases a year, said  Siobhan DeLancey ,
spokeswoman for the agency. “Infections are not real common,”
she said.  While the source of the bacteria isn’t yet known, the
growing number of infections in newborns provides “compelling
evidence” that milk-based powdered infant formulas have served
as a source, said Margaret Donnelly, director of the state
health department, in the Dec. 19 statement. No breastfed
infants have contracted the infection, she said.  “Outbreaks of this particular bacteria are typically
linked to powdered  infant formula , but it is unclear at this
point where along the chain the contamination occurred or if the
formula is the cause altogether,” Edward Aaron, an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in Denver, wrote in a research note today.
He said he expected an investigation to be completed in a matter
of days. Aaron has an “outperform” rating on Mead Johnson.  Wal-Mart Moves  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , learned of the
death Dec. 18, said Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman for the world’s
biggest retailer. The company immediately removed the product
from the Lebanon store and the next day notified more than 3,000
 stores  in 49 states. Wal-Mart has had “nearly 100 percent
compliance” from its stores, she said.  “Since we knew there was an active investigation by the
 Missouri Department of Health , we decided it was best to pull
the product until the investigation is complete,” Gee wrote in
an e-mail. “The products could be returned at a later date.”  Customers can return the formula for a full refund or
exchange, Gee said. Neither Wal-Mart nor Mead Johnson provided
the number of cans pulled from shelves. Perille said the number
is in the thousands, and that about half of Wal-Mart’s stores
carry the formula. The retailer had 3,856 stores in the U.S. as
of Nov. 30, according to Wal-Mart’s website.  While it’s premature for parents to change what they feed
their infants, it’s important to remind them to prepare formula
properly, said Lorry Rubin, chief of pediatric infectious
diseases at Cohen Children’s Medical Center of  New York .  Cleaned, Sterilized  Glassware and bottles should be cleaned and sterilized and
the water should be boiled and cooled before it is added to
powered formula, he said. Any extra prepared formula should be
immediately refrigerated and used within 24 hours, he said.  Bacteria from the Cronobacter family are known to have
contaminated infant formula, he said in a telephone interview.
It’s similar to the bacteria humans carry in their gut, and
typically doesn’t cause significant concern, he said.  “The powder formula isn’t necessarily a sterile product,
but taking precautions, even if there is a small amount of
bacteria in there, it shouldn’t be enough to harm the baby,”
Rubin said. “If you re-warm it or make improperly, the bacteria
can multiply and you have a higher risk of getting ill.”  Enfa Brands  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in 2010  revenue (MJN) , and
were the world’s lead brand franchise in pediatric nutrition
based on retail sales, the company said in a February filing.
About 12 percent of Mead Johnson’s sales come from Wal-Mart,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 45 percent of babies in the U.S. are breastfed
exclusively for the first three months of their lives, according
to a 2011 report from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  Several cases of foodborne illness from infant formula are
reported each year to the CDC, Russell, the spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. The type of bacteria, Cronobacter, is part of a
family called Enterobacter sakazakii that has a fatality rate of
40 percent to 80 percent in infants, according to  Marler Clark ,
a Seattle-based  law firm  that focuses on foodborne illness
litigation.  Last year, Abbott Laboratories recalled Similac-brand
powder infant formulas distributed in the U.S.,  Puerto Rico ,
 Guam  and some Caribbean nations because of possible insect
contamination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  