-- More Retailers Pull Formula After Baby’s Death
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/mead-johnson-drops-as-wal-mart-pulls-formula-after-death.html
Regulators are testing whether baby
formula made by  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  caused the death of a
newborn after  Kroger Co. (KR) ,  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and other retailers
removed the product from stores.  Officials screening samples of the formula and water used
to prepare it said results may not come until next week. A
second child infected with the same bacteria in Missouri, who
survived, also was given formula, though officials today said
the baby ingested other types of products as well.  Both babies tested positive for  Cronobacter , an
environmental bacteria that can be fatal. The possible link to
formula is prompting concern from parents, who said they were
throwing the product away, and health officials outside of
Missouri, who were reviewing infant deaths. If bacteria are
conclusively found in unopened formula, a formal recall could
follow, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said.  “Every mom and dad who sees symptoms are going to think
they’ve got it,” said Dave Theno, chief executive officer of
Gray Dog Partners Inc., a food safety consultant in Del Mar,
 California , in an interview. “If an infant is using this
formula and your child is exhibiting any of the symptoms, get
them seen right away and make sure they test for this.”  Mead Johnson, based in Glenview, Illinois, fell 5.1 percent
to $65.29 at the close of  New York  trading, after plunging 10
percent yesterday when  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  pulled its Enfamil
Newborn formula from shelves. SuperValu Inc. and  Safeway Inc. (SWY) 
also withdrew the formula from stores.  ‘Shoot First, Ask Later’  “This is a shoot-first, ask questions later moment for the
stock,”  Robert Moskow , an analyst at Credit Suisse in New York,
wrote in a Dec. 22 note to investors. “The headline is scary
enough to cause consumers to change their purchase patterns in
the near-term, and no one knows how long that will last even if
it is unjustified.”  The surviving baby, who fell sick in  Missouri  during a trip
from its Illinois home, had been given a number of different
products, and 17 samples were taken for tests, the FDA said
today. Samples in the case of the newborn who died include an
open formula container and a mixture of formula and water.  In both cases, “we are trying to figure out whether it
came from the food,”  said  Siobhan DeLancey , an FDA
spokeswoman, by telephone. “We take these into local labs and
test them. We expect first results back next week.”  Annual Cases  U.S. health officials probe about four to six such cases a
year, DeLancey said.  Parents are concerned. Shreyash Maheshware, 30, a software
engineer in Feasterville,  Pennsylvania , is debating whether to
continue using Enfamil Infant for his 3-month-old girl, he said
in a telephone interview today.  “You can’t take any risk and you have to think twice,”
Maheshware said. “I think I’m going to throw out everything.”  At Internet sites such as Cafemom, which carried news of
the Missouri infant death, more than 60 parents have posted
comments about Enfamil or formula. “Very scary,” read one
post. “I just tossed the only can of formula I had out,” read
another. “This terrifies me,” said another.  Roger Smith, chief deputy coroner with the Madison County
coroner’s office in Edwardsville,  Illinois , said his office was
reviewing the case of a 25-day-old infant who died in that state
on Dec. 21 is looking into the formula as a cause.  ‘Getting in Front’  “It’s just being looked at because of the timing with her
death” said Smith in an interview. “Her formula is different,
but we wanted to get in front of it”  Neither Wal-Mart nor Mead Johnson provided the number of
cans removed from shelves. The number is in the thousands, and
about half of Wal-Mart’s stores carry the formula, said Chris Perille, a spokesman for Mead Johnson.  Customers can return the
withdrawn formula for a refund or exchange, said Dianna Gee, a
spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer.  The Enfa brands, which include Enfamil, accounted for 79
percent of Mead Johnson’s $3.14 billion in 2010 revenue and were
the world’s lead brand franchise in pediatric nutrition based on
retail sales, the company said in a February filing. About 12
percent of Mead Johnson’s sales come from Wal-Mart, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A widespread recall may strip as much as 15 percent from
Mead Johnson’s sales next year, wrote Amit Sharma, an analyst
with BMO Capital Markets Corp. in New York, in a Dec. 22 note to
investors. The U.S. accounts for about 30 percent of the
company’s total sales, he said. A recall probably would also
reverse Mead Johnson’s market share gains for the past two
years, he said.  Other Withdrawals  Kroger has pulled about 1,400 cans of the Mead Johnson
formula that went to about 220 stores, said Keith Dailey, a
spokesman for the Cincinnati-based retailer.  Walgreen withdrew the formula while “awaiting further
clarity from the manufacturer and FDA,” said Robert Elfinger, a
spokesman for the Deerfield, Illinois company, in an e-mail.  SuperValu (SVU) , owner of 2,500 retail stores under names
including Acme, Jewel-Osco and Shaw’s, pulled the formula
yesterday “out of an abundance of caution,” said Mike Siemienas, a spokesman.  Several hundred markets across the company are affected,
Siemienas said. The company will keep the Enfamil off shelves
until the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based grocer hears it is safe
from health officials or Mead Johnson, he said.  The Missouri Department of  Public Health  and Senior
Services on Dec. 19 issued a health  alert  on two babies infected
with the bacteria within the last month, according to the
agency’s website. The department didn’t say if the second infant
used the Mead Johnson product.  ‘Big, Fat Unknown’  That question is “a big, fat unknown,” the FDA’s DeLancey
said.  Mead Johnson hasn’t received any complaint or requests for
samples related to the child who survived the infection,
Perille, the company spokesman, said.  “As far as we know, there is no connection between Enfamil
Newborn and this second case,” Perille said. “Clearly if this
other case was connected to Enfamil Newborn, we would have
received case information and been contacted for samples.”  Cronobacter is part of a family of microorganisms called
Enterobacter sakazakii that has a fatality rate of 40 percent to
80 percent in infants, according to  Marler Clark , a Seattle-
based  law firm  that focuses on foodborne illness litigation.  Finding a common source may be daunting, in part because
memories of what was purchased can be faulty, said Bill Marler,
a food-safety lawyer in  Seattle . “They’re trying to ask people
who are going through a trauma what they bought,” he said.  Pediatric Advice  While it’s premature for parents to change what they feed
their infants, it’s important to remind them to prepare formula
properly, said Lorry Rubin, chief of pediatric infectious
diseases at Cohen Children’s Medical Center of New York.  Glassware and bottles should be cleaned and sterilized, and
the water should be boiled and cooled before it is added to
powered formula, Rubin said. Any extra prepared formula should
be immediately refrigerated and used within 24 hours, he said.  Bacteria from the Cronobacter family are known in the past
to have contaminated infant formula, he said in a telephone
interview. The strains are similar to the bacteria humans carry
in their gut and typically don’t cause significant concern,
Rubin said.  Last year,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  recalled Similac-brand
powder infant formulas distributed in the U.S.,  Puerto Rico ,
 Guam  and some Caribbean nations because of possible insect
contamination.  Abbott hasn’t been contacted by public health authorities
and there are no cases related to Similac or any of its infant
formula products that the company knows about, said Jennifer Smoter, a company spokeswoman.  Regulators  Typically the company would have been contacted by
investigators from the hospital, the FDA or Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention if there was any chance the illness was
tied to the formula given to the newborn, Smoter said.  Nestle SA, maker of Gerber infant formula, hasn’t been
contacted by regulators and has had no reports of any infants
falling sick after receiving Gerber Good Start, said David Mortazavi, a company spokesman, in a statement.  Jennifer Kokell, a spokeswoman for Pfizer Inc.’s infant
formula brands including SMA and Promil, had no immediate
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  