-- Leaders Failing to Rescue Euro Meet Over Missed Operatic Haircut
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2011-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/leaders-failing-to-rescue-euro-meet-over-missed-operatic-haircut.html
On the evening of Oct. 19, as
Claudio Abbado conducted the overture to Rossini’s “The Barber
of Seville” at Frankfurt’s Old Opera House, members of Europe’s
policy elite were in a backroom discussing haircuts.  Officials led by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , fighting their region’s debt crisis,
were debating whether to persuade investors to take bigger
losses, known as haircuts, on Greek bonds. The talks were so ad
hoc that the operatic setting was a retirement party for
 European Central Bank  President Jean-Claude Trichet.  The issue of putting bondholders on the hook plagued policy
makers and financial markets for more than a year as Greece slid
toward default. While private investors eventually agreed to a
50 percent write-off on the face value of their Greek bonds,
European Union leaders this month in Brussels scrapped a plan to
make haircuts mandatory in future restructurings. That threat
had spooked bondholders into avoiding the debt of other
distressed European countries.  The idea of requiring private-investor losses under the
terms of a permanent rescue fund set to come into being next
year “had a very negative effect on debt markets,” EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters just after 5 a.m. on
Dec. 9 following an all-night meeting at the Justus Lipsius
building, named for a 16th-century Flemish Stoic philosopher who
advocated centralized government.  Fifteen Summits  That reversal acknowledged just one of the mistakes
Europe’s leaders made in the past two years of a debt crisis
that now threatens the euro, the currency used by 17 nations.
Fifteen summits in two years have produced five plans that
failed to keep a Greek budget deficit from turning into the
biggest risk for the global financial system since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  As 2012 nears, the likelihood of government-debt downgrades
and defaults is rising, and the region may be entering its
second recession in three years, with unemployment in the euro
area at 10.3 percent, the highest since the currency began in
1999. There’s talk for the first time that some of the nations
using the euro may drop out as leaders try to correct mistakes
made by its founding fathers.  ‘Too Late’  “Europe acted too late and often too little,” said Liaquat Ahamed, author of the 2009 Pulitzer Prize-winning book, “Lords
of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World,” which argued that
central bankers’ loyalty to the gold standard helped trigger the
Great Depression. “The lords of finance this time are as much
politicians as central bankers.”  The chorus of critics includes Nobel-laureate economists
Paul Krugman and Joseph Stiglitz, policy makers such as U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and investors including
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Newport Beach,
California-based  Pacific Investment Management Co. (PTTRX) , which runs
the world’s largest bond fund.  Officials repeatedly underestimated the source and risks of
Greece’s fiscal defects, as well as how much money it would take
to prevent investors from punishing other cash-strapped
countries by dumping their bonds. As a condition for aid and to
win the support of financial markets, they demanded spending
cuts and tax increases, stunting economic growth. They put
national interest ahead of the common good and ideology over
pragmatism, while incurring self-inflicted wounds which cost
them the trust of bondholders.  Berlusconi, Papandreou  As leaders failed to deliver a fix, seven heads of
government lost their jobs, including Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi
and Greece’s  George Papandreou . Falling prices of European
sovereign debt led to the failure of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ,
the New York-based futures brokerage, and Franco-Belgian  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , once the world’s largest municipal lender.  The crisis helped wipe out more than 310 billion euros
($405 billion) of market value for the European financial
industry this year, about a third of the total, based on  data (BJA) 
compiled by Bloomberg. Greece, Portugal and Ireland are shut out
of debt markets, and borrowing costs are surging for Italy.
They’ve climbed even for Germany.  The cocktail of austerity and uncertainty comes with a
hangover. European consumer confidence dropped this month to its
lowest level in more than two years, and manufacturing and
services  output (ECPMICOU)  contracted for a fourth month. Citigroup Inc.
predicts a recession in which the economy shrinks 1.2 percent
next year and 0.2 percent in 2013, while the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  last month warned that the
region poses “serious downside risks” to global growth.  “Every key actor contributed to the problems we are now
seeing,” says Thomas Mayer, chief economist at Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , who warned in early 2010 against using “ad
hoc interventions” to manage Greece’s insolvency.  ‘Futile Precaution’  All of the principal figures were in Frankfurt on Oct. 19
as Bologna’s Orchestra Mozart played the overture to Gioachino
Rossini’s opera, subtitled “The Futile Precaution,” whose plot
features bribes, tricks and characters not who they claim to be.
The work, hooted off the stage when first performed in Rome, was
based on a play written in 1775 on the eve of the American
Revolution, a period of economic and social unrest.  Sarkozy left his wife, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, in labor in
Paris to be at Merkel’s side. Trichet’s nominated successor,
Mario Draghi, was there, as was Christine Lagarde, the
International Monetary Fund managing director, who until June
served as France’s finance minister. European Commission
President Jose Barroso and Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of a panel of finance chiefs, also
participated in the talks.  Merkel, Sarkozy  This group, which would give itself the name Groupe de
Francfort, “made the biggest policy mistakes” over the past
two years, said Lutz Roehmeyer, a fund manager who helps oversee
more than $15 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investment in
Germany’s capital. “The fate of the euro lies in their hands.”  Merkel, 57, a physicist born in the former East Germany, has
emerged as the group’s most powerful member. It was she who
initially insisted on forcing bond investors to take write-offs.
She has disdained short-term financial bailouts. Instead, she
has made it her top priority to remake Europe as what she calls
a “stability union” by demanding structural changes and budget
rules that would transform weak economies into prudent,
productive versions of her country.  While eager to be aligned with Germany, the 56-year-old
Sarkozy was less rigid, characterizing Europe as a “family”
that must stick by its weakest member and “avert the drama of a
Greek default.” The position wasn’t entirely altruistic: French
 banks (FRFBFR3P)  have more to lose than Germany’s if Greece goes bankrupt,
and France’s top credit rating is in greater jeopardy.  Trichet’s Tears  Trichet, who turned 69 this week, was entering the final
days of an eight-year term running the ECB, the capstone of
three decades spent building and then managing the euro. He had
often urged governments to intensify their crisis-fighting,
coming close to tears on a number of occasions as he watched
them bicker, according to one ECB official who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.  Memories of how markets reacted following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers and his role in restructuring emerging-market
debts during the 1980s left him wary of the prospect of Greece
defaulting or investors being required to accept losses. He
wasn’t immune to criticism, as when overseeing  interest-rate (EURR002W) 
increases in 2008 and again this year when expansion sputtered.  Deauville Deal  European policy makers say privately that the biggest error
was the one reversed two weeks ago: forcing investors to incur
losses if a government can’t repay its debt. So-called private-
sector involvement was foreseen in the first version of a treaty
signed July 11 establishing the European Stability Mechanism, a
500 billion-euro fund to be rolled out next July.  Ten days later, leaders negotiated a 21 percent write-off
in net present value of Greek debt -- declaring that treatment
“exceptional and unique” -- only to revise the terms to 50
percent of face value in October.  The idea of requiring investors to pay took hold in October
2010 when Merkel persuaded Sarkozy to support it at a meeting in
the French resort of Deauville. Merkel wanted to cool the
outrage of German voters turning against her party after the
country provided the biggest share of loans for Greece and
guarantees for a regional bailout fund. Her approach to
profligate nations reflected Germany’s aversion to debt and
inflation, dating to the 1920s, when government deficits and
hyperinflation helped pave the way for the rise of Adolf Hitler.  ‘What Happens?’  As Trichet warned, her plan frightened investors into
avoiding the bonds of other countries for fear the securities
were no longer safe. The 10-year bond yields of Portugal and
Ireland soon surged to unsustainable levels, above 7 percent,
and both would also require bailouts.  While it was “almost impossible from a political
perspective not to demand the involvement of investors,” the
decision to do so “led to great uncertainty” in markets, said
 Josef Ackermann , CEO of Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest bank.  Ackermann, 63, became the de facto spokesman for the
banking industry as chairman of the Washington-based Institute
of International Finance, which has represented bondholders in
talks on the restructuring of Greek debt. Details of the deal
are still being negotiated.  “If you talk to investors around the world, they ask,
‘What happens in the next country?’” he said Dec. 15 in Berlin.  Budget Hole  While scaring investors may have been a costly mistake, the
first error may have come in the weeks after Greece’s budget
woes came to light in October 2009, former French President
Valery Giscard d’Estaing said in an interview.  Soon after he became Greece’s prime minister that month,
Papandreou found a 20 billion-euro hole in the budget. The
discovery that Greece’s true deficit was four times the EU limit
was “beyond anyone’s imagination,” George Papaconstantinou,
then Greece’s new finance minister, said this month in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua.  Each day, he said, he would ask ministry accountants, “Is
this all?” and be told “yes,” and the next day someone would
say “there is also this.”  Merkel told investors not to “overrate” the matter
because deficits were rife globally. She and counterparts erred
in assuming Greece would eventually repay its debt, said Giscard
D’Estaing, who was president of France from 1974 to 1981.  Avoiding Default  One reason for trying to avoid a default was Trichet’s fear
of what he called a “credit event,” akin to what followed the
fall of Lehman Brothers. The risk would be that issuers of
credit-default swaps on Greek debt, insurance contracts against
a failure to redeem bonds, would have to pay off swap holders.
Investors would then increase bets against other fiscally weak
governments, such as Italy, destroying their ability to fund
themselves. Banks worldwide might then be forced to retrench and
cut risk, starving markets of liquidity.  Even without the triggering event Trichet wanted to avoid,
contagion flared as investors turned against other issuers of
sovereign debt that might follow Greece toward default. Policy
makers didn’t help as they clashed at every step over how much
to spend and on what, whether the IMF should play a role and
whether the ECB should be more aggressive in helping.  It took seven months after Greece acknowledged its budget
weakness for leaders to deliver an initial rescue package of
loans totaling 110 billion euros. Merkel, Sarkozy and other EU
leaders could never agree on a big enough bailout fund to halt
the crisis, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in London.  “The policy response should have been scaled to the size
of the euro area and focused on countries like Italy,” Cailloux
said. “This is a systemic crisis.”  ‘Catastrophic Risk’  U.S. officials shared that beef. In September, Geithner
warned of “cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk”
if Europe failed to build a big enough firewall. He has jetted
to the continent five times since August to press his case.  The amount spent on aid rose from the original 110 billion
euros for Greece to 256 billion euros as Portugal and Ireland
joined in seeking bailouts over the next 12 months. A regional
 rescue fund  created to channel aid and mark a show of strength
to investors started with the spending power of about 250
billion euros and the ability to make loans to distressed
states. Now it can spend 440 billion euros and carry out bond-
buying and bank recapitalizations.  At one point, leaders were trying to increase bailout funds
to 1 trillion euros through borrowing, though now they’re eying
a smaller amount. Even 1 trillion euros would be less than half
as much as needed to insulate larger economies such as  Spain (GSPG2YR)  and
Italy, Cailloux said. Italy alone owes about 1.9 trillion euros.  Greek Pain  Politics tied the hands of leaders, who worried they would
lose voter support by tapping their coffers too much or putting
their countries’ credit ratings at risk. The bailout fund, known
as the European Financial Stability Facility, often needed the
backing of legislatures, which led to sparring and delay.  “They’ve all played to their voters,” said Jim O’Neill,
chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s money-management unit in
London.  Countries in need of aid had to sign up for pain.  Greece (GGGB2YR) 
was forced to agree to cut its debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from 162 percent this year. Doing so
requires tax increases, spending cuts, privatizations and the
agreement to write off 50 percent of the nominal value of debt
in the hands of private investors.  ‘Suicide Pact’  The result has been unemployment of 17.5 percent and the
prospect of a fifth year of recession. IMF estimates show the
country’s economy will be 12 percent smaller in 2013 than before
the crisis.  Greece’s debt outlook has worsened with the shrinking. In
November 2010, the European Commission estimated borrowings
would total 156 percent of GDP in 2012. Last month it revised
that to 198 percent if the debt swap doesn’t take place.  Stiglitz, a professor of economics at  Columbia University 
in New York, called Europe’s austerity cure a “suicide pact.”
The debt was largely a result of the banking and financial
turmoil that started in 2007, he said in an interview. He said
implementing deflationary policies now will make it even less
likely that debts will be paid off and suggested that European
governments establish a “solidarity fund” to spur growth.  The counterargument is that fighting debt with debt is a
recipe for disaster.  “Debt is like a drug,” said Michael Meister, a vice
chairman of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union-led caucus in
parliament, in November. “First you have some fun with it, but
at some point you’re so hooked that you need a withdrawal
treatment to get off it.”  Ultimatum in Cannes  In Greece, the tightening fiscal straitjacket led to a
cascade of protests including general strikes and violent
confrontations with police. As political attacks escalated in
parliament, Papandreou surprised Merkel and Sarkozy Oct. 31 by
proposing to put the bailout terms before his voters.  Outraged, the German and French leaders summoned him to the
French seaside city of Cannes for a dressing-down. They said
they would suspend aid and declared that such a ballot would be
a poll on Greece’s membership in the euro.  In response, Papandreou shelved the referendum and
resigned. Joachim Fels, chief economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in
London, wrote in a Nov. 6 note to clients that the strategy of
Merkel and Sarkozy may have opened a “Pandora’s Box” for
investors because it raised the possibility the euro area may
splinter, something previously considered “taboo in European
political circles.”  ‘Worst Players’  Trichet wasn’t averse to joining the political leaders in
tightening policy. In April and July, the  ECB  raised  interest
rates  for the first time since 2008, citing the need to meet its
mandate of delivering price stability. Critics said Trichet was
ignoring the economic threat of the crisis. As recession
indicators flashed red, his successor, Draghi, began reversing
the increases in his first week as president in November.  “The worst players, as far as I’m concerned, in terms of
giving bad advice and brushing aside problems, are not the
people demonstrating in the streets of Athens, it’s the people
at the European Central Bank,” said Krugman, a Princeton
University economics professor, in an October interview.  Paul De Grauwe, a professor at the Catholic University of
Leuven in Belgium, faults the ECB for not buying more bonds
under a program it began last year with purchases of Greek,
Portuguese and Irish debt and extended to securities of Italy
and Spain in August 2011. Stepping up purchases would help
reduce bond yields and allow governments to keep borrowing as
they rally their economies, he said.  ‘Economic Liability’  ECB officials including Draghi, and with the backing of
Merkel, say it isn’t their job to rescue governments. Buying
more bonds would burden the ECB’s balance sheet and lessen
pressure on fiscal policy makers to retrench. They also say it
would undermine their price-stability mandate. Even the limited
buying has antagonized some policy makers, with Germans Juergen Stark and Axel Weber resigning in protest.  “The ECB has been inconsistent in saying it hates buying
bonds, therefore giving a signal that you shouldn’t trust
them,” De Grauwe said.  The central bank has instead focused on helping banks to
lend, yesterday awarding them 489 billion euros for three years,
the most ever in a single operation.  To Martin Feldstein, a professor of economics at  Harvard
University , the euro was an accident waiting to happen because
it united disparate economies under the same exchange and
interest rates, without political ties. He warned in 1998 that
it would prove an “economic liability.”  Governments added to the strains. No country has ever been
fined for violating the bloc’s fiscal rules, and in 2005 Germany
and France led a push to dilute them.  Ratings Cuts  Now Standard & Poor’s warns that Germany, France and 13
other euro nations risk having their credit ratings cut.
Investors put a 95 percent chance on Greece defaulting within
five years, while the cost of insuring Italian government debt
more than doubled since the start of the year to a record 595
basis points Nov. 15. A basis point is a hundredth of a percent.  The euro this month fell to its lowest level against the
dollar since January. More stress may be on the way as
governments have to repay at least 1.1 trillion euros of debt
next year.  Pimco’s El-Erian sees a more than 1-in-3 chance the euro
zone will break apart and trigger financial turmoil similar to
that which rocked the world economy in 2008.  “It’s now a crisis for the euro zone as a whole,” he said
this week in an interview with Bloomberg. “The contamination
has been allowed to travel from the outer core all the way in
and threaten the inner core.”  ‘Repeating Mistakes’  As he was declaring private-sector involvement dead on Dec.
9, Van Rompuy outlined a leaders’ agreement for a German-
inspired “fiscal compact” to impose more budget discipline.  Elevating to constitutional level many of the budget rules
negotiated in the 1990s and stiffened this month, governments
will vow to almost eliminate structural deficits and devise
automatic mechanisms to ensure cuts are made. Officials say they
won’t come up with final language for the agreement before
March. A “‘comprehensive solution’ to the current crisis is not
on offer,” Fitch Ratings said.  “The ECB is the key player now,” said Harvard University
historian  Niall Ferguson , in an interview last week with
Bloomberg Television. Draghi and the ECB’s ability to print
money are all that stand “between the euro and a 1931-, 1932-
style depression.”  Ahamed, the “Lords of Finance” author, sees parallels
between the 1920s and what is happening now. Then, maintaining
the gold standard limited policy makers’ ability to maneuver
just as the single currency does today, he said. As the
Depression gathered force in the 1930s, leaders focused on
“drawing blood from the patient” through tighter monetary and
budget policies, he said.  “Why are we repeating mistakes?” he asked.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 