-- Leading U.S. Indicators Rise More Than Forecast in Sign of Further Growth
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-22T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/leading-u-s-indicators-rise-more-than-forecast-in-sign-of-further-growth.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
climbed more than forecast in November, a sign that the world’s
largest economy will keep growing in early 2012.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 0.5 percent after a 0.9 percent October
increase, the New York-based research group said today. The
median forecast of 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected the gauge would advance 0.3 percent.  Gains in manufacturing and consumer spending, alongside
improvements in the housing market, indicate the economy will
probably weather a possible recession in  Europe . At the same
time, political gridlock in  Washington  that threatens to cause a
 tax cut  to expire raises the risk that household purchases and
overall growth will cool early next year.  “The economy’s underlying momentum appears to be improving
steadily as we head into next year,”  Richard DeKaser , deputy
chief economist at the Parthenon Group Inc. in Boston, said
before the report. “The two areas which seem to be trending
most favorably are the labor market and the housing market.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from no change to
an increase of 0.6 percent.  The gain in the index “is pointing to continued growth,”
 Ken Goldstein , an economist at the Conference Board, said today
in a statement, “possibly even gaining momentum” in early
2012. “However, this somewhat positive outlook for the domestic
economy is at odds with a global economy that appears to be
losing steam.”  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate in
the third quarter after growing at a 1.3 percent pace in the
prior three months, according to revised Commerce Department
figures released today.  The number of  applications  for  unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest since April 2008, a
sign that the labor market is strengthening heading into 2012.
Jobless claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the week ended Dec.
17. The median forecast of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected an increase to 380,000.  Consumer confidence  rose last week to the highest level in
five months as an improving job market and falling gasoline
prices buoyed holiday shoppers.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index  climbed to minus 45 in
the period ended Dec. 18 from a reading of minus 49.9 the prior
week, marking the biggest seven-day gain since January. The
monthly expectations gauge climbed to minus 17 for December, a
seven-month high.  Index Breakdown  Seven of the 10 components of the leading index contributed
to the increase in November, led by the spread between short-
and long-term  interest rates  and an increase in building
permits.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.1 percent from
the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the National Bureau of
Economic Research to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators climbed 0.1 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
employment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and consumer credit.  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and  money
supply  adjusted for inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  