-- Edison’s Italian Shareholders Said Likely to Extend EDF Pact
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2011-12-22T17:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/edison-s-italian-shareholders-said-likely-to-extend-edf-pact.html
Edison SpA (EDN) ’s Italian investors may
seek to extend their shareholder pact after failing to agree
with Electricite de France SA on how the utility should be split
up, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Italian investors, led by utility  A2A SpA (A2A) , and
Europe’s biggest power producer are at odds over the terms of an
agreement that would cede  Italy ’s second-biggest power company
to EDF, they said, declining to be identified because the talks
are private.  EDF, based in Paris, wants to keep to a preliminary October
deal and press on with a capital increase to bolster Edison’s
finances, the people said. The Italians are against this plan
because it would dilute their stake and have proposed a new deal
in which EDF would take over their 30 percent stake in return
for Edison unit Edipower, they said.  An Edison press officer declined to comment, as did a
spokeswoman for EDF.  EDF has been trying to take full control of Edison for more
than a year to gain access to gas resources and markets in
southeastern  Europe  and the Mediterranean basin. The French
power producer owns 20 percent of Edison directly and another 30
percent through a company jointly owned with the Italians. The
two sides met yesterday to discuss Edison’s funding needs and
agreed to get together again on Dec. 29.  Put Option   The October agreement ceded Edison ownership to EDF in
exchange for a put option on the Italians’ shares and the
breakup and division of power plants owned by Edison unit
Edipower. Talks broke down when the parties failed to agree on
how to split up Edipower’s debt and when the French pressed for
an Edison capital increase.  Italian Industry Minister  Corrado Passera  and EDF Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  met today in  Rome  to discuss
possible options for the company, Ansa newswire reported.  EDF is concerned that the delays are hurting Edison by not
giving it a clear strategy to face the economic slowdown, debt
repayments and renegotiation of gas supply contracts, the two
people said. Edison also faces potential downgrades by rating
agencies.  Standard & Poor’s cut Edison’s credit ratings to BBB-/A-3
from BBB/A-2 with “negative” outlook earlier this month,
citing weakened profitability and the inability of shareholders
to reach an accord over ownership. Moody’s Investors Service
also placed Edison’s Baa3 ratings on review for a possible
downgrade.  Edison has a market value of 4.2 billion euros ($5.5
billion). In October, the company reported a nine-month loss
because of costly gas contracts, writedowns and higher taxes.
Edison is also renegotiating gas contracts linked to crude  oil
prices  that have obliged the power producer to pay more for the
fuel than it can sell it for.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  