-- Egypt Hasn’t Received $35 Billion Pledged by U.S, Arabs, El-Ganzouri Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2011-12-22T14:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/egypt-hasn-t-received-35-billion-pledged-by-u-s-arabs-el-ganzouri-says.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Kamal el- Ganzouri said the country hasn’t received funds pledged by the
U.S., other developed nations and Arab states as capital fled
after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak .  “Nothing has arrived” from the $35 billion pledged for
 Egypt  and  Tunisia  by the Group of Eight major economies, the
premier said at a televised press conference in Cairo today.  Egypt’s “Arab brothers” delivered $1 billion of $10.5
billion promised in soft loans and aid, while the U.S. had
promised $2.25 billion in re-financing, grants and loans for
small industries, he said. About $9 billion has left Egypt in
recent months, he said.  El-Ganzouri was appointed by Egypt’s military rulers this
month as the country faces renewed violence between security
forces and demonstrators demanding that the generals step down.
A worsening economic outlook has brought record bond yields,
credit rating cuts and the threat of  currency devaluation .  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called El-Ganzouri
yesterday to express concern about “horrible images” of the
beatings of people demonstrating against military rule. Violence
erupted on Dec. 16 as soldiers and police tried to disperse
protesters in central Cairo. The  United Nations  also criticized
the behavior of security forces.  Seventeen Killed  Videos and  photographs  posted online and broadcast on
private television stations showed troops dragging
demonstrators, hitting them with batons and stomping on them.
Seventeen people have been killed in clashes since Dec. 16, most
of them from gunshot wounds, according to the Health Ministry.  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds maturing in 2020
rose to record highs above 8 percent this week. Moody’s
Investors Service cut Egypt’s rating by one level to B2
yesterday, citing political instability, a deterioration in the
balance of payments, “increasing pressure” on government
finances and the absence of “a meaningful level of exceptional,
external financial support.”  El-Ganzouri cited “differences” between Egypt and the
countries that promised to help it. After the uprising
“everyone rushed to help Egypt, but when we differed in the
past months, they turned their back on us until we agree.” He
didn’t elaborate.  The government raised its forecast for the  budget deficit 
in the current fiscal year to 10 percent this week from 8.6
percent. The central bank used up almost half of its  foreign
currency reserves  in the first 11 months of this year.  Capital Outflows  Egypt’s net  outflows  reached $8.9 billion in January
through September, compared with inflows of $12.2, the central
bank said in a report published on its website. The capital
flight was largely caused by the sale of $7.5 billion of
securities, especially treasury bills, by foreigners, it said.  El-Ganzouri was sworn in on Dec. 7, in the middle of a six-
week, multiphase parliamentary election, the first since
Mubarak’s fall, that’s due to conclude next month. The Muslim
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party heads the count so far,
with a third of the country’s provinces still to vote.  The premier said protesters and “outlaws” were more
responsible for the recent violence than security forces. The
military council said yesterday on its Facebook page that
continued protests are part of a plot to “topple the state”
and bring condemnation of the army when it intervenes.  Foreign Plots  “I was hoping that I come today to tell you two weeks have
passed and the accomplishments are this and that,” El-Ganzouri
said today. “Instead I have come to say this is the case, and
this is what’s being plotted against Egypt.”  The state-run Al Ahram newspaper, citing an unidentified
“high-profile official,” said today that the alleged foreign
plot will use “internal elements” to call for a peaceful
protest on Jan. 25 that would escalate to a “civil war”
between civilians and the armed forces, after which foreign
armies would have an excuse to intervene to separate the two
sides and impose international guardianship over Egypt.  Egypt’s acting ruler, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein
Tantawi, issued an order for the lower house of parliament to
convene on Jan. 23, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
reported yesterday. Activists have started calling online for a
million-person march on the revolt’s first anniversary on Jan.
25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  