-- Teijin to Boost Car Parts Sales With New Carbon Fiber Method
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2011-12-22T04:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/teijin-aims-to-boost-auto-parts-sales-on-carbon-fiber-technology.html
Teijin Ltd. (3401) , the world’s second-
largest carbon-fiber maker, expects sales of auto parts
developed with a new technology to reach as much as 200 billion
yen ($2.6 billion) by the end of this decade as manufacturers
seek lighter components to build fuel-efficient vehicles.  “We hope it will be used widely and become the third
material after steel and aluminum,” Yasunari Hotani, executive
general manager in charge of carbon fiber at Toho Tenax Co.,
Teijin’s wholly-owned unit, said in an interview in  Tokyo 
yesterday. The new technology hasn’t yet started contributing to
sales, he said.  Teijin aims to supply carbon fiber-reinforced thermoplastic
parts to one million cars a year by about 2020, Hotani said.
Earlier this month, the Osaka-based company signed a pact with
 General Motors Co. (GM)  to develop components using its technology
that reduces molding time to enable mass production.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,  Daimler AG  and other
automakers are also betting that carbon fiber will help them
boost  fuel efficiency  and meet tighter environmental rules.
Carmakers in the past avoided the material because the parts
required drying times that weren’t compatible with the pace of
assembly lines.  Teijin, whose customers include  European Aeronautic Defence
& Space Co. (EAD) , the parent company of Airbus SAS, fell 2.1 percent
to 234 yen as of 1:15 p.m. in Tokyo trading. The stock has lost
32 percent this year, compared with benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average’s 18 percent drop.  Hockey Sticks, Cellos  Carbon fiber, also used in hockey sticks, cellos and
fishing rods, is 10 times stronger than steel, according to  Toho
Tenax . The company’s new technology will cut cycle times for
molding parts to under a minute, compared with the average of 10
minutes needed with conventional methods.  Teijin is also setting up a factory in Ehime Prefecture
that uses the new mass production technology. The plant may
begin operations by mid-2012, the company said in November. Its
bigger rival  Toray Industries Inc. (3402)  counts Boeing Co. and EADS
among its carbon-fiber customers.  “High performance fibers”, including carbon fiber,
generated 103.4 billion yen in sales for Teijin in the year
ended March 31, about 13 percent of the company’s total revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  