-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain for Third Day After U.S. Jobless Claims Drop
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2011-12-22T22:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/emerging-stocks-end-two-day-rally-on-europe-concern-inotera-infosys-fall.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
third day as U.S. jobless claims fell to the lowest in more than
three years, signaling strength in the world’s largest economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent to
919.55 at the close in New York. Brazil’s Bovespa increased 1.2
percent to a one-week high. Hungary’s BUX Index fell the most in
a week after the country lost its investment-grade rating at
Standard & Poor’s in the second such cut in a month. South
Africa’s  All Share Index  rose 0.8 percent.  Better-than estimated U.S. jobless claims and consumer
confidence data boosted optimism for the world’s largest
economy. Applications for  unemployment benefits  dropped to
364,000 last week, the lowest since April 2008. Confidence rose
to a six-month high, according to the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan sentiment index.  “We’ve seen encouraging economic news out of the U.S.,”
said Robert Talbut, who helps oversee about $70 billion as chief
investment officer at Royal London Asset Management Ltd. “I
still believe that the necessary shifts will occur in  Europe  and
that, in combination with more supportive moves elsewhere, 2012
can turn out to be a decent year for credit and equities.”  The MSCI emerging-market index has fallen 20 percent this
year, exceeding an 8.3 percent drop in the MSCI World Index of
developed nations, as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis stoked
concerns about a global economic slowdown. The emerging-market
gauge is valued at 9.3 times estimated profit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary Downgrade  The Bovespa rallied as Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to a
record-low 5.2 percent.  Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market
value, added 1.3 percent after saying it plans to buy back as
many as 15 million shares in the next six months.  Mexican stocks (MEXBOL)  followed U.S. equities higher, gaining 1.2
percent.  Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker in the Americas,
led gains with a 7 percent jump.  Hungary, the most-indebted eastern member of the European
Union, was cut one step to BB+ from BBB-, S&P said in a
statement yesterday, citing a lack of predictability on
Hungary’s economic policies. The  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union suspended talks on an aid package to Hungary
last week on concern that the government’s plans for a central
bank law may curb monetary-policy independence.  “The S&P sovereign rating downgrade to junk probably means
that an IMF program is now off the table,”  Benoit Anne , the
London-based head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe
Generale SA, said today by e-mail. “Given the severe diplomatic
crisis between the Hungarian authorities and the IMF, we believe
that the chance of an IMF program is quite limited at this
stage, something which is not yet reflected in the pricing in
HUF assets.”  The  Bux Index (BUX)  lost 0.8 percent, the most since Dec. 14.  Old Mutual  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , South Africa’s largest insurer, added 1.7
percent. The company may pay a special dividend of at least 15
pence per share and its stock could rise next year following the
sale of Nordic units, according to Risto Ketola, an analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s SBG Securities.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  declined 0.1 percent
on concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen after lenders in the
region sought more funds than estimated from the  European
Central Bank .  “Market volatility will continue while Europe sorts out
its debt crisis,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “As long
as Europe’s debt crisis isn’t resolved there’s the possibility
of a contagion.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 412, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  