-- Emirates Aluminium Said to Seek About $3 Billion for Smelter Expansion
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2011-12-22T12:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/emirates-aluminium-said-to-seek-about-3-billion-for-smelter-expansion.html
Emirates Aluminium Co., building the
world’s biggest aluminum smelter, may seek $3 billion for the
 Abu Dhabi  project, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Funding will be split between  export credit agencies  and
commercial banks, the people said, declining to be identified
because the deals are yet to be completed. Emirates Aluminium is
owned by Mubadala Development Co. and Dubai Aluminium Co.  “We are working with shareholders to finalize the funding
structure,” Emirates Aluminium Chief Executive Officer Saeed al-Mazrooei told reporters today in Abu Dhabi. “There are still
many options to decide from,” he said, declining to elaborate.  Persian Gulf countries are investing in petrochemicals and
metals output to diversify their economies away from crude oil
and benefit from cheap power and gas prices. Energy accounts for
30 to 40 percent of aluminum smelting costs, according to Brook
Hunt, a London-based unit of Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  Emirates Aluminium, known as Emal, will spend $4.5 billion
to expand the smelter’s annual output to 1.3 million metric tons
by 2014 from 750,000 tons now, al-Mazrooei said. Shareholders
will provide the remaining third of the funds, the people said.  The company has completed 5 percent of its expansion, al-
Mazrooei said. Demand for Emal’s aluminum is about 950,000 tons,
more than its current production, he said.  The  United Arab Emirates , the fourth-largest member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is supporting new
industry by developing natural-gas fields and nuclear power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Abu Dhabi at 
 Adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  