-- Tepco to Raise Electricity Charges for Corporate Customers
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2011-12-22T05:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/tepco-to-raise-electricity-charges-for-corporate-customers-1-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  plans to
raise electricity rates for companies from April to help offset
the rising costs of fuel to run thermal  power plants  after the
Fukushima disaster shut down most of its nuclear reactors.  The utility known as Tepco will announce the size of the
increase in January, it said in a statement. It will also seek
approval from the government to raise tariffs for households
“as soon as possible,” according to the statement.  Tepco estimates its fuel costs will rise by 830 billion yen
($10.6 billion) to 2.31 trillion yen in the year ending March
2012. Only two of the company’s 17 nuclear reactors are now
running after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami wrecked its
Dai-Ichi plant. Other reactors closed for maintenance haven’t
been approved for restart because of safety concerns. Tepco
supplies 29 million companies and households in the  Tokyo  areas.  “It is a matter of great urgency for us to end this
constant deficit financing caused by rising fuel costs,” Tepco
President Toshio Nishizawa told reporters in Tokyo today. “We
need to properly work on this matter because we could be sued by
shareholders if we don’t do anything when it is foreseeable the
company cannot maintain its operations.”  About 240,000 contracts for corporate customers will be
affected by the new rates, according to Tepco. Nishizawa
declined to comment further on the new rates for office
buildings and factories, saying the plan isn’t completed.  Tepco plans to raise corporate rates by about 20 percent,
the Nikkei newspaper  reported  today, without saying how it got
the information. The increase in corporate rates may bring about
500 billion yen in additional revenue to the utility, the
newspaper said.  Tepco shares rose as much as 8.1 percent to 228 yen,
heading for the biggest jump since Nov. 1, as of 1:40 p.m. today
in the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Tepco is down 90 percent since the
day before the March 11 quake and tsunami crippled its Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear station, causing 160,000 people to evacuate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  