-- Europe’s Overreach on Plane Emissions Won’t Clean the Sky: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-22T00:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/europe-s-overreach-on-airplane-carbon-emissions-won-t-clean-the-sky-view.html
The  European Court of Justice  made a
bad situation a little worse yesterday when it upheld a law
allowing the European Union to charge international airlines for
their carbon emissions.  The regulations require all commercial aircraft taking off
or landing in 30 European nations to participate in the EU’s
emission-trading system, known as ETS.  China ,  India ,  Russia , the
U.S. and at least 22 other countries have protested, correctly
in our view, that the ETS represents an inappropriate
extraterritorial application of national law.  Indeed, starting Jan. 1, airlines will have to account for
-- and later, if they exceed certain allowances, pay a penalty
on -- emissions produced during the entire length of a journey
to and from a destination in  Europe , not just those within
European airspace.  The  Air Transport Association , the trade group for the
largest U.S. airlines and freight carriers that initially
brought the court challenge, says that, for example, only 8.7
percent of the emissions produced by a flight between  San
Francisco  and  London  will occur in EU airspace, yet the airline
will be accountable to the ETS for the full distance. The
industry estimates it will cost U.S. companies $3.1 billion to
comply with the rule through 2020. (Analysts at our sister
operation  Bloomberg Government  put the cost between $2.1 billion
and $4.2 billion depending on the cost of carbon allowances.)  Beyond the cost, which would undoubtedly be passed on to
the consumer, the European plan could set back the realization
of the very goal it sets out to achieve: a meaningful reduction
in harmful emissions.  As Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood correctly pointed out in a letter to the
European Commission last week, an effective response to the very
real problem of emissions by airlines needs to be made through a
global framework. The U.S. is right to insist that the
appropriate forum for resolving this issue is the  United
Nations ’ International Civil Aviation Organization, which has
been remarkably efficient in administering international
aviation since 1944.  A meaningful and global mechanism for regulating carbon
emissions by aircraft is all the more urgent as the industry
expects 3.3 billion people to travel by air in 2014, an increase
of 800 million from 2009. Indeed, the UN body said Nov. 30 that
it hopes to present an initial proposal as soon as next month.  Yet the European law will throw a wrench into any such
discussions. It is also exacerbating tensions over trade at a
time when the faltering global economy can least afford it. The
ETS has already been met with vague bills in Congress that would
forbid American airlines from complying and with unspecific
threats of retaliatory measures by the Obama administration.  Fortunately, there still is time to put things on track.
For the moment, the EU rule requires airlines to compile data
about emissions and, if needed, acquire allowances, though no
fees will be levied before April 30, 2013.  That 14-month delay should be put to use by the
 International Civil Aviation Organization  to come up with an
effective and equitable system for regulating airplane emissions
that all nations can embrace.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 