-- Former Lehman Team Seeking $2B for New Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2011-12-22T20:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ex-lehman-brothers-team-seeks-2-billion-for-trilantic-private-equity-fund.html
Trilantic  Capital Partners , a
private-equity firm created from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
former merchant-banking unit, is seeking $2 billion for its
first fund following its spinoff.  Trilantic Capital Partners V ( North America ) LP will
primarily target deals in consumer, energy and financial
services, according to marketing materials dated October 2011
and obtained by Bloomberg News. The fund will make investments
of $50 million to $200 million in North American companies with
enterprise values as much as $1 billion, according to the
materials.  The firm is raising money more than two years after
executives of Lehman Brothers’ merchant-banking unit, along with
Luxembourg-based Reinet Investments SCA, bought the business
from the bankrupt parent company for $20 million and renamed it
Trilantic. As part of a deal with investors to spin out the
unit,  Lehman Brothers  slashed its vintage 2007 fund to $2.6
billion from $3.3 billion.  Mark Kollar, an outside spokesman for New York-based
Trilantic, declined to comment on fundraising. Evercore Partners
Inc. is acting as placement agent for the fund.  Trilantic’s $2.6 billion fund from 2007 includes a $1.9
billion global pool and 600 million euro ($783.2 million)
component focused on  Europe . The firm plans to market its next
Europe fund in 2012, according to the materials.  The global fund returned 1.6 times the amount of capital
invested as of June 30, according to the marketing materials.  Global Investments  Strong performers include Denver-based Enduring Resources
LLC, which was producing a 2.1 times multiple of invested
capital as of June 30, and MicroStar Logistics Inc., which was
producing a similar return as of the same date.  Trilantic, which manages about $4 billion of committed
capital across three funds, has made 12 new investments globally
since its inception in April 2009, according to the October
document.  The latest fund will be managed by former Lehman executives
Charlie Ayres, Danny James, Chris Manning, Jon Mattson and
Charles Moore, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  