-- Ex-Secret Service Official Wins Dismissal of Conspiracy Charge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-22T23:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ex-secret-service-official-wins-dismissal-of-conspiracy-charge.html
Conspiracy charges were dismissed
against a former Secret Service official and five other
security-company executives in the first prosecution of alleged
foreign bribery based on a government sting operation run inside
the U.S.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon today threw out the
conspiracy charge at the defendants’ request after the
government finished presenting its case to a federal jury in
 Washington . Five of the executives still face additional foreign
bribery charges.  Prosecutors allege that R. Patrick Caldwell, former chief
executive officer of  Protective Products of America Inc. (PPAFQ)  and an
ex-deputy assistant director at the Secret Service, joined an
illegal business deal by agreeing to make payments to an FBI
agent posing as a representative of the west African country of
Gabon.  Leon’s ruling, which he made from the bench after 12 weeks
of trial, resulted in the acquittal of Stephen Giordanella,
Caldwell’s predecessor at Protective Products.  “Judge Leon followed the law and made a correct and just
decision,” said Paul Calli, lawyer for Giordanella. “Mr.
Giordanella should have never been charged. He was innocent.”  Alisa Finelli, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Kickback Conspiracy  The trial that opened Sept. 28 is the second in a 22-
defendant kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15
million weapons deal. It’s the biggest prosecution of
individuals accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, or FCPA. A trial of four others arrested in the sting ended
in a mistrial in July after a jury failed to agree on a verdict.  The other defendants are John Mushriqui, Jeana Mushriqui,
John Godsey and Marc Morales. Each was charged with one count of
conspiracy and two to five counts of bribery. The bribery
charges carry maximum five-year prison sentences.  All six have pleaded not guilty.  Three of the 22 original defendants pleaded guilty while
trials for the remaining 13 are pending.  Assistant U.S. Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , who oversees
the Justice Department’s criminal division, has cited the Gabon
case, along with the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading probe, as
examples of the government’s readiness to use wiretaps and other
undercover techniques traditionally employed against organized
crime to pursue white-collar criminals.  Prosecutors accused the defendants of seeking to funnel
payments to Gabon’s defense minister in exchange for contracts
to provide ammunition, bulletproof vests and body armor for the
country’s presidential guard.  The charges stem from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case,
recorded phone calls and videotaped meetings with agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  posing as representatives of
Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-biggest oil producer.  The government said the defendants agreed to pay a $3
million commission for the business, half of which they were
told would be passed on to the country’s defense minister.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  