-- FAA Pilot Oversight ‘Lacks Rigor,’ U.S. Investigator Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2011-12-22T21:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/faa-pilot-oversight-lacks-rigor-u-s-investigator-says-1-.html
U.S. aviation regulators lack the
“rigor” to identify and track pilots who repeatedly fail tests
of their cockpit skills, according to a Transportation
Department inspector general’s  report .  Federal Aviation Administration inspectors are inadequately
trained and the agency’s scattered data makes it difficult to
find pilot records, the inspector general’s office said today in
a report. The FAA has spent almost three years after a fatal
crash near Buffalo,  New York , trying to better monitor under-
performing pilots.  “FAA has yet to provide the level of oversight needed to
identify and track poor-performing pilots and ensure air
carriers have the information needed to hire qualified pilots,”
the report said.  The pilot of a  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL)  Colgan Air turboprop
that crashed on Feb. 12, 2009, killing 50 people, had failed
four FAA proficiency checks prior to the accident, according to
an investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board.
Captain  Marvin Renslow ’s abrupt maneuvers caused the plane to go
out of control and crash, the board found.  The safety board after the accident issued at least 10
recommendations to improve remedial pilot training and better
track pilot test failures. Congress also pressed the FAA to make
improvements.  Oversight Shortcomings  Only 5 of 30 FAA inspectors interviewed by the inspector
general’s office kept historical logs or tracked cases of pilots
who failed proficiency checks, according to the report.  More than half the inspectors didn’t do more intense
oversight of pilots identified as poor performers. In some
cases, pilots with multiple test failures got no additional
oversight, the report said.  The FAA, after the Colgan crash, took steps to make
previous test results available to airlines when they hire
pilots. Three of Renslow’s four failures occurred before he was
hired at Colgan, and the airline testified at a  National
Transportation Safety Board  hearing that it would have fired him
had it known.  FAA data on test results is located in different databases
and the agency “lacks an effective process to provide carriers
with pilot record data,” the report said.  “Until FAA takes a more active role in evaluating pilots
and air carrier training programs and provides air carriers full
access to pilot information, it cannot be assured that air
carriers will maintain momentum in advancing these important
initiatives,” the report said.  FAA Concurs  The inspector general issued seven recommendations in the
report that called for standardizing how airlines report pilot
test failures to the FAA and for better training for the
agency’s inspectors.  The FAA said in a Nov. 28 written response to the report
that it agreed with all or part of each of the inspector
general’s recommendations.  “FAA is committed to improving its oversight of the air
transport industry and will allocate the resources necessary to
ensure that these safety enhancements are implemented,” the
agency said.  Renslow’s actions just prior to the crash -- yanking the
plane’s nose skyward in reaction to a warning horn -- put the
spotlight on pilot skills and how airlines weed out poor
performers, particularly at regional airlines such as Colgan.  Regional Vs Major  Pilots involved in eight out of nine serious regional-
carrier accidents from 2000 to 2009 had failed multiple skill
tests, according to National Transportation Safety Board
accident records. The accidents killed 137 people.  By comparison, pilots from major airlines had failed tests
in only 1 of 10 accidents, according to the records. Major
airlines include  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  Southwest Airlines
Co. (LUV)   Commercial pilots must undergo periodic so-called check
rides in which inspectors from the FAA or airlines test their
ability to fly and respond to emergencies.  Investigators from the inspector general’s office reviewed
records at 15 regional airlines, including Phoenix-based  Mesa
Air Group Inc.’s Mesa Airlines (MESAQ)  and  Republic Airways Holdings
Inc. (RJET) ’s Chautauqua Airlines Inc. in Indianapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  