-- Failure Guru to Report What Went Wrong at Tepco’s Fukushima Nuclear Plant
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2011-12-22T04:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/failure-guru-to-report-what-went-wrong-after-probe-at-fukushima-reactors.html
Yotaro Hatamura, an engineering
professor who studies industrial accidents caused by design
flaws and human error, will issue a report next week after a
six-month investigation into the Fukushima disaster.  His 10-member team has compiled a “massive” report on
what happened at the nuclear power plant when it was hit by the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami and the response by its operator
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , according to a statement from
Hatamura’s office. Hatamura, 70, has said the probe will focus
on what went wrong and not who is responsible.  The committee is unlikely to have had the time to get the
information needed for a full investigation, especially from
officials higher ranked than Tepco’s onsite staff, said Shinichi
Kamata, a professor of organization and strategy at the National
Defense Academy of Japan, who sits on Japan Airlines Co.’s
 safety advisory group  with Hatamura.  “Even if somebody acknowledges his mistake, there is only
so much he’d talk about,” Kamata said in a phone interview
earlier this week. “We don’t know how much will come out of
Tepco headquarters or the Prime Minister’s Office.”  Japanese newspapers have said the report includes failures
such as misinterpreted data and malfunctioning cell phones that
may have worsened the crisis.  Hatamura was appointed by the government in May to lead an
“impartial and multifaceted” investigation into the nuclear
accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, the worst since
Chernobyl in 1986.  Cooling Problems  Some managers at the nuclear plant weren’t aware that the
emergency water-supply system for cooling reactor No. 1 would
stop working if it lost power, the Asahi newspaper reported on
Dec. 18, citing unidentified people on Hatamura’s committee. The
panel is investigating if the assumption that the emergency
system was working slowed the response, the report said.  The high pressure coolant injection system at the No. 3
reactor was stopped by a worker without authority from the plant
manager because he wanted to prevent the battery running out,
the Mainichi newspaper reported, citing people familiar with
the matter. Both reactors had meltdowns in the disaster.  Tepco failed to improve the  communications system  at Dai-
Ichi even after the same kind of cell phones used at the
utility’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear station didn’t function
when a quake hit the plant in 2007, the Nikkei newspaper
reported, without saying who provided the information.  Faulty Phones  About 1,000 cell phones stopped working at Dai-Ichi, except
those in a quake-proof building used as an emergency
headquarters after the record magnitude 9 earthquake knocked out
power, according to the report.  Tepco’s disaster drills also didn’t cover how to respond to
a power blackout, the newspaper said.  “As it’s an investigation being conducted by the
government committee, we aren’t in a position to comment on what
the interim report will say,” Osamu Yokokura, a spokesman for
the utility, said by phone today.  Hatamura received his Ph.D. in industrial mechanical
engineering from the  University of Tokyo  in 1973. He began his
work studying human error after finding his students were more
interested in how engineering projects can go wrong, according
to the publisher of his book “Learning from Failure.”  The  Failure Knowledge Database  that Hatamura set up has
studies on more than 1,100 accidents using a method that focuses
on design flaws, human error and how designers fail to see
future changes in use.  Quake Prone  Hatamura has also indicated his team will probe whether an
earthquake-prone country such as Japan should have an  energy
policy  built around atomic power. Because of the inherent
dangers in nuclear energy, it’s a mistake to treat it as being
“safe,” he said at his team’s first meeting in June.  Any recommendations from Hatamura may be hard to institute,
said Haruo Hayashi, a director at Kyoto University’s Disaster
Prevention Research Institute.  The so-called nuclear village, the nexus of companies,
politicians, bureaucrats and academics promoting atomic power,
wants recommendations that can be applied easily so normal
operations can be resumed, he said.  If the report “deals with the fundamental change of the
entire system, the village structure, it may be very difficult
for them to take,” Hayashi said in an interview.  Tepco officials have already indicated they don’t need an
independent review after publishing the results of the company’s
probe into the disaster on Dec. 2.  Tepco Insists  In that report, Tepco said critical units at Fukushima
withstood shaking from the March 11 earthquake before being
swamped by the unprecedented tsunami that followed.  “We will insist on the validity of our report” regardless
of Hatamura’s conclusions, Masao Yamazaki, an executive vice
president at Tepco who led the company’s probe, said when
releasing the results.  All but 7 of  Japan ’s 54 nuclear reactors are offline with
no schedule for restarts following the Fukushima disaster. Japan
relied on atomic energy for about 30 percent of its electricity
supply before the accident.  Tepco’s Fukushima station had three reactor meltdowns after
the earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and backup
generators, crippling its cooling systems. Leaking radiation has
forced the evacuation of about 160,000 people and the government
has yet to say how many can return and when.  Other members of Hatamura’s team include a former chief
prosecutor, a retired chief judge, academics, a former diplomat,
a radiology specialist, a writer and the mayor of a town in
Fukushima prefecture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  