-- Ferrell’s Funny Or Die Site Trades on Comic’s A-List Reach
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-22T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ferrell-s-funny-or-die-site-trades-on-comic-s-a-list-reach-tech.html
Funny Or Die, the comedy website
founded by  Will Ferrell , is pointing the way for Web-based
entertainment companies by combining the scrappiness of an
Internet startup with A-list talent that attracts viewers.  What started as a lark for Ferrell and writing partner Adam
McKay has become a profitable company, with revenue approaching
$30 million this year, according to a person with knowledge of
the Los Angeles-based business.  Funny Or Die’s third show on cable TV, “Billy on the
Street,” starts today on  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ’s Fuse
network. The first feature film, “Funny Or Die Presents Tim and
Eric’s Billion Dollar Movie,” premieres at the Sundance Film
Festival in January.  “Somebody is going to figure out the strategy of marrying
traditional media to this new-media model, to the way people are
now consuming content, on a massive scale,” Funny Or Die Chief
Executive Officer Dick Glover said an in interview. “We’re
doing it in our little world. We’re doing OK.”  Since the dawn of the Internet, entertainment companies
have struggled to make money on the Web.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
interactive unit has lost money for 12 consecutive quarters. The
company said on Nov. 7 that it formed a partnership with  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube to create short, family friendly videos. YouTube
is investing about $100 million to add channels in collaboration
with celebrities like Amy Poehler,  Ashton Kutcher  and ex-
basketball star  Shaquille O’Neal .  ‘Word-of-Mouth’  Mark and Michael Polish, the writer/director team behind
“Twin Falls Idaho” and “The Astronaut Farmer,” have turned a
modest profit from “For Lovers Only,” a feature they launched
on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes and video-on-demand.  “The bottom line is, you have to have the right product
because you really depend on word-of-mouth,” Mark Polish said
in an interview. “Are they going to like it and link it to
Facebook or Tweet it?”  Funny Or Die’s ethos was established with its first
Internet video, “The Landlord.” The two-minute sketch featured
McKay’s 2-year-old daughter Pearl as a foul-mouthed landlady who
intimidates a tenant played by Ferrell. Shot with no budget in
60 minutes at Ferrell’s house, “The Landlord” attracted 78
million views, according to the website.  The success generating traffic enticed stars willing to
work for free for the exposure  Funny Or Die  gave them with
young, Web-savvy audiences. The money came later, as marketers
bought ads on the site and film studios hired Funny Or Die to
create videos for the stars of upcoming films.  Movie, TV Show  Funny Or Die is backed by  Sequoia Capital , the  Menlo Park ,
California-based venture capital firm that has put $15 million
into the company. Owners also include Ferrell and McKay’s
production company, Gary Sanchez Productions, director  Judd Apatow ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO and  Creative Artists Agency .  “The Landlord” remains the website’s most-watched,
followed by a Justin Bieber sketch that drew 40.8 million views,
according to rankings on FunnyOrDie.com.  “We walked into Funny Or Die looking at it as a clubhouse
for our friends,” McKay said. “The quality didn’t have to be
that high, it could be goofing around. What we didn’t anticipate
was how much people would like that approach.”  Website ads account for about two-thirds of revenue. The
rest comes from so-called branded entertainment, 50 or so videos
the company is hired to make each year to promote movies and
products. The site has kept its credibility with fans by
maintaining tight control over the creative process. Typically,
the only reference to the product being promoted is made at the
tail end, after the sketch is over.  Jon Benjamin  “Tim and Eric’s Billion Dollar Movie,” the first feature
film under the Funny Or Die brand, stars frequent collaborators
Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim. In the picture, two friends get
a billion dollars to make a film, the biggest budget in history,
only to see the project fall apart. Ferrell also appears, and
Gary Sanchez Productions and  Mark Cuban ’s 2929 Entertainment are
among the backers.  “ Tim and Eric’s Billion Dollar Movie ” will be offered
through video-on-demand and for sale at Funny Or Die’s site on
Jan. 27, and will reach theaters on March 2, according to the
duo’s website.  “Billy on the Street” features comedian Billy Eichner
approaching New York pedestrians with questions about pop
culture. The company’s other shows on cable are  Comedy Central ’s
“Jon Benjamin Has a Van” and  HBO ’s “Funny Or Die Presents.”  Funny or Die can charge $100,000 or more for custom-made
videos and promotional campaigns, fees that include salaries for
staff and payment to the stars, said the person, who declined to
be named because the company is private.  “There’s an idea that young people reject advertising,”
Glover said. “That’s not true. They reject bad advertising.
They love advertising that talks to them in a certain way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  