-- Financial Credit Risk at Two-Week Low on ECB Cash, U.S. Growth
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2011-12-22T16:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/financial-credit-risk-at-two-week-low-on-ecb-cash-u-s-growth.html
The cost of insuring against default
on financial debt fell to the lowest in two weeks amid optimism
the  European Central Bank ’s cash injection will ease bank stress
and after data signaled the  U.S. economy  is strengthening.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the senior debt of 25 European banks and insurers fell for a
fourth day, dropping 12.5 basis points to 278, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 4 p.m. in  London . A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The U.S. economy expanded 1.8 percent in the third quarter
compared with a year earlier, down from the 2 percent estimated
last month though still faster than in much of recession-hit
Europe. ECB President  Mario Draghi  is speaking today after the
Frankfurt-based central bank provided the region’s lenders with
489 billion euros ($639 billion) in three-year loans, almost
double the amount forecast by economists.  “What we’ve seen over the last couple of days has been
generally positive,” said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “The ECB loans put in more liquidity
into the system.”  Debt-insurance costs for European governments were mixed
after declining earlier. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of credit-default swaps linked to 15 nations was little
changed at 357.5, the lowest in two weeks.  Italy, France  Swaps on Italy dropped eight basis points to 484, France
declined one basis points to 223 and Germany was two basis
points lower at 103, according to CMA prices.  Spain rose two basis points to 391, while swaps on Hungary
climbed 40 to 610, the highest this month, after the country was
downgraded yesterday to junk status by  Standard & Poor’s .  Default-swap indexes extended their declines after reports
that showed U.S.  consumer confidence  rose to the highest in six
months in December and  jobless claims  unexpectedly fell last
week to the lowest since April 2008.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings fell 19.5 basis points to a
two-week low of 756. The Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 5.75 to 172.5,
according to JPMorgan prices.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  