-- Finland to Be ‘Active’ in Resolving Rescue Fund Impasse, Urpilainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2011-12-22T12:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/finland-to-actively-resolve-esm-impasse-urpilainen-says-1-.html
Finland  will be “active” in
overcoming its constitutional hurdle to give support to a
European Union proposal that would make it easier bailing out
indebted nations, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said.  Finland balked at a call on Dec. 9 by the other 16 euro
governments for an 85 percent supermajority vote in case an
emergency bailout is needed by the European Stability Mechanism,
the permanent fund slated to start next year. In Finland, a
change from a unanimous vote must be approved by two thirds of
its parliament since it conflicts with the constitution of the
northernmost euro member. Failing to resolve the issue means
Finland will remain outside the ESM, Urpilainen said.  “Finland needs to be active in this,” Urpilainen, 36,
said yesterday in an interview in Helsinki. “We’re doing the
work now in Finland and we’re negotiating with other
countries.”  European leaders are struggling to contain a debt crisis
that started two years ago in  Greece  and has also forced Ireland
and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Officials earlier this month
proposed measures to speed up the rescue fund and to tighten
fiscal rules for euro members and channel more money into the
International Monetary Fund’s rescue toolkit.  Forgoing Collateral  Finland has been a sticking point already once this year,
when its demands on collateral for bailouts threatened to delay
a second rescue package for Greece. While the Nordic country
requires collateral for all bailout loans paid from the European
Financial Stability Facility, it will forgo that demand for any
lending from the ESM, said Urpilainen, who’s also head of the
 Social Democratic Party .  As the debt crisis deepens, pushing up yields of indebted
nations, Finland is grappling for a solution that simplifies
decision-making in the 17-nation euro area while respecting its
constitution.  The 500 billion-euro ($652 billion) permanent rescue fund
will include collective action clauses stipulating how investors
share the burden of potential losses. The fund is planned to be
implemented in July, a year earlier than planned.  When European policy makers agreed to allow majority
decision-making in the ESM, they added a footnote that said
their ruling is subject to the approval of Finland’s parliament.  “My colleagues are aware of the constitutional issue
Finland is facing,” Urpilainen said. The matter was also
discussed during this week’s teleconference of EU finance
ministers, she said.  ‘Better Elements’  Finland, which is AAA rated, seeks to participate in the
permanent rescue fund, which contains “better elements” than
the temporary fund, the EFSF, including burden sharing and
priority status for the loans together with funds lent by the
IMF.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s cabinet has 124 members in
the legislature, short of the 133 needed for the two-thirds
majority to pass the unanimity measure. Katainen and Urpilainen
rule in a six-party coalition that was formed in June, after two
months of wrangling to limit influence of the anti-bailout “The
Finns” party, which surged to 19 percent in April’s election.  A solution to Finland’s impasse must be found next month
because policy makers aim to sign the ESM agreement in January,
Urpilainen said. EU leaders will hold a summit on Jan. 30 to
discuss jobs and economic growth, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said on Dec. 20 in a statement.  Self-Imposed Deadline  Another summit, slated for March, is the self-imposed
deadline for a final agreement on a closer fiscal accord.
Governments will vow to almost eliminate structural deficits and
devise automatic mechanisms to ensure cuts are made.  “Unanimous decision-making matters from the point of view
of national sovereignty and democracy,” Urpilainen said.
Removing it would mean “Finland could incur large liabilities
against its will.”  Using majority voting in the IMF doesn’t conflict with
Finnish legislation, because more countries share the burden,
reducing the liabilities incurred by a single country, she said.  “Some constitutional experts say the scope also matters,”
Urpilainen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  