-- First Solar Never So Cheap in Takeover Boon for Energy: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2011-12-22T21:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/first-solar-never-so-cheap-in-takeover-boon-for-energy-real-m-a.html
For acquirers willing to wager on
the future of solar power, First Solar Inc. has gotten $22
billion cheaper.  First Solar has  tumbled (FSLR)  76 percent this year, the biggest
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as the Tempe, Arizona-
based company lowered its profit forecast and shifted its focus
to large power plants. Once worth $25 billion, First Solar was
valued this week as low as $2.64 billion, the steepest discount
to net assets since its 2006 initial public offering and cheaper
than 94 percent of renewable energy equipment companies greater
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The world’s largest maker of thin-film solar panels may now
attract takeover interest from  General Electric Co. (GE)  or  Siemens
AG (SIE)  on the expectation that demand will increase in the $55
billion solar power industry during the next decade as prices
become more competitive with fossil fuels and other forms of
electricity, according to  Robert W. Baird  & Co. While short
sellers have boosted bearish bets against First Solar to the
third highest in the S&P 500, it could command at least a 50
percent premium in an acquisition, said Kaufman Bros. LP.  “Given the pull back in the price, it certainly does make
a lot more sense for someone to buy out First Solar,” Jeff Bencik, a New York-based analyst for Kaufman, said in a
telephone interview. “At the end of the day, First Solar is
still profitable. So you are buying the best in the industry at
a discount price. Certainly for both GE and Siemens it would
diversify their energy platform.”  First Solar Restructuring  First Solar rose 7.4 percent to $34.15 today for the third-
 biggest (SPX)  gain in the S&P 500.  Alan Bernheimer , a spokesman at First Solar, Sean Gannon, a
spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, and Philipp Encz,
a spokesman for Munich-based Siemens, declined to comment on
takeover speculation.  Through yesterday, First Solar’s stock had plunged 25
percent since Dec. 14 when it reduced 2011 profit and sales
forecasts, projected earnings next year that missed analysts’
estimates and said it will fire about 100 employees in the
second restructuring in six weeks. The company is reorganizing
to focus on large utility-scale power plants instead of smaller,
rooftop installations after ousting its chief executive officer
in October and replacing him with Michael Ahearn, the founder
and chairman, on an interim basis.  More than 17 million shares, or about 20 percent of First
Solar’s outstanding stock, are currently shorted, the third-most
in the  S&P 500  behind GameStop Corp. and Supervalu Inc.,
according to data compiled by New York-based Data Explorers. In
a short sale, a trader borrows stock and sells it, hoping to
profit from a decline by replacing it at a lower price.  ‘Bad Neighborhood’  Plunging prices for solar panels have eroded profit margins
across the industry as manufacturers ramped up production
capacity faster than demand increased, creating a global glut of
supply. The spot price of  solar panels  has fallen 47 percent
this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, while
crude  oil prices  have gained 8 percent in  New York .  First Solar uses cadmium-telluride in its thin-film panels,
which require less time and energy to manufacture than the more
common ones based on silicon semiconductors.  “First Solar is definitely the best company in a bad
neighborhood at this point,” Michael Horwitz, a San Francisco-
based analyst for Robert W. Baird, said in a phone interview.
“Eventually it probably makes sense for them to be part of a
larger company.”  Record Low Valuation  The market for solar power surged 67 percent last year to
$55 billion on new projects with a capacity of about 18,000
megawatts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
equivalent to adding 18 typical nuclear reactors for electricity
production.  New solar installations may reach 24,000 megawatts this
year and hold steady at about that rate next year, according to
a Nov. 1 report from Jenny Chase, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. Annual demand may climb to as much as 34,700
megawatts in 2013, she wrote.  First Solar’s shares closed Dec. 19 at a record low of 0.65
times book value, or the value of its assets minus liabilities,
cheaper than every renewable energy equipment maker with a
current market value greater than $1 billion except for wind
turbine manufacturer Vestas Wind Systems A/S at 0.62 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The combined equity and net debt of First Solar was valued
at 0.9 times sales, also a record low, the data show.  ‘On the Cheap’  “It would make a lot of sense for somebody to buy First
Solar on the cheap while there is significant dislocation in the
solar industry,”  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer
at First Empire Asset Management in Hauppauge, New York, which
owns shares of First Solar, said in an e-mail. “Acquiring First
Solar at the bottom of the market would be a very smart move for
a number of large industrial companies.”  GE, the world’s biggest maker of power-generation
equipment, may be interested in acquiring First Solar to bolster
its solar operations and take advantage of the company’s
technology for  power plants , according to GE investor Huntington
Asset Advisors and analysts at Kaufman and Robert W. Baird.  “They could buy First Solar, which already has significant
scale and is well ahead of where GE is,” said Horwitz at Robert
W. Baird. “It would probably make more sense to buy than build.
If you’re GE or Siemens, you already build power plants, you’re
already out there talking to their customer base, so this would
just be another option to bring to the customer.”  Solar Industry ‘Carnage’  GE, the largest wind turbine supplier in the U.S., bought a
closely held thin-film maker this year that uses the same
material in its solar panels as First Solar and announced in
October plans to build its own solar plant in Colorado. The
company is investing $10 billion by 2015 to develop
environmentally friendly products across its large-equipment
areas, including power generation,  jet engines  and locomotives.  “There’s a lot of carnage in the solar industry right
now,”  Jeffrey Immelt , GE’s chief executive officer, said at the
company’s annual investor meeting in New York last week when
asked about potential deals. He said GE’s preference is to build
organically.  “GE loves to buy on the cheap,”  Peter Sorrentino , a
senior  fund manager  who helps oversee $14.5 billion, including
shares of GE and Siemens, for Huntington in Cincinnati, said in
a phone interview. “It’s not something that would be a real
super competitive advantage, but at the right price, if it made
their life easier, of course they’d do the deal.”  Siemens as Buyer  First Solar may also attract Siemens, the market leader in
off-shore  wind turbines , according to Horwitz and Kaufman’s
Bencik. Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, is aiming
for 40 billion euros ($52 billion) in sales with “green
technologies” by 2014, up from 29.9 billion euros in the fiscal
year ended Sept. 30.  “They have next to nothing in photovoltaics, and they may
be able to combine their strength in wind power with
photovoltaics,” the panels that First Solar makes, Thilo Mueller, who helps manage 100 million euros at MB Fund Advisory
in Limburg, Germany, said in a phone interview. “It would make
sense for Siemens, and they may be able to get First Solar for a
comparatively cheap price.”  His fund owns Siemens shares, and he said he’s considering
buying First Solar stock.  Still, Siemens’s solar investments have struggled. The
company bought Solel Solar Systems for $418 million in 2009 to
try to duplicate its success in wind turbines. Losses
accelerated as governments curtailed spending on infrastructure
and Solel’s solar thermal technology faced less expensive solar
panels, leading Siemens to write down the value of the business.  Walton Family  Deals in the solar power industry reached $3.4 billion this
year, the most since $6.1 billion in transactions were announced
in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as targets sought
partners to share project costs and acquirers took advantage of
a drop in solar stocks.  First Solar shareholders, the largest of whom is the Walton
family that founded  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and own almost a third
of the solar company’s shares, would likely demand at least a 50
percent premium in a takeover, Kaufman’s Bencik said. That would
equate to $47.70 a share based on yesterday’s closing price.
 Total SA (FP)  paid a 44 percent premium for a 60 percent stake in
First Solar’s rival SunPower Corp. in April.  “Beauty is in the eye of the beholder,” Timothy Arcuri,
an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in San Francisco, said in a phone
interview. “If you’re bullish on solar and you think there’s
ultimately going to be significant demand for these big solar
farms around the world, there really is no other company on the
planet today that can provision, develop and finance -- or get
financed -- for these big solar farms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at +44-20-7330-7862 or  landberg@bloomberg.net . 