-- Fisker Automotive Seeks to Lift Karma Sales to Move on From Loan Scrutiny
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2011-12-22T16:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/fisker-seeks-to-lift-karma-sales-to-move-on-from-loan-scrutiny.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a California
maker of plug-in hybrid  sports cars , wants to put scrutiny of a
federal loan to build rechargeable vehicles behind it as the
company ramps up U.S. deliveries of $102,000 Karma sedans.  Shipments of Karmas have begun, with 225 sent to dealers so
far and 1,200 units “in the pipeline,” Chief Executive Officer
Henrik Fisker said in an interview. The $529 million low-
interest loan Fisker got in 2009 drew criticism in Congress this
year after the failure of solar panel maker Solyndra LLC,
recipient of a U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee.  “We’ve moved on from that,” Fisker said yesterday at the
company’s Anaheim, California, headquarters. “We’re here to
make cars, not politics. All the DOE money that we’ve drawn down
has been used here in the U.S. and has created jobs here in the
U.S.”  Fisker, like fellow California startup and loan recipient
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , wants to create a market for luxury cars that
use little or no gasoline, relying instead on lithium-ion
battery packs for propulsion. Karma sales began behind schedule
after U.S. certification delays, making it unlikely Fisker can
reach an earlier goal of 3,000 deliveries this year.  While Karma assembly is being done under contract in
 Finland , Fisker received its loan to develop and build a lower-
priced model, the Nina, at a plant in  Delaware .  Loan Criticism  The Energy Department provided loans to Fisker, Tesla, Ford
Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. to develop and produce
rechargeable cars at U.S. factories. Critics, including
Republican U.S. presidential candidate Mitt Romney, say those
loans are wasteful and politically motivated.  “I think that the decision by the White House to basically
give massive loan guarantees, hundreds of millions of dollars to
various enterprises, some of which were big Democratic
contributors, whether this is Fisker, the automobile -- electric
automobile company, Tesla, the electric automobile company,
Solyndra or others, it doesn’t look right,” Romney said in a
Nov. 17 interview on Fox Business News, according to a
Congressional Quarterly transcript. “It doesn’t smell right.”  No Fisker Automotive senior managers have made donations to
political parties, said Roger Ormisher, a company spokesman.  The U.S. program was intended to spur production and sales
of advanced vehicles and Fisker Automotive is following through
on that, Henrik Fisker said.  “The DOE loan and what we have done here, the achievement
we have, really, is the fact that engineers right here in the
U.S. have developed the most advanced technology in a car
currently on the market,” he said.  Fisker Fundraising  The Karma is rated by U.S. regulators as getting the
equivalent of 52 miles per gallon using both its battery pack
and gasoline engine. It qualifies for a $7,500 federal tax
credit that was created to spur purchases of rechargeable autos.  Closely held Fisker this week doubled the amount of private
equity investment sought in its latest financing round, lifting
the target to $300 million from $150 million, seeking funds to
increase production. Total private investment is more than $766
million, Ormisher said.  The company hasn’t announced plans for an initial public
offering, and Fisker declined to say when that might occur.  “Any car company, on a long-term basis, to be sustainable
around the world, needs eventually to become a public company,”
he said.  Fisker Hires  Fisker this month also hired Tom LaSorda, Chrysler LLC’s
former president, as vice chairman and executive adviser.
Chrysler reorganized in a U.S.-backed 2009 bankruptcy as
Chrysler Group LLC, which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Richard Beattie, previously executive vice president for
marketing and sales for Jaguar North America, also joined Fisker
this month as chief commercial officer to oversee global sales
and marketing.  Fisker estimated his company has already created “more
than 2,000 jobs here in the U.S,” including at dealerships and
part suppliers.  Karma production is now 25 units a day and may rise to 60 a
day next year, said Fisker, 48, a vehicle designer who has
styled cars for  Aston Martin  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s
BMW.  He declined to say how many Karmas will be delivered in
2012.  “We’ve built just over 1,000 cars, and are up to a pretty
steady run rate of 25 cars a day,” he said. “Next year we’ll
start taking that up higher as sales build up.”  Along with getting cars to its 44 U.S. dealers, the company
this month also began shipping Karmas to dealerships in  Europe .
In 2012, Karmas will also be sold in  China  and the  Middle East 
as Fisker Automotive boosts global distribution, he said.
Beattie was hired to oversee that, Fisker said.  Delaware Factory  Fisker paid $20 million last year for a shuttered plant in
Wilmington, Delaware, once operated by the former General Motors
Corp. GM reorganized in a 2009 U.S.-backed bankruptcy, emerging
as General Motors Co. The Wilmington plant was one of the assets
GM shed as part of the bankruptcy.  Fisker Automotive in 2009 said it would use its federal
loan to buy and revamp the 3.2 million-square-foot factory to
produce its Nina model, a car that will sell for less than the
Karma.  Pricing and features of that model haven’t been revealed.
Along with the Nina, Fisker also plans to sell both a plug-in
convertible and a crossover utility vehicle in 2013 derived from
the Karma platform.  The company has hired about “100 people” in Wilmington so
far, Fisker said. After production of Nina vehicles for retail
sale begin in 2013, the factory will employ “thousands,” he
said, without elaborating.  Fisker’s investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, Palo Alto Investors LLC, and  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , a
lithium-ion battery maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  