-- Foreclosures May Delay Housing Rebound to 2013
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-12-22T15:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/foreclosures-weighing-on-prices-may-stall-u-s-housing-recovery-until-2013.html
The two-bedroom Denver row house
that Kyle and Jennifer Zinth bought in 2005 is a tight fit now
that they have an 18-month-old son, Max, and a coonhound named
Beauregard. They plan to put it up for sale next month, hoping
to at least break even so they can buy a larger home.  “My understanding is it’s a better time to buy than
sell,” Kyle Zinth, 34, a paralegal, said in a telephone
interview. “If we can get out of this one without financial
harm and get a good deal on the next place, then that’s ideal
under present market realities.”  The Zinths are wading back into a U.S. housing market where
prices may fall further under the weight of foreclosures and not
rebound until 2013, even as the economy builds momentum and
mortgage rates fall to record lows, according to a survey of 109
economists released this week by Zillow Inc. When values do
rise, the gains probably won’t match those seen in the years
prior to the bursting of the bubble in 2006.  Prices for resold homes are down 31 percent since the July
2006 peak, based on the  S&P/Case-Shiller Index  that tracks 20
major metropolitan areas. Values have increased 3.1 percent
since bottoming out in March, though more than a quarter of
homeowners with a mortgage are “underwater,” or owe more than
their property is worth.  ‘Dirt Cheap’  Prices may drop an additional 7 percent, according to  Scott Simon , head of the mortgage- and asset-backed securities teams
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
California.  Homes are more affordable  now than at any time on
record, setting the stage for a turnaround, he said in a
telephone interview.  “The new normal is that, if you can get a mortgage,
housing is dirt cheap,” Simon said, using the term popularized
by his colleagues at the  fund manager  to describe the extended
period of below-average economic growth they forecasted
following the 2008 financial crisis. “You’re going to look at a
graph someday, and it’s going to look like somewhere between
Jan. 1, 2012, and June 30, 2013, housing bottomed.”  U.S. home values probably had their smallest decrease in
four years in 2011, according to Zillow, whose survey found that
prices may find their floor in late 2012 or early 2013 and will
begin rising by 3 percent a year through 2016. That appreciation
is modest compared with the last decade, when double-digit
annual increases were common, the Seattle-based provider of real
estate data said.  “Negative equity, unemployment and low  consumer confidence 
remain the key factors delaying a true recovery,” Stan Humphries, Zillow’s chief economist, said in a statement.  Elusive Recovery  Prices will fall 1 percent in 2012 and rise 2 percent in
2013,  Frank Nothaft , chief economist for mortgage-finance
company Freddie Mac, said in a Dec. 14 report.  “A full-fledged recovery in the housing sector will likely
elude the U.S. in 2012, but new construction and home sales are
expected to be greater than in 2011,” Nothaft wrote.  Beating 2011 shouldn’t be hard.  Sales of new single-family  homes  this year are on pace to
fall to 301,000 from 323,000 in 2010, which was the lowest in
Commerce Department data going back to 1963. While housing
 starts  hit a 19-month high in November, led by a surge in
multifamily construction, the annual rate of 685,000 for the
month compares with a January 2006 high of 2.27 million.  Revised Sales Data  Existing home sales  rose to an annualized 4.42 million in
November, the highest in 10 months after figures were revised,
the National Association of Realtors said yesterday. The data
showed that annual sales were an average of 14 percent lower
than previously reported since 2007, magnifying the impact of
the downturn.  “Even before the revisions things were bad,”  Lawrence
Yun , the group’s chief economist, said at a news conference
yesterday. “Now they are even worse.”  As lenders tightened credit standards, 33 percent of
Realtors reported sales being canceled last month because of
problems such as mortgage denials or low appraisals, the
Chicago-based group said yesterday. That’s up from 9 percent a
year earlier.  Americans are taking advantage of low  interest rates  to
refinance rather than buy, according to the  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  Refinancing  accounted for 80.7 percent of home-loan
applications for the week ending Dec. 16, the most in 13 months,
the Washington-based group reported yesterday.  New Low  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan fell to 3.91
percent in the week ended today, the lowest in data dating to
1971, from 3.94 percent,  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  said in a statement. The
average 15-year rate matched last week’s previous all-time low
of 3.21 percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based
company.  Foreclosure filings, which slowed in 2011 as banks and loan
servicers faced investigations over the use of improper
documentation to seize homes from delinquent borrowers, are
expected to be little changed in 2012, according to RealtyTrac
Inc. A total of 224,394 properties received default, auction or
repossession notices in November, down 14 percent from a year
earlier, the Irvine, California-based real estate data service
reported Dec. 15.  Shadow Inventory  Owners of more than 14 million homes are in foreclosure,
are delinquent on their mortgages or owe more than their houses
are worth, creating a shadow inventory that is holding down
sales and prices, RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer James Saccacio said.  Home prices fell 0.2 percent in October from the previous
month, the Federal Housing Finance Agency said today. For the 12
months ending in October, home prices fell 2.8 percent.  Moody’s Analytics Inc. expects home prices to drop about 3
percent in 2012 as more foreclosed homes go on sale, Celia Chen,
one of the firm’s housing analysts, said in an interview from
West Chester, Pennsylvania. By midyear, the distressed share of
the market -- foreclosures and short sales, in which the lender
agrees to a price below the mortgage balance -- will begin to
shrink and average prices will start to rebound, perhaps as much
as 5 percent in 2013, she said.  “By the end of next year, prices will begin to
appreciate,” Chen said. “The fundamental driver of normal home
sales is going to improve because we expect the economy will
start generating jobs by the end of next year.”  Job Picture Brightens  The U.S.  unemployment rate  fell to 8.6 percent in November,
the lowest since March 2009, as retailers hired workers for the
holiday season. Moody’s estimates the  unemployment rate  will be
little changed next year.  Should a housing recovery occur, it won’t be uniform
nationwide.  Sales face “bifurcation” as distressed properties in
deteriorating condition drive down the overall average while the
prices for nondistressed existing and new homes command a
premium, Stephen Kim, a homebuilding industry analyst with
Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York , said in a Dec. 5 note to
investors.  “We believe this newly established stability in
nondistressed home prices is the leading indicator to home-
buying sentiment improving in 2012 and this is the linchpin to
our bullish thesis,” Kim wrote.  Kim rates homebuilders D.R. Horton Inc.,  Lennar Corp. (LEN) ,
 PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  “overweight” because
they have the capital and land to take advantage of a revival of
demand.  Rentals Reign  Oliver Chang, a Morgan Stanley analyst in  San Francisco ,
expects prices for distressed housing to recover before
nondistressed, as more investors buy foreclosures to operate as
rentals. He calls 2012 “The Year of the Landlord,” because
rents will rise as the  homeownership rate  continues to fall and
non-investors are unwilling or unable to buy.  President Barack Obama’s administration invited investors
to submit ideas in September to help  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac
turn their repossessed homes into rentals, a program that has
the potential to speed up absorption of the distressed
inventory, Chang said.  “We expect investor activity to pick up in 2012,” Chang
said in a telephone interview. “In some markets, this has
started to cause upward movement.”  Detroit, where property values rose 3.7 percent, and
 Washington , up almost 1 percent, were the only cities in the
Case-Shiller 20 metro-area index to report gains during the most
recent 12-month period. Atlanta, down 9.8 percent, and
Minneapolis, where prices dropped 7.4 percent, were the biggest
losers.  ‘So Many Deals’  Larry Alexander said he plans to buy and rent out four
foreclosed homes next year in the Omaha, Nebraska, area, where
he owns Great Plains Mortgage Co. Foreclosed three-bedroom homes
sell for less than $50,000 and rent for at least $650 a month,
he said.  “There are so many deals to be had,” Alexander, 47, said
in a telephone interview. “If you’re a cash investor, you can
usually get them for 60 cents on the dollar.”  More than two-thirds of Great Plains’ $20 million in
mortgage originations this year have been refinancings, because
interest rates are so low and because people are reluctant to
buy, Alexander said. Most people fear the economy won’t recover
or politicians will make things worse, he said.  Simon’s Pimco colleague  Mark Kiesel , who sold his home in
2006 when he thought the housing market was overheated, plans to
continue renting because he expects prices to fall for the next
two years.  Lost Faith  “There are simply more sellers than buyers given high
inventories and tight credit conditions,” Kiesel, global head
of corporate-bond portfolios at Pimco, said in an e-mail. “I
also think the  U.S. economy  is headed for a challenging year
ahead given tighter fiscal policy and high unemployment.”  Simon put his home in Laguna Niguel,  California , on the
market in 2007, when he was going through a divorce and decided
overheated prices made it a better time to rent than buy. Last
year, he bought a 1910 San Francisco house for $5.4 million.  “I wouldn’t get a shot at it again” because prices have
fallen so far, he said.  Others still stinging from the burst of the housing bubble
have lost faith in homeownership as a good investment, he said.  “There’s always been the American dream that I want to
beg, borrow or steal to own a house,” Simon said. “Everybody
now knows you can lose your butt on housing.”  For Kyle Zinth, buying a bigger home has benefits that
can’t all be measured by returns on investment. A backyard would
allow him to avoid putting a leash on Beauregard when the dog
goes outside, and a place without common walls will insulate his
family from noisy neighbors, he said.  “I’ve rented before and I’ve owned before,” Zinth said.
“And I prefer owning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  