-- Hungarian Borrowing Cost Hits 2 1/2 Year High as Forint Weakens on S&P Cut
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-22T16:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/forint-weakens-second-day-after-s-p-downgrades-hungary-to-junk.html
Hungarian yields rose to the highest
in almost 2 1/2 years at an auction and the forint tumbled after
 Hungary  lost its investment-grade rating at Standard & Poor’s in
the second such downgrade in a month.  Hungary sold 30 billion forint ($128 million) in 12-month
bills today, 10 billion forint less than planned at an average
yield of 7.91 percent, the highest for that maturity since July
2009. Hungary’s benchmark 10-year bond yields climbed 41 basis
points, or 0.41 percentage point, to 9.388 percent by the close
in Budapest. The forint depreciated 1 percent to 306.72 against
the euro and Hungary’s default-swaps rose to the highest in
three weeks.  Hungary, the most-indebted eastern member of the European
Union, was cut one step to BB+ from BBB-, S&P said in a
statement, citing lack of predictability on Hungary’s economic
policies. The  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
suspended talks on an aid package to Hungary last week on
concern that the government’s planned new central bank law may
curb monetary-policy independence.  “S&P did not see the prospect of an IMF/EU backstop as
credible enough to support an investment-grade credit view,”
Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura
International Plc, wrote in an e-mail late yesterday. “This is
also our view. The government is not serious about getting a
backstop, it is a game with the markets.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its assessment to Ba1,
the highest junk grade, on Nov. 24, while Fitch Ratings assigned
its lowest investment grade, BBB-.  ‘Further Pressure’  The  BUX (BUX)  stock gauge slumped 0.8 percent to 17,462.51. The
country’s default swaps, which rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen, jumped 37 basis points to 608,
according to data provider CMA.  “The fact that Hungary is now rated junk by two of the
three major rating agencies is likely to put further pressure on
Hungary’s ability to find funding in the international  capital
markets ,”  Lars Christensen , chief analyst for emerging markets
at  Danske Bank A/S  in Copenhagen, wrote in a report to clients
today. Passing laws changing the independence of the central
bank “might very well be the trigger for the third major rating
agency, Fitch, to cut its rating of Hungary to junk status.”  A report by Budapest-based news website Origo that  Fitch
Ratings  notified the Hungarian government of its intention to
cut the country’s sovereign credit grade by two steps to junk is
“just rumors,” Matteo Napolitano, a director in Fitch’s
sovereign ratings department, said yesterday.  ‘Catastrophe’  The slide in the country’s assets compares with a 1.3
percent increase in the Czech PX Index and  Poland ’s zloty, which
traded 0.4 percent stronger versus the euro.  “S&P’s reasoning corrects a debate which had been
overlooked during the risk-on period of the markets over the
past few days: It is a catastrophe that the sovereignty of the
central bank is being undermined,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in a report today.
“The IMF will hardly be willing to make a new aid package
available. It could soon get lonely for the Magyars. I doubt
that these risks have so far been priced into euro-forint.”  The  European Central Bank  said today that Hungary isn’t
acting in line with EU law and scolded it for draft legislation
that would “undermine” the independence of the nation’s
central bank.  ‘Panic’ Selling  The cut from S&P could “pressure” Orban, driving him
toward “accepting the terms of the IMF, hence increasing the
probability that a deal will get struck,” Ilan Solot, a London-
based  emerging markets  strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co., wrote in an e-mail today.  Hungary still needs a precautionary credit deal from the
International Monetary Fund to underpin economic growth, without
any plans to use fresh loans, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
told reporters today, adding that S&P’s downgrade was part of a
“politically motivated attack.”  Hungary will have the highest debt level and slowest
economic growth among the EU’s eastern members next year, the
European Commission forecast on Nov. 10. IMF backing would
bolster policy credibility, S&P said.  The state debt agency doesn’t expect any “panic” selling
of Hungarian debt after yesterday’s downgrade as S&P and Moody’s
had assigned a “negative” outlook before making the cuts,
which prepared investors, Laszlo Andras Borbely, deputy chief
executive officer of the State Debt Management Agency, told
reporters today.  The government aims to complete as much of its 4 billion-
euro foreign-currency debt issuance plan as possible in the
first half of 2012, Borbely said. The state probably won’t issue
Eurobonds before completing IMF aid talks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  