-- Former Tennis Pro Brad Drewett Succeeds Helfant as ATP Chief
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-12-22T15:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/former-tennis-pro-brad-drewett-succeeds-helfant-as-atp-world-tour-chief.html
Former player  Brad Drewett  will
succeed  Adam Helfant  as executive chairman and president of the
 ATP World Tour , the governing body of men’s tennis.  Drewett, who is chief executive of the ATP International
Group, will begin his new job Jan. 1, the ATP said in an e-
mailed statement today. Helfant announced in June that he would
leave at the end of the year “for professional reasons.”  Drewett, 53, was ranked as high as 34th in the world by the
ATP during a 12-year pro career. He won two Tour titles and
played for  Australia  in the Davis Cup.  “The ATP World Tour and men’s tennis are stronger than
ever and it is my intention to continue to lead the organization
on this successful path, working hand in hand with our players
and tournaments,” Drewett, who is also tournament director of
the season-ending ATP World Tour Finals, said in the statement.
“I am very excited about the opportunities ahead.”  Drewett’s appointment was approved unanimously by the ATP
Board of Directors, the organization said. He will work out of
the Tour’s offices in  London , according to the statement.  Helfant boosted the Tour’s commercial revenue by 80 percent
through sponsorships with companies including Grupo Modelo SAB’s
Corona Extra beer brand, FedEx Corp., champagne brand Moet &
Chandon, Johnson & Johnson’s Compeed and a tourism agreement
with  Rio de Janeiro .  The graduate of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
and  Harvard Law School  and a former vice president of Nike Inc.
also shortened the men’s tennis season, a focus of his tenure.
From the end of 2012, the offseason will be extended to seven
weeks from five weeks to give players more time to rest and
recuperate.  Player Complaints  Second-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  was among players who
criticized the 11-month-long season, saying it didn’t give them
enough time to recover.  “Brad is a very experienced executive and has been an
effective leader within the ATP for many years,”  Roger Federer ,
16-time Grand Slam champion and president of the ATP Player
Council, said in the statement. “He understands the global
nature of the business as well as the complexities of dealing
with all of the Tour’s stakeholders. I am confident that Brad’s
work ethic and leadership will help contribute to the continued
success of the ATP World Tour.”  Richard Krajicek, the 1996 Wimbledon champion and promoter
of the ATP’s tournament in Rotterdam, withdrew from the race for
the top job last week. He told the Dutch newspaper  De Telegraaf 
that his candidacy lacked sufficient support on the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  