-- Fox Claims Negotiating Early for Dodgers Television Rights Is Harmful
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2011-12-22T23:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/fox-claims-negotiating-early-for-dodgers-television-rights-is-harmful.html
Fox Sports, seeking to block the
early sale of the Los Angeles Dodgers media rights, told a
federal judge it’s harmed every time the company is forced to
negotiate with the bankrupt Major League Baseball team.  The  News Corp. (NWSA)  unit was in court in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today seeking to persuade U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark to
temporarily halt the Dodgers’ effort to sell the TV rights
months early. Fox Sports’ Prime Ticket division is appealing a
decision by a bankruptcy court judge to let the Dodgers begin
soliciting offers for the TV rights in January, about 10 months
earlier than under the contract between the team and the sports
telecaster.  “We are injured every time we have to sit down and
negotiate,” Fox attorney Catherine L. Steege said in court
today.  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  is selling the team, which
filed for bankruptcy in June. To increase the value of the
franchise, the Dodgers are soliciting separate offers for the
rights to televise future games, which Fox holds through next
year.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross this month gave the team
permission to begin trying to sell the rights next month, over
Fox’s objection that it will be harmed by accelerating
negotiations.  The Dodgers and their creditors argued in court that Fox
couldn’t be harmed simply by talking to the team.  Stark ended the hearing without ruling. He didn’t say when
he will issue a decision.  Any halt to early bids on the TV rights would be temporary.
The team and Fox are scheduled to return to court next month to
make final arguments about whether Gross’s ruling should be
permanently overturned.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  