-- Gandhi Drinking Dirty Water Paves Way for Congress Party Rebound
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2011-12-22T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/gandhi-drinking-dirty-water-paves-way-for-congress-party-rebound.html
Supporters of India’s Congress party
roared approval at an election rally last month as Rahul Gandhi
draped a garland of flowers over a portrait of his great-
grandfather,  Jawaharlal Nehru , the independence hero who led the
nation in its first two decades.  Gandhi, 41, rolled up his sleeves and told the crowd a
leader who doesn’t “share the bread of a poor man and drink the
contaminated water in his house and fall sick, that leader
cannot understand the plight of the poor.” The appearance at
Jhusi, a village in the late Nehru’s district, is part of
Gandhi’s campaign to boost the Congress vote in an election to
be held by May in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s most populous state.  Regaining ground in a former Congress heartland -- now
dominated by groups appealing to poorer social castes -- would
help build the political credentials of the fifth-generation
scion of a family that’s dominated Congress and governments in
the world’s second-most populous country. The campaign offers
the public a further look at a political figure whom Eurasia
Group says may be  India ’s next prime minister, yet who has
refused calls to join the cabinet and has kept long silences on
policy issues that have paralyzed the government.  “Indians feel Gandhi is an unknown entity,” said Mohan Guruswamy, chairman of the Centre for Policy Alternatives in New
Delhi and a former Finance Ministry adviser. “They are waiting
to see whether he can live up to the enormous expectations on
his shoulders. He needs to present new ideas on areas such as
how to improve governance, end corruption, and provide strong
economic growth with policies aimed at reducing inequality.”  India’s Breadbasket  Gandhi’s Nov. 14 performance in Uttar Pradesh state, which
spans the plain of the Ganges River that is a breadbasket of
India, will be important to the future of Congress heading into
2014 federal elections, said R.K. Mishra, a political science
professor at the University of Lucknow in the state capital.  Sonia Gandhi ,  Rahul Gandhi ’s 65-year-old mother and
Congress president, had surgery in August, during which time she
handed the party’s leadership to a council of four that included
her son. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is 79 and has held office
since 2004, after pioneering India’s economic opening as finance
minister in the 1990s.  “Congress now needs to look to the future after Mrs.
Gandhi and Prime Minister Singh, and I think the party is
dependent on the family such that it cannot do so without Rahul
Gandhi,” Mishra said. “Other capable young leaders are present
in several states but they will not emerge nationally while he
is there.”  More Endorsements  While junior Congress leaders have said in recent years
that Gandhi should become prime minister, the party’s top
leaders have started endorsing the idea. At least three members
of Congress’s governing 20-member Working Committee, including
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , have told reporters that
Gandhi will be a future Congress president and prime minister.  Gandhi, a one-time  Harvard University  student, has built
his appeal on visits to communities of the 700 million Indians
who survive on less than $2 a day. Less clear to investors is
the degree of commitment to sustain the legacy of Singh, who has
spent much of his career dismantling the state-dominated economy
championed by Gandhi’s grandmother, Indira, in the 1970s.  Rahul Gandhi stayed silent for three weeks as coalition
allies and opposition leaders alike pushed Singh to abandon
legislation opening India to foreign department-store chains
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)  Singh suspended the
plan, then said in a Dec. 14 interview he will revive it after
March. Gandhi backed him in a speech two days later.  Little-Known?  “Like lots of investors, my main concern is we know so
little about him,” said A.S. Thiyaga Rajan, a senior managing
director at Aquarius Investment Advisors Pte. in  Singapore ,
which manages about $350 million in Indian assets. “There has
been complete silence on his economic thinking and we don’t know
where he wants to take the country. So far he has given us no
insight into his vision.”  Gandhi’s office did not respond to a call, an e-mail and a
text message seeking comment on statements by analysts and
investors that his policies were unclear.  Gandhi has focused his policy comments on pushing Congress
to guarantee jobs and secure cheaper food for India’s rural poor
and lower-caste peoples, known as dalits.  “It’s all right symbolically to dine with a dalit family
occasionally,” said B.G. Verghese, an analyst with the Centre
for Policy Research in  New Delhi . Still, “that is not
presenting a vision” for the country.  Cell-Phone Scandal  Singh this year faced protests on city streets and in
parliament over corruption scandals linked to the sale of cell-
phone licenses and to last year’s staging of the Commonwealth
Games. The demonstrations, led by independent activist  Anna Hazare , who held a 13-day hunger strike, swelled in August as
Sonia Gandhi was overseas being treated for an illness the
family and party won’t discuss.  Rahul Gandhi didn’t respond publicly to the protests for
almost two weeks before telling parliament in an Aug. 26 speech
that the government couldn’t be held hostage.  Singh, after initially criticizing the protest, told
parliament the day before that he respected Hazare’s
“idealism” and that Hazare had become “the embodiment of the
disgust and concern about tackling corruption.”  The government’s overall handling of Hazare, which included
arresting the activist for three days, helped depress its
support to 20 percent by September from 30 percent in May,
according to an opinion  poll  among 9,000 people across 28 cities
by research company Nielsen Holdings NV and India’s Star News
television channel. The opposition Bharatiya Janata party rose
to 32 percent. No margin of error was given.  Independence Campaigners  Nehru and his father were early leaders of the Indian
National Congress. They campaigned alongside Mahatma Gandhi, who
was not a relative, for independence from British rule. Nehru
served as India’s first prime minister until his death in 1964.
Power passed within 20 months to his only child, Indira Gandhi.  She alienated voters by suspending the constitution in 1975
to quash protests challenging her rule, and lost an election two
years later. She regained office in a 1980 vote only to be
assassinated in 1984.  Indira Gandhi’s son, Rajiv Gandhi, succeeded her for five
years before losing an election amid a corruption scandal. When
he, too, was assassinated in 1991, his Italian-born wife, Sonia,
withdrew her family from politics.  Rahul Gandhi was a student at Harvard in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , when his father was killed. He transferred to
 Rollins College  in Winter Park,  Florida , to complete his degree
under an assumed name.  Cambridge Degree  Gandhi later earned a master’s degree in development
studies at the U.K.’s  University of Cambridge  and worked for
companies in London and Mumbai.  Seven years after her husband’s death, with some leaders
quitting Congress to form their own blocs, Sonia Gandhi accepted
the party’s appeal to become its president.  A revived party won power at the head of a coalition in
2004, with Rahul entering politics by winning his father’s
former parliament seat. Sonia Gandhi declined party leaders’
calls to take the premiership, choosing Singh for the role
instead.  “The Gandhis have been as glamorous and fascinating for
Indians as the Kennedys for Americans, but the Kennedys are no
longer in power” while the Nehru-Gandhis have ruled their
country for 45 of its 64 years of independence, said Rasheed Kidwai, Bhopal-based author of the 2003 book “Sonia: A
Biography.”  Drinking the Water  Rahul Gandhi led a national election campaign in 2009 that
secured the party’s best result in 20 years. He has since worked
on building a base for himself and the party by expanding and
democratizing its youth wing, turning aside public calls by
Singh for him to join the cabinet.  Gandhi explained his visits to share water and food with
India’s poor and powerless in a televised election rally this
month. “When it makes me sick and my stomach gets upset, I will
remember the well whose water our poor brothers are forced to
drink,” he said.  One visit in May revived public discussion of Gandhi’s
inexperience. After he met villagers in Uttar Pradesh who had
clashed with authorities over land acquisitions for a highway,
Gandhi went directly to Singh with allegations that police had
killed 74 protesters. Villagers didn’t back up the story and
forensic tests on a mound of ash where Gandhi said the victims
had been buried showed no human remains.  Erratic Conduct?  “He can be rather erratic in his conduct,” said Verghese,
who served as an aide to Indira Gandhi when she was premier.  Strengthening rural welfare programs and the land rights of
local communities are initiatives Gandhi has backed, echoing the
populist bent of a mother who has supported broadening food
subsidies and rural employment guarantees. Gandhi would promote
“redistribution and focus on the marginalized,” New York-based
 Eurasia Group  said in a Nov. 16 report.  Singh, an economist, has worked on strengthening the
private sector in an economy that for decades was dominated by
the state. “It is the only path to reduce the chronic poverty
millions still live under,” Singh said in the Dec. 14
interview. Gandhi as prime minister probably would have to adopt
some of that approach, Mishra said.  Coalition Glue  “Gandhi’s arrival could be a very positive thing by
providing glue to the party and the coalition,” said Sam Mahtani, a London-based director of  emerging markets  at F&C
Asset Management Plc., which manages about 103 billion pounds
($161 billion) in assets. “This may be what is needed to allow
the government to push through important reforms,” said
Mahtani, who is currently overweight in investments in India.  India’s $1.7 trillion  economy  grew 6.9 percent in the three
months through September, the weakest expansion since the second
quarter of 2009. Business leaders, including Reliance Industries
Ltd. Chairman  Mukesh Ambani , the country’s richest man, have
urged Singh to work faster on legislation to aid growth.  At the same time, Indian stocks are lagging behind the
developing world average. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or
Sensex, has fallen 23 percent this year, compared with a 20
percent decline in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, on investor
concern a weak rupee, rising borrowing costs and  Europe ’s crisis
will hurt profits.  Election Draw?  Gandhi’s grip on Congress will depend on how effectively he
shows regional leaders that his family name and political skills
will win them elections, said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of
RPG Foundation, the nonprofit social welfare arm of the Mumbai-
based RPG Group of companies.  The 200 million people of Uttar Pradesh would make it the
world’s fifth most populous country, ahead of  Brazil . In his
Nov. 14 rally in the state, Gandhi attacked its chief minister,
Mayawati, who built her  Bahujan Samaj Party  by pulling millions
of lower-caste voters away from Congress.  “While there has been no progress for the poor in the past
20 years, corruption and the power of thugs have increased,” he
said, his hands jabbing the air.  At the village of Chilh, 70 kilometers (40 miles) down the
Ganges River, cloth merchant Amrit Lal, 82, said the Gandhi
family “has done a lot for India” and received his vote for 30
years.  Sitting amid bolts of fabric in his shop, Lal praised
Gandhi for visiting his community last month after villagers
publicly protested what they say are abuses by local police.  “We are willing to see Gandhi as prime minister,” Lal
said as neighbors pressed into his shop to listen. Still, his
future in high office will depend on his performance, notably on
prices and graft, Lal said.  “If he can do something, let him try,” he said. “If he
can’t, we have the habit of throwing these governments out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rupert in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net 
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  