-- German Two-Year Note Yields at Almost Record Low on Debt Turmoil Concern
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2011-12-22T16:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/german-10-year-government-bonds-fall-before-u-s-confidence-draghi-speaks.html
German two-year  yields  were within
three basis points of a record low on concern the euro-region
debt crisis is far from solved.  Spanish and Italian bonds fell. Spain’s Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  named a former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
banker and a budget professor as his finance chiefs, tasking
them with overhauling an economy that risks being engulfed by
the euro-region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “I see a high risk of the debt crisis getting worse
again,” said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen. “In general, bund yields are going to stay low.”  The  yield  on the two-year note was little changed at 0.23
percent at 4:39 p.m. London time, after dropping to a record low
0.202 percent on Dec. 20. The 0.25 percent securities due in
December 2013 traded at 100.04. Ten-year yields were one basis
point higher at 1.95 percent.  Fifteen European summits in two years have produced five
plans that failed to stop fiscal turmoil that began in Greece
from threatening Italy and  Spain .  Italian two-year yields have advanced this year on bets the
nation won’t be able to contain its sovereign-debt burden. They
were four basis points higher at 5.12 percent today, more than
two percentage points higher than at the end of 2010.  Spanish two-year government notes fell for the first time
in nine days yesterday on fading optimism that the ECB’s three-
year loans to banks will restore confidence in sovereign
borrowers. Euro-region lenders took 489 billion euros from the
Frankfurt-based ECB in 1,134-day loans yesterday, more than
economists’ predicted.  Spanish Appointment  Spain’s  10-year yields  advanced 10 basis points to 5.37
percent today. Luis de Guindos, former deputy finance minister
and head of Lehman in Iberia, will be Spain’s minister for
economy and competition, Rajoy told reporters yesterday in
 Madrid . Cristobal Montoro, budget minister when the  People’s
Party  was last in power, takes the same job with further
responsibility for public administration. Rajoy created the
roles to replace  Elena Salgado , who did both jobs in the last
government.  Greece’s creditors are resisting pressure from the
 International Monetary Fund  to accept bigger losses on holdings
of the indebted nation’s  government bonds , said three people
with direct knowledge of the discussions.  Lenders want the 70 billion euros of new bonds the
government will issue in return for existing securities to carry
a coupon of about 5 percent, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  IMF on Debt  The IMF is pushing for creditors to accept a smaller coupon
to reduce  Greece ’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to 120
percent by 2020, a key element of the Oct. 27 agreement by
European Union leaders, the people said.  The yield on benchmark 5.9 percent Greek bonds maturing in
October 2022 fell 65 basis points to 35.13 percent.  Hungary’s 10-year government bonds fell for the first time
in three days after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the nation’s
credit rating one step to below investment grade at BB+ from
BBB-, and assigned a negative outlook. The yield climbed 41
basis points to 9.39 percent.  German government bonds have returned 9 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish debt has
increased 5.5 percent, Italian securities have lost 5.5 percent,
and Greek bonds have decreased 63 percent  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  