-- Gingrich Tamps Down Expectations to Win Iowa as Polls Show Slump
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2011-12-23T05:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/gingrich-tamps-down-expectations-of-iowa-win.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  is seeking to reduce expectations that he will win
the Iowa caucuses as his momentum stalls in national polls.  The former speaker yesterday also sharpened his criticism
of former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney after a barrage
of negative ads Romney’s backers have unleashed against him.  “I never said I’d come in first in Iowa,” Gingrich told
reporters at a rally in Virginia that drew only a couple of
dozen people to a Richmond-area hotel ballroom. “There was a
period when I was the front-runner, but frankly, if you get $7
million or $9 million of ads -- most of them false -- the sheer
weight of negativity has a real impact.”  The two front-runners are keeping up their campaigning
today, underscoring the competitiveness of the race even as the
pace began to ease for the Christmas holiday weekend.  Romney will wrap up a four-day bus tour in  New Hampshire ,
with plans to greet voters in pizza shops, Mexican restaurants,
a toy store and diners. Gingrich will address Republicans in
Columbia, South Carolina, where he will participate in a
Christmas lunch. Next week, he heads back to Iowa to kick off an
eight-day, 44 city bus tour that will take him through the final
stretch of campaigning before the Jan. 3 primary.  Paul as Winner  Gingrich said he could imagine Texas Representative  Ron Paul  winning Iowa, or “a number of other scenarios,” adding,
“It’s going to be a really interesting two weeks.”  Earlier, Gingrich downplayed the significance of an Iowa
loss during an appearance before more than 200 Republicans at a
breakfast in Short Pump,  Virginia . Finishing in the top three or
four in the Jan. 3 caucuses there, placing in the top two in New
Hampshire on Jan. 10 and winning contests in South Carolina and
 Florida  later that month would still position him to be the
Republican nominee, he said.  “From then on, I think it becomes a fairly easy race,”
Gingrich said.  As Gingrich worked to manage expectations, Romney received
a boost when he picked up the informal endorsement of former
President  George H.W. Bush .  “Romney is the best choice for us,” Bush said in comments
published by the Houston Chronicle  yesterday .  Supporting Romney  As Romney campaigned in New Hampshire, the former president
told reporters that he supported Romney because of his
“stability, experience, principles. He’s a fine person,” he
said. “I just think he’s mature and reasonable -- not a bomb-
thrower.”  Romney has rolled out high-profile endorsements in recent
weeks, including from New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,  South
Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley and 1996 Republican presidential
nominee  Bob Dole .  Some Republicans have raised concerns that Gingrich would
be a weak general election nominee, citing his propensity for
embroiling his party in controversy.  Bush, the father of former President  George W. Bush ,
recounted how Gingrich broke ranks with his party at the last
minute during negotiations over a bipartisan 1990 budget
agreement. The intra-party dispute weakened Bush as he entered
the 1992 re-election campaign, which he lost to President  Bill Clinton .  “I’m not his biggest advocate,” the elder Bush said of
Gingrich, the Houston Chronicle reported.  Romney Criticism  Stumping in Virginia as he mounted a late push to gather
the 10,000 signatures needed to get on the ballot for the
state’s March 6 primary, Gingrich portrayed Romney as
insufficiently conservative to win the backing of the state’s
Republicans.  “When you get down to a choice between a Massachusetts
moderate and a southern conservative in Virginia, you have a
pretty good chance in the primary of winning,” said Gingrich,
who was born in  Pennsylvania , represented  Georgia  in the U.S.
House and resides in McLean, Virginia.  Polls have shown Gingrich’s late-year surge flagging less
than two weeks before voting begins with the  Iowa  caucuses. A
Dec. 19 CNN national  poll  found Romney and Gingrich tied with 28
percent support.  Gingrich Confidence  Gingrich has continued to project confidence on the
campaign trail. On Dec. 1, he declared he would be the
Republican nominee and on Dec. 12 in New Hampshire, he said he
was “by a big margin, the front-runner.”  Almost every national public opinion poll conducted during
the first week of December showed Gingrich leading the
Republican pack with a double-digit margin over Romney.  Gingrich’s advantage in  Iowa  has diminished or vanished,
according to surveys in the state. While he held a double-digit
lead over Paul and Romney in a CBS-New York Times  poll  conducted
Nov. 30-Dec. 5, he ranked second behind Paul in an Iowa State
University/Gazette/KCRG  poll  taken Dec. 8-18.  Gingrich has been bombarded by ads in Iowa from Romney’s
backers and Paul’s campaign criticizing his record and
character.  The pro-Romney Restore Our Future political committee has
spent more than $2.5 million on ads and direct mail against
Gingrich, Federal Election Commission records show. In its
latest television commercial, the group says Gingrich has “too
much baggage.”  Consulting Fees  It cited the $1.6 million in consulting fees he got from
government-sponsored mortgage giant  Freddie Mac , his 1997 ethics
reprimand by the U.S. House and charges, which Gingrich
dismissed as false, that he backed using federal funds for
abortions.  Gingrich has called on Romney to stop the ads and
challenged him yesterday to explain them in a one-on-one debate.
Romney rejected the challenge today in an interview in New
Hampshire with the  Associated Press .  “There’s no question it has an impact, so we have to now
overcome that impact,” Gingrich said today of the commercials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ; Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
1966 or  llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  