-- Gingrich Challenges Romney to Debate Over Attack Ads in Iowa
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/gingrich-challenges-romney-to-debate-over-attack-ads-in-iowa.html
Two front-runners for the Republican
presidential nomination are sparring over campaign ads, with
 Mitt Romney  saying the party’s nominee will face worse in the
general election and  Newt Gingrich  challenging him to defend the
commercials in a debate.  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, criticized the ad
campaign being waged in  Iowa  by supporters of Romney through an
independent political action committee. He said yesterday that
the ads, which attack his work for the mortgage company  Freddie
Mac  and the $300,000 fine he paid to settle a House ethics case,
were “dishonest.”  Romney, traveling through New Hampshire on a four-day bus
tour, said he had nothing to do with the ads, airing
independently of his campaign, though he said there is nothing
wrong with pointing out distinctions between candidates.  “The speaker would like to say, ‘Look, we shouldn’t have
any negativity,’ but, look, if you can’t handle the heat in this
little kitchen, the heat that’s going to come from Obama’s
hell’s kitchen is going to be a heck of a lot hotter,” Romney
said on  MSNBC . “We have to show that we, as a  Republican Party 
and as a candidate, that we can stand up to the barrage that’s
going to come from the Obama world.”  Gingrich, both in Manchester, New Hampshire, and later at a
rally in Arlington, Virginia, challenged Romney to meet him in a
90-minute one-on-one debate in Iowa next week where Romney could
explain the negative ads.  Standing the Heat  He said the response will tell whether Romney “likes the
heat, and whether he wants to come in the kitchen -- or whether,
in fact, he’s just a normal national politician with clever
consultants and lots of money and no willingness to stand up and
tell the truth,” Gingrich said in Virginia.  The pro-Romney PAC, Restore Our Future, has spent more than
$2.5 million on ads and direct mail against Gingrich, Federal
Election Commission records show.  The ads began running as Gingrich challenged Romney for
supremacy in national surveys. He leads Romney 25 percent to 23
percent in the daily national Gallup tracking poll.  Some Gingrich backers said the ads are hurting the former
speaker.  “They’re having an impact,” said  New Hampshire  state
Representative Kathleen Lauer-Rago. Gingrich “needs to come
back and say, ‘This is my experience. This is what I’ve done.’”  New Hampshire Campaign  Campaigning in New Hampshire, where the first-in-nation
primary will be held on Jan. 10, Romney was joined yesterday by
home-state U.S. Senator  Kelly Ayotte , former Senator  Judd Gregg 
and the head of a local Tea Party group. Later, the campaign
announced the endorsement of Senator Mike Johanns of  Nebraska 
and three former Iowa and New Hampshire House speakers.  Such endorsements can help voters who may not be familiar
with those seeking their support, lawmakers said.  “If we are supporting a certain candidate, it will at
least get them a look-see,” said one Romney supporter, New
Hampshire state Representative Jack Flanagan.  A few hours later, Gingrich stood on a podium in a downtown
Manchester hotel and received the backing of New Hampshire state
House Speaker WilliamO’Brien. Earlier in the day, Gingrich was
endorsed by Iowa House Speaker Kraig Paulsen.  He then flew to  Virginia  to announce he would file enough
signatures to get on the state’s primary ballot. As recently as
Dec. 19, he suggested he might “barely” make the ballot.  Republican Establishment  “We’re going to disappoint the Republican establishment,
because tomorrow in Virginia we’re going to turn in vastly more
signatures than we need,” Gingrich said yesterday as volunteers
with clipboards collected names of eligible state voters.  Even so, he said he was still trying to capitalize on his
surge in opinion polls.  “We weren’t ready for it yet because we don’t have the
structure and we don’t have the money to compete at that level,
so we had to scramble a little bit,” Gingrich said.  Romney, who owns a home in New Hampshire, leads in opinion
polls in the state, though Gingrich has closed the gap. A Nov.
29-Dec. 6 CNN-Time magazine poll of likely voters put Romney
ahead 35 percent to 26 percent. Four years ago, Romney lost the
primary to Arizona Senator  John McCain , who went on to win the
Republican nomination.  The polls are still fluid, Gregg said in an interview
before appearing on the podium with Romney in Keene.  “People decide late,” Gregg said. “They listen to
everyone. The one thing that’s predictable about New Hampshire
is that it’s unpredictable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Manchester, New Hampshire, at
   jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Arlington, Virginia, at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 