-- Greenhill Grieves for Two Managing Directors Amid ‘Outpouring of Support’
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2011-12-23T14:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/greenhill-grieves-for-two-bankers-amid-outpouring-of-support-.html
Greenhill (GHL)  & Co.’s New York
headquarters was the scene of an emotional staff meeting at
which tears were shed over the sudden loss of two colleagues,
Jeffrey F. Buckalew and Rakesh Chawla, days before the holiday
break.  Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok led the “informal and
highly emotional” meeting on Dec. 21 at which many employees
expressed their thoughts and Chairman Robert Greenhill offered
closing comments, Jeffrey Taufield, a spokesman for the company,
said yesterday in an interview.  “There was a lot of crying,” he said. Grief counseling is
being offered to employees who want it.  Bok, in an e-mailed reply to questions, said he had several
messages to deliver.  “First, that our firm is like a family, which is why it
hurts so much to lose two longtime members,” he said. “Second,
that we should take some comfort from the massive outpouring of
support from clients, friends, competitors and others. Third,
that we will always remember our two partners, and that we would
find a proper way to honor each of them. And last, that we
should all take a lot of time with family and friends over the
holidays to begin the healing process.”  Buckalew and Chawla, both managing directors, were killed
Dec. 20, along with Buckalew’s wife, Corinne, and the couple’s
two children, Jackson, 11, and Meriwether, 6. They died when
their plane, a six-seat Socata TBM 700 turboprop, crashed on
Interstate Highway 287 in Harding,  New Jersey , about 30 miles
(48 kilometers) from  New York City . Buckalew, an experienced
pilot, owned the plane and was at the controls.  Holiday Plans  The bankers were headed to Atlanta for their last business
meeting of the year. After that, Buckalew, 45, and his family
had planned to fly to holiday gatherings, ending up in
Charlottesville,  Virginia , their home for the past year,
according to Ashish Contractor, his colleague at Greenhill.
Chawla, 36, planned to return home on a commercial flight, then
travel to Houston on Dec. 21 with his wife and three daughters
to visit his family, said Kamal Pallan, a friend.  In the two days since the crash, friends and colleagues of
both men have described them as devoted to their families and
interested in helping others.  Chawla, the son of immigrants from  India , was born in July
1975 in Greenwood,  Mississippi , and moved to New Jersey after
his mother died when he was 12.  Building a Career  A graduate of the  University of Virginia , he worked at
Credit Suisse before earning his master’s in business
administration at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School. He joined Greenhill in 2003 after working at the
Blackstone Group. A financial-services specialist, he was
involved in Greenhill’s work for the  U.S. Treasury  in managing
its investment in American International Group.  Pallan, a friend from their days in  Wharton ’s MBA class of
2001, said Chawla saw his success in finance through the prism
of fatherhood.  “He had three little girls, and they meant everything to
him,” said Pallan, a partner in an investment firm that advises
a private-equity fund. “He was ambitious, he had a lot of
personal drive, but a lot of what he was doing was for the
girls, to make sure they got what he felt was a great education,
a great place to live.” His daughters are attending private
school in Manhattan.  ‘Loved His Daughters’  James Babski, a Greenhill colleague, recalled how Chawla
displayed photographs of, and school artwork by, his daughters
in the office the two men used to share.  Chawla “loved to be working on important things, loved the
thrill of  Wall Street , but he loved his daughters, loved
spending time with them,” his wife, Cathy, also a Wharton
graduate, said in an interview. “He’d make a point to come home
before bedtime to see them.”  Through the nonprofit  Student Sponsor Partners , the Chawlas
helped finance the parochial-school education of two at-risk
students. Thinking about his future, Chawla would sometimes talk
about seeking a government job, one “more about your impact and
less about your financial compensation,” his wife said.  Last Jan. 15, she threw a party at The Harrison, a
restaurant in Manhattan’s Tribeca neighborhood, to mark his
promotion to managing director. At the event, she toasted her
husband for working so hard to provide for his family.  ‘Favorite Promotion’  Bok said he was impressed with Chawla’s earnest nature,
“which you can read on his face in the photos that have been
published.” Chawla’s rise to managing director was “my all-
time favorite promotion,” Bok said. “I know that was a goal of
his, and I’m glad he was able to enjoy achieving that.”  Since joining Greenhill in 1996 as one of its first
associates, Buckalew worked his way up the ranks in mergers and
acquisitions in a variety of industries, advising clients
including VF Corp.,  Roche Holding AG , Emerson Electric Co. and
Delta Air Lines Inc. A repeat winner of the firm’s annual summer
golf match, he made Golf Digest’s list of “top golfers in
finance” in 2007.  “Even though Jeff was very driven and hardworking, he
always carved out time for his family and for the things he was
interested in,” recalled Contractor, a principal at  Greenhill 
who was recruited by Buckalew and worked closely with him for
the past eight years. “He wasn’t this kind of cookie-cutter,
automaton banker who talked about only one thing.”  Inspiring Others  More than a successful banker, Buckalew “was a gentleman,
and he inspired me and others to be more like him, not only
professionally but also personally,” Contractor said.  A pilot who was “obsessed with safety,” Buckalew began
flying even more over the past year, after he and his wife
changed their primary residence from  Manhattan  to
Charlottesville, Contractor said. One reason for the move was
that it gave their son more opportunity to pursue playing
lacrosse.  Buckalew was born in November 1966 and grew up in Winston-
Salem,  North Carolina . A graduate of the University of North
Carolina, where he earned both his undergraduate and MBA
degrees, Buckalew served on the university’s Board of Visitors
and its Arts and Sciences Foundation. He worked at  Salomon
Brothers  before joining Greenhill.  Bok said he was struck by Buckalew’s “great character” as
a banker, husband and father.  “He would have continued his rise to the top of our
industry and also would have ended up leading important
philanthropic organizations,” Bok said. “He was a selfless,
generous man.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  