-- Micron Stock Surges as Investors Bet on Mergers, Rebound
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-12-22T21:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/micron-stock-surges-as-investors-bet-on-memory-chip-consolidation-rebound.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, jumped 16 percent on
investor optimism that the market is rebounding from a slump in
demand and industry consolidation will limit supply.  Micron shares closed at $6.41 in  New York , after earlier
touching $6.55. The stock has dropped 20 percent this year.  Elpida Memory Inc. a Tokyo-based memory-chipmaker, said
earlier today it’s discussing refinancing with banks and seeking
an investment partner. That followed comments yesterday from
Micron Chief Executive Officer  Steve Appleton , who said that
industry losses would probably mean weaker competitors will band
together or exit the business. Having fewer manufacturers would
limit the increases in supply that erode prices.  “It’s a momentum stock, and they gave enough information
on the call to show that the DRAM industry has troughed and
things get better from here,” said  Kevin Cassidy , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “The downside risk isn’t that high.”  Micron yesterday reported its second consecutive quarterly
loss, citing the falling price of dynamic random access memory,
or DRAM, which provides the main memory in personal computers.
Lower demand was partially caused by floods in  Thailand  that
have left PC makers short of hard-disk drives, leading them to
trim purchases of other components. Micron said it has seen a 10
percent to 15 percent drop in DRAM orders.  Customers will be able to ship 20 million more machines in
the calendar first quarter compared with the fourth after an
increase in hard-disk supply, the company estimated.  Net Loss  Micron’s net loss was $187 million, or 19 cents a share,
compared with net income of $155 million, or 15 cents, a year
earlier, the Boise, Idaho-based company said in a statement.
Revenue in the first quarter ended Dec. 1 fell 7.2 percent to
$2.09 billion. Analysts on average estimated a loss of 8 cents
on sales of $2.12 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Micron, which has previously acquired the operations of
other companies exiting the memory business, will consider
further deals, Appleton said on a conference call with analysts.  “If there’s something there that makes sense, then we’re
going to take a look,” he said. “I think we really have been
the only catalyst and consolidator in the main DRAM field that’s
been successful.”  He declined to comment on whether Micron is currently
considering a transaction.  Fewer Competitors  The company is the only remaining U.S.-based maker of DRAM
after Asian manufacturers forced out the pioneers of the
industry, including  Intel Corp . and Texas Instruments Inc.
Producers’ inability to match supply to demand in DRAM has hurt
earnings as prices for the chips, which are traded on commodity
exchanges in  Asia , often fell below the cost of production.  Micron has reported an annual profit in only four of the
past 10 calendar years. The company goes head-to-head with South
Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s second-largest
chipmaker behind Intel.  Micron has lessened its dependence on DRAM by following
Samsung and Toshiba Corp. into the market for Nand  flash memory ,
chips that provide the storage in portable electronics such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 