-- IMF May Delay Boosting China’s Role as Members Fail to Back Quota Changes
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2011-12-22T22:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/imf-lacks-votes-to-double-resources-boost-emerging-markets.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
today it lacks the necessary votes to implement a 2010 decision
to double its permanent resources and boost the voting power of
 emerging markets .  As of Dec. 12, members agreeing to the increase in so-
called  quotas , which determine nations’ voting rights and access
to funding, accounted for 36 percent of total quotas, compared
with the 70 percent required for the measure to pass, according
to an IMF staff report released today. A related measure on
executive-board seats obtained 30 percent of member votes,
compared with the 85 percent required.  The delay deprives the Washington-based IMF of new
resources as it seeks more funds to meet potential loan demand
linked to the European debt crisis. It also pushes back changes
that will make China the third-largest member at the 187-country
IMF and weaken European influence.  “In adopting the 2010 quota and governance reforms, the
Board of Governors called on members to use their best efforts
to complete the necessary steps to make the 2010 quota and
governance reforms effective no later than the 2012 Annual
Meetings,” the IMF staff said in a  report  released today.
“With only 10 months remaining on this timeline, the Fund is
far from reaching the necessary thresholds for the entry into
force of the 2010 quota and governance reforms.”  Under the agreement, the amount the IMF can draw on anytime
would double to about $735 billion. The lender now has about
 $387 billion  available under a combination of permanent
resources and a temporary emergency pool.  U.S. Approval  The agreement’s future hinges in part on approval by the
U.S., the largest IMF member with about 17 percent of votes and
18 percent of quotas. The package hasn’t yet been discussed by
Congress, which is divided between Democrats and Republicans and
where some lawmakers have introduced a bill to rescind a  credit
line  the U.S. gave the IMF in 2009.  “A timely implementation of the 2010 governance and quota
reform package remains crucial to the legitimacy and
effectiveness of the Fund,” the IMF staff wrote. “Efforts to
meet the 2012 deadline should not be spared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  