-- India Plans to Borrow $9.5 Billion Pledging Assets to Fund Budget Deficit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2011-12-22T10:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/india-said-to-plan-9-5-billion-loan-as-asset-sales-fall-short-of-target.html
India plans to borrow as much as 500
billion rupees ($9.5 billion) using land and shares as
collateral in an effort to narrow a budget deficit, two
government officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The South Asian nation will set up a fund manager by Jan.
15 that will pledge stocks it holds in non-state companies
including  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the
officials said declining to be identified before a public
announcement. The company will use the proceeds to buy the
government’s stakes in state-run firms, the officials said.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee is exploring options to
bridge a widening budget deficit after raising just 3 percent of
a 400 billion rupee asset-sale target for the year ending March
31. The decision may help the government utilize assets the
officials said are valued at 1 trillion rupees and narrow the
gap that’s fanned  inflation  and driven the rupee to a record
low.  “The government is doing this to raise funds as the market
isn’t conducive for asset sales, while they are hard pressed to
meet deficit targets,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at
Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd.  Share Slump  A 23 percent drop in the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  this
year prompted Mukherjee to delay selling shares of  Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  and  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  He
has raised 11.44 billion rupees from asset sales this fiscal
year compared with 227.63 billion rupees in the 12 months
through March, 2011, according to data provided by the
Department of Disinvestment.  Mukherjee said in October that it would be a “challenge”
to meet his aim of narrowing the budget gap to a four-year low
of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product as slowing growth
reduce tax collections. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday said
the deficit will widen to 7.6 percent this year.  The yield on 10-year government bonds fell as much as 2
basis points at 3:26 p.m. in Mumbai, while the Sensex reversed
losses and gained 0.8 percent. The rupee pared losses and traded
at 52.66 a dollar, 0.3 percent weaker than yesterday’s close.  “There’s no doubt that this surprise move by  India  will
help in meeting the deficit target and have a benign impact on
sentiments,” said Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer at a
local unit of South Korea’s Mirae Asset Financial Group in
Mumbai. “Everybody will be keenly watching how quickly and
effectively the government works out the modalities.”  Transfer Assets  The new holding company will pledge the stakes and real-
estate properties transferred to it from the  Specified
Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India , to state-run banks, the
officials said. Specified Undertaking, formed in 2003, will be
wound up within three weeks, the officials said.  Moody’s said yesterday that India’s public debt at 70
percent of gross domestic product is a constraint on the
nation’s ratings, which are at the lowest investment grade.
India’s $1.7 trillion economy expanded 6.9 percent in the three
months through September, the slowest pace in more than two
years.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised  interest rates  13
times since the start of 2010 to lower the inflation rate that
has stayed above 9 percent all of this year. In October Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao has partly blamed the fiscal deficit for
contributing to inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  