-- India Drops Plans for FDI in Pensions in Second Policy Setback This Month
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2011-12-22T05:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/india-drops-plans-to-allow-fdi-in-pensions-singh-ally-says.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
has shelved plans to allow foreign direct investment in pension
funds in the second major policy setback this month, according
to one of the government’s largest parliamentary allies.  Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee objected to a
bill to overhaul the pensions sector, leading to it being
dropped for now, Sultan Ahmed, a lawmaker from Banerjee’s party,
said by phone without elaborating.  India ’s cabinet had approved
the plans last month in what would have been the first major
change to foreign ownership rules in five years.  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal was not
available to comment when called at his residence in New Delhi.  “The government has developed cold feet because of Mamata
Banerjee’s opposition,” Yashwant Sinha, a leader of the main
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  and former finance minister,
said by phone today.  Singh Dec. 7 was forced to suspend a decision to let
foreign supermarket chains like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  into
India’s retailing industry amid opposition from its allies,
including Trinamool, rival parties and small shopkeepers. Singh
said in an interview last week that he had underestimated the
level of opposition to the policy change and would seek to push
it through once state elections are completed early next year.  ‘Back Foot’  The  Congress  party-led government’s legislative agenda has
stalled in the last year after corruption scandals, including
one linked to a 2008 sale of mobile-phone airwaves, sparked
protests on the streets and in parliament. The last major change
to foreign direct investment rules took place in 2006 when the
cap on single brand retail was lifted to 51 percent.  “The government is playing on the back foot,” said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC Wealth
Management Services Ltd. in New Delhi. Singh lacks “reliable
partners” to undertake the market-opening policies investors
had sought since Congress was returned to power in 2009, he
said.  Sinha said his party’s concerns over the pensions bill had
been addressed during a meeting with Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee . The government agreed that the legislation should
contain a cap for overseas investment and include an assured
return for pensioners.  Previous attempts to open retirement funds to overseas
investment were derailed by the communist parties that provided
Singh’s government with a majority in parliament during its
first term from 2004 to 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  