-- India Group Seeks $7.8B Funding for Afghan Iron
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2011-12-22T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/india-group-seeks-7-8b-funding-for-afghan-iron.html
An Indian government-backed group
that won rights to mine  Afghanistan ’s biggest iron ore deposit
has sought $7.8 billion in state aid and loans to develop the
venture, two people with direct knowledge of the plan said.  India’s steel ministry backs the proposal by the Afghan
Iron & Steel Consortium, which comprises seven companies led by
state-owned  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , the people said,
declining to be identified because details of the plan are
confidential. The ministry will seek approvals from the foreign
and finance ministries, they said, without giving a timeframe.  The group plans to spend $11 billion to mine the Hajigak
deposit west of Kabul, build a steel mill, a power plant and
transport links. The project will help  India  overtake China as
the biggest overseas investor in Afghanistan, which the U.S.
says holds $1 trillion in untapped mineral reserves, and
increase its strategic presence in the war-ravaged nation.  “We have told the government that it will be difficult to
raise debt for the Afghanistan project and the government should
help us in getting that funding either through sovereign
guarantees or any other means,” Steel Authority Chairman C.S. Verma said by telephone yesterday, declining to give details.  The group is seeking $5.5 billion of 30-year interest-free
loans to fund the debt component of a planned 6 million metric
ton-a-year steel plant and $2.35 billion in aid for building an
800-megawatt power plant, railway, road and power transmission
lines around the project, the two people said. The seven
companies will contribute about $3.2 billion toward equity in
the venture, they said.  Hajigak Rights  President  Hamid Karzai ’s Cabinet last month awarded the
Afghan Iron & Steel Consortium the rights to mine three out of
four blocks of Hajigak, a series of rugged mountain ridges 100
kilometers (60 miles) west of Kabul. The deposit holds an
estimated 1.8 billion metric tons of ore, almost as big as
India’s largest iron ore mine.  The group includes state-run companies Rasthriya Ispat
Nigam Ltd. and  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , and non-state companies  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ,
JSW Ispat Steel Ltd.,  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  and  Monnet Ispat
& Energy Ltd. (MISP)  Seshagiri Rao, chief financial officer for JSW
Steel and JSW Ispat, didn’t answer four calls to his mobile
phone. Spokesmen for the other companies and secretary at the
steel ministry declined to comment on the details of the plan.  “The consortium will request for sovereign guarantees for
providing financial assistance to the consortium by way of
interest-free long-term loan, grant-in-aid, etc., for steel,
infrastructure and port related projects,” Steel Authority said
in a Nov. 30 statement.  Chinese Investments  The group has separately proposed building a 900-kilometer
railway line from Bamiyan in Afghanistan to Zahedan in  Iran  at a
cost of $4.3 billion. The railway line will help ship ore from
Hajigak back to India via Iran.  The Indian venture overtakes Metallurgical Corp. of  China 
plan to spend $2.9 billion on the Aynak copper deposit as the
biggest overseas investment in Afghanistan. The Chinese state
company won the right in 2007 to mine the biggest copper state
deposit in Afghanistan by pledging to build a  coal mine , power
plant, smelter and railroad.  This year, China National Petroleum Corp. offered the
highest royalty and a refinery to win Afghanistan’s first
oilfield auction last month, using a strategy that helped
Chinese companies gain access to African resources. Chinese
companies have announced $43.35 billion in energy and mining
acquisitions overseas this year, compared with $3.91 billion by
Indian companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  