-- Iranians Rush to Buy Gold, Dollars as Sanctions Tighten Grip
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2011-12-22T14:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/iranians-rush-to-buy-gold-dollars-as-sanctions-tighten-grip.html
Iranians are rushing to buy gold and
dollars, sending the national currency plunging, on concern the
government may be unable to maintain economic stability as
international sanctions tighten.  The average rate offered at currency exchange bureaus was
about 15,300 rials per dollar, meaning the currency has lost
about 15 percent of its value in a month, the Donya-e-Eqtesad
newspaper said yesterday. The official rate yesterday was 11,030
rials per dollar, according to the  Central Bank ’s website. No
rates were available for today, when  Iran ’s weekend began.  State television this week showed lines of people camped
out overnight in front of state banks, with sleeping bags and
blankets, saying they were waiting to buy gold coins. The
central bank cut off their supply as of Dec. 20 and said it’s
imposing a more “just distribution” system. Under the new
rules, gold paid for now will be delivered four months later,
according to the state-run  Mehr  news agency.  The U.S. and European Union are pushing to tighten
sanctions already imposed on Iran, by limiting crude purchases
from the world’s third-biggest exporter in order to halt its
nuclear program. The U.S. and  Israel  haven’t ruled out military
attacks. Iran denies allegations that it is seeking to build
atomic weapons.  The rial’s plunge has widened the gap between official and
market rates to a record, and shows Iranians don’t trust
assurances by politicians and financial officials that the
economy is safe, said Hossein Raghfar, an economics professor at
Al Zahra University in Tehran. The restriction of access to gold
has diverted demand to foreign currency, the most “liquid”
option, he said in a phone interview yesterday.  Accelerating inflation is also eroding the value of savings
in rials. The inflation rate rose to 19.8 percent in the 12
months through Nov. 21. The government expects it to reach 21.6
percent by the end of the Iranian calendar year on March 19 if
the country doesn’t experience an “economic shock,” Deputy
Economy Minister Mohammad-Reza Farzin said two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  