-- Iran-Ban Threat Pushes Tanker Hiring to Record: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2011-12-22T12:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/iran-ban-threat-pushes-tanker-hiring-to-record-chart-of-the-day.html
Europe ’s threat to ban cargoes from
Iran over the nation’s nuclear ambitions is helping push Middle
East oil-tanker hiring to a record on concern shipments from the
region will be disrupted, consultant FACTS Global Energy said.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how oil tankers booked to load 2
million-barrel cargoes of Gulf crude climbed to 140 in December,
the most since at least January 2005, according to data from
London-based shipbroker Galbraith’s Ltd. European Union foreign
ministers will meet Jan. 30 to discuss possible sanctions to
pressure Iran to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons program.  EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said Dec. 6 the
27-nation bloc may have reached a consensus on imposing a ban.
 Greece  blocked the measure at a summit on Dec. 1.  “Fear of potential Iranian sanctions has contributed
greatly to the increased shipments from the Persian Gulf,”
adding to seasonal gains in the last two months of the year,
said FACTS analyst  Roy Jordan , previously an oil trader at Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, where he worked for more than 30 years. “Some
of the refiners around the world are undoubtedly beginning to
get a little bit concerned about a reduction in exports.”  Oil traded in  New York  climbed the most in almost a month
on Dec. 13 after a report said Iran would hold military drills
in the Strait of Hormuz, a shipping lane handling a fifth of the
world’s crude shipments. Cargoes from the  Persian Gulf  grew 13
percent this year as demand from Asian refineries accelerated.  Charters reflect single voyage or spot tanker bookings, not
shipments arranged on longer-term freight contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  