-- Iraq Oil Output Has Reached a 20-Year High, Shahristani Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2011-12-22T16:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/iraq-oil-output-has-reached-a-20-year-high-shahristani-says-1-.html
Iraqi crude oil production jumped to
the highest level in at least 20 years, or more than 3 million
barrels a day, said Hussain al-Shahristani, deputy prime
minister for energy affairs.  Iraq ’s government, which takes complete control of the
country this month after the withdrawal of U.S. military forces,
will acquire unmanned drone aircraft to help protect pipelines
and related energy facilities that have been frequent targets of
sabotage, he said today in an interview in  Baghdad .  He spoke hours after nine bombs exploded in the capital
Baghdad, killing at least 57 people in attacks that underscored
instability and divisions as the U.S. ends almost nine years of
military presence in the country. Iraq holds the fifth-biggest
natural-gas reserves in the  Middle East  and the world’s fifth-
largest crude deposits, according to BP Plc data that include
Canadian  oil sands .  “Iraq’s crude production will rise to 3.4 million barrels
a day by the end of next year, and exports will rise to 2.6
million barrels a day, including 175,000 barrels from fields in
the northern Kurdish region, next year from a current average of
2.2 million barrels of oil a day,” he said.  Iraq’s first single-point mooring facility for  oil tankers 
will begin operating in January, he said. A second unit will be
in place within six months, a third one by the end of next year
and a fourth in 2013, he said. Each of the four facilities will
add 900,000 barrels a day of exporting capacity for crude oil,
he said.  Exxon Mobil  The Iraqi government is “weighing measures” that may be
taken against  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  after it signed contracts the
government considers illegal with authorities in the semi-
autonomous Kurdish region, Shahristani said. “We will wait for
Exxon Mobil’s answer before taking a decision.”  Exxon, which has not commented publicly on the matter, is
operating with Royal Dutch Shell Plc in southern Iraq at the
West Qurna field, one of the nation’s biggest.  “The contract that Exxon Mobil has signed for the
development of West Qurna Phase 1 commits the company to respect
Iraqi laws and the regulations of the Oil Ministry,” he said.
“Any contract brokered to develop, explore or produce crude oil
or gas in Iraq without the knowledge of the central government
is considered null and the company cannot work on the basis of
these kinds of contracts.”  Oil Exports  The Baghdad government is entangled in a dispute with
Kurdish regional authorities over crude revenue and refuses to
recognize production-sharing agreements signed by the Kurds with
foreign companies without its approval. The central government
agreed in February to resume exports from the semi-autonomous
region and has transferred two payments to foreign companies,
including  DNO International ASA (DNO) , operating in the area. The
companies have yet to receive a third payment.  Kurdistan is failing on its commitment to deliver 150,000
barrels a day, only shipping an average of 70,000 barrels a day
to 80,000 barrels a day, Shahristani said. The Kurds have also
failed to present a list of the wells and equipment in Kurdistan
that the central government has agreed to pay for in the
February accord that helped to resume crude exports from
Kurdistan.  “We will not pay without receiving the list,” he said.
“Iraq is not committed to pay any company that did not sign an
agreement with the Iraqi government.”  Iraq has signed 15 gas and oil licenses since the 2003
U.S.-led invasion that ousted former President  Saddam Hussein .
The government needs foreign investment and expertise to boost
energy exports and rebuild an economy shattered by years of
conflict, sanctions and sabotage. The Kurds on their part signed
contracts with more than 40 energy companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  