-- Baghdad Bombings Kill at Least 57 People as Shiite-Sunni Tensions Escalate
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2011-12-22T21:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/iraq-blasts-rock-baghdad-as-nine-explosions-kill-31-injure-more-than-140.html
     Dec. 23 (Bloomberg) --Bombings that targeted civilians
killed at least 57 people in  Baghdad  amid an escalation of
political infighting in Iraq that has followed the withdrawal of
U.S. troops.  The attacks yesterday also injured 176, Ziad Tariq, a
spokesman for the Health Ministry, said by phone from the
capital. Residential areas, schools and shops were hit, said
Qassim Atta al-Mousawi, spokesman for the security forces in
Baghdad. The blasts took place in mainly Shiite Muslim areas,
where security forces cordoned off neighborhoods and some
businesses shut for the day.  “The timing of the crimes and the choice of their areas
confirms again to all those in doubt the political nature of the
objectives that these people want to achieve,” Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki said in a statement on his website. There was no
immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks.  Tensions between al-Maliki’s Shiite-led allies and Sunni
politicians have intensified since a warrant was issued this
week for the arrest of Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni,
on terrorism charges.  The case comes amid concern that the U.S. pullout will
leave a security vacuum in  Iraq , which seeks investment and
expertise to develop the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves.
Iraqi crude oil production has jumped to the highest level in at
least 20 years, or more than 3 million barrels a day, Hussain
al-Shahristani, deputy prime minister for energy affairs, said
yesterday.  ‘Urgent’ Meeting  The leaders of parliamentary blocs plan to hold an
“urgent” meeting today to discuss the security and political
situation, according to a statement published yesterday on
parliament’s website. Shiites and Sunnis have been at odds for
more than a year over the formation of a unity government.  U.S. Vice President Joe Biden yesterday called Iraqi
President Jalal Talabani to offer “full support for his
efforts, and those of other Iraqi leaders, to foster dialogue
that will allow all Iraqi blocs to work through their
differences together,” according to a White House statement
released yesterday.  “Attempts such as this to derail Iraq’s continued progress
will fail,” the statement from White House press secretary  Jay
Carney  said. “Iraq has suffered heinous attacks like this in
the past, and its security forces have shown they are up to the
task of responding and maintaining stability.”  Criminal Actions  In a speech to mark the end of American operations in Iraq
on Dec. 15, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said that Iraq
would be tested by terrorism and those who seek to divide.  “The criminals and those behind them will not be able to
change the course of events or the political process and will
not escape the punishment that they will face sooner or later,”
al-Maliki said. “I call on religious, political, tribal and
national leaders to shoulder their responsibility at this
critical time and to stand by the security forces.”  The  Associated Press  reported there were 16 bombings in
Baghdad -- 14 in the morning and two in the evening -- and that
the death toll was at least 69, citing Iraqi health and police
officials.  Baghdad Governor Salah Abdul Razzak said in a statement
that “we reject resorting to violence as a reaction to a
political or judicial case. We heavily condemn the terrorist
attacks.”  Al-Hashimi, who fled to the semi-autonomous northern region
of Kurdistan, denied all charges on Dec. 20 and said he is ready
to testify in his defense in a trial in Erbil, Kurdistan’s
capital. He questioned the motivation for the accusations and
said the case was timed to coincide with the U.S. forces’
withdrawal.  TV ‘Confessions’  Three of al-Hashimi’s bodyguards were detained and said in
alleged confessions aired on state-run al-Iraqiya television on
Dec. 19 that they were paid to commit murders for him. Al-
Hashimi said the confessions were fabricated.  Al-Maliki said Dec. 21 his government will ask Kurdistan’s
authorities to hand over al-Hashimi and pledged to guarantee him
a fair trial in Baghdad.  “I don’t think that the whole issue is judicial, it rather
has political dimensions at this critical moment” when the U.S.
troops are leaving, Ferhad al-Atroshi, a Kurdish lawmaker, said
in a telephone interview yesterday from the Kurdish city of
Dahouk. Kurdistan shouldn’t hand over al-Hashimi because this
will further escalate tensions between the Sunni and Shiite
communities, he said.  Sunni Protest  A spokesman for the Kurdistan Regional Government wasn’t
available to comment on the case. Kurdistan President Massoud Barzani has called for urgent talks to avoid the collapse of the
political process.  One of Iraq’s largest political blocs, Iraqiya, which draws
support from Sunnis, announced the suspension of its
participation in parliament on Dec. 17.  Al-Maliki said Dec.21 that his deputy, Saleh al-Mutlaq, a
Sunni politician who had described him as a dictator in a recent
television interview, was on “extended leave.”  A ceremony a week ago in Baghdad marked the end of the  Iraq
war  that began in 2003. The U.S. deployment officially ends on
Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansari in Dubai at 
 kalansari@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  