-- It’s Time Hollywood Faced the Music Over Internet Piracy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-22T00:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/it-s-time-hollywood-faced-the-music-over-internet-piracy-view.html
After the payroll tax cut, the
hottest issue animating  Washington  these days is online piracy.
Legislation to curb overseas Internet sites that purvey pirated
copies of movies, television shows and other creative content is
steadily advancing.  Arms are being twisted, campaign checks written and
competing experts trotted out in a Titanic struggle between the
film industry (in favor of cracking down on the pirates) and
technology companies (against anything that blocks the free flow
of information over the Internet).  Under existing  law , television networks and film studios
can simply request that websites remove pirated videos. Sites
must quickly take down the content to avoid a lawsuit. The
system works -- without stifling anyone’s Internet use.  But because some overseas websites exist solely to
distribute bootleg content, and are beyond the reach of U.S.
law, Hollywood is seeking stronger protections. In essence, it
wants the right to require American companies to stop doing
business with entire websites.  There are two legislative approaches, both claiming broad
support -- and both flawed. The  House  and  Senate  Judiciary
committees are moving measures that would let the  Justice
Department  obtain court orders to certify sites as dedicated to
theft, at which point the entire online ecosystem --  search
engines ,  Internet service providers , payment processors and
advertising networks -- could be told to block the sites.  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , for example, could be required to remove a link to a site
so that it doesn’t come up in search results.  Financial Lifelines  Both bills would also let copyright holders obtain court
orders to choke off a site’s financial lifelines to advertisers,
credit-card companies and payment processors such as PayPal.  A more Internet-friendly House-Senate collaboration would
let copyright owners petition the U.S. International Trade
Commission to investigate foreign websites linked to piracy. The
ITC could issue cease-and-desist orders against rogue sites that
“primarily” and “willfully” violate copyright -- in other
words, only the most blatant infringers -- at which point U.S.
companies would have to cut ties to them.  Both approaches risk violating free-speech principles by
snuffing out entire websites, no matter how much the  film
industry  insists its sole aim is to shut down only purposeful
copyright theft. One example: It’s doubtful that the early
YouTube, indispensable to hundreds of millions of digerati
today, would be allowed to exist under the stiffer House
version, called SOPA, for the Stop Online Piracy Act.  SOPA and its Senate cousin, the Protect Intellectual
Property Act, could also prove overly disruptive -- Google
Chairman  Eric Schmidt  says they would “break the Internet” --
by allowing the film industry or, if that doesn’t work, the U.S.
to give domain-name registrars and advertising networks just
five days to cease directing traffic to a site or starve it of
ad revenue. It’s not hard to imagine how that might chill free
speech or be abused by a politically ambitious U.S. attorney
general.  The  measure  that relies on the  International Trade
Commission , for its part, is impractical. It would require that
individual artists and content creators hire lawyers who
practice before the ITC to litigate cases that could cost
millions of dollars and more than a year to complete. Only large
companies could afford their day in the ITC court.  But the more fundamental problem is that SOPA and its ilk
are too late. Anti-piracy legislation would only put a finger in
the digital dike. If the film industry thinks Congress can stop
nimble code-writing entrepreneurs (OK, hackers) from replacing
any movie-streaming sites the U.S. manages to shut down, it
hasn’t been paying attention.  Obliterated Sales  We sympathize with Hollywood, which is frantic to cut off
websites like  Sweden ’s thepiratebay.org, where bootleg films can
be downloaded free by anyone with a laptop and a broadband
connection. The film business, which says it loses more than $6
billion a year to piracy, doesn’t want to end up like the  music
industry , whose sales were obliterated once music-lovers learned
to download songs from file-sharing services.  But Hollywood can’t prevent that by trying to strangle
pirates. Its greater threat is its own antiquated business
model. The reality is that moviegoers, couch potatoes and Net
surfers want to download videos to laptops, tablets and
smartphones. They want to watch the latest Harry Potter movie or
“Modern Family” episode when and where it’s convenient.  The film industry can no longer expect to control
distribution to theaters, cable TV, network TV, overseas venues
and streaming services such as Netflix -- each one a separate
revenue source.  Music labels thought they lost control of their destiny
when Apple Inc.’s iTunes came along. In many ways, they did, but
music sales are on the upswing again because the convenience,
low cost and accessibility of iTunes, Spotify and similar
services have turned would-be music thieves into paying
customers. The film industry should take note.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 