-- Italy May Have to Kick Its Cash Habit as Monti Cracks Down on Tax Evaders
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2011-12-23T12:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/italy-attempts-to-kick-the-cash-habit-as-monti-cracks-down-on-tax-evaders.html
Floriana d’Andrea, a Naples
musician, carries rolls of euro notes when she buys instruments
and audio gear, a practice she’ll have to change as Italy sets
new limits on cash payments in a bid to curb  tax evasion .  “I bought some expensive sound equipment and the shop owner
jacked up the price when I asked for a receipt,” said d’Andrea,
41, who paid 1,600 euros ($2,093) in cash in the transaction.
She has a credit card, but rarely uses it, she said..  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , in office just over a month,
wants landlords, plumbers, electricians and small businesses to
stop conducting large transactions in cash, which critics say
helps them evade taxes. The government on Dec. 4 reduced the
maximum allowed cash payment to 1,000 euros from 2,500 euros.  “If they force us to use credit cards, prices will go
up,” said d’Andrea, noting that many retailers offer discounts
to customers who pay in cash and don’t demand a receipt, in
effect splitting with them the savings from evading the
country’s 21 percent sales tax. She may curtail future purchases
if she’s unable to use cash, d’Andrea said.  Italy  loses more than 120 billion euros in unpaid taxes
every year, according to the Equitalia  tax collection agency .
The country spends another 10 billion euros annually on security
and labor for processing cash transactions, according to banking
association  ABI .  Debt Crisis  Monti is focusing on curtailing evasion as one way to
reduce Italy’s 1.9 trillion-euro debt, which is bigger than
 Spain ,  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal ’s combined. Investor concern
that Italy remains at risk of being overwhelmed by the region’s
debt crisis pushed the country’s borrowing costs to euro-era
records last month.  Italian  consumer confidence  fell in December to the lowest
in 16 years as the crisis forced austerity measures and
intensified households’ concerns about a probable recession. The
sentiment index declined to 91.6, the lowest since January 1996,
from a revised 96.1 in November, national statistics office
Istat said in Rome today.  “Tracking cash payments won’t automatically ensure lower
evasion, which often involves transactions smaller than 1,000
euros,” said Luca Mezzomo, head of economic research at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA in Milan. The new measures “could, however, be a
good instrument for the tax authorities to identify people who
spend more than they’ve officially earned.”  Wedding Receptions, Renovations  The reform pits the government against some Italians who
prefer to pay for everything from wedding receptions to home
renovations with cash, allowing merchants to underreport or not
declare the revenue, and gaining a discount in exchange. Many
small companies pay salaries in cash, allowing employees to
report less income, the  Finance Ministry  said last year.  “Businesses make us accomplices, because nobody wants to
pay extra on a large transaction,” said Adele Costantini, a
professor of medicine in the southern region of Abruzzo, who had
to argue to get a receipt from a house painter. “I want them to
pay the tax, not unload it on me.”  Italians are the euro region’s least-indebted consumers and
among its biggest savers, according to data from the European
Union’s statistics office, Eurostat. Their frugality may be at
least partly linked to a distrust of paying with anything other
than cash. Italian credit-card holders use their cards on
average only 26 times per year, or five times less than in the
U.K., according to the  Bank of Italy .  ‘Culture of Cash’  “The culture of cash is strongly ingrained in Italians,
even those that don’t evade,” Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio
Grilli  said at a Dec. 5 press conference in Rome. The government
initially wanted to set a 300-euro or 500-euro cash limit but
decided against it, Grilli said, reasoning that citizens needed
time to adapt to new rules.  Italian banks, which charge businesses up to 2 percent for
 credit-card  transactions, could end up being the main
beneficiaries of the new rules, according to Rome-based consumer
group  Adusbef . “Unless banks cut fees on credit cards and
current accounts, they’ll just make more money from the new
law,” said Mauro Novelli, the general secretary of the
organization, which represents banking and insurance customers.  Consumer advocates say the new law also discriminates
against older Italians, many of whom don’t use credit cards. As
many as 7.5 million Italians have never had a bank account,
according to Adusbef. “The law cannot force old people to use
plastic or open bank accounts,” Novelli said.  Bank Fees  The government is negotiating with the banks to get them to
cut fees on credit cards and lower costs for bank accounts to
encourage the move away from cash, Grilli said Dec. 5.  Banks are willing to consider zero-cost current accounts
for low-income retirees and discuss credit-card costs “in light
of the government’s new measures,”  Giuseppe Mussari , head of
Rome-based ABI, said Dec. 11. However, lenders won’t “give
away” services that carry a cost for them, he said.  Italy’s tradition of saving won’t be at risk from the new
measures, said Nicola Borri, an economics professor at  Rome ’s
LUISS University. “Italians mainly use debit or credit cards
with stringent limits,” he said. “Financial instruments that
allow you to pile up debt are very limited in this country.”  Politicians have seized on the cash issue as a way to build
support among a public reluctant to change. “There’s a real
danger of crossing over into a fiscal police state,” former
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said at a political convention
on Nov. 27 in Verona, about two weeks after the debt crisis
toppled his government.  “What we need is a revolution in Italians’ thinking and
that takes time,” Monti told reporters on Dec. 5. “This is
meant to be a first step.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  