-- Japanese Stocks Slip as European Borrowing Binge Shows Financial Stress
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2011-12-22T06:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/japanese-stocks-snap-2-day-rally-as-europe-s-banks-devour-cash-from-ecb.html
     Dec. 22 (Bloomberg) --　Japanese  stocks  fell for the first
time in three days amid slow trading before a holiday as record
borrowing from the  European Central Bank  signaled how deeply the
debt crisis has damaged the financial system.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-
biggest lender by market value, slid 0.6 percent after banks
borrowed 489 billion euros ($638 billion) from the ECB, the most
ever in a single operation and about 70 percent more than
economists forecast.  Okuma Corp. (6103)  and other makers of  machine
tools  plunged after Bank of America Merrill Lynch said it’s
“bearish” on the sector.  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766)  fell 1.7
percent after the insurer agreed to buy U.S.-based Delphi
Financial Group Inc. for $2.7 billion.  “Banks want to secure cash to prepare for huge amounts of
debt maturing next year,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a Tokyo-based
senior strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. “The more money
banks get, the less stress they’ll have.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.8 percent to 8,395.16
at the 3 p.m. trading close in Tokyo, extending declines after
Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the country’s
economic recovery has paused. The broader Topix Index dropped
0.4 percent to 723.12. Trading volume on the gauge was about 28
percent below the 100-day average ahead of a public holiday
tomorrow. For the week, the Topix was little changed.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  slid 0.2 percent
today after the gauge added 0.2 percent yesterday, lifted by
energy and consumer shares. Equities in the U.S. fell earlier
after banks sought more funds from the ECB than economists
predicted. The ECB offered the three-year loans after Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  this week said bank rules prevent it
from buying more  government bonds  to fight the debt crisis.  ‘Stepping Up’?  “The ECB doesn’t seem to have stepped up to the plate for
bond buying, which I think is negative,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion. “At least
they are acting as a lender of last resort for banks.”  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group slid 0.6 percent to 2,164
yen.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender,
fell 0.3 percent to 326 yen.  Natural disasters at home and in Thailand have compounded
woes this year for companies including Toyota Motor Corp., and
Sony Corp., who are already facing reduced export demand. The
Topix has lost about 20 percent in 2011, surpassing a 14 percent
decline on the  broadest index  of  stocks (TPX)  in Europe, the epicenter
of the debt crisis. The  S&P 500 Index  has slipped 1.1 percent.  Winners, Losers  The impact of Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami has
largely  decided  the market’s biggest winners and losers this
year. Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the Fukushima nuclear
power plant wrecked in the disaster, dropped 89 percent, the
biggest decline on Topix. SxL Corp., a builder that has
benefited from reconstruction work, surged 250 percent.  Stocks extended declines today after Bank of  Japan  Governor
Shirakawa told the nation’s biggest business lobby that the
economic recovery has paused. The central bank yesterday lowered
its economic assessment for a second month, while refraining
from expanding its asset purchases and lending programs.  Japan’s economy will expand 2.2 percent in the 12 months
starting April as the country continues to rebuild from the
March earthquake, the cabinet office said after markets closed.
The projection is better that for all other Group of Seven
nations next calendar year, according to estimates by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  ‘Bearish’ On Toolmakers  Makers of computerized factory tools dropped today after
Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its rating on the sector to
“bearish.” Lower industrial production and the yen’s rise to
record-levels against the dollar suggest equipment orders will
drop next year, the brokerage said in a note to clients
yesterday.  Okuma, a manufacturer of drills and grinders, fell 8
percent to 484 yen after its rating was cut to “neutral” from
“buy.” Makino Milling Machine Co. slid 6.4 percent to 466 yen.  Tokio Marine Holdings dropped 1.7 percent to 1,713 yen
after agreeing to buy U.S.-based Delphi Financial Group for $2.7
billion in cash amid slowing Japanese demand. The deal price --
which includes a premium of about 71 percent, according to
Bloomberg data -- may have a “negative impact on the company’s
shares in the short term,” Wataru Otsuka, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 