-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Decrease to Lowest Since April 2008
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-22T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/jobless-claims-in-u-s-surprisingly-drop-to-lowest-level-since-april-200.html
Fewer Americans than forecast sought
jobless benefits and  consumer confidence  climbed, giving the
world’s largest economy a boost heading into 2012.  Unemployment claims  fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the week
ended Dec. 17, the lowest level since April 2008, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index improved to minus 45 in the period ended
Dec. 18 from a reading of minus 49.9 the prior week, marking the
biggest seven-day gain since January.  A decline in firings and the cheapest gasoline prices since
February are helping revive retail sales during the busiest
shopping season of the year. A stronger consumer, whose spending
accounts for 70 percent of the economy, raises the odds the U.S.
can ride out the debt crisis in  Europe  or failure by Congress to
extend tax cuts.  “Spending has looked pretty good so far, and continued job
and income growth will help maintain that,” said Samuel Coffin,
an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  New York , who projected
claims would fall to 365,000. “At some point, events in Europe
are likely to have some effect on activity, but we’re heading
into that headwind with a lot of momentum.”  Stocks rose on the improving jobs outlook, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a third day. The gauge
increased 0.8 percent to 1,254 at the close in New York.
 Treasury securities  also advanced, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 1.96 percent from 1.97 late
yesterday.  Survey Results  The  median forecast  of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected an increase in jobless claims to 380,000.
Estimates ranged from 355,000 to 400,000. The number of
applications has dropped by 40,000 over the past three weeks.  “This is great news,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S.
economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New
York, said in a note to clients. “One unexpectedly low number
can easily be a fluke. Two are interesting. Three are telling us
something real is happening in the labor market.”  The decrease in claims is consistent with payroll gains of
about 200,000 a month, Shepherdson said.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
fell by 79,000 in the week ended Dec. 10 to 3.55 million, the
lowest since September 2008.  In data out of Europe, economic growth in the U.K.
accelerated more than previously estimated in the third quarter
in a surge that the  Bank of England  says is unlikely to be
repeated as Europe’s debt crisis curbs bank lending and dents
confidence. Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent from the
previous quarter, faster than the 0.5 percent reported last
month, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .  Confidence Boost  The drop in firings in the U.S. may be helping boost
confidence. The Bloomberg comfort index rose last week to the
highest level in five months as all three components -- state of
the economy, buying climate and personal finances -- improved.  A monthly  expectations gauge  climbed to minus 17 for
December, a seven-month high.  Sentiment among Democrats advanced 12.1 points to minus
39.2, the highest since mid-June, while sentiment among
Republicans rose 2.1 points to minus 43.1.  The improvement in President Barack Obama’s approval rating
to 49 percent in an ABC News/ Washington  Post poll this week may
be behind the increase in optimism,  Gary Langer , president of
Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  “A slower pace of firing and stabilization in the broader
labor market are the likely sources for bolstered consumer
sentiment,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. “While challenges remain, it’s a
solid note to close what has been an otherwise discordant
2011.”  The figures are consistent with other findings. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of  consumer sentiment 
climbed to 69.9 in December, a six-month high, from 64.1 at the
end of November, the group said today.  Cheaper Gasoline  Lower fuel costs are probably also helping lift confidence.
The  price  of regular unleaded gasoline at the pump decreased to
$3.21 a gallon Dec. 20, its lowest since February, according to
AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group.  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)  is among retailers seeing a pickup in
sales at the start of the  holiday shopping season  without
resorting to bigger price cuts.  “Sales are robust, merchandise margins are strong,
operating margins are growing,” Alexander Smith, president and
chief executive officer at Pier 1, said on a Dec. 15 conference
call. Sales during the Thanksgiving weekend “increased 10
percent from last year and were achieved with modest levels of
discount.”  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  posted quarterly profit that beat analysts’
estimates, helped by stronger demand for home delivery.  More Shipments  “Consumer confidence remains at very low levels, but we
have seen improvement recently,” Mike Glenn, executive vice
president for market development at  Memphis , Tennessee-based
FedEx, said on a Dec. 15 earnings call. For 2012, “we expect
U.S. GDP to grow 2.2 percent.”  The economy grew less than previously estimated in the
third quarter, reflecting a smaller gain in  consumer spending ,
revised figures from the Commerce Department showed today. Gross
domestic product climbed at a 1.8 percent annual rate from July
through September, down from the 2 percent estimated last month.  The index of leading economic indicators signals the
economy will strengthen.  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months rose 0.5 percent after a 0.9
percent October increase, the research group said today.  Cuts in  government spending  and failure by Congress to
extend tax reductions represent clouds on the horizon. The U.S.
House of Representatives rejected this week carrying over into
2012 an expiring 2 percentage-point payroll tax cut and benefits
for the long-term unemployed. Should those measures not be
prolonged, GDP growth next year will be cut by about 0.6
percentage point, economists at IHS Global Insight estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  