-- Carter: Keeping Christmas, and Christmas Trees, Real
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2011-12-22T00:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/keeping-christmas-and-christmas-trees-real-commentary-by-stephen-carter.html
This has not been a great season for
the Christmas tree. First there was the short-lived federal
effort to add 15 cents to the price of a tree to support
promotion of the industry -- a fee derided by opponents as a
“ Christmas tree tax .”  Then there was the decision by the governor of  Rhode Island 
to display a “ holiday tree ” rather than a “Christmas tree.”
And let’s not forget the usual warnings from firefighters about
tree lights and dry needles.  True, the business of selling what is essentially a
temporary decoration remains huge. Americans will spend about
 $3.4 billion  on Christmas trees this year. But that figure
remains below pre-recession levels. Worse, only $800 million
will be spent on trees that are actually trees. The rest, alas,
will go to the makers of plastic replicas.  By volume, real trees still outsell fake ones, but the
trend favors the fakes. They are cheaper over the long run and
save time: No more trips to the nursery or the garden shop or
the tree farm, no more baling the tree and tying it atop the
car, no more struggling to seat it properly in the base. Plastic
trees are available fully decorated, and, as the jargon has it,
“pre-lit,” thus enabling the buyer to save more time still.
But the trend is in other ways enormously sad, the breaking of a
sustaining ritual of the American tribe.  Among the fondest of my childhood memories are freezing
Christmas Eve jaunts with my father, who often waited to buy the
family tree until prices hit rock bottom. Once we were back
home, Dad would string the lights as Mom played carols on the
piano and my brothers and sisters and I waited impatiently to
play our part in the ritual: hanging decorations on the boughs.  Gift of Sacrifice  My parents never spent much on gifts, but the gifts were
never the point. The value of our holiday rituals derived from
time they required, the sacrifice of other tasks in the communal
activity of preparation. We were not a religious family. Church
was no more a part of our Christmas celebration than it was of
our weekly life. Our tradition was sustained by the hard yet
ritualistic work of putting up the tree itself. As it turns out,
my parents’ secular yet sacrificial approach to Christmas
mirrored the holiday’s peculiar American history -- and helps
show what the nation is losing as we rush to make Christmas as
quick and easy as everything else.  The courts have generally regarded Christmas trees as
secular rather than religious symbols, thus clearing the way for
towns and cities (and the federal government) to erect their
own. Although some people remain uneasy with these rulings, the
judges basically have the matter right. Certainly the history is
on their side.  Recently I came across  an essay published in 1915 ,
defending the public tree as having caused people to “feel
together that glow of kindliness and good will which we call the
Christmas spirit.” The writer lauded the tree’s symbol as “an
idealistic, forward looking conception” that could only lead to
better government. What’s striking about his argument is that it
is addressing criticism of the municipal tree not from
secularists but from Christians: During the tree’s first century
on these shores, it was largely Protestants who opposed it.  The first large city to display a tree of its own was New
York, 100 years ago -- in the face of severe criticism from
churches. It was the retailers, not the religious, who demanded
the tree. According to the historian Stephen Nissenbaum, whose
excellent volume “The Battle for Christmas” is the definitive
tale of the holiday’s travails in the U.S., it was the forces of
commerce, not faith, that pressed to turn a day largely ignored
by American churches into the widely celebrated holiday it has
become.  A Forbidden Holiday  In the 18th and early 19th centuries, an America that was
largely Protestant or secular dismissed the Christmas
celebration as a decadent European tradition that had no proper
home in the newly founded republic. Churches shut their doors on
Christmas Day, and many Puritan communities forbade the holiday
for its frivolity. (Some towns required by law that businesses
remain open on Christmas.)  It was the rising retail trade that began to press for
change. By the early 19th century, Nissenbaum says, stores had
already adopted the image of  Santa Claus  in an effort to sell
their goods. Even the iconic Christmas tale “A Visit from St.
Nicholas” (now familiarly known as “The Night Before
Christmas”) benefited mainly the retail trade.  For African-Americans the holiday possesses a particular
historical resonance, for the Christmas season was the time when
slaves were often allowed to travel, to visit relatives on other
plantations, even, in some cases, to take time from their chores
to earn a little money of their own. This tradition followed the
European custom known as “ misrule ,” in which ordinary
hierarchies were inverted at Christmas, with servants sometimes
in charge of the household, children in charge of their parents
(another reason Protestants hated the season).  Misrule, Nissenbaum tells us, worked to the advantage of
retailers. In the early 19th century, it was not unusual for
members of the working class to wander about in inebriated mobs
on Christmas, singing outside the homes of the rich, refusing to
go away until they were given food or gifts. The children wanted
in on the fun. Parents, worried for the safety of their
offspring, tried to make staying in on Christmas just as
enjoyable by decorating their houses and exchanging presents.  Ironically, it was largely pressure from the working class,
combined with the demands of commerce, which created the legal
holiday. Workers got a day off, and retailers were able to sell
gifts. Some few churches fought a rearguard action -- even
today, there are Protestant houses of worship that hold no
Christmas services -- but in the end, nearly all the recusants
fell into line: Christmas had finally conquered American
Christianity.  Trees for Atheists  Despite this history, there are people today who look at a
Christmas tree and see a religious symbol -- but 200 years ago,
few did. Today, the public holiday is secular and commercial.
Less than 80 percent of Americans  call themselves Christians ,
but well more than 90 percent  celebrate Christmas , and
substantial numbers of atheists, agnostics and members of other
faiths put up trees.  Christmas, in short, has become the  great American secular
ritual . Scholars often describe ritual as the enemy of
modernity, in part because those who engage in ritual are often
unable to articulate precisely why they do what they do.
Performing the ritual, we find ourselves grasped tightly by
tradition and history rather than resisting their embrace. Here
one must give the scholars their due: Had I not so enjoyed those
Christmas Eve jaunts with my father, in search of the perfect
cheap tree, I doubt that I would have been quite so determined
to enlist my own children, pretty much from the time they could
walk, in the same adventure.  I have not entirely followed Dad’s example -- we do not,
for instance, wait until the last minute to find a tree -- but
what matters is the communal experience, the expenditure of time
in a shared preparation for the season. The plastic tree too
often represents a Cliffs’ Notes version of Christmas spirit.  We live in the era of the quick and easy. Just as we want
our political arguments small enough to fit on a bumper sticker
or in a tweet, we seem to want to expend as little effort as
possible on the demands of holiday ritual. Much of this change
is inevitable, and curmudgeons like me are no doubt a dying
breed. And an important part of American freedom is the freedom
to transform and even overturn traditions that others may value.
Still, I cherish the lesson of those Christmas Eve tree-hunts
with my busy father: Only through sacrifice, especially the
sacrifice of our precious time, is it possible to build the
common spirit of generosity and goodwill that Christmas
represents, and the world so desperately needs.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 