-- King Says ESRB Saw Crisis Conditions ‘Worsened’ Since September
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2011-12-22T16:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/king-says-esrb-saw-crisis-conditions-worsened-since-september.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King , speaking as vice chairman of the European Systemic Risk
Board, comments on risks to  Europe ’s financial system. He made
his comments at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  On changes to the outlook:  “In September, the ESRB characterized the crisis as a
threat to systemic stability, and since then overall conditions
have worsened. Reflecting this, European government bond markets
continue to be impaired. Investors lack confidence to provide
normal levels of finance.  “The ESRB looking ahead notes the decisions taken thus far
by both head of states and European authorities. The swift and
decisive implementation of those decisions is of upmost
importance.”  On the state of alert and European Central Bank measures:  “The warning lights are sufficiently red.”  “We focused on funding pressures and the actions taken by
the ECB will ease funding pressures and you’ll see evidence of
that over the next six months.”  “The ultimate objective of these measures should be to
restore the function of banks to provide adequate lending.  “The intervention by central bank is expected to assuage
funding problems in the near term, in the longer term private
funding markets must be revitalized.”  On a country leaving the euro:  “There was no discussion of that at the ESRB and all
financial institutions are advised to prepare for a wide range
of contingencies.”  On bank capital needs:  “Over the next six months, it is vital that banks increase
the capital in their institutions and not feel the way they meet
the ratio is to reduce lending to the real economy.  “We do not want to encourage banks to meet their targets”
by cutting lending.  On nationalization of certain institutions and rating
downgrades:  “We discussed neither of those two issues.’  On measures to tackle the crisis:  “We’ve always been quite adamant in all occasions also in
the date running up to decisions that it should be a
comprehensive package, having recapitalization, some funding
guarantees addressing the funding problems, strengthening of the
EFSF. In a sense we’ve been disappointed. A sequencing problem
is there. It’s important all the measures are put into place as
soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  