-- Komatsu Sees Record Year for Mining Equipment Sales on China
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2011-12-22T04:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/komatsu-sees-record-year-for-mining-equipment-sales-on-china.html
Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-
biggest mining equipment maker, expects global demand for its
machines to reach a fresh record next year, fueled by  China  and
 India ’s search for coal, iron ore and copper.  Industry wide sales of dump trucks, excavators and
bulldozers and other mining equipment will climb at least 10
percent to 6,600 units in the year starting April 1 after
jumping 24 percent or more this year, Kazuhiko Iwata, the
president of Komatsu’ mining equipment division, said.  Mining companies are pressing ahead with projects in
Indonesia,  Australia  and Chile and haven’t been deterred by
 Europe ’s debt crisis or the slowing global economy, Iwata said.
Komatsu and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  are relying on sales to mining
companies after China slowed public works and housing projects,
curbing demand in the world’s largest market.  “Demand for mining equipment is growing as China and other
emerging countries need resources,” Iwata said yesterday in an
interview in  Tokyo  where Komatsu is based.  The company’s sales from mining equipment will increase 30
percent to 543 billion yen ($6.9 billion) in the year to March
31, the company said in a Dec. 12 presentation to investors. The
proportion of its mining-related sales has more than doubled to
29.4 percent from 13.9 percent in 2003, it said. Komatsu
supplies trucks and excavators to companies including  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO) ,  Vale SA (VALE3)  and  China Shenhua Energy Co. (601088)  and Codelco.  Mining Demand  Komatsu is “benefiting from demand for large machines used
in mining, given a limited number of players and growing demand
for resources,” said  Yoku Ihara , an investment adviser at
Retela Crea Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Caterpillar last month offered as much as HK$6.89 billion
($886 million) to buy China’s ERA Mining Machinery Ltd.,
following its $8.8 billion acquisition of Bucyrus International
Inc. in July.  Komatsu, which doesn’t produce underground mining
equipment, intends to enter the business through acquisitions or
in-house product development, Iwata said. The company is looking
for a partner with technology to develop value-added products
such as driverless machines, he said.  “As a late comer, offering the same products as existing
models wouldn’t place Komatsu in a good position in the
market,” Iwata said. Komatsu has held “no concrete talks” on
possible acquisitions.  Komatsu dropped 1.9 percent to 1,819 yen at 1:02 p.m. in
Tokyo, taking its decline for year to 26 percent.  China’s market for excavators, mostly used in construction,
will shrink 20 percent to 89,000 units in the year to March
2012, while gains in Japan and other regions in Asia and  North
America  are set to offset the decline, according to an Oct. 25
 estimate  by  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 