-- Korean Won Declines, Snapping Two-Day Gain, on European Crisis
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2011-12-22T08:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/korean-won-declines-snapping-two-day-gain-on-european-crisis.html
South Korea ’s won snapped a two-day
advance as the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to lend euro-area
banks a record amount for three years stopped short of
convincing investors that it will contain the region’s crisis.  The Frankfurt-based ECB awarded 489 billion euros ($641
billion) in 1,134-day loans yesterday, the most ever in a single
operation and said 523 banks asked for the funds. The won’s loss
may be limited after foreign investors bought the most Kospi
index stocks in three weeks yesterday and as exporters are
“inclined to settle their year-end deals,” according to Lee Jung Hyun, a dealer at state-run Industrial Bank of Korea.  “ Europe ’s move doesn’t provide a permanent solution to the
crisis and the euro weakened, showing investors aren’t
confident,” Seoul-based Lee said. “Nevertheless, the won’s
downside is limited as the market is backed by deals from
exporters and yesterday’s big foreign purchases of stocks.”  The won fell 0.6 percent to 1,156.15 per dollar in  Seoul ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has lost
1.2 percent this month, the worst performance among the 10 most-
traded Asian currencies excluding the yen.  Overseas investors purchased a net 329.9 billion won ($287
million) of shares in Kospi companies yesterday, the most since
Dec. 1, and sold 25 billion won more shares than they bought
today, according to data from Korea Exchange Inc.  “With the case of  North Korea , one shouldn’t extend that
to something too dramatic, and one should use that as an
opportunity to buy stocks because the Korean exporters are very
strong,” Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of multi-asset
strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd. said on Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Government bonds  were little changed. The yield on South
Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September 2016 stood at 3.51
percent, unchanged from yesterday, Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  