-- Bouygues Telecom to Buy KPN’s Simyo as French Competition Grows
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2011-12-22T10:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/kpn-to-sell-simyo-virtual-mobile-operation-in-france-to-bouygues-telecom.html
Bouygues Telecom (EN)  agreed to take over
 Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s Simyo mobile-phone brand in  France , securing
customers already using its network as competition grows in the
country’s wireless industry.  The sale of KPN France, which operates Simyo as a mobile
virtual-network operator using Bouygues Telecom’s antennas for a
fee, will probably be completed this quarter, the Dutch company
said today in a  statement . Simyo serves about 180,000 French
prepaid customers, it said. KPN, which is based in the Hague,
and Paris-based Bouygues Telecom declined to disclose a price.  A fourth mobile-phone operator,  Iliad SA (ILD) , is scheduled to
begin service in France next year. Iliad founder Xavier Niel has
pledged to drive down prices in a market dominated by  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange, Vivendi SA’s SFR unit and Bouygues Telecom.
Thorsten Dirks, head of KPN’s international mobile-phone unit,
said on Nov. 30 that the French market is “difficult.”  KPN’s proceeds from the sale will probably be “relatively
insignificant, less then 20 million euros ($26.2 million),”
Victor Bareno, an analyst at SNS Securities, said in a note.  The Dutch company will remain active in France through its
Ortel Mobile brand, another virtual network operator
specializing in international calls that’s also present Belgium,
Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Switzerland, KPN said today.  KPN fell as much as 0.2 percent to 8.96 euros and was down
0.1 percent at 11:10 a.m. in Amsterdam. The stock has declined
18 percent this year. Bouygues SA, the French operator’s parent
that’s also the country’s second-biggest construction company,
gained 0.9 percent to 23.80 euros in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  