-- NCAA Denies Claims in Head Injury Suit by Ex-Collegiate Athletes
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ncaa-denies-claims-in-head-injury-suit-by-ex-collegiate-athletes.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  denied claims in a lawsuit filed by former college
football players who accuse it of profiting from athletes while
neglecting those who suffer concussions.  The response, filed yesterday in federal court in Chicago,
addresses claims raised in a class-action lawsuit brought by 25-
year-old Adrian Arrington, a former football player for Eastern
 Illinois  University. Where it doesn’t deny the allegations, the
NCAA says it is “without knowledge” of the practices that
Arrington and other athletes say show a failure to enforce
safety measures to protect players from head injuries.  The NCAA said in the court filing that it earned revenue of
$749.8 million in the 2009-2010 season, and that it doesn’t pay
salaries to student-athletes. The organization also responded to
arguments that it doesn’t require its member institutions to
educate athletes about reporting concussions and their symptoms.  “Each member institution is responsible for protecting the
health of its student-athletes,” according to the filing. The
NCAA said that “for decades it has provided appropriate
information and guidance on concussions to its member
institutions” and encourages those schools to educate athletes
about “symptoms associated with concussions.”  Wide Receiver  In one of the cases consolidated in the  Chicago  court,
former University of Central Arkansas wide receiver Derek K.
Owens and former Northwestern University offensive lineman Alex
Rucks allege the NCAA turned a blind eye to coaches who teach
players to use their heads for tackling, failed to establish a
system for screening head injuries and shirked its financial
obligations to injured student athletes.  The lawsuits seek to represent all ex-student football
players who sustained concussions and developed chronic
headaches, dizziness and mental or physical problems and
incurred doctor bills for the illnesses after college.  The complaints seek a court order barring coaching of
tackling methods that can cause head injuries and establishing a
policy for when players can return to play after a head injury.
It also asks for a program to medically monitor ex-players and
unspecified damages.  The cases are Arrington v. NCAA, 11-6356, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago), and Owens v.
NCAA, 11-6816, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  