-- Nets Center Brook Lopez to Undergo Surgery for Stress Fracture in Foot
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-23T00:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/nets-center-brook-lopez-to-undergo-surgery-for-stress-fracture-in-foot.html
New Jersey Nets center Brook Lopez
will undergo surgery tomorrow to repair a stress fracture in his
foot that will sideline him indefinitely, potentially affecting
the team’s chances of acquiring All-Star  Dwight Howard .  Lopez, 23, broke the fifth metatarsal of his right foot
during an exhibition game last night against the  New York
Knicks , the Nets said today in an e-mailed statement. No
timetable was given for his return. The season begins Dec. 25.  The Nets later today acquired center Mehmet Okur from the
 Utah Jazz  in exchange for a future second-round draft pick, Jazz
General Manager Kevin O’Connor said in an e-mail statement
released by the team.  Okur, 32, a 2007 National Basketball Association All-Star,
is entering his 10th NBA season. The Turkish native appeared in
13 games for  Utah  last season, averaging 4.9 points and 2.3
rebounds per contest.  Lopez, who has never missed a game in three seasons in the
 National Basketball Association , averaged a team-high 20.4
points per contest last year for the Nets, who finished with a
24-58 record.  Such an injury usually requires about three months before
someone can begin training again, according to Alexis Colvin, an
orthopedic surgeon who is an assistant professor of medicine at
Mount Sinai School of Medicine in  New York . Colvin is not
specifically familiar with Lopez’s case.  “We typically don’t let people put weight on it for about
six weeks after the surgery,” Colvin said in a telephone
interview. “Probably about six weeks after that he’d be allowed
to start training.”  The injury, which is typically fixed with a screw or a
plate, is one that usually heals without complications, Colvin
said.  Possible Trade  Lopez is one of the main assets that the Nets would use to
acquire All-Star center Howard, who is in the final year of his
contract with the  Orlando Magic . He’s named the Nets as one of
the franchises to which he’d accept a trade before he becomes a
free agent.  The NBA has yet to announce a trade deadline for its
season, which was shortened to 66 games per club from the
typical 82. Last season’s was Feb. 24.  Lopez played 21 minutes last night, scoring 15 points and
grabbing nine rebounds in the game at Madison Square Garden in
New York. The Knicks won 88-82.  It was the second and final preseason contest for both
teams following a five-month work stoppage. The Nets, who are
moving to the new Barclays Center in the Brooklyn borough of New
York next year, open their season Dec. 26 at the  Washington
Wizards .  The team, which re-signed forward  Kris Humphries  yesterday,
also has center Johan Petro on its roster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  