-- New York City Budget Deficits May Ease With Job Growth, IBO Report Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-22T19:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/new-york-city-s-budget-deficits-may-ease-with-job-growth-ibo-report-says.html
New York ’s economy may grow more
than Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has predicted, making balancing the
budget in the next three years less difficult than city
officials had forecast, an independent monitoring agency said.  The  Independent Budget Office , a nonpartisan research
agency, said the city may create 89,000 jobs by 2014. That’s
about 27,000 more than the mayor’s estimate, which would reduce
future budget gaps, the agency said. New York closed a “small”
$242 million deficit in this year’s $70.8 billion  budget ,
according to the IBO.  “Our tax-revenue projections for 2013 and beyond are
increasingly stronger than those of the Bloomberg administration
and help narrow the projected shortfalls,” the IBO said in a
report released today.  The office said the city still faces risks from the
European debt crisis and political gridlock in  Washington .
Locally, the deficit could widen if unresolved contract
negotiations force larger labor expenses, and if federal and
state aid continues to decline, the report said.  State law requires the mayor to present a preliminary
budget to the City Council by the first week of February.
Throughout his 10-year tenure, Bloomberg has said he favors
conservative estimates of economic growth, erring on the side of
less revenue, in drafting his financial plans.  ‘Less Daunting’  The IBO estimated a $1.2 billion budget shortfall in 2013,
about $800 million less than Bloomberg predicted in November,
when he modified the city’s multiyear financial plan. For 2014,
the agency forecast a $2.2 billion gap, or $1.7 billion less
than the mayor’s. Its deficit estimate for 2015 of $1.9 billion
came in almost $3 billion below Bloomberg’s.  “The fiscal road for the coming years as mapped under
IBO’s revenue and spending projections poses challenges that are
considerably less daunting than the city has faced over the past
few years,” the report said.  The IBO analysis followed Dec. 15 reports from state
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  and city Comptroller  John Liu , who
each predicted that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and reduced
state and federal aid may combine with increased costs to create
budget deficits even larger than the mayor predicted in a
November modification.  ‘Tough Road Ahead’  “Some have said deficits are larger than we projected,
others have said lower, but everyone agrees we still have a
large hole to fill, even with a billion dollars in new taxi-
medallion revenue,” said  Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral spokesman.
“We have a tough road ahead and will continue to take the same
proven approach.”  This week Governor  Andrew Cuomo  struck a deal with
lawmakers that will let New York City sell an additional 2,000
taxi medallions and permit so-called car services to pick up
passengers who hail them outside  Manhattan .  The IBO said 38,800 jobs would be created in 2012 and
49,900 in 2013, concentrated in health and education, tourism
and professional and business services. Some of those gains may
be offset by job losses in the financial industry and in
government.  Weak economic growth, regulatory constraints and declining
Wall Street profits may cost more than 5,200 finance jobs in the
second half of 2011 and the first half of 2012, the report said.
After 2013, the IBO predicts that every major industry in the
local economy except manufacturing will add jobs, with gains
averaging 54,900 jobs a year in 2014 and 2015.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 