-- New York Giants Have a 28% Chance of Making NFL Playoffs, Oddsmakers Say
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-23T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/new-york-giants-have-a-28-chance-of-making-nfl-playoffs-oddsmakers-say.html
The  New York Giants  have a 28
percent chance of making the National Football League playoffs
by winning their final two games, according to oddsmakers.  If the Giants (7-7) beat the New York Jets on Dec. 24 and
then the  Dallas  Cowboys in their regular-season finale Jan. 1,
they would win the National Football Conference’s East division
and return to the postseason for the first time in three years.  “If you said at the beginning of the season we would be in
this position -- have two games left and knowing if you win
you’re in the playoffs -- you’d take it every time,” Giants
quarterback Eli Manning told reporters. “That’s a spot you want
to be in. We’re here. Now it’s how we handle it.”  The Giants are 3-point underdogs against the Jets and would
be listed as 2.5-point favorites against the Cowboys on Jan. 1,
Las Vegas oddsmakers said. Those point spreads put the Giants’
chances of making the playoffs at 28 percent, RJ Bell, the
founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping information website
 Pregame.com , said yesterday.  The Cowboys have a 60 percent chance of taking the NFC East
title, while the  Philadelphia Eagles ’ odds of making the
postseason stand at 12 percent. The Cowboys host the Eagles on
Christmas Eve and are 2-point favorites.  Dallas leads the NFC East with an 8-6 record, with the
Giants at 7-7 and the Eagles at 6-8.  To make the postseason, Philadelphia has to win its final
two games and also needs the Giants to lose to the Jets and then
beat the Cowboys. Dallas would clinch the NFC East title this
week with a win and a Giants loss.  Need Losses  “We need some teams to lose,” Eagles running back  LeSean McCoy , the NFL’s leading rusher, told reporters. “But what we
can control is just winning games. This is one of the games that
we need to win, so I think that probably drives us a little
more.”  The  Denver Broncos , who have won seven of their last nine
games with  Tim Tebow  at quarterback, have an 86.5 percent chance
of winning the American Football Conference’s West division
title and earning a playoff berth.  The Broncos lead the division at 8-6 and are favored in
their final two games, at Buffalo and at home against  Kansas
City . The  Oakland Raiders  and  San Diego  Chargers are 7-7 in the
division, and the Chiefs are still alive at 6-8.  The Raiders, with games against Kansas City and San Diego,
have the second-best chance at winning the division at 6
percent, according to Pregame.com.  The Chiefs are at 5 percent and the Chargers, who close
with games in Detroit and Oakland, have a 2.5 percent shot at
the division title. The Broncos can clinch the AFC West title on
Christmas Eve by beating Buffalo and having Oakland lose to
Kansas City.  Wild-Card Berth  The odds for the final wild-card playoff berth in the
American Football Conference aren’t yet available at
Pregame.com, since it can’t be clinched this week and six teams
are in the running. The  New York Jets  are among them and could
lock up the spot by beating the Giants and then the  Miami
Dolphins .  The Las Vegas point spreads aren’t the only odds against
the Giants, who rank last among the NFL’s 32 teams with 86.1
yards rushing a game.  Since the current playoff format was introduced in 1990,
only two teams reached the postseason with the league’s worst
rushing attack: the  Arizona Cardinals  in 2008 and the
 Indianapolis Colts  in 2009. Both those teams advanced to the
 Super Bowl .  The Giants have set a franchise record with 4,186 yards
passing, third in the NFL. They last finished among the league’s
top three teams in passing yardage in 1973, and Manning said he
realizes the pressure will be on him to play well the next two
weeks.  “These last two games will dictate a lot of things and
whether our season can be a good season or not,” he said. “I
need to play my best football in these last games.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  