-- Nothing Predicted Happened in 2011
-- B y   K e n   W e l l s
-- 2011-12-22T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/nothing-predicted-happened-as-men-conspired-with-nature-in-2011.html
Rampaging natural catastrophes,
global financial calamities, the deaths of despots and
desperados, the passing of America’s greatest modern technical
innovator and roiling protests that shook the Arab world and
occupied  Wall Street  -- they made 2011 a year that will be
 remembered  for its almost unrelenting turmoil.  While earthquakes, tsunamis, nuclear meltdowns, tornadoes,
wildfires, flood and hurricanes roared from the natural world, a
tidal wave of sovereign debt threatened to fracture the economic
one, shaking the foundations of the 18-year-old European Union
and its common currency and whipsawing U.S. equity markets in
the process. Uprisings known collectively as the Arab Spring
spread from Tunisia in January to rock Egypt, liberate Libya and
threaten the Assad regime in Syria.  It was a bad year to be a dictator or terrorist. Hosni Mubarak of Egypt is on trial in the country he once ran, Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  was hunted down and killed by rebels
and Osama bin Laden, mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, was shot to
death by U.S. Navy Seals in a raid on his Pakistan compound. A
missile fired by a U.S. drone in Yemen killed al-Qaeda operative
Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born Muslim cleric accused of helping to
plot attacks on Americans.  This month, the U.S. ended the war in Iraq after almost
nine years, with the last combat troops rolling out on Dec. 18.
That, and bin Laden’s death, were among the “notable” positive
developments in a year few will be sorry to see go, said Lee
Clarke, a professor of sociology at Rutgers University in New
Brunswick,  New Jersey .  ‘Uncertainty Everywhere’  “What seems most compelling about so many of the events of
2011 is their uncanny similarity to the narrative that began to
unspool in 1932, when the full shock of the Great Depression’s
impact began to be fully absorbed,” said David M. Kennedy, the
Pulitzer-prize winning historian and McLachlan Professor of
History emeritus at Stanford University. “The implosion of
over-stressed established regimes, the demonstrated obsolescence
of vested ways of thinking, the emergence of new leaders, new
ideas, new institutions, new ways of life -- the ‘new normal’ in
realm after realm around the world.”  It suggests that “the age of American global hegemony is
almost certainly winding down,” Kennedy said, and that 2011
“might mark the definitive end of the post-World War II and
post-Cold War eras, and prove the portal to a future in which
there are many more powerful and ambitious players on the world
stage, more bitter political contestation at home, and more
uncertainty everywhere than at any time since the 1930s.”  ‘Scary Year’  Still, James E. Mueller, a historian at the University of
North Texas Mayborn School of Journalism in Denton, said he
thinks perspective is in order.  “My take on 2011, and most years, is that we’ve seen it
all before,” said Mueller, who is writing a book on the events
leading to the 1876  Battle of the Little Bighorn , where George
Custer and his 7th Calvary Regiment were routed by Indian
tribes. The country was in deep recession, Native American
uprisings threatened to uproot settlers from much of the West
and former Confederate army units were fighting an insurgency
throughout the South, with omens of rekindling the Civil War.  “That was a scary year,” Mueller said. “Life is always
tough, the news is always sensational, but we seem to always
muddle through somehow.”  The U.S. wasn’t immune from protest in 2011, though it came
in gentler form than it did for  Egypt  or Libya. In September,
members of the Occupy Wall Street movement began camping in
Lower Manhattan’s Zuccotti Park. Organizers said they wanted to
bring attention to U.S. income equality and what they consider
to be the corrosive role of Wall Street in the economic crisis.  Nuclear Meltdown  The occupation ended on Nov. 15 when police moved in, took
down tents and arrested about 200 protesters. The movement
sparked similar protests in other cities around the globe.  Worldwide in 2011, natural disasters, led by the March 11
Japan earthquake and tsunami, took a $350 billion chunk out of
the economy, according to reinsurer Swiss Re Ltd. Insurers were,
in a way, lucky, with Swiss Re saying they are on the hook for
only $108 billion of those losses.  The Japanese temblor and giant wave, which set off the
Fukushima nuclear power-plant meltdown, amounted to the
costliest of the calamities, with more than 15,000 dead and
3,400 missing, according to  Japan ’s National Police Agency, and
$35 billion in insured damages.  One month before, a magnitude-6.3 quake struck
Christchurch, New Zealand’s second-largest city, toppling
buildings, trapping office workers and killing 181 people.
Damage was estimated at $12 billion.  Torrential Rain  The U.S. took a beating from natural disasters as well,
suffering $52 billion in damage through November, according to
the federal  National Climatic Data Center .  The biggest hit came from tornadoes roaming across the Ohio
Valley and Southeastern U.S. in April that killed 321, pummeled
metropolitan areas such as Tuscaloosa, Alabama, and Chattanooga,
Tennessee, and resulted in $10.3 billion in losses. In August,
Hurricane Irene dropped torrential rain across  Connecticut ,
 Vermont  and other parts of the Northeast, resulting in flooding
that caused at least 45 deaths and $7.3 billion damages, the
center said in a report.  Then  Virginia  and much of the East Coast were shaken by a
 5.8 magnitude earthquake  that rattled the ground in more than 11
states, though it caused minimal damage. The tremor, whose
epicenter was 84 miles southwest of  Washington , was the largest
to strike Virginia since 1897.  Debt Crises  While worldwide natural catastrophes garnered headlines,
world leaders sought to avoid financial disasters. The European
debt crisis, simmering since late 2009, escalated in April as
 Portugal  joined  Greece  in seeking a bailout; Ireland followed in
November. With hundreds of billions of dollars in sovereign debt
and the stability of Spain and Italy in question, European
leaders on Dec. 19 shored up their anti-crisis arsenal,
channeling 150 billion euros ($196 billion) to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Prospects that the euro zone could fall apart have been at
the heart of world stock market volatility. The costs would be
“horrific,” Paul Donovan, deputy head of global economics at
UBS AG, told Bloomberg Television Dec. 16, risking “a global
depression on the scale of the 1930s.”  The U.S. had its own debt struggles. In August,  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the country’s long-term sovereign debt rating to
AA+ from AAA, as Congress reached an 11th-hour accord to raise
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The change came, the ratings
company said, because the debt deal wouldn’t “stabilize the
government’s medium-term debt dynamics.” The Obama
administration called the move “political.”  Fed Documents  So far, the downgrade seems to have hurt little but
America’s pride. Dollar-denominated financial assets have been
appreciating since the Aug. 5 decision, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Government bonds have returned 3.8
percent, the dollar has gained 7.2 percent relative to a basket
of currencies and the S&P 500 Index of stocks has rallied 3.7
percent. Borrowing costs have fallen to record lows, with the
average monthly yield in November on 10-year notes below 2
percent for the first time since 1950. The U.S. was seen as the
best performing market in the world among international
investors in a Bloomberg poll this month.  U.S. economic policy was in the news in March when the
Supreme Court upheld a lower-court decision and ordered the
 Federal Reserve  to release the details of emergency loans it
made to banks in 2008. The records had been sought by Bloomberg
News’s parent company, Bloomberg LP, in a lawsuit after the Fed
refused a federal Freedom of Information Act request.  Hacking Scandal  The data showed, among other things, that banks took tens
of billions of dollars in emergency loans at the same time they
were assuring investors their firms were healthy. On their
neediest day, Dec. 5, 2008, the banks were in trouble so deep
they required a combined $1.2 trillion, Bloomberg reported.  Across the Atlantic, another media company became a story.
News Corp., controlled by Rupert Murdoch, closed its News of the
World tabloid in July after revelations that staffers had been
involved in hacking the mobile phone of a slain crime victim.  The scandal has led to at least 16 arrests, among them  Andy Coulson , a former News of the World editor and one-time
communications chief for Prime Minister David Cameron, and the
resignation of several senior Murdoch lieutenants. On Dec. 20,
the company’s British publishing unit said it resolved seven
civil lawsuits over the interception of celebrities’ voice-mail
messages to get scoops for the tabloid.  Throughout the year, the world was riveted by violent
crimes, and sensational allegations.  Mass Shootings  In January, Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , an Arizona
Democrat, was shot in the head in Tucson while she met with
constituents at a supermarket. The alleged gunman, 22-year-old
Jared Lee Loughner, killed six people, including a federal
judge, and wounded 12 others besides Gifford. Loughner
potentially faces the death penalty.  In May, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the French national heading
the International Monetary Fund, quit after sexual assault
allegations by a  New York  hotel worker landed him in jail under
$5 million bond. Charges were dropped in August after
prosecutors decided the accuser had repeatedly lied. The ex-IMF
chief still faces a civil lawsuit over the matter.  Another mass shooting captured global attention in July. In
Norway, 32-year-old  Anders Behring Breivik  set off a bomb in
Oslo and later attacked a summer camp, murdering 77 civilians,
many of them teenagers, some as young as 14.  London  Riots  While Breivik had written extensively about what he called
“cultural Marxism” and rising “Islamization” in his country,
Norwegian forensic psychiatrists in November declared him insane
at the time of the attack, saying he suffered from paranoid
schizophrenia. He faces lifelong compulsory psychiatric
treatment and likely will avoid a prison term, authorities said.  The next month, riots spread across London, Manchester and
other cities and towns in the U.K., killing five, resulting in
more than 3,300 arrests and causing an estimated $328 million in
damage. British police, caught by surprise, were criticized for
not stepping in more quickly or firmly in some cases. The
uprisings’ causes -- with some blaming racism and poverty,
others a culture of entitlement -- are still being debated.  The riots cast a pall across Britain in what had been a
year uplifted by the April 29 marriage of Prince William to Kate Middleton in Westminster Abbey. As many as 1 million people
lined London’s streets, and an estimated 2 billion watched on
television. By some estimates, the wedding added about 620
million pounds ($971 million) to the country’s tourism revenue.  Steve Jobs  In the U.S. one of America’s leading public schools, Penn
State University, was rocked in November when Jerry Sandusky, a
former assistant to legendary football coach Joe Paterno, was
accused of sexually assaulting or having inappropriate contact
with at least eight underage boys on or near school property
over a 15-year period. A grand jury returned a 40-count
indictment against Sandusky, who has said he is innocent. The
university fired Paterno and President Graham Spanier, saying
neither had done enough after the allegations first surfaced.  The death in October of Apple Inc. co-founder Steve Jobs,
who had pancreatic cancer, precipitated a global outpouring.
Mourners flocked to Apple stores from New York to  Hong Kong ,
while a crowd gathered in San Francisco’s Mission Dolores Park
for an iPhone-lit vigil.  Jobs wasn’t simply a pivotal player in ushering in the age
of personal computers, he was a digital visionary who changed
the way music and movies are distributed and who, with the
invention of the iPhone, took the concept of the cell phone to
heights unimagined by competitors. He was 56.  Another death, of North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il on Dec.
17, elevated to the head of the nuclear state his son, Kim Jong Un, about whom little is known, including his exact age.  As the year drew to a close, President Barack Obama marked
the end of the war in  Iraq  with a military ceremony at Joint
Base Andrews outside Washington. An estimated 4,500 U.S.
personnel were killed and about 32,000 were wounded in the
conflict. The war cost the U.S. more than $800 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ken Wells in New York at 
 Kwells8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  