-- U.S. Clearing Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Takeover Moves Final Approval to Europe
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r ,   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2011-12-22T20:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/nyse-deutsche-boerse-merger-given-u-s-approval-pending-direct-edge-sale.html
NYSE Euronext’s (NYX)  acquisition by
 Deutsche Boerse AG  was cleared by the  U.S. Department of
Justice , putting the transaction in the hands of European
antitrust authorities who have resisted approval.  U.S. regulators, who in May blocked  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
from pursuing a hostile bid for the New York Stock Exchange
owner, agreed today to allow the purchase by Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse as long as the company sells its 31.5 percent
stake in another U.S. equity market, Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  Scrutiny of the proposed acquisition has been greater in
Europe where the merger would unite the region’s two biggest
derivatives exchanges, NYSE’s Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex.
In the U.S., trading in interest-rate, agricultural and
commodity futures is dominated by one company, CME Group Inc.,
after it merged with the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007 and the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2008.  “It wasn’t the main stumbling block for the NYSE- Deutsche
Boerse  deal,” Justin Schack, managing director for market
structure analysis at New York-based Rosenblatt Securities Inc.,
said in a phone interview. “I don’t think anyone expected the
DOJ to reject this deal. The decision that matters will come
from the EU competition commission.”  Declining Value  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire NYSE Euronext on Feb. 15,
creating the world’s biggest stock exchange operator, for stock
worth $9.53 billion. The value of the acquisition has fallen to
less than $7 billion as stocks around the world tumbled.
 Germany ’s DAX Index is down 20 percent since the merger
discussions were first reported Feb. 9.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the European
exchange-traded  derivatives market  and about 30 percent of the
region’s stock trading in the hands of one company. Deutsche
Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives exchange,
while Liffe is the second-largest. Deutsche Boerse is acquiring
the half of Eurex it doesn’t already own. Eurex is owner of New
York-based International Securities Exchange, which has a 31.5
percent stake in Direct Edge. Brokers own the rest.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse have struggled to
convince regulators their combination won’t stifle competition.
European Union regulators told NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse
yesterday that concessions they offered to allay antitrust
concerns in their merger don’t go far enough, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  Proposed Remedies  In  Europe , the companies have offered capping fees on
derivatives trading and clearing for three years, selling NYSE’s
Liffe single-stock derivatives business, and the licensing of
the Eurex trading system to a third party, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private. Regulators
haven’t drafted a decision yet, they said.  “The markets that the DOJ is examining in its own
jurisdiction, namely in the area of U.S. equities, are different
to those where the commission has raised concerns, namely
European financial derivatives,” Ryan Heath, a spokesman for
the European Commission in Brussels, said today. “We have had
regular and constructive dialogue with the DOJ throughout our
respective procedures.”  The sale of the stake in  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
Direct Edge, the fourth-largest stock exchange operator in the
U.S., and related restrictions will resolve the U.S.
government’s concerns about the merger’s effects on the products
and services of equities exchanges, the  Justice Department  said
today in a statement.  Direct Edge  “Without the divestiture and other restrictions obtained
by the Justice Department, a combined NYSE and Deutsche Boerse
entity could influence the actions of Direct Edge, and thereby
lessen the zeal of an aggressive and innovative exchange
competitor,” said Sharis A. Pozen, acting assistant attorney
general in charge of the department’s antitrust division.  The merging companies are also barred from suggesting or
naming any board members of Direct Edge or having any executives
work for Direct Edge or any related companies, according to the
statement. The companies can’t be involved with private Direct
Edge meetings, the department said.  NYSE Euronext and Direct Edge together accounted for almost
37 percent of U.S. equities trading last month, based on data
compiled by Barclays Plc and Direct Edge. Total U.S. options
volume for NYSE’s two equity derivatives markets and the
 International Securities Exchange  was 43.4 percent, according to
data compiled by Chicago-based  OCC , which clears the contracts.  ‘I’m Surprised’  “I’m surprised there’s a regulatory requirement for a sale
given the market shares involved,”  Jamie Selway , head of
liquidity management at New York-based Investment Technology
Group Inc., said in a phone interview. “They said the equities
market share was of sufficient size to require divestiture when
they didn’t similarly conclude that for options.”  Before deciding whether to approve or block a deal, the
European Commission must consult competition agencies from the
European Union’s 27 nations. Commissioners from each EU country
must also vote on a decision. Companies can then appeal a merger
ban at the EU courts.  The European Commission closes for holidays on Dec. 23 and
returns on Jan. 2.  Antitrust negotiators in Brussels told Deutsche Boerse and
NYSE at a meeting on Dec. 6 that their Nov. 17 offer to divest
some European single-equity derivatives units didn’t persuade
customers and rivals that the merger would preserve competition,
according to people familiar with the discussions.  That meeting followed two days of talks with regulators in
October where the exchanges also failed to alleviate antitrust
concerns. Regulators have told the companies that their merger
would monopolize derivatives trading in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  