-- Obama’s Hawaii Vacation Hangs on Settling Tax Cut Standoff
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2011-12-22T22:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/obama-s-vacation-to-hawaii-left-in-limbo-by-tax-cut-standoff.html
A deal to break a stalemate between
the White House and  House Republicans  means President  Barack Obama  may be able to avoid a potentially loaded political
decision: Whether to spend Christmas with his family.  Obama was scheduled to leave last weekend for his annual
holiday break in his native Hawaii, where first lady  Michelle Obama  and the couple’s two daughters have already arrived. That
plan was derailed after the Republican-controlled House rejected
a Senate bill to continue the tax cut for two months to give
both sides time to work out differences over extending it for a
full year.  The White House has refused to give any hints as to when,
or whether, Obama would join his family.  “We are obviously in a pretty fluid situation,” press
secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said this afternoon he agreed on
a plan to extend a U.S. payroll-tax cut past its Dec. 31
expiration, backing down under pressure from Senate Republicans
and Obama.  Taking a break while the question of whether U.S. workers
will see their take-home pay decline at the start of the year
remains unresolved would carry a political risk for Obama at a
time when his approval rating is rising and the 2012
presidential campaign is under way.  Republicans would “pound” on Obama were he to leave
Washington a tax deal is sealed, Ron Bonjean, a Republican
political consultant who was communications director for former
House Speaker Dennis Hastert, said.  ‘High Ground’  “He has captured the rhetorical high ground” in the
political debate, Bonjean said. “Once he goes to  Hawaii , he’ll
likely lose a lot of it” if the issue isn’t settled.  If Congress is able to complete the deal tomorrow morning,
Obama might be able to get to spend Christmas in Hawaii.  Even before the tax cut stand-off came to a head, Obama had
come under fire from Republicans for his summer vacation on
Martha’s Vineyard, his yearly return to Hawaii and his weekend
golf outings at military bases in the Washington area.  “It’s a shame that we’ve got a president who thinks that
being hands-on on the economy means working on his golf grip,”
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said at a Dec. 10
debate among the Republican presidential candidates in  Iowa .  That’s one of the burdens of the presidency, according to
Allan Lichtman, presidential historian at American University in
Washington.  An Old Story  Such criticism “is as old as the republic,” Lichtman
said. “John Adams, our second president, was away from the
White House months at a time.”  Two of Obama’s Republican predecessors, Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Ronald Reagan , were subject to criticism from
Democrats over the time they spent at their ranches. Bush, for
example, typically spent the month of August at his compound in
Crawford,  Texas .  Events do interrupt presidential travel.  Obama canceled a planned trip to Indonesia and  Australia  in
March 2010 to focus on his getting his health-care initiative
through Congress. He postponed the trip a second time while the
government was grappling with the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill
in the  Gulf of Mexico  in June of that year. He finally made the
trip in November.  Bush cut short his Texas vacation in August 2005 after the
federal government came under criticism for its lagging response
to the damage caused when  Hurricane Katrina  hit the Gulf Coast.  Vacation Time  Through his first 31 months in office, Obama spent 61 days
on vacation, according to a CBS News count. Bush had taken 180
days at the same point and Reagan had taken 112 days, the CBS
tally shows. President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat, had taken 28
days.  “There is no correlation between how you are ultimately
viewed as president and how much time you have taken off,”
Lichtman said.  Part of the problem for Obama is his destination.  “Hawaii is a terrible optic,” Bonjean said. “It looks
like an ultimate destination vacation spot that millions of
Americans would love to go to but can’t afford.”  Another Republican strategist,  John Feehery , said that even
by staying in Washington, Obama “can’t just sort of curse the
darkness, he’s got to actually get stuff done.”  Shortened Trip  Shortening his Hawaii trip already has given Obama the
opportunity to keep up pressure on congressional Republicans and
drive home one of the themes he’s already using for his re-
election campaign: that he’s looking out for the interests of
middle-income Americans and that partisanship is holding up
progress.  Prior to the announcement of a deal, Obama sought to make
the point today as he and Boehner, an Ohio Republican, held
dueling public appearances on the  tax cut  extension.  “So many of these debates in Washington end up being
portrayed as which party is winning, which party is losing,”
Obama said. “But what we have to remind ourselves of is this is
about people.”  Lichtman and  Chris Lehane , who was press secretary to
former Vice President Al Gore’s 2000 presidential campaign,
agreed that any negative impact for Obama from leaving
Washington would be short term.  “The public gets the idea that people go on vacation,”
Lehane said. “Most people get that the president is never
really on vacation but has the right to leave the White House.”  Lichtman said all the debate over presidential recreation
may be counterproductive.  “Presidents do need time off,” he said. “They do need
time away from the maelstrom. They do need time to think and
reflect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 