-- Rule Change May Give Romney Edge in Long Primary
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2011-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/obama-clinton-style-rules-may-give-romney-edge-in-long-primary.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney may have been given an insurance policy for the 2012
Republican nomination long before Newt Gingrich’s recent rise
threatened anew his path to the nomination.  His campaign was built around a strategy of getting onto
state ballots early and taking advantage of a 2010 rule change
in the way the  Republican National Committee  counts its
delegates, said Rich Beeson, Romney’s political director.  The RNC change is likely to benefit the competitor with a
financial and organizational network built to last in a
protracted nominating battle, in other words: a candidate much
like Romney.  “He has significant assets for the long haul assuming he
doesn’t stumble so badly out of the gate he’s damaged goods,”
said Rhodes Cook, editor of the Rhodes Cook Letter. “The weight
of the delegates is now in the springtime.”  Those advantages take on greater meaning if Romney is
paired in a long haul against a candidate with a weak
organization, little money and a penchant for going off message,
such as Gingrich.  Among those in the primary, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  was
seen as the challenger with the best financial and political
network to match Romney’s machine. His standing sunk after
subpar debate performances; his latest standing in the Gallup
tracking  poll  is 8 percent.  Democratic Model  In a “Fox News Sunday”  interview  on Dec. 18, Romney
predicted a protracted battle for the nomination. “We now have
adopted the  Democratic Party ’s approach for allocating the early
delegates on a proportional basis,” he said. “And we watched
what happened when the Democrats did that.”  The  Democratic National Committee  has long awarded most of
the party’s delegates proportionately, which set the stage for a
2008 drawn-out battle between Barack Obama and  Hillary Clinton .  After Obama and Clinton split the early decision states of
 Iowa  and  New Hampshire , respectively, the two entered a grueling
contest that didn’t end until the last primaries on June 3, when
the president’s team captured enough delegates to claim the
nomination.  Along the way, Obama’s campaign used its larger roster of
volunteers to better organize in such caucus states as Maine and
 Minnesota , where Clinton hardly competed. He used his financial
advantage in  Pennsylvania , a must-win state for Clinton. Obama,
behind in the polls, sunk $15 million into Keystone State
television advertising, forcing Clinton to try to keep pace.  While Clinton won the primary, she emerged bankrupt and
Obama was already investing millions in the next round of
contests.  Romney Advantages  In the case of a Romney-Gingrich contest, the process
benefits the former Massachusetts governor “not merely because
he’s more organized or has more money,” said Stu Rothenberg,
editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in
 Washington . “It simply allows more time for Republicans to
examine, consider, reconsider  Newt Gingrich  and gives more time
for Newt’s welcome to wear thin and for Newt to antagonize more
people.”  According to the revised Republican rules, at least 15
March primary and caucus states will allocate delegates on a
proportional basis, instead of a winner-take-all basis. The
change is designed to put an end to the party’s four-state
“quick knockouts,” which date back to 1976, said Cook.  That’s not to say such an outcome isn’t possible this
cycle. If Romney or any other candidate wins a majority -- or
all -- of the early state contests, it could create a sense of
inevitability around that campaign and a stampede of support and
money.  Initially Opposed Change  Romney supporters, such as strategist Ron Kaufman,
initially resisted the RNC proposal and voted against the new
rules out of concern that an extended contest would leave
Romney’s war chest drained compared to a better-funded  Barack Obama  campaign entering the general election runoff.  Advocates for the rule change have been pressing their
campaign since 1996, said David Norcross, a former New Jersey
committeeman and one of its chief proponents.  “The whole point of it was to give candidates an
opportunity to fully display their wares,” said Norcross.
“Before this cycle, everybody was so damn determined to be
first we figured one day we’d have a one-day primary.”  The New Rules  The new rules allowed four so-called “carve-out” states,
 South Carolina , New Hampshire,  Nevada  and Iowa, to hold their
primaries and caucuses first. They were intended to go in
February, with the state contests in March awarding their
delegates proportionately. States with primaries or caucuses in
April and beyond could adopt winner-take-all delegate rules.  The ink was barely dry on the new plan, when Florida
lawmakers decided to move their primary to January, setting off
a response from the “carve out” states that pushed the Iowa
caucuses to Jan. 3.  Having lost the fight over the rule change at the RNC, Romney
pivoted and began planning around the new rules, said Beeson.  “It’s something we’ve talked about internally since the
very beginning,” said Beeson. “It’s just more germane right
now,” he said in an interview. “The delegate allocation
process is now at the forefront.”  Super Tuesday  Beeson says in 2008, with the Super Tuesday voting states
going on Feb. 5, the race could have numerically ended at that
time, with 1,081 delegates at stake and many states awarding on
a winner-take-all basis. In 2012, Super Tuesday is March 6 and
all 621 delegates will be awarded on a proportional basis.  “Numerically, it’s just a long process,” said Beeson.  Gingrich’s campaign would face an opponent with
organizations in almost every state and paid staff in at least
six states. All Romney has to do is win one of the early states,
most likely New Hampshire, in order to avoid a derailment, said
Cook.  Romney has also been replenishing his campaign bank account
for what could be a long fight ahead. Through Sept. 30, Romney
has raised $32.6 million while Gingrich reported $1.2 million in
debts, more than any other candidate.  Romney began stockpiling new cash in the first few weeks of
this month. He crisscrossed the country at least three times
during the week of Dec. 5 for fundraisers in La Jolla and  San
Francisco ,  California ; Phoenix,  Arizona ; and Richmond, Virginia.  The following week on Dec. 14, Romney held four fundraisers
in one day in  New York City , including separate events hosted by
James. B. “Jimmy” Lee, Jr., a vice chairman of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , and  Stephen Schwarzman , the chairman of Blackstone Group,
LP, the world’s largest private-equity firm.  -- With assistance from Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington.
Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  