-- Oil Heads for Its Biggest Weekly Gain in Two Months on U.S. Economy, Iran
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2011-12-23T07:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-two-months-on-u-s-economic-reports.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
gain in almost two months in  New York  after U.S. economic
reports indicated that growth in the world’s biggest crude
consumer will accelerate.  Futures rose as much as 0.6 percent, extending yesterday’s
gain of 0.9 percent after U.S. initial  jobless claims  dropped to
the lowest level since April 2008. Leading indicators climbed
more than forecast in November, and consumer sentiment improved
this month. Oil supplies fell the most in a decade last week,
the Energy Department said Dec. 21.  “There’s better economic news, slightly better sentiment
out of the U.S., and that obviously has a big impact on crude-
 oil prices ,” said  Gavin Wendt , senior resource analyst at Mine
Life Pty in Sydney.  Crude for February delivery was at $99.78 a barrel, up 25
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:15 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday rose 86
cents to $99.53, the highest settlement since Dec. 13. Prices
are up 6.7 percent this week, the biggest gain since the period
ended Oct. 28. Futures have climbed 9.3 percent this year after
increasing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February was trading at $108.09 a barrel, up
20 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European contract’s premium to Nymex crude was $8.19 a barrel,
compared with a close yesterday of $8.36 that was the smallest
differential since March 8. The spread surged to a record $27.88
on Oct. 14.  U.S. Economy  U.S. initial unemployment claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000
last week, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. The
Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next three to
six months rose 0.5 percent, versus a median forecast of 0.3
percent in a Bloomberg survey. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of consumer sentiment increased more than
expected in December.  Crude may rise next week on speculation that sanctions
against  Iran  will curb supply from the world’s third-largest oil
exporter, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  Twelve of 32 analysts, or 38 percent, forecast oil will
gain through Dec. 30. Ten respondents, or 31 percent, predicted
prices will drop and 10 estimated there will be little change.
Oil is up 26 percent this quarter, the biggest advance since the
second quarter of 2009.  Iran Sanctions  The European Union and the U.S. are seeking support from
the  Middle East  and  Asia  for sanctions to increase pressure on
Iran to abandon a suspected nuclear weapons program. Iran’s navy
will hold 10 days of maneuvers east of the  Strait of Hormuz ,
state-run Fars news agency reported yesterday, citing Navy
Commander Habibollah Sayari.  “If there are sanctions, that will be supportive,” said
Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong . “If there is a response by Iran or if tensions
escalate then that would be even more supportive.”  About 15.5 million barrels of oil a day, or a sixth of
global consumption, flows through the waterway between Iran and
Oman at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf , according to the U.S.
Department of Energy. Sayari said Iran’s military has the
capability to “control” the strait, according to a second Fars
report. Whether it chooses to close the channel “depends on the
decision of Iran’s higher officials,” he said.  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to meet next month to
discuss sanctions. Iran, which exports more crude than any
nation except  Saudi Arabia  and  Russia , denies trying to develop
nuclear weapons.  Floor trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange is closed
Dec. 26 because of the Christmas holiday. Electronic trading
begins at 6 p.m. on Dec. 26 for the next day’s settlement price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  