-- Old Mutual Special Dividend May Top 15 Pence on Unit Sale
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2011-12-22T10:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/old-mutual-may-pay-special-dividend-of-0-24-a-share-sbg-s-ketola-says.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the third-biggest
U.K. insurer, may pay a special dividend of at least 15 pence
per share and its shares could rise next year following the sale
of Nordic units, according to Risto Ketola, an analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s  SBG Securities .  “We argue for a 15 pence, or 2 rand, special dividend and
that remains our view,” Ketola said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Dec. 21. He commented following the sale of Old
Mutual’s Nordic unit to Skandia Liv for 2.1 billion pounds ($3.3
billion) and its disposal of the Finnish unit of Skandia Life
Assurance Co. Ltd. to  Finland ’s banking co-operative, the OP-
Pohjola Group, for an undisclosed amount.  Ketola increased his 12-month price target to 190 pence,
with the insurer having traded at 111 pence on Dec. 14, the day
before the Skandia Liv deal was announced. The shares rose 1.9
percent to 132.7 pence at 10:11 a.m. in  London  trading today.  Of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the mean estimate
for a special dividend was more than 17 pence, with the highest
forecast almost 27 pence. Old Mutual’s price could rise to 200
pence per share, according to the highest of the 12-month price
targets by seven analysts in data compiled by Bloomberg. The
mean price estimate is 162 pence, a level the insurer hasn’t
seen for four years.  Old Mutual will update the market on the special dividend
in a circular in February, spokesman William Baldwin-Charles
said by phone today, without disclosing details on the size of
the payout.  London Listing  Old Mutual,  Africa ’s largest insurer, moved its primary
listing to London in 1999 as part of a plan to expand globally.
In the past decade the 166-year old company opened businesses in
the U.K., the U.S., the Nordic region and  Asia . Ventures in the
U.S. and the Nordic region have since been sold, while Asian
expansion has been curtailed. Julian Roberts, who was promoted
from chief financial officer to CEO in 2008,  aims for  the group
to pay off 1.5 billion pounds of debt and achieve a return on
equity of 15 percent at its units by the end of next year.  Analysts are divided on the size of the special dividend
because Old Mutual may have the opportunity to increase its debt
repayments following the sales announced this month.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  analysts expect Old Mutual to increase repayments by a
further 500 million pounds to a total of 2 billion pounds while
Ketola said the insurer is likely to retain debt.  Debt Obligations  “We do not subscribe to the view that Old Mutual will
substantially pay down all of its debt,” Ketola wrote in a note
on Dec. 17. “We assume Mutual will retain debt of around 1.2
billion pounds which means only 500 million pounds of proceeds
from Nordic sale will be used to supplement the existing debt
reduction program. Of the remaining cash inflow we expect just
over half to be directed to a special dividend.”  Old Mutual will reassess its debt repayment plan, Baldwin-
Charles said today. Markets are “uncertain,” he added, echoing
institutions like  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the
U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by market value, which are
conserving capital.  A special dividend will help Old Mutual’s black
shareholders in  South Africa  pay down their own debt, according
to Ketola. The insurer financed the sale of a stake in the
company to a group of black investors in 2005 as part of the
country’s empowerment initiatives, which aim to make up for
discrimination suffered during the apartheid era. A decrease in
Old Mutual’s debt obligations outside South Africa and excess
cash may also prompt further action, analysts said.  Nedbank  Last year, Old Mutual tried and failed to sell its stake in
South African lender  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  to the U.K.’s  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to reduce debt. While this may still be part of the
insurer’s strategy, “an alternative and now-viable option, and
one we found to be favored by the majority of South Africa
shareholders on our recent visit, is to dispose of the ex-South
Africa businesses and retain Nedbank,” Gordon Aitken, analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a note on Dec. 15.  Old Mutual is the best-performing stock on the five-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa Life Assurance Index  this year, having risen 31
percent. It is the second-based performing share on London’s
eight-member  FTSE 350 Life Insurance Index (F3LIFE)  after St. James’s
Place Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  