-- London Brokers Shrink as Debt Crisis Bites
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2011-12-22T17:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/london-brokers-throw-in-the-towel-as-debt-crisis-hits-revenue.html
London ’s stockbrokers are shrinking
as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and competition from
international firms squeezes revenue and fees.  “This isn’t just a blip, this is much worse,” said Tim Linacre, who is stepping down as chief executive officer of
 Panmure (PMR)  Gordon & Co., a 135-year-old brokerage. “It’s a desert
for activity, which is why you are seeing some firms throw in
the towel.”  In the past month, Altium Capital closed its securities
unit.  Evolution Group Plc (EVG) , Merchant Securities Group Plc,
Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. and  Collins Stewart  Hawkpoint Plc have
all accepted takeover offers from larger competitors.  “It feels worse than any other time,” said Lorna Tilbian,
an  executive director  at Numis Corp. who began her career in
1984. “All I hear about is people putting up a white flag.”  The firms are being squeezed as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis reduces the number of shares traded as well as fees from
initial public offerings and share sales. Commissions paid to
brokerages in Europe may be down 17 percent this year on 2008,
according to estimates by Westborough, Massachusetts-based
research firm  Tabb Group LLC . Global firms are gaining market
share from their smaller London rivals because they are better
able to bear the rising costs of electronic trading.  ‘Lion’s Share’  “The lion’s share of the business really belongs to the
global bulge-bracket firms,” John Colon, a managing director at
research firm Greenwich Associates, said by telephone from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They can afford investment in
infrastructure, technology and compete in electronic trading.”  The  U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 12 percent from its February
high through yesterday as European policy makers struggled to
prevent the crisis from spreading beyond  Greece . The gauge
climbed 1.3 percent today. The  value of stocks  traded on the
benchmark in the first three quarters of 2011 is down 63 percent
from its peak, the same period in 2007.  “Customer volume levels are low, and boutiques will
struggle,” said Stephen Dainton, head of Credit Suisse Group
AG’s European equities unit in London. “A boutique that
provides a very narrow research service and ability to transact
in cash equities should find it very difficult to compete. We
have got scale, geographical diversity and product diversity and
that is key in this environment.”  IPOs Pulled  At the same time, companies are pulling IPOs and takeovers,
which can account for more than half a broker’s revenue,
according to analysts. Companies in western Europe have either
canceled or postponed offerings valued at $22 billion this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 25 that were
withdrawn in 2011, 10 were slated to be in the U.K.  “For a lot of brokers, the primary business can certainly
be the difference between being profitable and not,” said
Greenwich’s Colon. “For some firms, the secondary side of the
business, like trading and execution, are almost break-even
types of businesses.”  Brokers of all sizes have also had to contend with the
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, which came
into force in 2007. The regulations have helped to shift trading
on to different platforms, raising costs for brokers. By the end
of 2009, multi-trading facilities, or MTFs, had taken about 20
percent of all trading in Europe from historic exchanges such as
London Stock Exchange Group Plc.  Dark Pools  About a third of the turnover in equities has moved into
so-called dark pools, algorithmic trading and platforms offering
clients direct  market access , according to analysts.  Credit
Suisse (CSGN)  said its electronic platform generates about 40 percent
of the firm’s cash equities business, a figure that will likely
increase to 60 percent in the next few years.  “Execution has become more complicated and expensive,”
said Julian Palfreyman, CEO and founding director of Winterflood
Securities Ltd., a London-based market making firm that services
the brokerage industry. “Getting access to those other venues
is very expensive. For the normal brokers out there, that’s a
spend that they are not used to and they are finding it very
difficult.”  According to the Financial Services Authority’s latest
 annual report , of the 19,057 firms registered with the U.K.
regulator, 955 firms are classified as trading in securities and
futures, a definition that includes brokers. That, according to
RBC Capital Markets analyst Peter Lenardos, is too many.  ‘Too Much Capacity’  “The city is over-brokered,” he said in a telephone
interview. “A hundred-odd boutique stockbroking firms is still
too much capacity. You need consolidation and elimination.”  Altium  announced  the closing of its securities division in
November, saying the “outlook remains bleak for U.K. centric
brokers.” It plans to focus on its advisory unit, which
accounts for 75 percent of revenue. Matrix Group, another
broker, said it will focus on corporate finance work following a
strategic review in the middle of the year.  British brokers’ shares have dropped this year amid the
sovereign debt crisis, making them attractive targets. Panmure
has declined 64 percent in London trading this year and rival
 Arden Partners Plc (ARDN)  has dropped 36 percent. By comparison, the
FTSE All-Share Index has dropped 9.6 percent. Bidders have also
been attracted by those firms with wealth management units that
have generated stable income.  Evolution Purchase  Investec Plc (INVP) , a private bank with operations in the U.K.
and  South Africa , agreed to buy Evolution for 233.2 million
pounds ($371.8 million) in September, seeking to gain access to
the firm’s Williams de Broe unit, which oversees about 6 billion
pounds in assets.  The following month, Merchant Securities Group Plc, another
London-based broker, agreed to be bought by  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM)  for 12.2
million pounds as South Africa’s largest insurer looks to expand
its services for wealth clients. Last week, Canaccord Financial
Inc.,  Canada ’s largest independent brokerage by assets, bought
Collins Stewart for 253.3 million pounds.  “Companies that have got choices are taking those choices
now,” Altium CEO Phil Adams said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a long while before we get a more palliative
environment.”  Spokesmen for Collins Stewart, Merchant Securities,
Evolution and Arbuthnot all declined to comment.  ‘Market Turmoil’  Among the larger independent firms, Panmure Gordon warned
in November it will report a second-half loss after “severe
market turmoil” crimped income from  investment banking .  Charles
Stanley Group Plc (CAY)  said in October earnings will be lower. Arden,
which yesterday posted a 5 percent drop in full-year revenue,
said the industry faces the “most difficult and challenging
conditions since the 1970s.”  “Most of us have had four down years on the trot,” said
Panmure’s Linacre, who will step down as CEO in 2012. “We are
all spending time looking at what the right business model is.
We will do what it takes to survive whether that’s consolidation
or integration.”  Linacre said he expects four or five independent firms will
survive. Those that remain will be become larger and more
diversified, he added.  “It feels like a mortal battle every single day,” said
 Numis’s (NUM)  Tilbian. “But it’s a battle that I want to win. We
would love to be one of the last men standing. Once we get to
the Promised Land, there will be milk and honey again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  