-- London Luxury Home Prices Increase to Record as Foreigners Dominate Market
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2011-12-22T17:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/london-luxury-home-prices-climb-to-record-as-foreigners-compete.html
Prices of central  London ’s most
expensive homes reached a record as foreign buyers dominate the
city’s luxury residential market,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 4
million pounds ($6.3 million) rose 14.1 percent this year
compared with a 7.2 percent gain a year earlier, Yolande Barnes,
Savills’s director of residential research, said in a report
today. While prices are 16.9 percent higher than their previous
peak in late 2007, growth slowed in the fourth quarter,
suggesting the market could be passing its high point, according
to Savills.  London’s luxury-home values have accelerated this year as
wealthy individuals seek a haven for their money in areas such
as Belgravia, Knightsbridge and Mayfair. Values rose 1.1 percent
in the fourth quarter compared with 5.5 percent in the first
three months of the year, the smallest gain since Dec. 2010,
according to Savills.  “The best addresses in the best locations have become
elevated to international asset class status and are valued as a
relatively safe store of wealth in an uncertain world,” Barnes
said in the report. “Some of these buyers are making a currency
play, but most are also seeking a secure long-term investment.”  Debt Crisis  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 12 percent from its February
high through yesterday as European policy makers struggled to
prevent the sovereign debt crisis from spreading beyond  Greece .
The  European Central Bank  cut its 2012 growth forecast for the
euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner, this month to 0.3
percent.  Overseas buyers comprise about 55 percent of the market for
prime central London homes led by mainland  Europe , according to
the report. Buyers from the continent accounted for about a
fifth of sales this year, according to Savills, compared with
13.2 percent a year earlier. Middle Eastern investors made up
8.5 percent of sales, while Chinese purchasers represented 2
percent of the total.  The smaller gain in the fourth quarter “suggests that the
market could be passing one of its regular peaks,” Barnes
wrote. The 2011 growth “has been almost entirely fueled in the
second half of the year by a massive injection of overseas cash
by foreign buyers.”  Prices of homes with an average value of more than 15
million pounds -- what Savills calls “ultra prime” -- rose
18.6 percent this year. International buyers made up around
three quarters of sales of homes and apartments valued at more
than 5 million pounds, the report said.  Around 4.3 billion pounds has been spent on luxury
residential real estate in central London in 2011, according to
Savills. An unfurnished penthouse apartment in London’s
Knightsbridge neighborhood was purchased for about 100 million
pounds earlier this year, according to a person with knowledge
of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 