-- Mongolia Spending Glut Risks Bust on Outlook, IMF Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2011-12-22T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/mongolia-spending-glut-risks-bust-on-commodity-outlook-imf-says.html
(Corrects surname in second paragraph of story first
published Dec. 23, 2011.)  Mongolia’s economy, which grew 20.8
percent last quarter, risks contraction along with a global
downturn in commodity prices partly due to a surge in state
spending, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Government spending  jumped 50 percent in real terms to 6.3
trillion tugrik ($4.6 billion) this year, pushing inflation in
the $8.4-billion-economy to 14 percent, Steven Barnett, IMF’s
head of Mongolia coverage, said in an interview in Tokyo. That
may drive up borrowing costs and cut the profitability of mining
projects, Mongolia’s biggest industry, he said.  “The global economy is in a dangerous phase and what that
means for Mongolia is a higher-than-normal chance that commodity
prices fall,” Barnett said. “Their spending plans could not be
realistically financed if there was a repeat of the 2008 shock.
They’d have to cut spending. This is ‘boom-bust’ policy-
making.”  Mongolia, which needs to invest as much as $68 billion
within four years in new mines, roads, and housing, contracted
by 1.3 percent in 2009 due to the global economic crisis. As the
country’s development bank begins the sale of Mongolia’s first
state-guaranteed foreign bonds this month, investors are cutting
their bets on commodities to a 31-month low.  A struggling U.S. economy and a slowdown in  China  will join
a looming recession in  Europe  to reduce commodity demand,
“creating significant risks for emerging market investors,”
Bank of America Corp. said this month in its 2012 outlook.  Country Risk  China’s top coking coal supplier in July, Mongolia turned
to the IMF for a $224 million loan to help survive the 2008
global economic crisis. Mongolia expanded 6.4 percent last year
and is on course for 16.9 percent growth this year, according to
the IMF.  “It’s looking a lot like what happened in 2008, when there
were several years of rapid increases in government spending at
a time when mineral prices were high,” Barnett said. With the
global economy also starting to resemble the 2008 downturn, the
country risks seeing its resource revenue shrink, he said.  The rise in state spending, which now accounts for two-
thirds of Mongolia’s economy outside of mining, compared with 53
percent in 2007, comes ahead of parliamentary  elections in June .
It also anticipates a 2013 startup of the Oyu Tolgoi mine, which
operator  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  has said is one of the world’s biggest
untapped copper and gold finds and potentially a source of 30
percent of Mongolia’s gross domestic product by 2020.  Inflation Concern  Government spending is on course to accelerate inflation to
an average 18.7 percent in 2012 from 10.2 percent this year, IMF
said in a Nov. 29 report. Wages are estimated to rise 80 percent
over three years through 2012, Barnett said. IMF strips out food
and administered prices from inflation metrics to focus on
“aggregate demand,” he said.  Mongolia’s proposed budget for 2012 “would set an all time
record for expenditure growth,”  World Bank ’s lead Mongolia
economist Rogier van den Brink said  in a Dec. 16 blog posting  on
the bank’s website. A continued boom in foreign investment in
Mongolia is not guaranteed next year, while the risks to the
global and especially  China’s economy  continue to grow as
commodity prices stumble, he said.  Investor enthusiasm for Mongolia has waned since the summer
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis deepened and concerns about
resource nationalism grew. In September, a group of Mongolian
lawmakers called for a revision of the Oyu Tolgoi mine accord
with  Rio Tinto  and partner Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which had taken
six years to conclude.  Losing Ground  From being the world’s best performer in the 12-months to
April, the  MSE Top 20 Index  of Mongolia has since plunged 18
percent, more than the benchmarks in the U.K. and the U.S. The
tugrik, the second-biggest gainer against the dollar in the year
to April 1, has lost 13.6 percent since then, ranking at 158 in
terms of global currency returns.  Standard & Poor’s  credit-rating company on Dec. 19 revised
its outlook on Mongolia to positive, saying it may raise the BB-
long-term sovereign rating should the country’s fiscal, monetary
and banking rules reduce “vulnerabilities in these areas.”  The credit company also praised Mongolia for introducing a
fiscal responsibility law, which is supposed to limit budget
deficits to 2 percent of gross domestic product from 2013.  That’s one goal Mongolia will struggle to meet under
current spending plans, IMF’s Barnett said. After next year’s
spending increase, which may be around 15 percent, Mongolia will
need to cut expenditure by the same percentage in 2013 to comply
with the law, he said.  “You’re really putting the economy on a roller coaster,”
Barnett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  