-- Moody’s May Downgrade Mechel on Debt Ratios, Worsening Markets
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-12-22T14:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/moody-s-may-downgrade-mechel-on-debt-ratios-worsening-markets.html
OAO Mechel (MTL) ,  Russia ’s largest
producer of coal for steelmaking, was given a “negative”
outlook by Moody’s Investors Service, signaling the rating
company may downgrade the miner further into junk next year.  Moody’s changed its outlook from “stable” after  Mechel (MTLR) 
said last week its ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization may exceed 3.5
this year, prompting the company to renegotiate debt covenants
with lenders. Moody’s has a B1 rating on the company’s debt,
four steps below investment grade.  “Market conditions for  iron ore , coal and steel are
weakening, so there may be an extended period of uncertainty
surrounding Mechel’s ability to meet its covenants and press
ahead with its investment program,” Moody’s wrote today.  Mechel’s net debt rose to $9 billion at the end of
September from $7 billion at the end of 2010 amid volatile
markets for steel and coal. The company scaled back its
investment program, cutting its 2011 capital expenditure target
by 22 percent to $1.8 billion in October.  Capital spending  next year will decline to $1 billion to
$1.1 billion because of deteriorating coking coal prices and
high debt, Senior Vice President Oleg Korzhov said on a
conference call Dec. 15.  Mechel had planned to invest $5 billion within three years
to almost double coal output, Chief Financial Officer Stanislav
Ploschenko said in an interview in April. The bulk of the
spending was intended for the untapped Elga coal deposit in East
Siberia to add 9 million metric tons of annual output from 2015.  Hard coking coal spot prices fell to about $240 a ton from
their $400-a-ton peak in May and June, according to a Dec. 20
Renaissance Capital report. The price for hot rolled coil
exported from the former  Soviet Union  declined to $577 a ton
from $790 a ton in February, Metal Bulletin’s data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  