-- Top Cookbooks of 2011 Offer Eye Candy, Surprises, Kitchen Savvy
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/top-cookbooks-of-2011-offer-eye-candy-surprises-kitchen-savvy.html
Pull up a chair. This season’s most
appealing cookbooks are as much fun to read as they are to cook
from.  Greenmarket Guide  “ Cook This Now ” by Melissa Clark (Hyperion, $29.99).
Reading Clark is like having a friend in the kitchen. She begins
each recipe with a mini-essay about her family, especially her
toddler, Dahlia, whom she likes to take to the Greenmarket.  The book is arranged by season, and dishes such as white-
bean stew with rosemary, garlic and farro are followed by chatty
notes about what kinds of beans to use, what to do if you can’t
find farro, and how to change the stew into a soup. The summery
crushed new potatoes and pea salad with mustard-seed dressing is
a hit in my house.  Claudia Roden  “ The Food of Spain ” by Claudia Roden (Ecco, $45). The
first recipe doesn’t appear until page 125 of this tremendous
book. Roden grew up in Cairo, the descendant of Spanish Jews who
were expelled in 1492.  After writing “A Book of Middle Eastern Food” and “The
Book of Jewish Food,” she’s turned her attention to  Spain ,
telling the story of a complex and fascinating country through
its cuisine, which was strongly influenced by the Jews and Arabs
who left centuries ago. Recipes like lamb stew with honey and a
whole chapter on tapas will send you straight to the kitchen.  Homemade Nutella  “ Make the Bread, Buy the Butter ” by Jennifer Reese (Free
Press, $24). When Reese lost her job as Entertainment Weekly’s
book critic, she was looking for ways to save money. Could she
economize in the kitchen by making things she would normally buy
-- baguettes, bacon, ginger ale?  She started experimenting and discovered that homemade
Nutella is actually more expensive than store-bought, and
“skinning hazelnuts is maddening.” Bagels, on the other hand,
aren’t very hard to make, and they taste better than anything
you can buy now that Columbia Bagels on 110th Street in
 Manhattan  has closed.  Vegetable Love  “ Plenty ” by Yotam Ottolenghi (Chronicle, $35). This book
is bristling with more purple sticky-notes than any other on my
shelf. Broccoli and Gorgonzola pie. Caramelized fennel with goat
cheese. Chickpea, tomato and bread soup.  I’ve never been a big vegetable lover, alas, but (meat-
eating) London chef Ottolenghi has written a veggie cookbook
full of unexpected flavor combinations -- and lush photos. The
cover shot of eggplant with buttermilk sauce topped with plump
red pomegranate seeds will entice any carnivore.  Think While Cooking  “ Ruhlman’s Twenty ” by Michael Ruhlman (Chronicle, $40).
“Thinking in the kitchen is underrated,” says Ruhlman, who
wrote an earlier book about studying at the Culinary Institute
of America and has worked with  Thomas Keller , the notorious
kitchen brainiac, on his cookbooks.  In chapters about 20 different ingredients or techniques,
he gives advice to help us think better while cooking, as well
as tips like this: “If you don’t have homemade stock, use water
rather than open a can of broth.” That’s what real chefs would
do, he says. “When you cook with good ingredients, you don’t
need to rely on store-bought support liquids.”  The many useful photos show how to slice onions and what
they’ll look like at all stages while caramelizing, among other
things.  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 