-- Oracle, Roche, Brightpoint, Zep Solar: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-22T12:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/oracle-roche-brightpoint-u-s-chamber-intellectual-property.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s patent lawsuit
against Google Inc. over Android software may start as early as
April or as late as September, a federal judge said.  “I am reserving my right to put the trial on in April or
May, but as a practical matter mid-September may be the first
time we will be able to try the case,” U.S. District Judge
William Alsup in San Francisco told lawyers yesterday during a
hearing. He also told the attorneys to keep October and November
open to avoid scheduling conflicts.  Oracle is seeking at least $1 billion in damages from the
operator of the world’s largest search engine. Oracle, based in
Redwood City,  California , accuses Google of infringing its Java
patents and copyrights in the Android operating system, now
running on more than 150 million mobile devices.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, has denied the
claims.  “I can’t see this case going to trial before the first day
of spring,” Alsup said in court today after the lawyers updated
him on the status of pretrial evidence gathering and other
matters.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  Roche Units Sue Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Over Valcyte Patent  Two  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  units sued  India ’s  Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  for infringing a U.S. patent for the drug
 Valcyte , used to treat viruses in organ-transplant patients and
people with AIDS.  Roche Palo Alto LLC and  Genentech Inc ., both owned by
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche Holding, contend Hyderabad-based
Dr. Reddy’s is planning to market a generic version of Valcyte,
according to federal court papers filed yesterday in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Offering for sale, sale or use of the proposed generic
product in the  United States  would cause injury to plaintiffs
for which there is no adequate remedy at law,’’ Roche lawyers
said in the filing. In dispute is patent 6,083,953, which was
issued in July 2000.  Roche seeks a ruling of infringement and an order to stop
sale of generic Valcyte until after the patent expires in 2015,
according to court papers.  S. Rajan, a Dr. Reddy’s spokesman in India, didn’t
immediately return an e-mailed message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  Roche sued Sandoz Inc. in federal court in  San Francisco  in
April, also over generic Valcyte.  Roche reported about $48 billion in revenue last fiscal
year. Dr. Reddy’s reported almost $2 billion in fiscal-year
revenue.  The case is Roche Palo Alto LLC v. Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories, 11-cv-1264, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Zep Files Second Case Against Westinghouse Over Solar Technology  Zep Solar Inc., a maker of system for attaching solar
panels to roofs, said it sued Westinghouse Solar Inc. for patent
infringement.  The two companies have a continuing dispute over a
technology aimed at reducing the cost of solar installation.  The complaint, filed Dec. 20 in federal court in San
Francisco, accused Westinghouse of infringing patent 7,592,537,
which covers a method and apparatus for mounting solar panels
and was issued in September 2009. A copy of the complaint wasn’t
immediately available.  Zep designs are used by Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.’s
solar unit and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , two of the biggest solar panel
makers. Zep also has added Sharp Corp.’s Sharp Solar, Hanwha
SolarOne Co. and Enphase Energy Inc. to its licensing program.  The Westinghouse Solar design, known as Andalay, is used by
Suntech Power Holdings Co..  Campbell, California-based Westinghouse -- formerly known
as Akeena -- sued Zep in the same court in October 2009, seeking
a declaration it didn’t infringe that same patent and accusing
Zep of infringing patent 7,406,800, which was issued in August
2008.  That case was placed on hold Dec. 9, pending resolution of
as dispute between the parties before the U.S. International
Trade Commission, a government entity that has the power to bar
the entry of infringing products.  A second case in the same court is also on hold. In that
case, Zep, of San Rafael, California, sued Westinghouse Aug 2,
seeking a declaration of non-infringement of patent 7,987,641,
which was issued that same day.  The case before the commission is In the Matter of Certain
Integrated Solar Power Systems, 337-811, U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  The new case against Westinghouse is Zep Solar v.
Westinghouse Solar Inc., 3:11-cv-07493, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California. The earlier case is Zep Solar
Inc. v. Westinghouse Solar Inc., 3:11-cv-03800-JSW, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).
The case against Zep is  Akeena Solar Inc. (WEST)  v. Zep Solar Inc.,
3:09-SV-05040-JSE, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Brightpoint Sues Ex-Executive for Trade Secret Misappropriation  Brightpoint Inc. (CELL) , a provider of logistical services to the
cellular industry, sued a former executive for trade secret
misappropriation, the Indianapolis Business Journal  reported .  The executive was accused of bringing confidential business
information to  Brightstar Corp.  of Miami,  Florida , according to
the business publication.  In the suit, filed in Indiana state court, Indianapolis-
based Brightpoint asked the court to bar the revelation of its
secrets to Brightstar by the former executive and to order the
Florida company not to use those secrets to compete
“unfairly,” the business journal reported.  The Indiana company is also seeking money damages,
according to the publication.  China  Says World Shouldn’t Play Up Computer Hacking After Report  The Chinese government said the world should not play up
the issue of computer hacking after the Wall Street Journal
 reported  hackers from China had breached the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s data network.  Hacking is against Chinese law, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Liu Weimin said yesterday. He said he had not seen the Journal’s
story, which reported that U.S. officials suspect a person
behind the attack had ties to the Chinese government.  The Journal story cited two unidentified people as saying
hackers had complete access to the Chamber’s computer network,
possibly for a year, before they were cut off in 2010. A U.S.
intelligence report released last month concluded that China was
the No. 1 hacker threat to U.S. firms, and officials say China-
based hackers had hit the networks of at least 760 companies.  Targets of attacks have included Google Inc. and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  as China makes industrial espionage a key part of its
policy, according to U.S. intelligence and analysts. There is
now “quite a lot of evidence” that Chinese hackers target
overseas companies, said Charles Mok, chairman of the  Hong Kong 
division of the Internet Society, an international standard-
setting group.  “The Chinese government hasn’t come up with a reasonable
explanation of these activities so far,” Mok said. “Its stock
response has been to say it has nothing to do with them.”  In the U.S. Chamber’s case, the hackers appeared to have
concentrated on four employees focused on Asia policy, and stole
six weeks of their emails, according to the Journal. The Journal
said Chamber staff have seen no sign of harm to the group or its
members.  U.S. Chamber of Commerce spokesman J.P. Fielder didn’t
comment on the report when reached by phone yesterday.  Google said last year that it was the subject of a
sophisticated cyber attack originating in China. Hackers stole
intellectual property and targeted e-mail accounts of human-
rights activists, the company said. Google later withdrew its
Chinese search-engine service from the country and redirected
local users to a site in Hong Kong.  Trademark  Keep A Breast Foundation Sues Over ‘I (Heart) Boobies’ Trademark  Keep A Breast Foundation , a California organization
established to raise breast cancer awareness, sued a Rhode
Island maker of toys and party supplies for trademark
infringement.  The suit, filed Dec. 16 in federal court in San Diego, is
related to the foundation’s “I (heart) boobies,” “I love
boobies,” and “Heart & Breasts” trademarks.  Rhode Island Novelty Inc.  of Cumberland, Rhode Island, is
accused of selling silicon bracelets that infringe the “I
(heart) Boobies” mark. These are sold through the company’s
website, according to court papers.  The foundation said that while the company has apparently
removed the listing from its website, it continues to fill
orders for infringing items. Rhode Island Novelty has continued
to sell the merchandise, the foundation claims, saying it even
provided the company with a photo of the allegedly infringing
products sold at the Louisiana State Fair.  Rhode Island Novelty didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  The foundation asked the court for an order barring further
infringement, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees,
litigation costs, and the company’s profits derived from the
alleged infringement.  Keep A Breast is represented by  David A. Peck  of the  Coast
Law Group LLP  of Encinitas, California.  The case is Keep A Breast Foundation v. Rhode Island
Novelty Inc., 3:11-cv-02936-H-WMC, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of California (San Diego).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Wolverine’ Infringer Gets One-Year Prison Sentence  A  New York  resident who pleaded guilty in March to
uploading a copy of the “X-Men Origins: Wolverine” movie
without authorization has been sentenced to one year in federal
prison, the  BBC   reported .  Gilberto Sanchez, 49, had acknowledged uploading what is
known as an unfinished “workprint” copy of the film, according
to the BBC.  Sanchez also has a year of supervised release and the court
imposed restrictions on his computer use, the BBC reported.  When the film was released in 2009, actor Hugh Jackman, who
played the title role, likened the version Sanchez circulated to
“a Ferrari without a paint job,” the BBC reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Kelley Drye Expands IP Practice With Two From Schiff Hardin  Kelley Drye & Warren LLP  hired Douglass C. Hochstetler and
Beth D. Jacob for its IP and technology litigation group, the
New York-based firm said in a  statement .  Both lawyers joined from Chicago’s  Schiff Hardin LLP .  Hochstetler , a patent litigator, has represented clients
whose technologies include nutritional supplements,
pharmaceutical products, disposable diapers, package design,
joint compound and nuclear reactor insulation.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Princeton
University and a law degree from Georgetown University.  Jacob , also a patent litigator, has a practice that focuses
on the representation of generics pharmaceutical companies in
litigation related to the Hatch-Waxman Act. She has also
represented the Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey  in
property-damage litigation related to the collapse of 7 World
Trade Center on September 11, 2001.  She has an undergraduate degree from Radcliffe College of
Harvard University and a law degree from  Yale University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  