-- More Bankers Predict Monetary Policy Easing as Economy Cools, PBOC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-22T04:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/more-chinese-bankers-predicting-policy-easing-as-economy-cools-pboc-says.html
More Chinese bankers are forecasting
a further loosening in monetary policy as economic growth slows,
and inflation expectations of households are easing,  surveys  by
the central bank showed.  The percentage of bankers who said the economic environment
is “relatively cold” doubled to 23.6 percent this quarter from
the previous three months, while a gauge measuring the “hotness”
of the economy fell below 50 percent for the first time in two
years, according to a People’s Bank of  China  statement on its
website today. A separate survey of entrepreneurs showed their
confidence slipped, it said.  The central bank cut the amount of cash that lenders must
set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 this month
as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and
growth. Inflation eased to the lowest in 14 months in November,
and the nation’s top policy makers said last week the government
will target “basically stable”  consumer prices  next year and
“unswervingly” implement real-estate curbs.  “The decline in inflation expectations and in entrepreneurs’
confidence will make it easier to loosen monetary policy,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong . “We expect a reserve-requirement-ratio cut soon,
possibly still in December or before the Lunar New Year in
January.”  About 14.4 percent of bankers expect more monetary policy
easing, compared with 3.5 percent in last quarter’s survey.
About 56 percent predict the current policy bias will be
maintained, while the rest foresee a tightening, the central
bank said.  ‘Coming Down’  Among households, 36.8 percent forecast prices will rise in
the next three months, compared with almost half in the previous
survey. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, after climbing 5.5 percent in October, the statistics
bureau said Dec. 9.  “Inflation is coming down and that’s good news for the
government because the inflation-growth dilemma is not as
prominent,” Zhu Haibin, chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in Hong Kong, said before the report. He estimates price
gains will slow to below 3 percent by the middle of 2012.  The proportion of households who plan to buy property next
quarter fell 0.3 percentage point to 13.9 percent from the
previous three months, and is near the lowest level since the
inception of the survey, the central bank said. About 72.9
percent of households found property prices “too high and
unacceptable,” down 2.8 percentage points from the previous
survey.  “The wait-and-see attitudes are prevailing in the  property
market  and the property curbs are showing effects,” the central
bank said.  The central bank’s quarterly surveys are based on
interviews with officials from 3,000 banks in China and 20,000
urban households in 50 cities.  --Victoria Ruan, Lifei Zheng, with assistance from Li Yanping.
Editors: Shamim Adam, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 Vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  