-- Morgan Revives Three-Wheeler as Unique Entry Into China: Cars
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2011-12-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/morgan-revives-three-wheeler-as-unique-entry-into-china-cars.html
In a red-brick shed at the foot of
 England ’s Malvern Hills,  Morgan Motor Co.  is preparing an
unusual assault on the growing Chinese auto market.  Managing Director Charles Morgan said the 100-year-old
company has created a model that will stand out from the crowd
in Asian showrooms. That’s partly because the M3W is hand-built,
wood-framed and based on a 50-year-old design -- and mainly
because it has three wheels.  “Try to sell a Ferrari and you’re up against Lamborghini,
the Audi R8, Lotus, McLaren,” he said. “Send a Morgan three-
wheeler there and they’ll know the difference.”  Morgan, known for retro designs harking back to the England
of local composer Edward Elgar, is betting on the M3W to spur
Asian demand as slowing economies crimp European and U.S. sales.
The company said it has been approached by 20 potential Chinese
dealers this year for the 25,000-pound ($39,000) successor to a
series of three-wheel models it stopped making in 1952.  Other top-end automakers are also targeting China, where
luxury sales may jump 39 percent in 2011 to 939,000, surpassing
 Germany  as the No. 2 market after the U.S., said Jenny Gu, a
Shanghai-based analyst at research firm LMC Automotive. British
sports-car brand Lotus, a unit of Malaysia’s Proton Holdings
Bhd, added its first Beijing dealership in October, even as
Chinese consumer demand is forecast to slow as the economy grows
less quickly.  ‘Automotive Theater’  Founded by Charles Morgan’s grandfather, Morgan said the
company seeks to create a sense of “automotive theater” around
its models.  “Products that combine design and authenticity are very
attractive to the connoisseur, and Morgan appeals to somebody
who wants those real materials,” Morgan said in an interview at
the company’s base in Malvern Link. The family-owned company has
chosen to remain a niche manufacturer and avoided overreaching
to chase higher volumes, he said, something that led to the
collapse of other U.K. carmakers.  The M3W, unveiled at the Geneva Motor Show in March, has
just entered production with a backlog of 800 orders and reaches
dealers next year. The open-top two-seater is powered by a two-
liter  Harley Davidson (HOG)  motorcycle engine made by  S&S Cycle Inc. 
of  Wisconsin , and will reach 60 miles per hour in 4.5 seconds
before topping out at 125 mph, all at 50 miles to the gallon.  ‘Large Dose of Nostalgia’  Morgan said it is targeting 1,500 deliveries in 2012, 50
percent from the three-wheeler; it said it expects to sell
almost 1,000 this year, including 100 M3ws. The model joins
four-wheeled designs that include the 125,000 pound AeroMax,
which has a 367 horsepower V8 engine and can reach 170 mph, and
the “Classic” range of 1930s-styled roadsters.  “They’re moving a little bit more towards the 21st century
while retaining an extremely large dose of nostalgia to ensure
that their products remain unique,” said  Andrew Jackson , an
analyst at Datamonitor in  London . “It’ll certainly produce an
interesting offering for China, where there seems to be quite an
appetite for vehicles with a strong brand identity.”  The company will open its first Chinese dealers in Beijing
and Shanghai next year and will also offer the three-wheeler via
a Harley Davidson Inc. outlet in  Hong Kong  with the aim of
selling at least 50 cars in the first year and 150 after three.  The push in emerging economies amounts to a “contingency
plan” for coping with the weakness of traditional markets, with
sales slow in the U.S. and “worse than flat” in  Europe , said
Morgan, 60, who joined the firm in 1986, when it was making 450
cars a year, after 10 years as a TV cameraman specializing in
war reports. He succeeded his father Peter as chief in 1999.  Europe’s Woes  “At least in  China  and  India  you know they’ve got money,”
he said. “We’ve got a dealer in  Greece , but I don’t think we’ve
sold a car this year. If Greece expands into  Italy , into  Spain ,
into  France , then we’ve got problems. Europe is on its knees and
anything could happen. People could just stop buying.”  Morgan is also counting on the M3W to spur sales in the
U.S., where it will be sold as a motorized tricycle to avoid a
car import license.  The sales pitch to China will play on Morgan’s Englishness
and dedication to traditional craftsmanship.  Ash frames, which the company said are best at absorbing
energy, are built by carpenters at a site across the road from
that founder Henry Frederick Stanley Morgan established in 1909,
a mile from the house where  Elgar  wrote the Enigma Variations a
decade earlier.  The company contracts tasks it’s not expert at, Morgan
said, sourcing engines from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and gearboxes from  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , as well airbags
and brakes and from  Continental AG (CON)  and Robert Bosch GmbH.  “A product like the AeroMax or the three-wheeler has an
immediate visual appeal,” Morgan said. “Some would argue that
they’re really beautiful. And unlike most cars that are
interesting for six months, when you come back from paying for
the petrol the interest remains.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in Malvern Link via 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  