-- Tottenham Ties 1-1 With Chelsea to Stay Third in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2011-12-23T00:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/tottenham-ties-1-1-with-chelsea-to-stay-third-in-premier-league.html
Tottenham remained in third place in
English soccer’s Premier League with a 1-1 home tie against
Chelsea.  Tottenham’s Emmanuel Adebayor opened the scoring last night
at White Hart Lane in north  London  before  Daniel Sturridge  tied
the game. The draw keeps Spurs two points ahead of Chelsea,
which has played one game more, in the standings.  “In the end there were chances, some great chances at the
end, and we could have easily won it,” Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  told Sky Sports. “But certainly a point is a fair
result.”  Chelsea extended its winless run at White Hart Lane to six
matches. The Blues could have jumped over Spurs into third with
a victory.  “The league is getting better and better,” Blues defender
 Ashley Cole  told Sky Sports. “I think it’s good. Tottenham have
a great squad, a great team and they believe they can win it.”  Tottenham started quickly and took the lead after eight
minutes as Gareth Bale made a run down the left side and sent in
a low cross that goalkeeper  Petr Cech  missed, allowing Adebayor
to tap it into the open net.  Spurs goalkeeper Brad Friedel knocked down Juan Mata’s shot
moments later and Sturridge fired the rebound over the goal.
Sturridge scored in the 23rd minute off a cross from Cole, whom
Tottenham complained had handled the ball.  Chelsea’s Didier Drogba then hit the left post and Adebayor
had his weak shot caught by Cech before halftime.  Friedel stopped shots from Ramires and  John Terry  early in
the second half and Adebayor had a goal disallowed for offside.
Tottenham’s Sandro then headed a corner wide and Friedel stopped
a Sturridge shot.  Cech had to lunge to knock away Sandro’s deflected shot in
the 85th minute and Ramires headed a free kick wide after being
left alone in the Tottenham area. Terry then saved Chelsea by
blocking Adebayor’s shot toward an open goal in stoppage time.  Terry was heckled by Spurs fans for most of the game after
learning two days ago he will face criminal charges for
allegedly racially abusing Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand during a game in October. The Chelsea and England
captain has denied the allegation.  Manchester City leads the standings with 44 points, two
more than defending champion  Manchester United . Tottenham has 35
points, Chelsea 33, Arsenal 32 and Liverpool 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 