-- Boehner Signs On to Payroll Tax Deal Amid Isolation, Attacks
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-12-23T05:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/house-s-boehner-senate-s-reid-said-to-agree-on-u-s-payroll-tax-cut-plan.html
Deserted by many of his fellow
Republicans, U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  surrendered to
attacks from President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats
and agreed to a two-month extension of a payroll  tax cut  that he
derided hours earlier.  The decision kicks the fight over extending the tax cut for
160 million U.S. workers into early next year without resolving
deep divides over how to cover the cost through 2012.  Democrats are focused on imposing a new tax on income
exceeding $1 million while Republicans want to cut the federal
work force and freeze pay for government workers. Republicans
also want to attach policies to a  payroll tax  cut extension --
opposed by Democrats -- such as a rewrite of the unemployment
system or weaker rules for industrial emissions.  The deal that Boehner and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, agreed to yesterday includes language
that calls on Obama to accelerate approval of the Keystone XL
Canadian oil pipeline. Both chambers plan to pass the tax cut
deal today by unanimous consent, which means most lawmakers
won’t have to return to Washington over the holiday recess.  Boehner could be in a weaker position entering the 2012
negotiations after presiding over the tumult of recent days, in
which Senate Republicans opposed Boehner’s stance and some House
Republicans had begun to defect as well. The talks next year
will unfold in the months ahead of a presidential election,
making Boehner’s task more difficult.  No Time for Celebration  “I don’t think it’s a time for celebration,” the Ohio
Republican told reporters yesterday. “Our economy is
struggling. We’ve got a lot of work ahead of us in the coming
year.”  After days of relentless attacks from Democrats and
negative headlines in the press, some Republicans were pleased
to see Boehner cut his losses.  “The great danger would have been if we continued,” said
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma . “We made our points. We’ve
gotten some modifications.”  The pressure for Boehner to cut a deal was building for
days. Republican Senators  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine ,  Scott Brown  of
 Massachusetts ,  John McCain  of Arizona and  Bob Corker  of
 Tennessee , criticized Boehner’s move to reject the bipartisan
two-month extension after it passed the Senate on Dec. 17, just
two weeks before the tax cut was set to expire.  Isolation in Opposition  Boehner became more isolated in his opposition to the
Senate-passed bipartisan bill after the top Republican in the
Senate,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , issued a statement before
lunchtime yesterday urging the House to pass the short-term
measure.  McConnell said the House should pass a bill that averts
“any disruption in the  payroll tax  holiday or other expiring
provisions and allows Congress to work on a solution for the
longer extensions.”  That statement “sealed the deal” in ending the standoff,
said Brian Gardner, the senior vice president for Washington
research at KBW Inc.  Boehner held a conference call with Republicans yesterday.
On a similar conference call following the Dec. 17 Senate
passage of the two-month extension, rank-and-file Republicans
pressed Boehner to oppose the measure. They did so on Dec. 20 as
the House rejected the Senate bill 229-193.  Different Tone  House Republicans who participated in yesterday’s call
said the tone was much different than after the Senate vote.  “It wasn’t truly a conference call,” Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican, said. “It wasn’t a solicitation
of opinion.”  Though most  House Republicans  still want a yearlong deal,
Kingston said that it was time for the party to move forward.  “This takes the whole thing off the front page and that’s
a good thing,” he said.  Some House Republicans said yesterday they don’t think
Boehner’s agreement to pass the two-month extension puts him in
immediate danger of losing the support of the Republican
majority he leads.  Representative  Sean Duffy , a freshman Republican from
 Wisconsin , said Boehner was trying to reflect the views of his
colleagues. Duffy said he is pleased that a tax increase will be
avoided in January and doesn’t think the saga would hurt
Republicans in the 2012 election.  “I think the American public will look at the economy and
job growth and the lack thereof,” Duffy said. “I don’t think
this is an indicator of what will happen next year.  Provisions Extended  Without congressional action, the payroll tax for employees
would rise in January to 6.2 percent from the current 4.2
percent. The tax funds Social Security. The deal also averts an
end to emergency  unemployment  benefits set to expire on Dec. 31
and assures doctors their Medicare reimbursement rates won’t be
reduced starting in January.  Michael Feroli,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s New York-based chief
U.S. economist, said economic growth would be reduced by 0.5
percentage points in the first quarter and 1.5 percentage points
in the second quarter of 2012 if the payroll tax cut and
expanded unemployment benefits weren’t continued. If they are
extended for the year, he expects growth of 2.5 percent in the
first half of the year, he said in a Dec. 16 note to clients.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a
Michigan Republican, will introduce the legislation in the House
today that will implement the agreement.  Unanimous Consent  The measure will be brought up in the House under unanimous
consent to avoid requiring lawmakers to return and could be
cleared in the Senate later in the day using the same process.  The legislation includes one difference from the version
passed by the Senate. A yearlong payroll tax cut extension would
apply to the first $110,100 in wages. To prevent someone from
shifting all their income into the first two months of the year,
the Senate bill limited the tax break to the first $18,350 a
worker earns.  Republicans changed the bill to apply the tax cut to the
full $110,100 in wages, according to information provided by
Camp’s office. That makes it easier for payroll processors to
continue the tax cut if it is extended beyond February.  Workers who earn more than $18,350 during the first two
months of the year will pay an additional 2 percentage point tax
when they file their returns in 2013.  The bill is HR 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  