-- House Ethics Panel Confirms Investigation of Vern Buchanan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-22T23:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/house-ethics-committee-confirms-investigation-of-vern-buchanan.html
The U.S. House Ethics Committee
today confirmed it is looking into allegations involving
Republican Representative Vern Buchanan of  Florida , whose former
auto dealership is accused of illegally reimbursing donors to
his campaigns.  Committee Chairman Jo Bonner, an Alabama Republican, and
ranking Democrat Linda Sanchez of California said in a statement
that information about Buchanan was forwarded to the panel last
month by the independent Office of Congressional Ethics, which
conducted a preliminary investigation. The ethics committee said
it will decide how to proceed by Feb. 6.  The  Federal Election Commission  said in June that car
company funds were used to reimburse dealership employees and
relatives and business partners of Sam Karzan, who bought out
Buchanan’s share of the dealership in 2008. The FEC has asked
the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida to
fine the company $67,900. The case is continuing.  “The release issued by the House Ethics Committee today is
a routine notification,” said Max Goodman, a spokesman for
Buchanan. “We are constructively engaged with the House Ethics
Committee and are confident that the committee will dismiss this
matter.”  Buchanan, 60, is vice chairman for finance at the  National
Republican Congressional Committee , which works to elect
Republicans to U.S. House seats. The NRCC chairman, Texas
Representative Pete Sessions, said earlier this month that he
had “confidence” in Buchanan during an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  “He is not the issue,” Sessions said. “The issue is the
ability to resolve quickly what he brought to the committee and
to the Department of Justice. He’s the one that provided the
information, by the way, publicly about this. He’s being
forthright, and I’m very proud of Vern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 