-- House Republicans Have Few Options to Resolve Payroll Tax Fight
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-22T15:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/house-republicans-left-with-few-options-to-resolve-fight-over-payroll-tax.html
House Republicans  are fighting
President Barack Obama over extending a U.S.  payroll tax  cut as
their public image weakens and his political position improves,
a survey suggests.  A CNN poll taken Dec. 16-18 found that, by 50 percent to 31
percent, respondents said they had more confidence in Obama than
in congressional Republicans to deal with the major issues
facing the country. A March survey gave Obama a 44 percent to 39
percent edge on that question. The share of people who view the
 Republican Party  unfavorably grew to 52 percent from 45 percent
in June, according to the poll.  In the  payroll tax -cut fight, House Republicans and face
party pressure to accept the Senate’s short-term reduction.
Democrats are dug in against immediate compromise on a longer
extension.  With the two-percentage-point  tax cut  due to expire Dec.
31, House Speaker John Boehner today repeated his call for the
Senate to pass a one-year extension of the payroll tax cut to
“provide certainty for American employers.”  ‘Only Option’  Obama told Boehner yesterday that the “only option” is to
allow a vote on the Senate’s two-month extension to buy time for
negotiations on a one-year cut. Senate Republicans, including
 John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , are calling
on House Republicans to give up their insistence on a one-year
extension now.  Obama will make remarks about the payroll tax cut today at
12:15 p.m. Eastern time in which he “will continue to urge
House Republicans to do what’s right for the American people”
by voting on the two-month extension, the White House said in a
statement. Obama “will be joined by Americans who would see
their taxes go up if the House Republicans fail to act,”
according to the statement.  House leaders “have to back down,” said Tom Mann, a
congressional scholar with the  Brookings Institution , a policy
center in Washington. “There’s no real possibility of cutting a
deal on a one-year extension before the end of the year. It’s
foolish to think otherwise.”  2012 Election Issue  A Senate Republican leadership aide said Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, will either have to cave in and allow a vote on the
Senate legislation or let the two-percentage-point tax cut
expire Dec. 31 and hand Democrats an issue they can use in 2012
elections. Democrats have the upper hand politically, said the
Republican aide, and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, has little incentive to bring the chamber back from a
monthlong recess to negotiate.  Adam Jentleson, a Reid spokesman, reiterated that senators
won’t be called back to Washington.  “There are no other options,” Jentleson said. “We are
not discussing any alternative strategies.”  Take-home pay for 160 million Americans will decrease in
January unless Congress approves an extension of this year’s cut
in the  payroll tax  that funds Social Security. A worker earning
$50,000 a year would see  take-home pay  drop by $1,000 over the
year. For those paid biweekly, each paycheck would be $38.46
smaller.  Lawmakers in both parties say they want to extend the tax
cut through next year, while disagreeing over how to pay for it.
 Senate Democrats  sought a surtax on millionaires, while House
Republicans voted for such measures as freezing the pay of
federal civilian workers.  Partisan Battle  Those disagreements exploded into a partisan fight that
threatens economic growth and may worsen disapproval ratings for
both parties.  Mann said that to resolve the dispute this month, Reid
would have to bring the Senate back into session after both
parties agreed to leave  Washington  and return for work Jan. 23.
There isn’t much time for both sides to find a way to pay for a
one-year extension, he said.  A House Republican leadership aide who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly said one option floated by Republican aides --
though not embraced by party leaders -- is to approve a two-
month extension binding the Senate to negotiations in January to
set up a Feb. 1 vote on a full-year reduction.  Asked about such an idea yesterday, Boehner said House
Republicans are “ready to work” and said Senate Democrats
should return “to have that conversation.” An aide to Boehner
said after the speaker’s call with Obama that the speaker made
clear he’s not budging.  No Fingerprints  Democrats said they were wary of any proposal to set up a
conference committee before Congress extends the payroll tax cut
for two months.  “You know the old saying in Washington, when you want to
kill something and not leave your fingerprints on it, appoint a
committee,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , his
chamber’s third-ranking Democrat.  In an editorial yesterday, the Wall Street Journal called
the Republican standoff a “fiasco” and said Boehner may be
helping re-elect Obama because the Democratic president gets to
look more like a tax-cut proponent than he’s been and they look
like obstructionists.  ‘Cut Their Losses’  “Republicans would do best to cut their losses and find a
way to extend the payroll holiday quickly,” the editorial said.  McCain, Obama’s Republican opponent in the 2008
presidential election, circulated the editorial on Twitter,
saying, “WSJ is right on the mark here.”  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , seeking the Republican
presidential nomination, told Republicans at a breakfast today
in Short Pump,  Virginia , that “it is disgraceful” that
Congress would pass a two-month extension of the payroll tax cut
and “leave town having failed to do the job.”  Gingrich said that the episode has been “as bad a process
and as bad government as I can remember in my lifetime, and
 Barack Obama  is the primary reason.”  Michael Franc, vice president for government relations at
the  Heritage Foundation , told reporters in  Des Moines ,  Iowa ,
yesterday that, while he isn’t trying to “second-guess the
Congress,” presidents typically have the upper hand in these
types of policy standoffs with lawmakers. The Heritage
Foundation is a Washington group that supports limited
government.  “It’s coming across like the Democrats want to cut taxes
and Republicans don’t,” Franc said. “It looks like Republicans
are the Scrooges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  