-- Obama and Boehner Increase Pressure Over U.S. Payroll Tax Cut
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-12-22T20:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/house-speaker-backs-one-year-payroll-tax-cut-for-more-certainty.html
U.S. lawmakers are close to
agreement on a plan to continue a payroll- tax cut  for two months
and require the Senate to appoint negotiators to discuss a
longer-term plan, a Republican congressional aide said.  House Speaker  John Boehner  found himself increasingly
isolated today as President  Barack Obama  continued to insist on
a two-month stopgap agreement and Senate Republican leader  Mitch
McConnell  said the speaker should accept a short-term plan to
avoid the Dec. 31 expiration of the tax break.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, telephoned Obama today to
again press for a one-year extension to the two-percentage-point
tax cut. Obama said a “faction of House Republicans” was
blocking the measure and that he was doing all he could to
resolve the impasse.  “How can we not get that done?” the president said at an
event on the White House grounds. “I mean, has this place
become so dysfunctional that even when people agree to things,
we can’t do it?”  McConnell, of  Kentucky , weakened Boehner’s hand today by
calling on the House Republican leader to pass a short-term bill
by year’s end so Congress could return to talks over the tax
cut, an oil pipeline and other matters in the Senate measure.  ‘Greater Certainty’  “House Republicans sensibly want greater certainty about
the duration of these provisions, while Senate Democrats want
more time to negotiate the terms,” McConnell said in a
statement. “These goals are not mutually exclusive. We can and
should do both.”  Boehner earlier dismissed criticism from fellow Republicans
that he should accept a two-month extension of the expiring
 payroll tax  cut to avert political damage to his party.  “Politics will be politics,” Boehner told reporters at a
news conference this morning. “If you do the right thing for
the right reasons, then the right things will happen.
Everybody’s already agreed that the best policy is a one-year
extension.”  One House Republican today moved away from that position.
Representative  Sean Duffy  of  Wisconsin , a first-term House
Republican, said it would be best for the House to pass the
Senate’s measure so the tax cut doesn’t lapse. He voted with
most Republicans in the chamber to reject the Senate legislation
on Dec. 20, and said today that Congress must “rise above the
squabbling” to resolve the impasse.  Not ‘Proving a Point’  “Of course, I still believe middle-class families would be
better served by the certainty of a one-year payroll tax
holiday, but this isn’t about proving a point,” Duffy said in a
statement. His northwest Wisconsin district has backed
Democratic presidential nominees since 1988.  Republican Senators Richard Lugar of  Indiana , Olympia Snowe
of  Maine ,  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts and  John McCain  of
 Arizona  have called on Boehner to accept the Senate’s two-month
bipartisan deal.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who is seeking the 2012
Republican presidential nomination, warned yesterday that
Republicans could be blamed if the tax cut expires. A Wall
Street Journal editorial yesterday called the House Republicans’
fight for a longer-term  payroll tax  cut a “fiasco” that could
help re-elect Obama to the White House in 2012.  Boehner’s comments were an attempt to regain ground after
Democrats spent the past several days warning that average
middle-income workers could lose about $40 from each paycheck if
the tax cut expires. The Ohio Republican told reporters that the
two-month extension is unworkable because most businesses file
their taxes quarterly.  ‘Only Viable Option’  In the phone call today, Boehner encouraged Obama to send
members of the White House economic team to Capitol Hill to help
lawmakers come to an agreement on a one-year extension,
according to an aide to Boehner. Obama repeated to Boehner that
he views the Senate version of the legislation as “the only
viable option currently on the table,” the White House press
office said.  House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi of  California  sent a
letter to Boehner pressing him to hold a vote on the Senate-
passed two-month extension.  “There is no reason why such an extension cannot be on the
president’s desk within a few hours of House action given the
overwhelming support the Senate has already demonstrated,”
Pelosi wrote.  6.2 Percent  Unless Congress acts, the payroll tax for employees will
rise to 6.2 percent from the current 4.2 percent in January. The
payroll tax funds Social Security. If a deal isn’t reached,
emergency  unemployment  benefits are also set to expire on Dec.
31 and doctors who are reimbursed through Medicare will receive
lower payments starting in January.  A survey suggests that House Republicans’ public image has
weakened as Obama’s political position improves.  A CNN poll taken Dec. 16-18 found that, by 50 percent to 31
percent, respondents said they had more confidence in Obama than
in congressional Republicans to deal with the major issues
facing the country. A March survey gave Obama a 44 percent to 39
percent edge on that question. The share of people who view the
 Republican Party  unfavorably grew to 52 percent from 45 percent
in June, according to the poll.  House leaders “have to back down,” Tom Mann, a
congressional scholar with the  Brookings Institution , a policy
center in  Washington , said yesterday. “There’s no real
possibility of cutting a deal on a one-year extension before the
end of the year. It’s foolish to think otherwise.”  How to Pay  Lawmakers in both parties say they want to extend the tax
cut through next year while disagreeing over how to pay for it.
Senate Democrats sought a surtax on millionaires, while House
Republicans voted for such measures as freezing the pay of
federal civilian workers.  The issue is gaining traction in the presidential campaign.
Former  Massachusetts  Governor Mitt Romney said yesterday on
 MSNBC  he’d like to see the tax cut extended, while noting “this
is not going to turn the economy around.”  Today, Gingrich accused Romney of taking a stance that
isn’t aggressive enough.  “If you’re a candidate for president and you’re not
prepared to talk about the hottest issue right now which affects
every single working American -- there’s a concept called
leadership,” Gingrich said. “And people sometimes think that
I’m too aggressive, but at least I lead, ok?”  The Senate-passed bill is H.R. 3630.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  