-- Payroll Tax Tiff Times 25 Awaits Congress in ‘Utter Dysfunction’
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/payroll-tax-tiff-times-25-awaits-congress-in-utter-dysfunction-.html
The brinksmanship in Congress over a
 payroll  tax-cut extension may end up looking like a quaint
disagreement by next December, when lawmakers must grapple with
a fiscal policy debate at least 25 times more costly.  Unless Congress acts by the end of 2012,  income tax  cuts
will expire, automatic reductions in defense and domestic
spending will start and the alternative minimum tax will ensnare
millions more taxpayers. The same Congress that can’t find a way
to extend the widely supported payroll tax cut beyond Dec. 31
will be seeking to bridge long-held ideological differences.  “The prospects are bleak,” said Leonard Burman, a former
Treasury Department official who teaches public affairs at
 Syracuse University  in New York. “I’ve never seen such a high
level of dysfunction in the 25 years or so that I’ve been paying
attention to government.”  The year-end 2012 series of deadlines on tax and spending
policy stems from Congress’s tendency to push problems into the
future with temporary solutions. This year alone, lawmakers have
flirted with a federal government shutdown three times, almost
defaulted on the  U.S. debt  for the first time in history and
allowed aviation taxes to lapse for two weeks.  The income tax cuts, first enacted in 2001 and 2003 under
President  George W. Bush , were scheduled to expire at the end of
2010 for budgetary and political reasons and were extended two
more years by Congress and President  Barack Obama . The spending
cuts are a byproduct of a 2011 agreement to raise the federal
debt limit.  Trillions at Stake  The $4 trillion in expiring tax cuts and $1.2 trillion in
potential spending cuts dwarf the $200 billion at stake in the
current fight over the payroll tax cut and other provisions,
including expanded unemployment insurance. Those items, if
extended for another year, would expire at the end of 2012.  House leaders, Senate leaders and Obama are blaming one
another for the stalemate.  House Republicans  insist on a
yearlong extension. Senators from both parties backed a two-
month extension on Dec. 17 to buy time for negotiations on a
longer-term agreement.  The potential collapse of the payroll tax-cut deal, which
would result in lower paychecks for 160 million U.S. workers in
January, caps a year in which approval ratings for Congress have
plummeted. A Gallup poll released Dec. 19 found 11 percent of
Americans approve of Congress’s work. The yearly average is 17
percent, which Gallup said was the lowest annual congressional
approval rating it has ever recorded.  “We’ve got some critical issues that are just coming to a
head in 2012, and I hope we learn from this experience,” said
Representative Tom Reed, a  New York  Republican and one of the
eight would-be House negotiators appointed by Speaker  John Boehner  on the payroll tax issue.  ‘Reckless Policy’  In a telephone interview yesterday, Reed criticized Obama
and the Senate for trying to push decisions on policy issues --
such as the Keystone XL oil pipeline from  Canada  to  Texas  --
beyond the 2012 election.  “It’s amazing to me that grown responsible men and women
will defer to politics and support reckless policy, just because
the politics are such that it may be in their interest to do
it,” said Reed, who entered the House in November 2010.  Representative Allyson Schwartz, a Pennsylvania Democrat,
said Democratic willingness to cut spending hasn’t been met with
an equal spirit of compromise from Republicans on taxes.  “This week seems dramatic, but the fact is all year we
have been dealing with Republican leadership and a Republican
conference that has taken us to the brink of a crisis and an
inability to really work in any kind of bipartisan effort,” she
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Expiring Tax Cuts  Unless Congress acts next year, the top income tax rate in
2013 would rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. Dividends would
be taxed as ordinary income, and the top rate on long-term
 capital gains  would rise to 20 percent from 15 percent. Tax
increases for investment income included in the 2010 health care
law are also scheduled to take effect in 2013.  In addition to everything else expiring at the end of 2012,
Congress also will have to fund the government for the fiscal
year that starts Oct. 1, 2012. That issue may linger into
December unless lawmakers can reach a pre-election agreement.  Furthermore, depending on economic growth, the federal
government may again bump up against the debt limit -- a debate
that consumed Washington during July 2011.  If those issues collide simultaneously, including the debt
limit, “it would be like a nuclear device being detonated,”
said Kenneth Kies, a Republican tax lobbyist in Washington whose
clients include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Pfizer Inc.  The political dynamics of fiscal policy will change after
the 2012 election, depending on who gains control of Congress
and the White House. The new Congress won’t be sworn in until
January 2013, and, if Obama loses, his term won’t end until Jan.
20, 2013.  ‘Lame-Duck Dynamics’  If Congress can’t resolve these issues before the election,
lawmakers will reprise 2010, when a lame-duck Congress
controlled by Democrats wrangled over  tax policy  after
Republicans had won control of the House in the election. Under
Republican pressure, Obama and congressional Democrats agreed to
extend all of the tax cuts instead of ending them for high
earners.  “Lame-duck dynamics are entirely predicated on what
happens in the election,” said J.D. Foster, a senior fellow at
the  Heritage Foundation , a  Washington  group that supports
 limited government . “They may be the same members, but they’ll
be there under very different circumstances.”  Even Obama, who will be president in December 2012 whether
he wins or loses the election, will view issues differently
without election pressure, Foster said.  Lawmakers are starting to envision scenarios for how the
tax and spending issues are reconciled, depending in part on the
election results.  Deficit Focus  Earl Pomeroy , a former Democratic congressman from  North
Dakota  who is now a lawyer at  Alston & Bird LLP  in Washington,
said the national focus on the federal  budget deficit  will make
it more difficult for Republicans to press for an extension of
the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts without covering their cost.  “For those from the right side of the political spectrum,
you’ve got the worst of all worlds,” said Pomeroy, a lobbyist
whose clients include Aetna Inc. “If Congress fails to act,
you’re going to have a tax increase and steep defense cuts. What
we’re seeing with the legislative process is that it’s fallen to
a state of utter dysfunction.”  Addressing the alternative minimum tax is the one thing
that must be done at the end of next year, said Kies, a former
chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.
It is a parallel tax system designed to prevent top earners from
legally avoiding taxes.  Indexed for Inflation  The exemption levels aren’t permanently indexed for
inflation so, unless Congress works to blunt its spread,
millions more taxpayers would end up paying it.  The alternative tax is the only issue in play, Kies said,
that will affect tax returns filed in early 2013.  “Nothing else has to be done,” he said.  Reed said he hoped Congress could start debating the
provisions expiring at the end of 2012 as early as possible.  “They cannot be dealt with post-election in crisis mode,”
he said. “These issues, they don’t get better with time. They
get worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  