-- Peru Regulator to Propose Pension Funds Buy Infrastructure Bonds
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2011-12-22T16:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/peru-regulator-to-propose-pension-funds-buy-infrastructure-bonds.html
Peru’s chief financial regulator is
working on plans to allow the country’s pension funds to buy
infrastructure bonds, broadening the investment opportunities
available to the $31 billion industry.  The regulator aims to draw up legislation next year that
would enable the funds to buy securities linked to
infrastructure projects, the Superintendent of Banks, Insurance
and Private Pension Funds, Daniel Schydlowsky, said in a Dec. 20
interview in  Lima .  Peru’s four private pension funds are seeking new
instruments in which to invest  assets  that have grown 73 percent
in the past three years. Congress on July 13 raised the ceiling
on the funds’ investments abroad to 50 percent from 30 percent.
The regulator wants to spur the sale of securities tied to road,
port and telecommunications projects and make the cap on
overseas investment “irrelevant,” Schydlowsky said.  “Foreign markets haven’t done very well,” he said. Under
the new regulations, the funds would be able to “give us a good
pension, but also some decent roads without potholes.”  Peru will invest $20.5 billion in infrastructure over the
next five years, including $11 billion to build 7,000 kilometers
of roads, Transport Minister Carlos Paredes said Nov. 22.  The country’s pension funds increased their investments
abroad to 28 percent of their assets as of Nov. 30, from 10
percent in November 2008, according to the regulator’s website.  This year’s 18 percent drop in the  Lima General Index (IGBVL)  of
stocks cut the value of the funds’ assets to 82.4 billion soles
($31 billion) last month from 84.4 billion soles in November
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net / 