-- Pigeons Aren’t Bird-Brained as Study Finds Knowledge of Abstract Numbers
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-22T23:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/pigeons-aren-t-bird-brained-as-study-finds-knowledge-of-abstract-numbers.html
Pigeons  aren’t so bird-brained after
all, according to researchers from  New Zealand  who proved they
can learn abstract numerical rules.  In a landmark 1998 study, investigators showed rhesus
monkeys could differentiate between the number of objects in a
group and put them into ascending order. The ability was thought
to apply only to humans and other  primates , until now.  Damian Scarf from the University of Otago in Dunedin and
his colleagues trained pigeons to do similar work, and they
turned out to be just as deft as the monkeys. Given 35 three-
item numerical lists, the pigeons could respond to them in
order, first recognizing the single item, then two item groups,
then three-item groups. They were also able to match pairs based
on the number of items, even when they weren’t familiar with the
objects, the report published in the journal  Science  found.  “Our results demonstrate a correspondence in the way
monkeys and pigeons represent numbers and in their ability to
acquire an abstract ordinal rule,” the researchers said. “Our
results suggest that, at least with respect to numerical
competence, pigeons are on par with primates and are well
perched to inform us about the selection pressures and neural
structures required for abstract numerical cognition.”  The investigators said they aren’t sure if pigeons and
monkeys acquired their math skills from a shared common ancestor
or if the numerical competence evolved independently.  “Irrespective of its origin, the results of the present
experiment adds to a growing body of work demonstrating that
birds possess a number of abilities that were, at one point in
time, considered primate unique, such as episodic memory and the
use and manufacture of tools,” the researchers said. “Indeed,
over the past two decades, the intellectual status of birds has
risen markedly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  