-- Pimco Forecasts U.S. Economy May Stagnate
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2011-12-22T17:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/pimco-says-u-s-economy-may-stagnate-next-year-on-europe-crisis.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
whose largest fund is suffering its worst year on record after
 Bill Gross ’s failed bet against Treasuries, said the U.S. may
stagnate next year, a view at odds with recent data signaling
continued growth.  The U.S. economy may expand 0 percent to 1 percent, weighed
down by  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in  China , Pimco said
in an economic outlook posted on its website. Europe may
contract 1.5 percent to 1 percent, while China may expand 6.75
percent to 7.25 percent, the  Newport Beach , California-based
firm forecasts. Global growth will slow to 1 percent to 1.5
percent, from 2.5 percent, Pimco said.  “Were it not for the brewing crisis in the  euro zone , and
the expected slowdown in aggregate demand in China and other
emerging economies, the outlook for the  U.S. economy  might have
been relatively sanguine for the year ahead,” Saumil H. Parikh,
who leads Pimco’s cyclical economic forums, wrote in the report.  The view contrasts with recent reports showing gains in
manufacturing and consumer spending, alongside improvements in
the housing market. Fewer Americans than forecast sought jobless
benefits and  consumer confidence  climbed, reports today showed.
Pimco in 2009 predicted that, following the market collapse in
2008, the U.S. economy would grow at a below-average pace for
several years as unemployment stays elevated and the “heavy
hand of government” would be evident in the markets.  Gross is co-chief investment officer at Pimco. The firm,
owned by Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , manages about $1.3
trillion in assets.  ‘Stinker’  Gross’s Total Return Fund, the world’s biggest mutual fund,
is on track for its first calendar year of redemptions after it
trailed 72 percent of rivals in 2011, according to data compiled
by research firm Lipper and Bloomberg. Investors pulled $2.3
billion from the $241 billion fund in the first 11 months of
this year. Total Return beat 98 percent of peers over the past
five years.  Gross, in an October letter to clients titled “ Mea
Culpa ,” called 2011 a “stinker” of a year after he shunned
Treasuries in the first half and missed a rally as investors
rushed to the safety of government-backed debt amid the European
sovereign-debt crisis. After eliminating Treasuries from the
portfolio in February, Gross has piled back into the securities,
bringing government and Treasury debt to 23 percent as of Nov.
30.  Pimco’s outlook compares with a median forecast of 2.1
percent growth by 70 economists in a Bloomberg News survey from
Dec. 2 to Dec. 8. Ten-year treasury notes may yield 2.6 percent
by the end of 2012, the economists forecast.  Data on the U.S. economy have been outperforming analysts’
expectations by the most in nine months, a signal underlying
strength may be greater than projected heading into 2012. The
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, a daily measure of whether
economic data is better or worse than economists’ projections,
rose to 85.7 this month, the highest since March. The index is
calculated on a three-month rolling basis and weighted for the
importance of the indicator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  