-- Pinera’s First Developed Country Promise Undermined by Chileans in Poverty
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2011-12-22T12:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/pinera-s-first-developed-country-promise-undermined-by-chileans-in-poverty.html
Milva Guerra’s retail clothing
business in north-central  Chile  has more than tripled in floor
space during the past decade, propelling the 41-year-old store
owner into the country’s growing middle class. After expanding
her sales from a stand in an open-air market to three small
shops in two cities, Guerra now has enough income to help her
family pay bills and start saving for retirement.  No longer living paycheck to paycheck, Guerra can afford to
take the four-hour trip to Santiago for health care at the
country’s top hospitals. She smiles when she thinks that, with
her assistance, her nephew is going to college -- the first in
the family to do so, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
February issue.  Guerra’s success mirrors the economic surge Chile has
enjoyed since its return to democracy in 1990. Gross domestic
product has grown at an average annual rate of 5 percent during
the period, helping to reduce the poverty level to 15.1 percent
in 2009 from 38.6 percent.  The world’s top copper producer has the second-highest per
capita GDP in  Latin America , behind Argentina. Uptown Santiago
is a symbol of Chile’s growing economic clout, with its modern
high-rises that have spawned the nickname Sanhattan for the
neighborhood’s similarities to  Manhattan .  The area is home to the tallest building in  South America ,
the 984-foot-high (300-meter-high) Costanera Center shopping and
office complex.  Thin Barrier  Sanhattan is far removed from Illapel, the town of 32,000
in the Coquimbo region where Guerra lives. Here in Coquimbo,
she’s apprehensive as she looks around her lingerie shop. In
Chile, the barrier between middle-class status and poverty is
thin.  Just one major hospital procedure or the cost of education
-- Chile doesn’t have free public universities -- could
impoverish a newly made middle-class Chilean.  Guerra says she fears she may lose all that she has
attained.  “The economic system is tremendously unfair,” she says.
Chile has a free-market economy in which salaried workers, not
employers, pay almost all expenses for health insurance. The
average annual cost of health care and education per person in
Chile is $3,469 -- more than 40 percent of the average yearly
income of $8,310, according to government data.  The nation has a 19 percent sales tax on all purchases,
higher than the 18 percent in  Peru  and 16 percent in Mexico.  No Benefits  “You pay for everything here -- everything -- and you
don’t receive the benefits,” she says.  Guerra’s complaints are typical in Chile. Stepping up to
the middle class, which in Chile means earning more than $1,500
a year, according to government data, doesn’t provide the
comforts or financial security shared by members of the same
social group in the U.S. or most of  Europe  -- where the poverty
line is on average more than four times higher.  That frustration led, during most of 2011, to street
marches by workers and students protesting the economic policies
of President Sebastian Pinera, the billionaire businessman who
was elected on a pledge of doubling economic growth and creating
a million new jobs.  The demonstrations have often been violent, as activists
push for tax and education reforms and wealth re-distribution in
what the  World Bank  calls one of the globe’s most-stratified
economies. Guerra is among the 71 percent of Chileans who say
they support the demands of the protesters, according to a
November poll by Santiago-based Adimark GfK.  Wealth Distribution Complaints  Police had made more than 13,500 arrests during 5,400
demonstrations in 2011 as of Dec. 1. The most common complaint
is that the distribution of wealth in Chile is unfair; just 6
percent of Chileans polled say they believe it’s fair.  That’s the highest level of public dissatisfaction among
all major Latin American nations, according to Santiago-based
research group Latinobarometro. Thirty percent of Chileans in
the poll are optimistic about their personal economic future --
12 percentage points below the Latin American average.  The Chilean rallies may sound the same as those of the
Occupy Wall Street movement; they’re not.  Occupy Wall Street protesters are clamoring to restore what
many Americans once had and gain back jobs they lost because of
the global economic crisis that started in late 2007. Chileans,
many of whom have lived in poverty most of their lives, are
demanding benefits they’ve never enjoyed, such as free public
universities and low-cost  student loans .  ‘Breaking Point’  “We’ve grown a lot of late but are at a breaking point,”
says Alejandro Micco, chief economist at the  Finance Ministry 
under former President  Michelle Bachelet . “If we want to con-
tinue advancing, we have to make some difficult changes.”  Improving wealth distribution would be a prerequisite for
Chile to achieve developed-nation status, he says.  Pinera, who took office in March 2010, pledges to make
Chile the first Latin American developed country by raising per
capita GDP.  “Our goal is to become a developed country and defeat
poverty before the end of this decade,” he says in an
interview. “For that, we need to grow by at least 6 percent a
year to achieve a per capita income of $25,000 by 2020.”  Pinera says that before his term is completed in two years,
he’ll eliminate extreme poverty in his country, which in this
case means earning income of less than $750 a year. Per capita
annual GDP in  Brazil  is about $11,000 annually and about $14,600
in  Mexico .  Economic Growth  The administration is moving toward its target.  Economic
growth  averaged 6.1 percent in Pinera’s first 20 months in
office, and unemployment declined to 7.2 percent in October from
9 percent in March 2010. Almost 600,000 jobs have been created
since Pinera entered office, he says.  And even as he says protests are hurting Chile’s image as a
stable country, investors are still flocking to the $203 billion
economy. Net capital inflows reached $5.3 billion in the first
10 months of 2011 compared with a net outflow for all of 2010.  “If we can continue at the speed that we’re moving now, we
will be able to achieve our goals,” Pinera says.  Most Chileans say Pinera’s optimistic numbers belie the
nation’s struggling middle class. In the November Adimark poll,
Pinera’s approval rating plummeted to 35 percent from a peak of
63 percent in October 2010.  No Debt  As the only net creditor in the Americas, Chile can
stimulate employment and investment if a global economic
slowdown in 2012 knocks the country off its path, Pinera says.  The ministry can tap into a $13.6 billion sovereign-wealth
fund, he says. Chile saved that money because of its vast copper
reserves and exports by state-owned mining company Codelco.  Micco says Chile should address social demands by raising
tax rates for corporations and cracking down on tax evaders.
Pinera says his administration will consider reforming taxes in
the first half of 2012 to help the middle class.  The business community’s response has been mixed. Felipe Lamarca, chairman of  Ripley Corp SA , Chile’s fourth-largest
retailer, said in October that he favors  tax reform  to aid the
middle class. Andres Concha, president of manufacturing
association Sofofa, said in a November speech that higher taxes
would deter investment and slow growth.  Chile’s economic expansion, which was expected to be 6.3
percent in 2011, will slow to 4 percent in 2012 as the global
outlook cools, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stuck in Place  That would still be the fourth-highest rate among major
economies in the Americas, behind  Argentina , Colombia and Peru,
according to the Bloomberg poll.  Rather than making Chileans feel confident, the country’s
gains tend to fuel sentiments that the wealthy are growing
richer while the middle class is stuck in place or falling
behind, says Ramon Lopez, an economist at the University of
 Maryland  who graduated from the University of Chile in Santiago.  “We have an economy that has been successful in terms of
growth and average GDP per capita but has not been successful in
distributing the benefits of this,” he says.  Guerra, whose clothing shops in Illapel are about 300
kilometers (190 miles) north of Santiago, says she sees evidence
of inequality in Chile’s economy on a daily basis as her
customers take on growing amounts of debt to pay for
necessities.  The blame lies with an economic model in which corporations
-- not the government -- sell many of the country’s services,
including education and pensions, Guerra says.  ‘System is Brutal’  “The economic system is brutal,” she says. “We don’t
have anything to act as a safety net.”  Pinera says he’s working to help Chileans pay for
education.  “We will have to do a major education reform,” he says.
The government will guarantee scholarships to those families
most in need, about 60 percent of the population, Pinera says.
The president says he hears his constituents.  “Defeating poverty and improving the equality of our
 income distribution  are absolutely necessary,” he says.  Guerra considers herself fortunate. With no children, she
kept profit margins low and still succeeded when starting out
because she didn’t have education and child-care costs. She says
she fears her luck may run out.  ‘I Feel Insecure’  Chile has had a retail boom for the past two years,
allowing department store companies such as Ripley and  SACI
Falabella  to open shops in smaller cities. That could cause her
to lose sales, making her increasingly vulnerable to falling
back into poverty.  “If you ask me how I feel about my business now, rather
than saying ‘happy,’ I’d have to say I feel insecure,” she
says. “My fear is that I won’t be able to survive when the big
chain stores arrive. I may simply not be able to hang on.”  Micco says that if the government helps the new middle
class with improved services -- financed by higher corporate
taxes and levies on the wealthy -- Chile can become a developed
nation.  “We’re seeing consensus that Chile is extremely unequal
and something has to be done,” Micco says. “There is a
tremendous opportunity to change the inequalities we see without
damaging the country’s growth.”  Editors: Jonathan Neumann, Gail Roche  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  