-- Pinera Says Chile Will Be First Developed Latin America Nation
-- B y   R o n a l d   H e n k o f f   a n d   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 2011-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/pinera-says-chile-will-be-first-developed-country-in-latin-america-by-2020.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera,
who earned his fortune by setting up  Chile ’s first credit card
network and revitalizing Lan Airlines SA, aims to vault his
country into the ranks of developed nations by 2020. He talked
to Bloomberg Markets magazine editor Ronald Henkoff and
Bloomberg News Santiago bureau chief James Attwood on Dec. 6.  During the interview, which took place in Pinera’s sparsely
furnished office at the Moneda presidential palace in Santiago,
the sound of demonstrators outside marching in opposition to a
hydroelectric project were a reminder of the social challenges
the president has had to face since he took office in March
2010.  Pinera, who earned a doctorate in economics at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Harvard University  and once was a
representative of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in Chile, has seen his popularity
fall to 35 percent in November from a peak of 63 percent in
October 2010, Bloomberg Markets reports in its February issue.  Dressed in a blue suit with a Chilean flag pin on the
lapel, a starched white shirt and conservative red tie, Pinera
spoke rapidly as he discussed his plans for his country, his
views on seven months of student-led protests and his openness
to foreign investment.  Here are excerpts from the interview:  Defeating Poverty  “Chile, which was the poorest Spanish colony in  Latin
America , is now the country with the highest per capita income.
Our goal is to become a developed country and defeat poverty
before the end of this decade. We need to do many, many things
to achieve that.  “First of all, we need to grow at least 6 percent per year
in order to reach $25,000 by 2020, which is roughly the average
per capita income of most OECD countries. We need to create 1
million jobs to defeat underdevelopment and end poverty. The old
pillars -- to have a stable democracy and market economy that is
integrated with the world -- are not enough.  “We will have major education reform to increase the
quality and the coverage of our system. We must increase
investments in science and technology -- we will need to double
that as a percentage of GDP -- as well as promote innovation and
entrepreneurship. We also must improve  income distribution .  “We are on track, because the average growth rate during
the 20 months we have been in power is 6.5 percent. The average
growth rate of the former government was 2.7 percent. We aim to
create 1 million jobs in four years, which with our labor force
of 7.5 million, would be the equivalent of 15 million jobs in
the U.S. We have already created 600,000 jobs, so we are on
track there as well.  “We need to increase productivity to grow 6 percent a
year. We are moving in the right direction: Productivity was
negative in 2009, zero in 2010 and will be positive in 2011.”  Obstacles and Protests  “We have had to face three major threats that were not
predicted. The first was the earthquake that hit our country in
February 2010. We lost in a few minutes one out of every three
schools, one of every three hospitals and, in total, $30
billion, which is 14 percent of GDP.  “The second problem is the international economy. We are
very pessimistic about what will happen in  Europe  and the U.S. I
think Europe is already in recession. The U.S. has not been able
to recover from the 2008 crisis; the recovery will be slow and
will take a lot of time. The emerging countries, including
 China , are not growing as they were before.  Social Unrest  “For us, it’s very important what is happening in the
Asia-Pacific region because they have become by far our most
important trading partners. The third phenomenon we’ve had to
face is social unrest, which has been a bit overestimated by the
press. Only 5 percent of secondary and university-level students
were protesting, but they made a lot of noise.  “They were asking for free education for everybody with no
conditions, and we don’t agree with that. We think that we
should guarantee access to quality education for everybody and
scholarships to those who need scholarships.  “We agree with them that we need to improve dramatically
the quality of our education. But the main problems are not at
the higher level; they are at the preschool and kindergarten
level. If you’re not able to intervene at that early stage with
children that are coming from vulnerable homes, then sometimes
it’s too late.  “We have committed ourselves to cover all children
belonging to households of the lowest 60 percent of the
population.”  ‘A Very Good Position’  “We are in a very good position because we have solid
fiscal accounts. Our public debt is negative. We are creditors
to the world, not debtors.  “Chile is a very open economy, and therefore we will be
hit by the global deceleration. Our terms of trade are
deteriorating, and of course, the confidence of consumers and
investors will be affected. That’s why we’re predicting that the
growth rate for 2012 will be between 4 percent and 5 percent,
much lower than the 6.5 percent that we are expecting for 2011.  “We are preparing what we call a contingency plan because
we have the resources to undertake a pro-growth fiscal policy.
We also can do something in our monetary policy by lowering
 interest rates . We have $15 billion in our foreign  savings
accounts  that are designed specifically to compensate for bad
years like the one we will face in 2012.”  Chile’s Investment Climate  “Chile is a very open country in every sense. We have huge
opportunities to invest in Chile in many, many different
sectors: energy, mining, agriculture, manufacturing and many
others.  “We have a very stable system, a very stable democracy,
and we are very much committed to the rule of law, which is
important because that gives certainty and stability that the
rules will not be changed arbitrarily. I would like to send the
message to foreign investors that they are most welcome in Chile
and that they have huge opportunities.”  Editors: Jonathan Neumann, Gail Roche  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Henkoff at 
 rhenkoff@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  