-- Poker Champ Duhamel Has Diamond-Encrusted Bracelet Stolen in Home Invasion
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-23T01:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/poker-champ-duhamel-has-diamond-encrusted-bracelet-stolen-in-home-invasion.html
World Series  of Poker champion
Jonathan Duhamel was beaten by two men who stole his winner’s
bracelet in a home invasion in Canada, his agent said.  Duhamel, who won the No-Limit Texas Hold’Em world
championship, $8.9 million and the diamond-encrusted gold
bracelet in November 2010, was attacked by two masked men at his
home in Boucherville,  Quebec , at around 9 a.m. local time
yesterday, according to Yves Bouchard, Duhamel’s agent.  “He’s doing fine, he’s recovering,” Bouchard said in a
telephone interview. “Obviously, he took a beating but
nothing’s broken.”  Also taken were a Rolex watch given to Duhamel by
PokerStars.com in honor of his tournament win and an undisclosed
amount of cash, Bouchard said. He said it wasn’t known whether
Duhamel was targeted or the home was chosen at random.  Duhamel, 24, spent this morning with the Longueuil police
after being treated at a hospital.  “The thieves stole some money, but mainly my WSOP champion
bracelet and the Rolex watch that my sponsor PokerStars gave me
to commemorate the event,” Duhamel said in a news release. “I
won’t hide the fact that these two items have a much larger
value for me than their commercial value, and I really hope we
will be able to retrieve them.”  Telephone calls to the police were unanswered. A police
spokesman who wouldn’t confirm that the victim was Duhamel told
the National Post the attack is being considered an armed
assault.  Duhamel became  Canada ’s first World Series of Poker main-
event champion when he won the tournament after two hours of
heads-up play in  Las Vegas  to outlast a field that began with
7,319 participants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 