-- El Pais Owner’s Banks Said to Refinance $3.8 Billion in Debt
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2011-12-22T17:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/prisa-s-banks-said-to-refinance-almost-3-billion-euros-of-debt.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA (PRS) , the
publisher of Spain’s El Pais newspaper, will get an agreement
from its banks to refinance about 2.92 billion euros
($3.81 billion) of debt, according to two people familiar with
the matter. Shares surged.  Carlos Slim , the Mexican billionaire, bought a 3.2 percent
holding in Prisa through Inmobiliaria Carso SA last month. Prisa
rallied as much as 9.8 percent before closing today 8.5 percent
higher at 89 euro cents in Madrid in the biggest increase since
Nov. 18.  “It is a great Christmas gift for the company given its
high leverage,” said Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG
Valores in Madrid. “The company needs to keep restructuring its
business, and this may not be the last refinancing.”  Media companies in  Spain  are struggling to halt a slide in
earnings and market value as advertising revenue slumps with the
country mired in its worst economic crisis in decades.  Prisa Chief Executive Officer Juan Luis Cebrian said in
September he was confident to reach an agreement with lenders
this year. On Dec. 19, Prisa said that “almost all” its
creditor banks agreed on new debt terms.  Prisa Lending  Lenders will approve a refinancing until March 2014 subject
to the conversion of some warrants held by investors into stock,
said the people, who declined to be named because the
negotiations are private. The signing of the refinancing is
scheduled for next week, the people said.  The maturity of the loans may be extended until December
2014 if the  Madrid  company sells its 17 percent stake in
 Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA , owner of Spain’s biggest
commercial television station, or if it sells bonds, one of the
people said. A spokeswoman for Prisa declined to comment and
cited company policy in asking not to be named.  The margin of the refinanced loans will be 215 basis
points, or 2.15 percentage points, above the euro-area interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, compared with 200 on existing loans,
one of the people said. The margin has a step up of 10 basis
points in 2013 and another 10 basis points in 2014, according to
one of the people.  Last year, Prisa got a debt extension until May 2013 and
looser borrowing conditions, it said in statement. Prisa said in
June it may sell nonstrategic assets valued at more than
500 million euros and issue nonbanking debt instruments for as
much as 500 million euros, depending on market conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  