-- AT&T’s $1.93 Billion Qualcomm Airwaves Purchase Wins Approval
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2011-12-23T17:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/qualcomm-1-93-billion-airwaves-sale-to-at-t-wins-u-s-approval.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, won approval from federal regulators for its $1.93
billion purchase of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  airwaves three days after
dropping its plan to buy T-Mobile USA Inc.  The sale of frequencies covering 300 million people was
cleared yesterday, the Federal Communications Commission said in
an order published on its website. AT&T can’t use the airwaves
in a way that interferes with other wireless carriers, the
agency said.  Given the conditions imposed, the proposed deal “would not
result in competitive harm that would outweigh the public-
interest benefits of this transaction,” the FCC said in the
order. The agency said the deal would support “our goal of
expanding mobile broadband deployment throughout the country.”  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  recommended on Nov. 22 that
fellow commissioners approve the airwaves sale. On the same day,
he moved to oppose AT&T’s proposed merger with smaller wireless
competitor T-Mobile. AT&T abandoned on Dec. 19 the T-Mobile
purchase designed to increase its airwaves holdings.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , and Qualcomm, based in  San Diego ,
viewed the deal as a win.  “This spectrum will help AT&T continue to deliver a world-
class mobile broadband experience to our customers,” Bob Quinn,
AT&T’s senior vice president for federal regulatory affairs,
said in a statement late yesterday.  Video, Games  AT&T plans to use the new spectrum to help increase speed
of mobile devices as users demand more bandwidth, especially for
video and games.  Qualcomm said in a statement today that it plans to work
with AT&T to develop chips for new mobile devices that can make
use of the additional spectrum, and then market that technology
globally.  “This is a positive outcome for Qualcomm and our
stakeholders,”  Paul Jacobs , chairman and chief executive
officer of Qualcomm, said.  The FCC said in its order approving the sale that AT&T
customers will experience faster and better service.  “The record suggests that customers are likely to
experience these benefits as faster and more consistent download
time, a more seamless video or gaming experience, and better
resolution, particularly during periods of peak use,” the FCC
stated.  Competitive Disadvantage  The FCC’s decision disappointed the Rural Cellular
Association because it doesn’t allow smaller wireless carriers
access to the spectrum, placing them at a competitive
disadvantage, Steven Berry, president of the association, said
in an interview today.  The Washington-based group represents small and regional
carriers, including U.S. Cellular Corp. and Atlantic Tele-
Network Inc.  “When the FCC had an opportunity to ensure that we had a
competitive ecosystem going forward … they missed the boat,”
Berry said. “Every day that our smaller carriers can’t get into
the marketplace in the 4G world, is another day they risk going
out of business.”  Rural phone companies asked the FCC to use the Qualcomm
deal to ensure their customers can use AT&T airwaves.  Customers’ data connections may not work when they travel
away from home when their phones can’t operate on airwaves
assigned to dominant wireless carriers AT&T and  Verizon
Wireless , Berry said.  ‘Critical’ Purchase  AT&T agreed in December 2010 to the purchase of the
frequencies, which Qualcomm acquired for a mobile-television
service it later closed. The  Justice Department  ended its review
of the Qualcomm sale in February, the chipmaker said in a Nov.
23 filing.  Buying the spectrum “is critical” to help AT&T meet
burgeoning demand for wireless  Internet service  as consumers
increasingly adopt tablet computers and smartphones, AT&T and
Qualcomm said in a March 21 FCC filing. The airwaves purchase
won’t harm competition, the companies said in the filing.  AT&T “doesn’t need this spectrum to improve its own
offerings,” said Matt Wood, policy director of Florence,
Massachusetts-based Free Press, a nonprofit group dedicated to
promoting media diversity. “AT&T can and should upgrade its own
networks to provide better service to customers.”  The sales agreement with AT&T was set to expire Jan. 13,
with either party able to extend it for 90 days, Qualcomm said
in a Nov. 2 filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steve Walsh  at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  