-- Quarterback Barkley Will Bypass NFL Draft to Return to Southern California
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-22T21:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/quarterback-barkley-will-bypass-nfl-draft-to-return-to-southern-california.html
University of  Southern California 
quarterback Matt Barkley said he’ll return for his senior season
rather than enter the National Football League draft.  Barkley, a 21-year-old junior, set a school record with 39
touchdown passes in leading the Trojans to a 10-2 mark this
season. He threw for 3,528 yards, setting another USC record by
completing 69 percent of his passes.  Barkley had been projected as a top-10 pick if he entered
the 2012  NFL draft . By returning to school, he might be the No.
1 quarterback and possible top pick in 2013, draft analyst Mel Kiper Jr. said on ESPN after the player’s announcement.  “It is my dream to play quarterback in the NFL and I
intend to make that dream a reality,” Barkley said today in a
televised news conference on USC’s Los Angeles campus. “But I
also know I came to the  University of Southern California  to
compete and have a rare journey as a USC football player. I know
in my heart that I have not yet finished my journey.”  Barkley has started the past three years at USC, which was
ineligible to play in a bowl game this season because of
National Collegiate Athletic Association violations. Barkley
threw for 432 yards and six touchdowns in a season-ending 50-0
win over UCLA, which went on to play in the Pac-12 Conference
title game because of USC’s ineligibility.  The Trojans will be eligible to play in a bowl game after
next season.  “Our USC football team has been through some tough times
and we have persevered,” Barkley said. “The 2012 team has some
serious unfinished business to attend to, and I intend to play a
part in it.”  Barkley is the third USC quarterback since 2005 to hold a
news conference to announce a decision on whether he’d turn pro.
In 2005,  Matt Leinart  decided to return to school for his senior
year after a season in which he won the Heisman Trophy as
college football’s best player, while
 Mark Sanchez  entered the NFL draft in 2009 after one season as a
starter for the Trojans and was chosen by the  New York Jets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  