-- Rafael Nadal’s Soccer Club Stake Lures German Investor Claassen
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-12-22T14:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/rafael-nadal-s-soccer-club-stake-lures-german-investor-claassen.html
Former Solar Millennium AG chief
executive Utz Claassen is seeking help from German tourists to
boost the fortunes of Spanish soccer team Real  Mallorca  after
buying tennis player  Rafael Nadal ’s stake.  Claassen increased his share in the team to 20 percent on
Dec. 19 when he bought the interest of Nadal, No. 2 in the ATP
World Tour rankings, and his uncle Miguel Angel Nadal.  Claassen, 48, is betting  Real Mallorca , which is exiting
bankruptcy protection, can boost revenue by luring more of the
10 million annual visitors, many of them German, to the Spanish
island where it’s based.  “If we can get just 2 percent of the tourists to come we
will fill the stadium for every single game,” Claassen said by
telephone from Hanover,  Germany .  Real Mallorca, which typically attracts 14,000 spectators
to its 24,000-seat stadium for games, has signed an accord with
TUI AG, the German owner of  Europe ’s largest travel company, to
offer tickets to its clients, Claassen said.  Claassen resigned as CEO of Erlangen, Germany-based Solar
Millennium, a developer of solar-thermal power project, after
less than three months last year and is involved in litigation
with the company over a 9 million-euro ($12 million) signing-on
bonus. He is chairman of biochemical company Syntellix AG.  The Nadals, who come from Mallorca, bought their combined
10 percent stake in the team last year when Miguel Angel was
appointed as assistant coach. He left that role in October.  Rafael Nadal’s spokesman Benito Perez-Barbadillo didn’t
immediately return an e-mail and phone call seeking comment on
their decision to sell the stake.  Real Mallorca’s other main shareholders are Jaume Cladera,
a former tourism minister for the regional government, and ex-
Barcelona coach Lorenzo Serra Ferrer.  The club, 14th in the 20-team La Liga, agreed to a deal
with creditors on Dec. 13 to pay back 40 million euros of debt.
It cut payroll by as much as 30 percent in the year to June 30,
when it had net income of 11 million euros, compared to a 16
million-euro loss for the previous year, Claassen said.  Other teams in La Liga that obtained  bankruptcy protection 
are Rayo Vallecano, Real Betis, Real Zaragoza and  Racing
Santander .  Spanish teams “need to improve stadium infrastructure and
have to stop taking crazy financial risks,” Claassen said.
“Real Mallorca will not go back to that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  