-- U.S. 30-Year Bonds Rise After Yields Gained Most in Two Days Since October
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-12-22T22:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/treasuries-hold-two-day-loss-before-consumer-confidence-spending-reports.html
Treasury  30-year bonds rose after
the biggest back-to-back daily yield gains since October lured
investors betting that U.S. securities will retain their refuge
appeal with a resolution to Europe’s debt crisis uncertain.  Bond yields fell as data showed the  U.S. economy  grew less
in the third quarter than previously estimated. They pared
losses after the  Federal Reserve  made the last purchase of
Treasuries this year in an eight-month program to lower
borrowing costs, and as  consumer confidence  rose and initial
claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly declined.  “The long bond was really oversold over the last two
days,” said Dan Mulholland, a trader in New York at Royal Bank
of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The market is pretty
oversold, so we’re seeing some take-back.”  Yields on 30-year  bonds  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.98 percent at 5:02 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They dropped as much
as six basis points earlier to 2.95 percent after rising 21
basis points yesterday and the previous day, the most since
gaining 33 basis points in the two days ended Oct. 27. They
reached 3.01 percent yesterday, a one-week high. The 3.125
percent securities maturing in November 2041 advanced 13/32, or
$4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 27/32.  Long-bond yields have fallen 135 basis points this year,
headed for the biggest annual loss since 2008. The securities
have returned 32.5 percent in 2011, more than triple the 9.3
percent gain in the broader Treasury market, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.  30-Year Outlook  Thirty-year yields will increase to 3.2 percent by the end
of March and to 3.36 percent by June, according to the weighted
average estimate of 53 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields declined two basis points
today to 1.95 percent. They fell earlier as much as five basis
points to 1.92 percent after touching 1.98 percent yesterday,
the highest in a week.  “We’ve chopped around in a range, but we are settling in
around these yield levels headed into the end of the year,” said
 Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader at the primary dealer Societe
Generale SA in New York. “If you just looked at U.S. data, it’s
generally better. But with Europe, yields are staying lower.”  The Fed bought $4.62 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2020 to November 2021 in its program to replace $400
billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
securities through June.  U.S. GDP  Longer-term debt gained as Commerce Department data showed
U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from July through September, down from the 2 percent estimated
last month. The median forecast of in a Bloomberg News survey
projected it would hold at 2 percent. Household purchases
increased at a 1.7 percent rate, down from 2.3 percent.  “The weaker data combined with the backup on the long end
in recent days is giving investors a reason to look for value,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion
in Fixed income assets.  Thirty- and 10-year debt pared gains after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
increased to 69.9 this month, versus the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News poll for a reading of 68, from 67.7 in November.  Initial  jobless claims  fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the
week ended Dec. 17, Labor Department figures showed. The median
projection in a Bloomberg survey was for an increase to 380,000.  Debt Supply  The U.S. sold $29 billion in seven-year securities
yesterday in the final of seven auctions of $177 billion of
notes, bonds and inflation-indexed debt over the past two weeks,
the most ever.  Investors concerned that longer-term Treasuries might drop
further were reassured that 30-year yields stayed below 3
percent and 10-year yields held below 2 percent even amid the
debt supply, said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York
of government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co.,
a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.  “That we have managed to hold in despite supply gives the
market a good reason not to sell off,” Milstein said. “The
underlying story is that nothing has really changed. The
sovereign-debt crisis continues to overhang the market and give
investors comfort to stay in Treasuries, despite these yield
levels.”  Greek Creditors  Creditors of  Greece , where the debt crisis began, are
resisting pressure from the  International Monetary Fund  to
accept bigger losses on holdings of the nation’s government
bonds, said three people with direct knowledge of the talks.  Lenders want the 70 billion euros ($91 billion) of new
bonds the government will issue in return for existing
securities to carry a coupon of about 5 percent, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
are private. The IMF is pushing for creditors to accept a
smaller coupon.  Pacific Investment Management Co., operator of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said the U.S. economy may stagnate next year.  The U.S. economy may expand 0 percent to 1 percent, weighed
down by  Europe ’s crisis and a slowdown in  China , Pimco said in
an economic outlook posted on its website. Global growth will
slow to 1 percent to 1.5 percent, from 2.5 percent, the  Newport
Beach , California-based firm forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  