-- Regulators Should Delay Volcker Rule, House Lawmakers Say
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2011-12-22T18:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/regulators-should-delay-volcker-rule-lawmakers-say-in-letter.html
A bipartisan group of 121 U.S. House
lawmakers asked federal regulators to slow the adoption of the
so-called Volcker rule that aims to ban banks from proprietary
trading.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and
subcommittee chairman on the Financial Services Committee, led
117 Republicans and four Democrats who requested an extension of
the comment period for the rule, which was proposed in October
by the  Federal Reserve  and three other regulatory agencies. The
regulators are taking public comments until Jan. 13.  “Numerous questions have been raised about the proposal,
as drafted, that must be carefully examined given the potential
impact on capital formation for American businesses and a
broader U.S. economic recovery,” lawmakers wrote in the letter
dated Dec. 20.  Lawmakers and banking industry trade groups have been
lobbying federal regulators to extend the comment period on the
measure, which was required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.
Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama, the chairman of the
Financial Services Committee, on Dec. 7 requested at least a 30-
day delay in the adoption of the rule.  Dodd-Frank requires the rule to take effect July 21, with a
two-year transition period.  Hearing Rescheduled  Earlier this month Bachus delayed a hearing on the rule
after saying that “some of the authors” didn’t make themselves
available to testify. He didn’t specify which regulators
declined. The hearing was rescheduled for Jan. 18.  Trade groups representing banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , have said
that the regulators’ proposal lacks specificity and faulted what
they say are inflexible exemptions for market-making. Consumer
groups and supporters of the rule’s intent, who have pushed for
regulators to stick with the timeline, are seeking elimination
of some of the exemptions for activities such as market-making,
underwriting and risk-hedging.  Copies of the letter were sent to Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke , Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro, Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  and
Martin J. Gruenberg, the acting chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. The letter also was sent to Commodity Futures
Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler, whose agency is
expected to release its version of the rule in January.  The lawmakers requested, along with the extension, that
regulators consider releasing an updated proposal to reflect the
CFTC’s rule, as well as the initial comments from banking
industry and other stakeholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  