-- Billionaire Ambani Invests in Gates-Funded Nuclear Company
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2011-12-22T09:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/reliance-industries-invests-in-nuclear-design-company.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest oil refinery complex, has invested in
 Terra Power LLC , a nuclear design and engineering company partly
funded by Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates .  The minority investment was made through a unit and is one
of various in the “broader energy sector,” Reliance said in an
e-mailed statement today. The Mumbai-based energy explorer and
refiner, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani ,
didn’t disclose the size of the investment.  Gates, ranked the world’s second-richest man in March by
Forbes magazine, visited  China  earlier this month to promote a
new technology for fourth-generation nuclear reactors developed
by Terra Power. Reliance, India’s biggest company by market
value, is seeking to widen its businesses as slowing economic
growth globally cuts fuel demand and as output from  India ’s
biggest natural gas deposit declines.  “Reliance has been constantly trying to diversify, they
want to be in the whole energy chain,” said U.R. Bhat, managing
director of Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt. in Mumbai. “In
the state they are now, they have to invest in businesses with
big potential and nuclear has that potential. Nuclear is seen as
the energy of the future and it’s going to play a huge part.”  Reliance had 614.9 billion rupees ($11.7 billion) in cash
and equivalents as of Sept. 30. Falling gas output has driven
the company’s shares 29 percent lower this year, the worst
decline since 2008. The stock fell 0.2 percent to 746.45 rupees
at 2:32 p.m. in Mumbai, while the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  was
little changed.  ‘Traveling-Wave Reactor’  Terra Power, based in Bellevue,  Washington , counts Gates
and Khosla Ventures, backed by venture capitalist Vinod Khosla,
among its investors, according to its  website . The company is
designing a nuclear reactor that uses low-enriched uranium and
produces less waste.  Development of Terra Power’s “traveling-wave reactor” may
require an investment of $1 billion in the next five years and
they will cost “billions” to build, according to Gates, 56,
who spoke to  China National Nuclear Corp.  about the new nuclear
technology during his visit on Dec. 7. The “new approach” to
nuclear power is still at an early stage and its adoption won’t
move fast, Gates said.  The reactors need uranium to start up and can “run for
decades on depleted uranium” without enrichment or
reprocessing, Terra Power said on its website.  China Experimental Reactor  China in July connected to the grid an experimental,
locally made, fast-neutron reactor that produces less
radioactive waste than current designs, in a move that may help
the nation build safer atomic plants after Japan’s 40-year-old
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was crippled by an earthquake and
tsunami on March 11.  Reliance, which owns chemical plants, fuel outlets and a
retail-store chain, is diversifying from its energy business in
India to telecommunications, hotels and financial services. The
company bought shale gas acreages from three companies in the
U.S. last year and plans to buy assets in  Canada .  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  picked Ambani to join its board as
the lender sought to expand revenue from outside the U.S., the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  