-- Rhapsody Eyes Deals After Napster Acquisition Lifts Subscribers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-12-22T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/rhapsody-eyes-deals-after-napster-acquisition-lifts-subscribers.html
Rhapsody International Inc., the
largest U.S. music-streaming service, is considering
acquisitions and partnerships as the company looks overseas to
double its more than 1 million subscribers.  The Seattle-based company, which bought  Napster ’s U.S.
business from  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  in November, may announce deals early
next year for Napster’s U.K. and German operations, Rhapsody
President Jon Irwin said in an interview. That would turn up the
heat on London-based Spotify Ltd., a rival service founded by
Daniel Ek that has 2.5 million paying users worldwide.  “We’re looking to grow internationally,” Irwin said.
“We’re looking for scale, and there’s not many large players
out there. I suppose I could make Daniel Ek an offer.”  Rhapsody is talking with wireless providers in the U.S. and
internationally about agreements like the one it has with
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , which bundles music with prepaid
text and data plans, Irwin said. Closely held Rhapsody, spun off
from  RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK)  in 2010, is profitable, Irwin said, while
declining to provide figures.  Irwin isn’t convinced that offering free or advertising-
supported services, as Rdio Inc. and Spotify do to draw in
paying subscribers, is an efficient way to sign up customers.
While those services are free to listeners, the companies still
pay for each song.  “We’re not burdened with paying a huge sum for free music
in order to create a funnel to convert listeners into paying
users,” Irwin said. “That’s a subscriber acquisition cost, and
it’s a very expensive one.”  Subscription Plans  Rhapsody subscribers pay $5 a month for unlimited access on
computers or $10 a month for access on PCs and mobile phones.
The company provides a 14-day free trial. Most choose the $10
plan, Irwin said.  For the first time, Rhapsody streamed more music this year
to people listening on equipment other than a PC, with about 40
percent going to mobile devices, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  Rhapsody also is working with automakers to make its
service available in vehicles, a path Internet-radio provider
 Pandora Media Inc.  and Spotify already are taking.  “Like  Steve Jobs  said, we are in the post-PC era,” Irwin
said. “It’s about mobility and having your device with you. The
devices out now are fully capable of allowing you to take your
music with you wherever you go.”  When Rhapsody split from RealNetworks in April 2010, the
service had 650,000 subscribers, Irwin said. It had 800,000
users when Rhapsody acquired Napster last month from Richfield,
Minnesota-based Best Buy, which retains a minority stake in the
service.  Now, at Rhapsody’s 10-year anniversary, Irwin says the
company has grown “quite well beyond” 1 million subscribers.  “We’ve been advocates of the streaming business well ahead
of its time,” Irwin said. “What’s changed is that music fans
now understand they can have the ease of these models with them
wherever they go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  