-- Roche Makes Hostile $5.7B Offer for Illumina
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-25T08:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/roche-ceo-is-open-to-3-billion-takeover-would-seize-right-opportunity.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  offered about $5.7
billion in cash for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  to bolster cancer-drug sales,
the third time since 2007 the Swiss drugmaker has made a hostile
bid for a U.S. company.  Roche proposed paying $44.50 a share for Illumina, 18
percent more than yesterday’s closing price. It will put the
offer directly to shareholders after the San Diego-based company
was “unwilling to participate in substantive discussions,”
Roche said in a statement today.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, would
gain technology for reading the genetic makeup of tumors,
potentially allowing the company to offer treatment specific to
individual patients. The Basel, Switzerland-based company
prevailed in both of the previous unsolicited takeovers after
increasing the initial offer price.  “The folks at Illumina are a very optimistic bunch,” said
 Dan Leonard , an analyst at Leerink Swann in  Boston , adding that
a rival bidder isn’t likely to materialize. “Their stock was
nearly $80 seven months ago, so they’re probably anchored to an
entirely different number.”  Roche fell 1 percent to 163 Swiss francs at 9:05 a.m. in
Zurich, giving the company a market value of 141.5 billion
francs ($152.5 billion).  Genentech  A takeover of Illumina would be Roche’s  largest purchase 
since the $46.8 billion acquisition of Genentech Inc., completed
in March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Illumina’s directors will review the offer and make a
recommendation to shareholders in due course, the company said
in a statement. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch are acting as financial advisers to Illumina, and Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP is legal counsel.  Illumina rose 3.8 percent to $37.69 yesterday in New York
trading. The stock has lost 46 percent in the past 12 months.  “We remain willing to engage in a constructive dialogue
with Illumina to jointly develop an optimal strategy for
maximizing the value of our combined business,” Roche Chief
Executive Officer Severin Schwan said in the statement.  As head of diagnostics, Schwan led the company’s hostile
takeover of U.S. diagnostics company Ventana Medical Systems
Inc. Roche paid $3.4 billion for Ventana in 2008 after initially
offering $3 billion in July 2007.  Roche will nominate candidates to  Illumina’s board  of
directors to be considered at the company’s 2012 annual meeting,
it said. Greenhill & Co. and Citigroup Inc. are Roche’s
financial advisers, while Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP are
providing legal advice.  Genetic Sequencing  Illumina has been in a race to develop the first machine to
be able to parse the building blocks of life in a day, rather
than weeks or months. It announced on Jan. 10 that it would
market such a machine in the second half of this year. Illumina
competes with Life Technologies, a Carlsbad, California company
that announced it had reached the same goal on the same day. The
current Illumina machines can sequence five human genomes in 10
days, according to the company.  The offer values Illumina at about 32 times analysts’
average 2012 profit forecast of $1.39 a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past two years, Illumina has
traded at an average of 29 times forward earnings, the data
show. Illumina traded at Roche’s offer price as recently as last
September, before it scrapped its annual profit forecast on
concern that research funding would be reduced.  The offer equates to about 50 times Illumina’s earnings in
the 12 months ended Sept. 30, 2011. That compares with the 83
times trailing profit that Roche eventually paid for Ventana,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Beckman Coulter Inc.,
an Illumina competitor, was sold to Danaher Corp. last year for
$6.8 billion, or about 26 times profit, the data show.  Direct to Shareholders  Roche decided to go directly to shareholders after Illumina
confirmed its lack of interest in a Jan. 18 letter, Chairman
Franz Humer said in a response today to Illumina Chief Executive
Officer Jay Flatley. There wasn’t substantive progress in
efforts to negotiate a business combination, Humer said.  “This is a compelling offer and we are confident that your
stockholders will find it extremely attractive,” Humer wrote in
a Jan. 25 letter. “We hope that your board will now take the
opportunity to negotiate a transaction that will allow your
shareholders to realize this substantial value.”  Roche said the offer represents a 64 percent premium to
Illumina’s closing price on Dec. 21, a day before speculation
about a potential transaction boosted Illumina shares. On Dec.
22, Illumina advanced 7 percent to $29.07 in New York trading
after Schwan told Bloomberg News in an interview that Roche
would be ready to “seize” the right opportunity. Roche would
consider a deal about the same size as its purchase of Ventana,
he said.  Research Cuts  In October, the company announced a $15 million to $17
million restructuring plan because of concerns that government
and academic institutions may reduce research funding, as well
as uncertainty about the global economic environment.  With the Illumina offer, Roche is making the largest
unsolicited bid for a life-sciences company since Valeant
Pharmaceuticals Inc. offered $5.7 billion for Cephalon Inc. in
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. Eventually acquired Cephalon.  Roche will hold a conference call from investors at 1 p.m.
Central European time today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  