-- Romanian Cabinet Survives No-Confidence on 2012 Election Law
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2011-12-22T11:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/romanian-cabinet-survives-no-confidence-on-2012-election-merger.html
Romanian Prime Minister Emil Boc
survived a no-confidence vote tied to a law merging general and
local elections as coalition lawmakers abstained from voting.  Boc, whose government has a majority in the 470-seat
Parliament, defeated the opposition’s sixth attempt to topple
him since his Cabinet introduced austerity measures last year to
trim the  budget deficit  and meet pledges to the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund  by 24 votes, said Roberta
Anastase, the head of the lower house of Parliament.  “We aim to hold local and parliamentary elections at the
same time next year because of the expected hardships we’re
going to face during the 2012 economic year and because we all
know that two campaigns will inevitably paralyze state activity
when consolidation of the Romanian economy is at stake,” Boc
told lawmakers today before the vote.  Today’s failed vote pushes through Parliament two laws to
merge the elections next year and save the state about 20
million euros ($26 million). It also allows for the approval of
legislation to hold a competition to appoint judges to the
 Supreme Court .  The leu rose 0.1 percent to 4.2997 per euro as of 1:09 p.m.
in Bucharest trading after the vote. The Bucharest Stock
Exchange’s benchmark BET Index fell 0.2 percent to 4293.75.  Boc’s government has embarked on an austerity program for
next year, which it pushed through parliament on Dec. 15. It’s
seeking to reassure investors that it will maintain fiscal
discipline ahead of elections, after signing a new two-year 5
billion-euro precautionary agreement with its international
lenders this year.  The government plans to narrow the budget deficit to 1.9
percent of gross domestic product next year, from an estimated
4.4 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  