-- Russia May Hold Rates as Ignatiev Seeks to Cap Inflation for Putin Return
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-22T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/russia-may-hold-rates-as-ignatiev-seeks-to-cap-prices-for-putin.html
Russia  will probably leave interest
rates unchanged for a third month as central bank Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev seeks to keep inflation in check before
presidential elections in March.  The refinancing rate will remain at 8.25 percent after two
quarter-point increases this year, according to 20 of 22
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Two predicted a quarter-point
cut. The overnight auction-based repurchase rate, the central
bank’s main lending tool, will stay at 5.25 percent and the
overnight deposit rate, used to withdraw cash from the economy,
will remain at 3.75 percent, two separate surveys showed. The
rate decision will be announced today.  Nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  are easing borrowing costs
to shield their economies from slowing growth in Europe and
 China . Inflation in Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter,
will decelerate to 6.3 percent or less in 2011, the slowest pace
in 20 years, Premier  Vladimir Putin  said Dec. 21, comparing the
rate to that of the U.K. Putin is seeking to return to the
Kremlin at a March 4 vote amid the biggest street protests
against his rule since he came to power more than a decade ago.  “The central bank’s top priority now is political,”
Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Moscow, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “They’ll be
watching to make sure they’re not the cause of any inflationary
surprises before March.”  Ruble Declines  The ruble has weakened 7.6 percent against a  target basket 
of dollars and euros since the end of July. While the drop
hasn’t fed through to inflation yet, it may affect prices
starting next month, Ignatiev told reporters yesterday in
Moscow. Political risks are probably priced into the currency,
he said.  Policy makers left the benchmark rate unchanged at their
last meeting in November as inflation slowed and the economy
grew 4.8 percent from a year earlier in the July-September
period, the fastest pace since the second quarter of 2010.  Gross domestic product may expand 4.5 percent this year and
3.7 percent in 2012, according to the  Economy Ministry .  Still, the central bank has contributed to a surge in
interbank lending rates by reducing the amount of rubles it
offers in overnight repurchase auctions. Demand at the
regulator’s morning auction yesterday was more than three times
the announced limit of 50 billion rubles. The overnight MosPrime
rate rose to 6.46 percent, jumping the most in a month to the
highest level since December 2009.  The move is intended to reduce speculation against the
ruble and help curb inflation, Ilya Ilyn, a fixed-income analyst
at OAO Sberbank in Moscow, said in a note yesterday.  ‘Constant Liquidity Deficit’  “The central bank is strategically trying to get money-
market participants used to a constant liquidity deficit,” he
said. “They’re probably keeping  interest rates  high to limit
pressure on inflation next year from December’s traditional
surge in budget spending.”  The  Finance Ministry  ran a surplus that reached 1.4
trillion rubles ($44.6 billion) in the year through October, or
3.2 percent of economic output over the period. It narrowed last
month and will drop to 0.6 to 0.8 percent of GDP this year,
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Dec. 21.  Consumer prices rose 6 percent in the year through Dec. 19,
down from 8.4 percent in the same period of last year, the
Federal Statistics Service said Dec. 21.  Ignatiev said yesterday he was “surprised” by the rate.
Alexei Ulyukayev, his first deputy responsible for monetary
policy, said last week that he was satisfied with the “pace”
and “nature” of inflation.  ‘Cutting More Aggressively’  While the economy appears to be strong, particularly after
positive consumption data for November, policy makers should cut
rates by a quarter-point to shield Russia from a global
slowdown,  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist at  Renaissance Capital 
in Moscow, said Dec. 20 by phone.  “They had basically the same policy rates with inflation
at 9 percent,” said Tchakarov, who called for a quarter-point
cut to the repo rate. “It doesn’t make a lot of sense to me.
They should be cutting a lot more aggressively.”  Eleven of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said they
expected the central bank to cut the refinancing rate by at
least 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, in the first
quarter. About half of those surveyed also forecast a decrease
in the repurchase rate.  Investors on the  derivatives market  are betting on rates
staying where they are, with forward rate agreements trading
yesterday 2 basis points below the three-month MosPrime rate to
which they settle, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Policy makers may begin relaxing lenders’ reserve
requirements after boosting the amount banks are required to
hold in reserve in December 2010 as they began a cycle of
raising borrowing costs, Barclays’s Pantyushin said.  “Now they could do the exact same thing, just in the
opposite direction,” he said. “And it’s a faster fix for
liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 