-- Saudi Aramco Drilling to Jump 12% in 2012, Ex-Official Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2011-12-22T15:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/saudi-aramco-s-drilling-to-jump-12-next-year-ex-official-says.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. plans to
increase its drilling-rig count by 12 percent next year to 145
to boost natural-gas and oil output from its Manifa field, a
former executive of state-run company said.  Most of the expansion is for gas development, Sadad al- Husseini said today by e-mail. Al-Husseini was executive vice
president for exploration and development at the company known
as  Saudi Aramco . He founded and runs  Husseini Energy , an
independent energy consultant in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia .  Saudi Aramco will drill for gas onshore in northern Saudi
Arabia and near the Shaybah oil field in the Empty Quarter
desert, as well as offshore in Hasbah field in the Persian Gulf,
said al-Husseini. The company will have 50 drilling rigs for
oil, 50 for gas, 15 exploration rigs and 30 workover rigs to
maintain existing wells next year, he said.  The oil drilling is mainly to “replace capacity declines
that result from ongoing production” and “will not add new
capacity, except for the Manifa drilling,” al-Husseini said.  Saudi Aramco increased the number of drilling rigs this
year to 130, more than figures given out by rig contractors,
according to al-Husseini. The nation currently pumps around 10
million barrels a day of crude, he said.  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  Chief Executive Officer Chad Deaton said
in March that Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter,
is increasing the number of its drilling rigs by the end of this
year to 118 from 92.  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR) , the world’s largest
onshore drilling contractor, had 30 rigs in the kingdom at the
end of the first quarter this year and said in March it held
talks with Saudi Aramco to add more rigs.  Manifa Output  Saudi Aramco is increasing the number of drilling rigs in
its Manifa field to 20 next year from the current eight, al-
Husseini said. The company will spend about $17 billion
developing the giant field, located in shallow water in the
 Persian Gulf , to bring the full field development 10 years ahead
of its planned schedule, Saudi Aramco’s Chief Executive Officer
Khalid Al-Falih said in Doha, Qatar, on Dec. 6. The field will
start production in 2013, he said.  Manifa, the world’s fifth-largest oil field, is expected to
produce 500,000 barrels of Arabian Heavy crude oil in 2013 and
900,000 barrels a day by 2015, according to the company’s annual
review. Aramco’s Manifa oil field development is aimed at
maintaining the company’s production at 12 million barrels a day
as it slows output from older fields, al-Falih told the  al-Hayat 
daily newspaper on Dec. 13.  Rig-Count Estimates  No one at Saudi Aramco’s headquarter in Dhahran could be
reached for comment on the rig-count increase, as Thursday is
the start of the weekend in the country.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  won a contract from Saudi Aramco in 2008 to
drill for oil in the offshore part of Manifa field. Halliburton
said in April that Saudi Aramco was planning to increase the rig
count by approximately 30 percent in 2012 from its levels at the
beginning of the year, with 60 percent of this increase to be
assigned to the Manifa project. The project was delayed due to
the global recession, Halliburton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  