-- Schwarzman-Romney Returns Inciting Dems’ Scrutiny
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/schwarzman-romney-24-times-return-inciting-democrats-scrutiny.html
Wall Street magnate  Stephen Schwarzman , when asked why he is supporting Republican  Mitt Romney  for president, had a simple response: profit.  “We ended up making 24 times our money” from a joint
investment, Schwarzman said in a Nov. 30 Bloomberg Television
interview, explaining a fundraiser he was planning for the
presidential contender at his apartment on Park Avenue in  New
York . “In finance, that’s the way to make friends.”  Democrats plan to focus on that friendship.  In 1988, Schwarzman’s  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  invited Romney’s
private equity company to invest in Transtar Inc., a holding
company for rail and barge subsidiaries that had served United
States Steel Corp., according to Schwarzman, 64, Blackstone’s
chairman and chief executive officer. Romney’s  Bain Capital  LLC
became a minority and “completely passive” investor, said
Geoffrey Rehnert, a former Bain executive.  Bain made a $13.3 million profit before it eventually sold
its stake. Transtar dismissed hundreds of employees during the
1990s in the Midwest, as the U.S. steel industry was battered by
international competition and the domestic rail business
adjusted to regulatory changes.  Blackstone spokesman  Peter Rose  defended the firm’s
business practices, saying its portfolio of companies exceeded
the national average by increasing their employment by 3 percent
in 2010. He argued that Americans with pension plans were the
“principal beneficiaries” of the company’s profitable
transactions.  “Sometimes there are job losses when companies become more
efficient and competitive,” said Rose. “But private equity
also provides capital to enable companies to grow and expand.”  ‘Failed Record’  Anticipating criticism from President  Barack Obama , the
Romney campaign plans to emphasize jobs that Bain has created to
turn attention to the country’s 8.6 percent  unemployment rate .  “It’s no wonder that President Obama wants to distract
from his failed record to attack the one candidate who can do
what he has failed to do: Focus on  job creation  and turn around
our nation’s faltering economy,” said Andrea Saul, a Romney
spokeswoman.  “Bain Capital invested in many businesses,” she said.
“While not every business was successful, the firm had an
excellent overall track record and created jobs.”  ‘Windfall Profits’  That defense won’t deter Obama’s supporters from focusing
on the 25 years Romney, 64, spent in private equity, as they
scrutinize the former  Massachusetts  governor’s deals, looking
for layoffs in companies that Bain invested in.  “Voters are learning that Romney’s Wall Street deals often
resulted in windfall profits for him and his friends but were
financed by mass layoffs of middle-class workers,” said  Bill Burton , who left the White House in April to co-found Priorities
USA, a group that can accept unlimited corporate and union
contributions to re-elect Obama. “The victims of Romney’s deals
are American families who were decimated when Romney and his
friends came in.”  Obama’s campaign is already seizing on some of those deals.  “Generally, his practice has been to bet other people’s
money, not his own,” said  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to
the campaign, on Dec. 13. “But that’s the way he ran his
leveraged buyout business.”  “And they closed down hundreds of factories; they
outsourced thousands of jobs; they took a lot of companies to
bankruptcy and made a fortune off those bankruptcies,” he said
in a briefing for reporters.  ‘Great Divider’  Romney, in a response to a question about his private
equity dealings, accused Obama of being “the great divider” in
a Fox News interview on Dec. 18. “This is a president who goes
after anybody who is successful,” he said.  His business relationship with Schwarzman, a longtime
Republican donor who  collected  more than $100,000 for President
 George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election campaign, began in 1985.
Blackstone and Bain joined forces to turn around a company
making aluminum wheels, which “expanded very rapidly,”
Schwarzman said in the Bloomberg TV interview.  For their next venture, Schwarzman said he asked Romney to
be a “minority partner” in the deal involving Transtar of
Monroeville,  Pennsylvania .  In 1988, Bain invested $1.1 million in the new holding
company, according to a Deutsche Bank AG prospectus from 2000.  Cutting Jobs  At its creation, Transtar, which held railroads like Elgin,
Joliet and Eastern Railway Co. and the Duluth, Missabe and Iron
Range Railway Co., assumed existing labor contracts and employed
about 4,000 workers, according to press reports at the time.
Over the next 12 years, with Bain as a minority partner,
Transtar eliminated almost 1,000 jobs.  Bain sold its original $1.1 million stake in Transtar for
$14.4 million in 2000, according to the Deutsche Bank
prospectus. Blackstone sold its holdings to U.S. Steel and later
to Canadian National Railway Co.  Nationally, from 1988 to 2000, employment in the railroad
industry also  declined  to 231,000 from 290,000, or by 20
percent, according to railserve.com, relying on Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Transtar’s job losses “were on par with the other rail
lines, large and small,” said Charles Clowdis, a managing
director at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.
“Some of their decline is because they were heavily involved in
the transport of steel.”  Cities like Duluth,  Minnesota , long reliant on the  steel
industry , were hit hard.  No Choice  “There was a lot of reduction in steel production,” said
Patrick Dorin who teaches transportation policy at the
 University of Wisconsin  at Superior and worked on the Duluth,
Missabe and Iron Range Railway. “Transtar just really didn’t
have any choice but to have the number of employees that were
needed to do the job.”  “They were trying to be as frugal as possible, without
causing harm to the shippers,” he said.  Phil Qualy, Minnesota state legislative director for the
United Transportation Union, said that, while “you can’t blame
Blackstone for a downturn in the economy” during its ownership,
the company “leveraged every efficiency that they could” out
of the Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range Railway. “Since the
1990s, we’ve seen the safety margins become thinner and
thinner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  