-- SEC’s Fannie, Freddie Lawsuits Miss the Enablers: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2011-12-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/sec-s-fannie-freddie-suits-miss-the-enablers-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Let’s boil down the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s claims last week against six former  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac executives to their essence. Every
disclosure that the SEC says amounted to fraud is something the
government blessed or turned a blind eye to as it was happening.  So who is holding the regulators accountable for letting
these alleged frauds go on? No one, naturally.  To believe the SEC’s  lawsuits , you would think the only
false and misleading statements the housing giants made before
the government took them over had to do with the makeup of their
loan books and how much of them were subprime, prime, or what
have you. The truth is that Fannie and Freddie engaged in far
greater financial-reporting abuses, which couldn’t have happened
without the government’s knowledge and cooperation.  Fannie and Freddie continued to maintain they were
adequately capitalized, as did their  regulator , until they were
placed into conservatorship in September 2008. This farce
wouldn’t have been sustainable had the two companies been
forthright about their earnings and asset values.  One example of their willful blindness had to do with
deferred-tax assets, which are valuable only to companies that
are making money and paying income taxes. Both companies avoided
multibillion-dollar writedowns of these items by insisting they
would be profitable for decades to come. The  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , formerly the  Office of Federal Housing
Enterprise Oversight , let them get away with this until the end,
even while it helped lay the groundwork for the government to
take the companies over because their losses had grown too
unmanageable.  Getting a Pass  Fannie and Freddie also kept billions of dollars of paper
losses on mortgage-backed securities out of their regulatory
capital by labeling them as “temporary,” long after it was
obvious the values wouldn’t be bouncing back. There, too, the
regulator gave them a pass.  Those aren’t the issues the SEC is suing over in its
complaints against former  Fannie Mae  Chief Executive Officer
 Daniel Mudd , former  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  CEO  Richard Syron  and four other
former executives. The SEC says the defendants told the world
their companies’ subprime-loan holdings were smaller than they
really were. The SEC also says the former Fannie executives
understated the company’s “Alt-A” loans, where little if any
documentation of borrowers’ finances was required.  Mudd, for one, says the government knew everything Fannie
was doing -- a point the SEC’s enforcement-division chief,
 Robert Khuzami , didn’t dispute when asked about it at a news
conference last week. “The government reviewed and approved the
company’s disclosures during my tenure, and through the
present,” Mudd said last week. “Every piece of material data
about loans held by Fannie Mae was known to the United States
government and to the investing public.”  He’s right, at least about the government part. Consider,
for example, what the housing agency’s deputy director, Chris Dickerson, wrote in a 21-page letter to the agency’s director at
the time,  James Lockhart , shortly before Fannie was seized in
September 2008. The letter, which summarized the agency’s
examination findings from the previous few years, noted that
Fannie had altered the way it reported Alt-A loans in 2006, when
it redefined the term and reclassified some mortgages as prime.  Fannie also excluded certain lender programs from its Alt-A
metrics, even though the mortgages Fannie acquired through those
deals lacked full documentation. “This issue results in
inaccurate or incomplete reporting,” said the  letter , which was
released by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in January.
The letter noted that the practices ran afoul of a written
directive the housing agency had sent Fannie in April 2007.
(Unlike the 2008 letter, the 2007 directive wasn’t made public.)  Loose Usage  The housing agency didn’t stop Fannie from engaging in this
sort of conduct before the government took it over. Now the SEC
says the Alt-A misclassifications amounted to fraud. If they did,
people from government should be held accountable, too.  That Fannie and Freddie used words like “subprime”
loosely isn’t in doubt. Fannie’s 2007  annual report  said
subprime  mortgage loans  represented less than 1 percent of its
single-family business volume that year. The same report showed
loans to borrowers with credit scores of less than 620
represented 6 percent of its conventional, single-family
business volume. That’s subprime, regardless of what Fannie
called it. Mudd and his co-defendants, of course, will point to
such disclosures as proof they weren’t hiding anything.  Freddie’s reports included similar figures. There was “no
uniform definition” of subprime, Syron’s attorney, Thomas Green
of the law firm Sidley Austin LLP, said last week, echoing a
line that appeared in Freddie’s financial reports. The SEC says
Fannie and Freddie executives underreported subprime numbers
even using their companies’ own definitions of the term.  This isn’t what caused Fannie and Freddie to inflate their
reported capital. Here we had two of the greatest accounting
scams in history, and there’s no mention in the SEC’s complaints
of how both companies’ accounting judgments stretched the rules
way past the breaking point.  In the meantime, whatever Fannie or Freddie executives
might have done to violate the law, they didn’t act alone. The
government needs to come clean about its role, too. If ever a
scandal cried out for the appointment of an independent examiner
or special prosecutor, this is it.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 