-- Segregated Charter Schools Evoke Separate But Equal Era in U.S.
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2011-12-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/segregated-charter-schools-evoke-separate-but-equal-era-in-u-s-education.html
At  Dugsi Academy , a public school in
St. Paul,  Minnesota , girls wearing traditional Muslim
headscarves and flowing ankle-length skirts study Arabic and
Somali. The charter school educates “East African children in
the Twin Cities,” its website says. Every student is black.  At  Twin Cities German Immersion School , another St. Paul
charter, children gather under a map of “Deutschland,” study
with interns from Germany, Austria and  Switzerland  and learn to
dance the waltz. Ninety percent of its students are white.  Six decades after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down
“separate but equal” schools for blacks and whites,
segregation is growing because of charter schools, privately run
public schools that educate 1.8 million U.S. children. While
charter-school leaders say programs targeting ethnic groups
enrich education, they are isolating low-achievers and damaging
diversity, said Myron Orfield, a lawyer and demographer.  “It feels like the Deep South in the days of Jim Crow
segregation,” said Orfield, who directs the University of
Minnesota Law School’s Institute on Race & Poverty. “When you
see an all-white school and an all-black school in the same
neighborhood in this day and age, it’s shocking.”  Charter schools are more segregated than traditional public
schools, according to a 2010 report by the Civil Rights Project
at the  University of California ,  Los Angeles . Researchers
studied 40 states, the  District of Columbia , and 39 metropolitan
areas. In particular, higher percentages of charter-school
students attend what the report called “racially isolated”
schools, where 90 percent or more students are from
disadvantaged minority groups.  Charter-School Birthplace  In Minnesota, the birthplace of the U.S. charter-school
movement, the divide is more than black and white.  St. Paul’s Hmong College Prep Academy, 99 percent Asian-
American in the past school year, immerses students “in the
rich heritage that defines Hmong culture.” Its  Academia Cesar
Chavez School  -- 93 percent Hispanic -- promises bilingual
education “by advocating Latino cultural values in an
environment of familia and community.”  Minneapolis ’s  Four
Directions Charter School , 94 percent Native American, black and
Hispanic, promotes “lifelong learning for American Indian
students.”  Charter schools , which select children through lotteries,
are open to all who apply, said Abdulkadir Osman, Dugsi’s
executive director.  “Some people call it segregation,” Osman said. “This is
the parent’s choice. They can go anywhere they want. We are
offering families something unique.”  Nobody ‘Forced’  That’s a “significant difference” between Minnesota
charters and segregated schools in the 1950s South, said Joe
Nathan, director of the Center for School Change at Macalester
College in St. Paul.  “Nobody is being forced to go to these schools,” said
Nathan, who helped write Minnesota’s 1991 charter-school law.  Ever since  Horace Mann  crusaded for free universal
education in the 19th century, public schools have been hailed
as the U.S. institutions that bring together people of disparate
backgrounds.  The atomization of charter schools coincides with growing
U.S. diversity. Americans of other races will outnumber whites
by 2042, the Census Bureau projects.  Even after a divided  Supreme Court  in 2007 ruled that
schools couldn’t consider race in making pupil assignments to
integrate schools, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy urged districts to
find other ways to fight “de facto resegregation” and “racial
isolation.”  “The nation’s schools strive to teach that our strength
comes from people of different races, creeds, and cultures
uniting in commitment to the freedom of all,” Kennedy wrote.  Diverse Workplaces  Citing Kennedy’s words, U.S. Secretary of Education  Arne Duncan  and Attorney General Eric Holder this month called for
schools -- including charters -- to combat growing segregation.  Along with breeding “educational inequity,” racially-
divided schools deny children the experiences they need to
succeed in an increasingly diverse workplace, Duncan said in
announcing voluntary guidelines for schools.  Charter schools may specialize in serving a single culture
as long as they have open admissions, and there’s no evidence of
discrimination, said Russlynn Ali, assistant education secretary
for civil rights.  The education department is encouraging charter schools to
promote diversity. Charters could expand recruiting and consider
lotteries that give extra weight to disadvantaged groups, such
as families living in low-income neighborhoods or children who
speak English as a second language, Ali said in a phone
interview.  Immigrant Magnet  Minnesota, 85 percent white, is a case study of the
nation’s growing diversity. Since the 1970s, Minneapolis and  St.
Paul  have become a magnet for Hmong refugees, who fought
alongside Americans in the  Vietnam War . In the 1990s, Somalis
sought refuge from civil war.  St. Paul, where the nation’s first charter school opened in
1992, is 16 percent black, 10 percent Hispanic and 15 percent
Asian-American, according to the U.S Census Bureau.  Charter schools should be similarly diverse, recommended a
1988 report that provided the groundwork for Minnesota’s
charter-school law.  “We envision the creation of schools which, by design,
would invite a dynamic mix of students by race and ability
levels,” the Citizens League, a St. Paul-based nonprofit
public-policy group, wrote in the report.  ‘Great Failure’  Instead, in the 2009-2010 school year, three quarters of
the Minneapolis and St. Paul region’s 127 charter schools were
“highly segregated,” according to the University of Minnesota
Law School’s race institute. Forty-four percent of schools were
80 percent or more non-white, and 32 percent, mostly white.  “It’s been a great failure that the most segregated
schools in Minnesota are charter schools,” said Mindy Greiling,
a state representative who lobbied for the charter-school law
when she was a member of a suburban school board in the 1980s.
“It breaks my heart.”  Segregation is typical nationwide. Seventy percent of black
charter-school students across the country attended “racially
isolated” schools, twice as many as the share in traditional
public schools, according to the report from the Civil Rights
Project at UCLA.  Half of all Latino charter-school students went to these
intensely segregated schools, the study found. In the West and
the South, the two most racially diverse regions of the country,
“charters serve as havens for white flight from public
schools,” the report said.  Hmong Roots  They also serve as havens for minority students who need
extra help, said leaders of Minnesota charter schools.  Christianna Hang, founder of  Hmong College Prep Academy ,
said she designed the school so children, mostly first-
generation Americans, didn’t feel adrift in public schools as
she did when she arrived in the U.S. in 1980.  In the Hmong academy’s central hallway, a tapestry depicts
families living in  Laos , fleeing the Vietnam War and arriving in
America. The school’s roughly 700 students, in grades
kindergarten through 12th grade, learn Hmong.  “I came here for my parents as much as for me,” said Mai
Chee Xiong, a 17-year-old senior. “I was very Americanized. I
wanted to be able to speak with them in our language, and I
wanted to understand my roots.”  In the 2009-2010 school year, 26 percent of Hmong Academy
students met or exceeded standards on state math exams, while 30
percent did so in reading. About half passed those tests in the
St. Paul Public School District.  Harvard Banners  To raise expectations, classrooms adopt colleges, hanging
banners from  Harvard University ,  Yale University  and  Dartmouth
College  over their doors.  “If we don’t do something to help these kids, they will
get lost,” Hang said. “If they drop out of school, they will
never become productive citizens, and there’s no way they will
achieve the American dream.”  Dugsi Academy, the school for East Africans, and Twin
Cities German Immersion School make for some of St. Paul’s
sharpest contrasts.  Until this school year, the two schools were neighbors,
across a busy commercial thoroughfare in a racially diverse
neighborhood. At different times of the day, the kids used a
city playground in front of the German school for recess. Dugsi
has since moved three miles away, across a highway from the
Hmong academy.  The German Immersion School is a bright, airy former
factory with exposed brick and high ceilings.  Fluent German  “Eva, was ist das?” kindergarten teacher Elena Heindl
asked one morning earlier this month as she pointed a red
flashlight to letters, eliciting the name of each one in German.  To succeed at the school, students must be fluent in German
to enroll, unless they enter before second or third grade, Julie
Elias, a parent, told prospective families on a tour this month.  “You can’t just move into the neighborhood if you want to
go to our school,” Elias said. The school is legally required
to take anyone picked in its lottery, though it counsels parents
against enrolling in older grades without German knowledge, said
Annika Fjelstad, its director.  The school, which includes many families with one parent
who speaks German or that have German relatives, holds special
events at the  Germanic-American Institute  in a $1.3 million St.
Paul house with a ballroom. Children like to call the institute
“our school’s mansion,” said Chris Weimholt, another parent
giving the tour.  No Buses  In the 2009-2010 school year, 87 percent of children at the
German school passed state math tests and 84 percent did so in
reading, according to the  Minnesota Department of Education .
Fifteen percent qualify for the federal free or reduced lunch
program, compared with 71 percent in St. Paul. The school
doesn’t offer bus transportation, so most parents drive, often
carpooling, Elias said.  The language requirement and lack of transportation
prevents poor families from attending, said Greiling, the state
legislator, who has toured the school.  “A regular public school could never have that kind of
bar,” she said. “It seems an odd thing that this would be
legal.”  The German program doesn’t have buses because they would
cost $100,000 a year, too heavy a burden for an expanding school
of 274 that wants to maintain classes of 20 students, Fjelstad
said. An immersion school can’t take kids who aren’t fluent
after early grades, she said.  In February, the school formed an “inclusivity” task
force to find ways to make the school more reflective of the
community, Fjelstad said. The school will try to improve
recruiting through its relationship with community
organizations, such as a neighboring YMCA, she said.  International View  The school offers a different kind of diversity, said
Weimholt, a nurse whose grandfather emigrated from  Germany  after
World War I. “It doesn’t look diverse by skin color. But
families straddle two different continents. The school truly has
an international perspective.”  So does Dugsi Academy. Children learn Arabic and Somali
along with English and traditional academic subjects. A caller
last month heard no English on a school voice mail.  One morning in late November, a sixth-grade social-studies
class discussed immigration with 28-year-old Khaleefah Abdallah,
who himself fled  Somalia  12 years ago. The boys wore jeans and
sweatshirts. The girls sported hijabs, or traditional Muslim
head coverings with skirts or long pants.  ‘Melting Pot’  Abdallah asked his class about the idea of the American
“melting pot:” immigrants assimilating into U.S. culture. He
suggested another metaphor, a “salad bowl,” where people from
different backgrounds mix while retaining their own identity.  “I agree with the salad bowl,” Fadumo Ahmed, 12, dressed
in a black hijab and sneakers with pink laces, told the class.
“We all come from different places, but we still want to keep
our culture.”  Students shared stories of the challenge of co-existing in
mainstream America.  Ahmed Hassan, 12, complained about a boy on a city
playground who made fun of the long traditional robe he wore one
Friday.  “He told me it looked like a skirt,” Hassan said.
Abdallah told the class that, under the U.S. constitution,
Americans have the freedom to express themselves through their
clothing.  Test Scores  Dugsi, a low-slung red-brick building in an office park,
has about 300 students in kindergarten through eighth grade.
Almost all qualify for federal free or reduced lunches,
according to the  state . Only 19 percent passed state math exams
in the 2009-2010 school year, while 40 percent did so in
reading.  The school’s test scores reflect families’ backgrounds.
said Osman, the Dugsi director and a former employee of the U.S.
Embassy in Somalia, who emigrated to the U.S. in 1993. Parents
work as cab drivers, nurses and grocers, Osman said. Many had no
formal schooling.  It would be better if one day Somali students could go to
school with children from other backgrounds, Osman said.  “That’s the beauty of America -- Latinos, Caucasians,
African-Americans and Native Americans, all together in the same
building, eating lunch and in the same classrooms,” Osman said.
“It would be something wonderful. That’s what I’m thinking of
for my own kids and grandchildren.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  