-- Slovenia Ratings Cut by Moody’s on Concern Nation’s Banks May Need Funding
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-23T13:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/slovenia-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-on-concern-nation-s-banks-may-need-funding.html
Slovenia had its  credit rating 
lowered one step to A1 by Moody’s Investors Service on the
potential need for the government to support its banking system
amid Europe’s debt crisis.  The euro-area nation’s banking industry has assets that are
about 136 percent of gross domestic product, which is
“relatively large when compared to other systems in eastern
Europe,” Moody’s said yesterday in a statement. It assigned a
negative outlook to Slovenia’s credit grade, the fifth-highest.
 Standard & Poor’s  ranks the nation AA-, one level higher.  Slovenia was downgraded at Moody’s for the second time in
three months as the euro area struggles to resolve its
sovereign-debt crisis, prompting stepped-up ratings scrutiny for
the region. S&P and  Fitch ratings  said this month they may cut
the scores of 15 euro-region members after assessing the outcome
a European Union summit on a tighter fiscal pact.  “Asset quality pressure and the euro-area debt and funding
crisis have further exposed significant vulnerabilities in the
solvency and short-term external funding and overall business
model of the largest institutions in Slovenia’s financial
sector,” Moody’s said.  The government is the majority owner of the country’s two
biggest lenders, Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor d.d. (KBMR)   September Downgrades  Slovenia’s rating was lowered one level by S&P, Moody’s and
Fitch Ratings in September, citing fiscal concerns, a weak
domestic banking industry and a poor outlook for the export-
driven economy. The nation is rated AA- by Fitch.  The former Yugoslav republic needs to repay 1.17 billion
euros ($1.5 billion) in bonds next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The further weakening  economic growth  outlook also
complicates the government’s ability to achieve its medium-term
fiscal consolidation plans,” Moody’s said. “The highly
volatile funding conditions on the euro-area bond markets
represent additional risks even for a small issuer like Slovenia
in the event that the financing needs exceed the original
estimates.”  Slovenia’s borrowing costs surged after voters rejected
pension changes in June and after the European debt turmoil
engulfed  Italy , its neighbor to the west and the third-biggest
trading partner after Germany and  Austria .  Rising Yields  Yields on Slovenia’s 10-year bonds reached a peak of 7.77
percent on Nov. 11, a level that had prompted other nations like
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek assistance from the EU and
the  International Monetary Fund .  The yield on notes maturing in January 2021 has dropped
since and was at 6.66 percent today at 1:54 p.m. in Ljubljana
from 6.746 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It was no surprise, but of course there is a constant
source of bad news flow,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , a  fund manager 
at Landesbank Berlin Invest in Berlin who oversees 11.5 billion
euros and holds Slovenian bonds. “It weighs on the sentiment of
investors and funds with rating constraints get into selling
pressure depending on their specific rating limits.”  Nova Ljubljanska received a 250 million-euro, three-year
loan from the  European Central Bank  as lenders in Europe sought
a record 489 billion euros in financing, the Ljubljana-based
bank said yesterday. The company wants to raise 400 million
euros by mid-2012 to improve its capital ratio to above 9
percent.  Bank Ratings  Moody’s also cut the debt and deposit ratings of three
Slovenian banks, Nova Ljubljanska, Nova Kreditna and  Abanka Vipa
d.d. (ABKN) , it said in the statement today. The rating company also
downgraded the issuer and senior unsecured ratings of SID Banka,
a government-owned  development bank .  NLB and its smaller competitor, Nova Kreditna, said they
will probably report losses for this year on mounting bad loans
from the sinking construction industry and as more and more
companies file for bankruptcy or receivership.  Slovenia “believes that the question of a capital boost
only relates to the country’s biggest bank NLB,” as Nova
Kreditna passed the recent test by the European Banking
Authority, the  Finance Ministry  in Ljubljana said today.  “With the capital increase at NLB, private investors are
considered the first option, or the participation of the
government that wouldn’t increase the country’s debt,” the
ministry said.  Bad-loan provisions in Slovenia surged 40 percent in the
first 10 months from a year ago to 706 million euros, the
central bank said in a Dec. 7 report.  Savings Measures  Slovenians on Dec. 4 elected the  Positive Slovenia  party of
Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic in snap elections after the
previous government collapsed in September.  Lawmakers adopted savings measures of 150 million euros by
freezing by freezing public employees’ pay, pensions and benefit
payments to allay investor concern over its debt.  All 86 lawmakers present voted for the legislation that
will come into force from Jan. 1 and will last until June next
year, according to a live broadcast by public broadcaster TV
Slovenija.  “I count on  Europe  to take into account these efforts and
bond yields could go lower if we adopt these measures,”
Jankovic, who is likely to form the next government, said before
the vote.  Slovenia, the first former communist country to adopt the
euro, is struggling with the euro region’s sovereign debt
crisis, which erodes demand for its exports. It risks sliding
back into recession, while public debt may widen to more than 50
percent next year.  The economy shrank 0.5 percent in the third quarter from a
year before, following growth of 0.8 percent in the previous
three-month period and public debt has more than doubled in four
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net 
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  