-- Solarhybrid Still Eager to Buy Solar Millennium’s U.S. Projects
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2011-12-22T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/solarhybrid-still-eager-to-buy-solar-millennium-s-u-s-projects.html
Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  remains “very
interested” in buying the U.S. projects of  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) ,
which filed for insolvency, Chief Financial Officer Albert Klein
said.  Solarhybrid, a Brilon, Germany-based renewable energy
developer, is talking with authorities about permission and grid
connections and with utilities about power-purchase agreements
related to the Solar Millennium projects it’s seeking to
purchase, Klein said today.  “We will only invest and spend our money if we can be sure
that the plants will be built,” Klein said by phone.  Solar Millennium filed for insolvency yesterday citing slow
progress in selling U.S. projects and a failure to reach an
agreement to bring in investors for its Ibersol project in
Spain. It’s the second solar insolvency in a week in  Germany ,
the world’s biggest market in 2010 for sun-powered systems,
after a similar move from module maker  Solon SE. (SOO1)   Solar Trust of America LLC, an Oakland, California-based
joint venture majority owned by Solar Millennium, said today the
insolvency won’t affect its Oct. 6 agreement to sell Solarhybrid
its U.S. project pipeline, including its 1-gigawatt plant under
development in Blythe,  California .  Blythe Project  Solar Millennium, based in Erlangen, Germany, announced in
August that it would use photovoltaic panels for the Blythe
project instead of solar-thermal systems as it had initially
planned.  “With Solarhybrid, we will soon complete that conversion
and proceed with construction of a number of the largest solar-
power facilities in the world,” Solar Trust Chief Executive
Officer Uwe T. Schmidt said today in a statement.  Solarhybrid is still in talks with  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the
world’s biggest maker of thin-film panels, to supply the
projects, Klein said. “Talks are going in all directions” and
are not restricted to a joint venture, he said.  Solar Millennium, which had focused on developing solar-
thermal plants in  Europe  and the U.S., had planned to sell 2,250
megawatts of projects including Blythe, the company’s biggest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  