-- Federal Court Blocks Enforcement of South Carolina Immigration Measures
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-12-22T19:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/south-carolina-immigration-law-s-enforcement-is-blocked-by-federal-court.html
Enforcement of  South Carolina ’s
immigration law, which was to take effect Jan. 1, was blocked by
a federal court at the request of the U.S. government.  U.S. District Judge Richard Mark Gergel said the U.S. is
likely to succeed in its challenge to three sections of the law,
according to a filing today in court in Charleston, South
Carolina.  “The Constitution of the USA and the Immigration and
Nationality Act have placed the policy-making role regarding
immigration in the hands of the national government,” Gergel
said in his order.  The measure criminalizes an immigrant’s failure to carry a
certificate of registration and requires police who suspect
someone is in the U.S. unlawfully to verify the person’s legal
status. The federal government sued on Oct. 31, saying the law
would impose “significant and counterproductive burdens” on
the U.S.  “Alien registration is a field under the exclusive control
of the federal government,” Gergel wrote.  People Who Jaywalk  Allowing state law enforcement officers to conduct
inquiries could lead to the arrests of people who jaywalk or
have cars with burned-out tail-lights, Gergel said, which would
“burden and disrupt federal immigration enforcement efforts”
to find illegal immigrants with criminal profiles.  The state’s attorney general, Alan Wilson, this month asked
the judge to allow the law to take effect until the  U.S. Supreme
Court  issues a ruling on  Arizona ’s immigration law. “The two
laws are nearly identical,” Wilson said.  Mark Plowden, a spokesman for Wilson, didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment on today’s ruling.  A U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman, Xochitl Hinojosa,
said the agency is pleased with the order  Gergel also said that enforcement of the state’s law could
“generate tensions with foreign nations and retaliation against
American nationals abroad.”  The  state of Alabama  is fighting a federal challenge to its
immigration law. The state asked a U.S. appeals court in Atlanta
to halt the case pending the  Supreme Court ’s review of Arizona’s
law, which also requires local police to check the immigration
status of anyone they suspect may be in the U.S. illegally.  The case is U.S. v. State of South Carolina, 11-2958, U.S.
District Court, District of South Carolina (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  