-- Seoul Dispatches Its Top Nuclear Negotiator to China After Kim’s Death
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2011-12-22T05:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/south-korea-s-chief-nuclear-talks-negotiator-heads-for-beijing-visit-today.html
South Korea  sent its chief
negotiator on the North’s nuclear program to Beijing to discuss
how the death of  Kim Jong Il  affects international efforts to
reverse the reclusive regime’s atomic weapons program.  Lim Sung Nam, the government’s special representative for
disarmament talks, will be in the Chinese capital today and
tomorrow to meet his counterpart  Wu Dawei , the foreign ministry
in Seoul said in a statement. The two will “evaluate the
situation on the Korean peninsula following Kim Jong Il’s death
and discuss the direction of future plans for the North Korean
nuclear issue.”  Officials from South Korea, China, the U.S.,  Japan  and
 Russia  are assessing the impact of the leadership change in the
regime following Kim’s death. Talks between the five countries
and  North Korea  have stalled since December 2008 after the
government in Pyongyang refused to allow inspectors to take
samples from a nuclear reactor.  South Korea has been careful to ensure that its moves since
the death of Kim do not look hostile to North Korea, President
 Lee Myung Bak  said in a statement on his website today. South
Korean army units near the border are on “low-level alert,”
according to the statement.  Opinion Poll  Almost half of South Koreans expect Kim Jong Un to turn the
North’s regime more open than his late father, according to a
survey.  Of 532 South Korean adults surveyed Dec. 20, 48 percent
said they expect North Korea to become less closed, compared
with 42 percent saying they expect no change from Pyongyang,
Gallup Korea said in a report today.  The telephone poll of 532 adults has an error margin of 4.2
percentage points.  South Korea should provide financial aid to the communist
nation if it gives up its nuclear-weapons program, according to
62 percent of respondents.  China  may provide a substantial amount of food aid to North
Korea after Kim Jong Il’s funeral, Yonhap News reported today,
citing an unidentified person in Beijing.  The late Kim stepped up his nuclear brinkmanship with the
outside world in 2003, when he withdrew from the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, triggering a flurry of diplomatic activity
that spawned the six-party talks involving the U.S., Japan,
Russia, South Korea and China.  Nuclear Tests  Negotiations intensified after a 2006 nuclear detonation,
with North Korea agreeing to shut its nuclear reactor in
exchange for shipments of fuel.  Tensions flared again in April 2009 after the  United
Nations  denounced a ballistic missile test and North Korea said
it would withdraw permanently from six-party negotiations and
resume uranium enrichment. The regime detonated a second nuclear
device the following month and fired 17 short-range missiles
between May and July.  The UN Security Council on July 17 barred five North Korean
officials from leaving their country and ordered their foreign
assets frozen as punishment for working on nuclear weapons and
missiles.  In November this year North Korea said it was making
progress in building a light-water atomic reactor and producing
low-enriched uranium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shinhye Kang in  Seoul  at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  