-- South African Stocks: Anglo, Billiton, Gold Fields, Old Mutual
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2011-12-22T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/south-african-stocks-anglo-american-bhp-billiton-gold-fields.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index 
advanced 0.8 percent to 31,904.14 by the close in Johannesburg,
paring the index’s loss for the year to 1 percent.  The following were among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  , the mining company that makes
up about 9 percent of the benchmark  stock index , rose 1.1
percent to 299.99 rand. Copper climbed for a third day before
reports that may show U.S. consumer confidence and spending
gained, boosting the demand outlook for the metal used in pipes
and wires.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL)  , the world’s biggest miner,
increased 1.6 percent to 239.99 rand. Workers at the company’s
coking coal operations in  Australia , the world’s largest
exporter, suspended their campaign of strikes pending the
resumption of contract talks next month.  Blue Label Telecoms Ltd. (BLU)  , a phone-services
reseller, gained for a second day, adding 1.8 percent to 5.65
rand. Earnings per share for the six months through November may
rise more than 20 percent from a year earlier, the company said
in a trading update.  Central Rand Gold Ltd. (CRD)  , a gold miner, surged to a
four-month high, jumping 6.7 percent to 16 cents. A consent
order setting aside the South African Minister of  Mineral
Resources ’ decision on Sept. 22 to cancel its mining rights was
obtained in  High Court  of  South Africa , the company said in a
regulatory filing.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  , the fourth-biggest producer of
the metal, declined 0.9 percent to 126.74 rand, a second day of
losses. Gold declined as stronger-than-forecast demand for
European Central Bank loans raised concern that the region’s
debt crisis is still not contained, boosting the dollar and
damping demand for alternative assets.  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  , South Africa’s largest insurer and
the third-biggest insurer in the U.K., gained for a fifth day,
rising 1.7 percent to 17.10 rand. The company may pay a special
dividend of at least 15 pence per share and its shares could
rise next year following the sale of Nordic units, according to
Risto Ketola, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s SBG
Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  