-- Spies Fail to Escape Spyware in $5 Billion Bazaar for Cyber Arms
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2011-12-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/spies-fail-to-escape-spyware-in-5-billion-bazaar-for-cyber-arms.html
The intelligence operative sits in a
leather club chair, laptop open, one floor below the Hilton
 Kuala Lumpur ’s convention rooms, scanning the airwaves for
spies.  In the salons above him, merchants of electronic
interception demonstrate their gear to government agents who
have descended on the Malaysian capital in early December for
the Wiretapper’s Ball, as this surveillance industry trade show
is called.  As he tries to detect hacker threats lurking in the
wireless networks, the man who helps manage a Southeast Asian
country’s Internet security says there’s reason for paranoia.
The wares on offer include products that secretly access your
Web cam, turn your cell phone into a location-tracking device,
recognize your voice, mine your e-mail for anti-government
sentiment and listen to supposedly secure Skype calls.  He isn’t alone watching his back at this cyber-arms bazaar,
whose real name is ISS World.  For three days, attendees digging into dim sum fret about
losing  trade secrets  to hackers, or falling prey to phone
interception by rival spies. They also get a tiny taste of what
they’ve unleashed on the outside world, where their products
have become weapons in the hands of regimes that use the gear to
track and torture dissidents.  “I’m concerned about my calls or Internet being monitored,
because that’s what they sell,” says Meling Mudin, 35, a Kuala
Lumpur-based information-technology security consultant who
takes defensive measures as he roams the exhibits. “When I make
phone calls, I step out of the hotel, I don’t use my computer
and I also don’t use the wireless services provided.”  ‘We Meet Again’  ISS, which convenes every few months in cities from Dubai
to Brasilia, is the hub of the surveillance trade. In recent
years, countries such as Syria, Iran and  Tunisia  bulked up their
monitoring by turning to some of ISS’s corporate sponsors, such
as  Italy ’s Area SpA and  Germany ’s  Utimaco Safeware AG (USA)  and
Trovicor GmbH, a Bloomberg News  investigation  showed.  Business is booming, with annual revenue of $3 billion to
$5 billion growing as much as 20 percent a year, ISS organizer
Jerry Lucas estimates.  Lucas, 68, an American with a PhD in physics, is perfectly
cast for the part of spyware convention mastermind. With
sweeping eyebrows and a bare pate that make him a look-alike of
Democratic strategist  James Carville , he greets an uninvited
journalist at his Prague event in June with, “We’ve been
expecting you.”  On the second encounter, in Kuala Lumpur this month, he
descends an escalator from the convention floor and intones:
“We meet again.”  Warning Attendees  Lucas, whose conference company TeleStrategies, Inc., is
based in McLean,  Virginia , makes the point that his marketplace
serves police who conduct criminal investigations and
intelligence services that prevent terror attacks. Virtually
every communications network in the world includes wiretapping
for prosecutors, or location tracking to rescue people in
emergencies. And customers at  ISS  also include phone company
executives.  Still, Lucas describes Spy vs. Spy intrigue that emerges
when he convenes ISS (short for Intelligence Support Systems).
The potential for hacking has led him to warn attendees to
comply with the law of host countries.  “We tell them, ‘Do not bring in radio equipment that is
not allowed by the government,’” says Lucas, who started ISS
nine years ago.  Some gear can intercept mobile-phone or Internet
transmissions, impersonating legitimate networks by sitting in
the middle of the data flow.  “These guys can be your base station,” Lucas says.  ‘Hide Your Laptop’  Attendees routinely guard against hacking, says Nikhil
Gyamlani, a Munich-based developer of monitoring systems who has
attended several ISS events. He says being in close contact with
competitors versed in the dark arts gives them a chance to
secretly copy documents saved on hard drives or sent via e-mail.
He advises preventive measures.  “Absolutely no use of wireless networks, and hide your
laptop in a safe,” says Gyamlani, 34, the founder of a new
surveillance company, GlassCube. “The fear is very justified.”  Some who haven’t taken such precautions have learned to be
more careful.  At ISS in Prague this year, an employee of an African
telecommunications regulator was cruising Facebook on his  Archos (JXR) 
tablet computer when he found his every click being projected on
a screen at the front of the room, he recalled afterwards in the
lobby. He’d been using the hotel’s wireless Internet.  Watching The Detectives  While ISS is closed to journalists, a Bloomberg News
reporter dropped in on two 2011 installments, walking hotel
corridors, sitting in bars and haunting lounges.  In Prague, at a hotel connected to a shopping mall food
court, potential buyers included Thailand’s Department of
Special Investigation and the  U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration . In the lobby, contingents from Greece and  Turkey 
sat on opposite sides of the room.  Many conventioneers carried black canvas tote bags from
Utimaco, whose systems were used in a Syrian surveillance
project that was exposed this year by Bloomberg News and shut
down before it could become operational.  Approaches by a journalist at ISS only triggered more
paranoia among some executives. At a fourth-floor conference
room rented by Trovicor in  Prague , an employee, Jesper
Mathiesen, not only declined to talk, but declined to trust the
reporter’s business card as reliable identification.  Rock Star  “Anyone can print a business card,” he said, as another
employee led a delegation from  Serbia  into the room.  In the Prague hotel’s elevators, an employee of Andover,
U.K.-based Gamma International rode up and down, escorting
government delegations to back-to-back, appointment-only
demonstrations of Gamma’s FinFisher intrusion system, conducted
in darkened rooms.  Once secretly planted on a target’s computer, FinFisher
allows remote control of the device. The tool became widely
known early this year when a copy of a FinFisher proposal turned
up in  Egypt  after the February revolution and was posted online.  The notoriety helped make the German hacker-turned-
executive behind  FinFisher  a rock star of the ISS circuit.  Listed in the conference agendas only by his initials, MJM,
he is Martin J. Muench, 30, the managing director of Gamma’s
German unit. One of his talks in Kuala Lumpur is titled,
“Offensive IT Intelligence Information-Gathering Portfolio --An
Operational Overview.”  Saudi Arabia, India  At this gathering of real-life James Bonds, Muench most
resembles 007 himself, as played by  Sean Connery : just over six
feet tall, in a trim black suit and skinny black tie.  Spotted at ISS this month, Muench declines to comment,
while lighting a cigarette.  For the Malaysia event, which has 871 invited attendees
from 56 countries, the Hilton lobby hosts a parade of ISS’s
various tribes and their telltale markings. Buyers from  Saudi
Arabia ’s interior ministry,  India ’s cabinet secretariat and the
5-month-old state of South Sudan brandish yellow nametags that
peg them as government officials. Vendors are identified by red
tags.  Employees of Munich-based Trovicor are easy to pick out:
each is dressed identically, in a dark suit and a red necktie,
which is custom made, marketing director Birgitt Fischer-Harrow
says.  Barring Syria  “It is a Trovicor corporate identity. The company colors
are black, white and Pantone 202c red,” she says, referring to
the precise shade of burgundy.  Trovicor is a former intelligence unit of Siemens AG and
Nokia Siemens Networks. The chain of companies supplied and
maintained eavesdropping systems for  Syria ,  Bahrain , Tunisia and
other countries that have battled rebellions this year, a
Bloomberg News investigation showed. Fischer-Harrow says the
company can’t comment on contracts or clients.  Lucas says he’s barred Syrian or Iranian government
representatives from ISS.  Still, that hasn’t stopped surveillance gear from reaching
those countries, and the controversy has attracted crashers to
ISS seeking to expose how the technology can be abused by
repressive regimes.  In an empty hotel restaurant after lunch, Eric King, the
human rights and technology adviser at London-based  Privacy
International , is poring over conference presentations he’s
 obtained  and tallying a growing list of suspicious technological
glitches. When he tries to send an e-mail from his Apple Inc.
laptop, he gets a message that his encryption won’t work.  Seeking Hackers  His paranoia builds as he also realizes that more secure 3G
networks, used for phones and wireless Internet, are unavailable
in the hotel. King, 22, jetlagged and wearing a wrinkled, blue
button-down shirt, has a hypothesis: Someone has blocked the 3G
to force everyone to use methods that would be easier to
intercept.  He consults the ISS program and finds a possible culprit,
“Live Demonstration of Tactical GSM Interrogation and Geo-
Location System.”  “We’ve got to get us some hackers,” he says, eager to
untangle what may be a nest of surveillance.  A few hours later, King heads to Kuala Lumpur’s art deco
Central Market to meet a Privacy International volunteer. Over a
noodle dinner, she puts him in touch with a hacker who agrees to
meet up the next day.  Recruiting Spies  Back at the hotel, the night is young and the paranoia is
deep.  Unlike typical trade shows, this one has no social events.
No corporate-sponsored cocktail parties. No hospitality suites.
Clients and suppliers don’t want to be seen with each other in
public, and some countries bar their agents from mingling at the
event because it’s a recruiting ground for spies seeking
sources, organizer Lucas says.  In some delegations, “They’ll send four or five people and
have one here just to watch the rest,” he says.  At the Hilton’s wine bar, Vintage Bank, three men from
Milan-based  HackingTeam  are talking among themselves, drinking
from brandy snifters.  Because HackingTeam sells programs that can spy on a
computer’s contents and activities, maybe they know something
about the 3G blackout. All three say that they, too, have
noticed, and also suggest an interception effort may be afoot.  In the morning, King’s hacker arrives at the Hilton lobby,
toting a backpack filled with wireless Internet gear and wearing
a black T-shirt.  Intelligence Operative  They set up shop on a coffee table. After an hour of
performing many of the same tests the intelligence operative had
done at the start of the convention, the network activity comes
up clean.  The hacker suggests the 3G problem might just be a spotty
phone system. Later, ISS organizer Lucas says any drop in
service may have been caused by heavy usage by convention-goers.  Upstairs, the operative is back in the leather club chair,
this time using an iPad. Asked if this isn’t risky, he says it’s
just for browsing websites, not e-mail or anything involving
passwords. And he’s got no files saved to it.  Does he have e-mail access?  He holds up a BlackBerry, and says he’s running nothing
sensitive through it. Then he does a double-take. The screen
saver is a photo of him and his wife.  The bad guys could do face recognition, he says, looking at
the picture. Kicking himself for the lapse, he walks off, the
paranoia having got the best of him.  -- Editors: Marcia Myers, Melissa Pozsgay  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  