-- Subbarao Says RBI Steps Will Curb Speculation in Rupee Market
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2011-12-22T09:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/subbarao-says-rbi-steps-will-curb-speculation-in-rupee-market.html
Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao comments on the rupee, economic growth and
shortage of money in the banking system. He was speaking at an
event at Vijayawada, in the southern state of  Andhra Pradesh ,
today.  On the rupee:  “Our administrative measures will curb undue speculation
and will ensure that the interests of genuine customers in the
foreign-exchange market are not affected. The exchange rate will
improve as soon as there is better news from  Europe .  ‘‘The rupee is depreciating more than other currencies
because we have a current account deficit and we need inflows to
finance our current account deficit. Those flows have streamed
out. Foreigners, who want to invest in India, are unsure, not
about what is going to happen to us, but what is going to happen
to the U.S.  ‘‘We have taken some administrative measures to prevent
speculation in the  exchange rate . I was told exporters were not
selling dollars because the rupee was falling and importers were
booking dollars for months ahead. All that was pressuring the
rupee more. In order to curb speculation, in order to ensure
that there are flows in the foreign-exchange market, we took
some measures. The exchange rate reflects global developments.’’  On economic growth:  ‘‘We will be revisiting the growth number in our quarterly
policy review. On Jan. 24 we will come out with a revised number
and by all expectations that number will be lower than 7.6
percent.  On shortage in money markets:  ‘‘We have said in a statement last week that we are
monitoring the liquidity situation and if necessary we will
institute measures to improve the liquidity.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  