-- Top Court Says National Securities Regulator Plan Is Not Constitutional
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2011-12-22T20:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/supreme-court-says-national-securities-regulator-is-not-constitutional.html
The Supreme Court of  Canada  said
that Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s proposal to create a
national securities regulator is unconstitutional, arguing that
the federal government overstepped its authority into provincial
jurisdiction.  The nine members of the country’s highest court said in its
unanimous opinion that the federal government’s proposal
“overreaches genuine national concerns.”  While the “economic importance and pervasive character of
the securities market” may support federal action, it doesn’t
“justify a wholesale takeover of the regulation of the
securities industry,” the court said today in Ottawa.  Canada is the only industrialized country in the world
without a national securities regulator. Flaherty had pushed for
a single model, saying the current system of 13 provincial
agencies is more costly and reduces the country’s ability to
regulate the securities industry.  The government will “respect” the ruling, a spokesman for
Flaherty said after the opinion was released.  “It is clear we cannot proceed with this legislation,”
 Chisholm Pothier , Flaherty’s director of communications, said in
an e-mail. The government will review the opinion “carefully
and act in accordance with it.”  Flaherty Proposal  Flaherty proposed legislation last year to create a
national agency and sought the court’s opinion on whether it was
constitutional. The case turned on whether the federal
government has the authority to create a national regulator
under a section of the Canadian constitution that gives
Parliament the power to regulate “trade and commerce.”  Provinces that opposed the plan, such as Alberta, Quebec
and Manitoba, argued it encroached on the constitutional right
of provinces to regulate local matters and industries within
their borders.  Quebec had been the strongest opponent of the plan, arguing
that a common regulator might shift more financial power away
from  Montreal , the French-speaking province’s biggest city and
home to the country’s derivatives market.  The current “harmonized” approach is “one of the best
systems in the world in terms of regulation and market
surveillance,” Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand told
reporters in Montreal. “It’s not just me saying it, it’s the
OECD and the  World Bank  saying it.”  Ontario, home to the  Ontario Securities Commission  and the
Toronto Stock Exchange, has been supportive of a single
regulator.  Ontario ‘Remains Committed’  Finance Minister Dwight Duncan’s office released a statement
today saying Ontario “remains committed” to pursuing a
national securities regulator.  The Ontario government will review the court’s ruling
“carefully,” the minister’s office said in an e-mailed
statement.  Ontario should join the “passport” system where regulator
decisions in one province are recognized by the others, Alberta
Finance Minister Ron Liepert said. “We have progressed to the
point that while it may not be one securities regulator, it’s a
harmonized securities registration system,” Liepert told
reporters in Calgary.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , the country’s third-
biggest pension fund manager, said it was “disappointed” with
the  Supreme Court  opinion.  Teachers Disappointed  “Teachers’ contends that Canada needs more efficient and
transparent  capital markets  and that the current fragmentation
of the Canadian regulatory system must be addressed,” the
Toronto-based fund, which had C$107.5 billion ($105.3 billion)
in assets as of Dec. 31, 2010, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Supreme Court acknowledged that the “preservation of
capital markets to fuel Canada’s economy and maintain Canada’s
financial stability” is a national matter.  Still, the proposed law is “chiefly concerned with the
day-to-day regulation” of all aspects of securities contracts,
which “remain essentially provincial concerns,” the court
added.  The court relied partly on a 1989 Supreme Court decision on
whether competition law falls under federal jurisdiction in a
case involving  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Canadian unit.  Five Criteria  The General Motors decision laid out five criteria for
whether the federal government’s power over national trade and
commerce applies. The government must show that a proposed law
is concerned with “trade as a whole” rather than a specific
industry, that the provinces themselves are “constitutionally
incapable” of making the changes themselves, and that the
federal plan would be in jeopardy without the participation of
any province.  The court concluded that the federal government didn’t
satisfy those three tests.  Still, the court left the door open to a revised proposal
that satisfies the rights of the provincial governments.  Canada may still adopt a “cooperative approach that
permits a scheme recognizing the essentially provincial nature
of securities regulation while allowing Parliament to deal with
genuinely national concerns,” the court said, adding it’s “not
for the courts to decide” what such a model should look like.  ‘Temporary Setback’  “In terms of securities regulation this is a setback for
the country, but it should only be a temporary setback,” said
Philip Anisman, a Toronto Securities lawyer and author of
“Proposals for a  Securities Market  Law for Canada.”  “They do leave open the potential for the federal
government and the provincial governments to develop a
cooperative scheme,” Anisman said in a telephone interview.  “We believe the adoption of a single regulator would help
Canada move to a more principles-based system of regulation and
help improve enforcement,” said Richard Waugh, chief executive
officer of Toronto-based Bank of  Nova Scotia . “We look forward
to playing whatever role we can to assist.”  Terry Campbell , chief executive officer of the Canadian
Bankers Association, said “real progress has been made.”  “For the first time, the court has recognized that there’s
federal jurisdiction over securities,” Campbell told reporters
in Ottawa.  Brendan Caldwell , CEO of Caldwell Investment Management
Ltd. in Toronto, said the regulation of securities is “simply a
provincial matter, full stop.”  “As tempting as it is for the federal government to want,
in the best interest of Canadians, to make a good solution, it’s
over to the provinces to actually agree on something without
Papa Bear imposing a solution,” said Caldwell, whose company
oversees about C$1 billion in assets.  (The Docket number is 33718.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 