-- Sweden’s AMF Said to Pay RBS $580 Million for Three Malls
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2011-12-22T17:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/swedish-insurer-said-to-pay-rbs-580-million-for-three-malls.html
A Swedish insurer paid  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  about 4 billion kronor ($580 million) for
three shopping centers in Stockholm, two people with knowledge
of the transaction said.  The malls were bought by AMF Pensionsfoersaekring AB’s
property unit, according to a statement today from the life
insurer’s adviser,  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc. The statement didn’t
include the price. The people with knowledge of the deal asked
not to be identified because its value is private.  “This is the largest retail transaction in Sweden in 2011
and the largest retail investment ever made by a domestic
investor,” said Daniel Gorosch, Jones Lang’s head of  capital
markets  in Sweden.  Sweden’s economy  grew at an annual rate of 4.6 percent in
the third quarter, attracting overseas investors for prime real
estate generating regular rental income. Retail-related property
sales in  Sweden  will probably total 16 billion kronor this year,
making the country one of Europe’s five biggest investment
markets for retail outlets, Jones Lang estimates.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, declined to
comment on AMF’s acquisition of the Faeltoeversten,
Vaestermalmsgallerian and Ringen malls.  Lehman Collapse  The shopping centers are among the 10 malls in Stockholm
that the city sold in 2007 for about 10.4 billion kronor to
Centeni AB, a venture between London-based investment company
Boultbee and a unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Lehman’s
collapse in 2008 prompted RBS to take over the investment bank’s
49 percent stake in Centeni. In May, RBS purchased the rest of
the shares from Boultbee.  The transaction will leave RBS with one property in the
Centeni portfolio, the Skaerholmen center, which the bank
intends to refurbish under plans to be disclosed early next
year.  Last month, RBS sold five malls to  FastPartner AB (FPAR)  for an
undisclosed sum. It also sold the Hoegdalen Centrum to  Citycon
Oyj (CTY1S)  for about 208 million kronor in May.  RBS said in an e-mailed statement today that it has raised
more than 4.5 billion kronor from the sale of the nine centers
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 