-- U.K. Grew 0.6% in Third Quarter, Faster Than Originally Estimated: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-22T12:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-k-economic-growth-rises-more-than-expected.html
U.K.  economic growth  accelerated
more than previously estimated in the third quarter in a surge
that the Bank of  England  says is unlikely to be repeated as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbs bank lending and dents confidence.  Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent from the previous
quarter, faster than the 0.5 percent reported last month, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. Separate
data showed the current account deficit widened to a record,
partly due falling profits at U.K. banks’ foreign units.  The Bank of England, which has restarted bond purchases to
aid the recovery, has said that the U.K. economy may fail to
grow in the current quarter and the first part of 2012. In
addition to turmoil in Europe, expansion in Britain may be
restrained by unemployment at a 17-year high and the
government’s ongoing fiscal squeeze.  “A return to recession is looking increasingly likely,”
said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Group in London.
“Fiscal austerity is dampening government spending and the
deteriorating euro-zone economy is a massive threat to
exports.”  From a year earlier, the economy grew 0.5 percent, and the
statistics office said recent data signal a “rather fragile
economic picture.” During the nine quarters of the recovery,
the economy has gained just over half of the output lost during
five quarters of contraction during the recession.  The pound was little changed against the dollar, trading at
$1.5685 as of 12 p.m. in London. Gilts stayed higher after the
report, with the 10-year yield 3 basis points lower at 2.04
percent. It fell to a record-low 2.016 percent yesterday.  Record Deficit  The balance of payments report showed that the  current
account deficit  widened to 15.2 billion pounds ($23.9 billion)
in the third quarter from 7.4 billion pounds in the previous
three months. That’s the highest since records began in 1955. As
a percentage of GDP, the deficit is the highest since 1990.
There was a 3.9 billion-pound decline in the direct investment
surplus as U.K. companies and banks “recorded lower profits as
the world economy stuttered,” the statistics office said.  The  European Central Bank  cut its 2012 growth forecast for
the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner, this month. It
sees expansion of just 0.3 percent, and ECB President  Mario Draghi  said there are “substantial downside risks.” The Bank
of  Japan  lowered its assessment of the Japanese economy for a
second straight month on Dec. 21.  Spending Delays  In the U.K.,  consumer spending  was unchanged in the third
quarter, today’s report showed. Government spending rose 0.2
percent, less than the 0.9 percent previously estimated. Exports
declined 0.8 percent, imports rose 0.5 percent, and net trade
subtracted 0.4 percentage points from growth.  Logica Plc, an Anglo-Dutch computer services provider, said
on Dec. 14 that many customers are “delaying short term
expenditure and reducing discretionary investments to weather an
uncertain economic future.”  “ Government spending  is set to become a significant drag
on aggregate demand and the contraction in the euro area is
likely to result in further weakness in U.K. exports,” said
 Simon Hayes , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “In
this environment, it is little wonder that companies have no
appetite to invest.”  Some Bank of England officials said more stimulus may be
needed as the currency region’s “substantial challenges” pose
a threat to Britain. Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said this week
that the U.K. is facing a “difficult” 2012. Still, he
forecasts “some return to growth” in the second half as
cooling inflation eases the squeeze on consumers.  U.S. Outlook  At the same time, the  U.S. economy  is showing some signs of
strength heading into 2012. Sales of existing homes rose in
November to a 10-month high, according to data yesterday.
Consumer spending probably rose 0.3 percent in November after
increasing 0.1 percent in October, a Bloomberg News survey of
economists shows. Durable goods orders may have surged 2.2
percent, the most in four months.  Speculation the U.S. is holding up has helped stocks in the
past two months, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  up 12 percent
from this year’s low on Sept. 22. The  S&P 500 Index  has rallied
13 percent since its 2011 low on Oct. 3.  All nine members of the  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy
Committee voted to keep the  target for gilt buying  at 275
billion pounds this month after increasing it by 75 billion
pounds in October. While some officials said a “further
expansion of the asset purchase program might well become
warranted,” this is unlikely to happen until the current round
is completed in February.  The ECB also has responded to slowing growth, cutting
 interest rates  twice in the past two months and flooding the
banking system with cash to stave off a credit crunch.  “The substantial challenges faced by the euro area posed a
threat to the outlook for the U.K.,” the Bank of England said
yesterday. “The worst risks had not so far crystallized, but
the possibility of their doing so was reflected in continuing
strains in bank funding markets and volatility in financial
markets more generally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  