-- U.K. Housing Shortage Will Limit Price Drop in 2012, RICS Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-k-housing-shortage-will-limit-price-drop-in-2012-rics-says.html
British  house prices  will “edge
lower” next year as a supply shortage helps to limit the impact
of weak economic growth on values, the  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors said.  Prices will be about 3 percent lower at the end of 2012
than in the fourth quarter of this year, the London-based group
said in an e-mailed report today. A survey of estate agents
shows northern  England  will have the weakest performance, while
prices in the capital will “move sideways,” RICS said.  “The general economic climate is likely to be the biggest
influence on the residential  property market ,” RICS Chief
Economist Simon Rubinsohn said in a statement. “Prices could
edge a little lower as unemployment continues to rise. However,
the lack of supply in the market is likely to prevent any
significant house-price declines.”  Demand for homes has weakened as banks restrict lending and
Britons are squeezed by government spending cuts and tax
increases aimed at narrowing the  budget deficit . The economy
will be “broadly stagnant” during the first half of next year
as unemployment rises, preventing a “material upswing” in new
buyer enquiries, RICS said.  The weak economic start to the year is likely to prompt the
 Bank of England  to expand its asset-purchase program again and
keep the key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent until
2013, the group said. The central bank raised the target for
bond buying by 75 billion pounds ($118 billion) to 275 billion
pounds in October.  Price Risk  RICS said the U.K. property market’s performance in 2012
will be dependent on developments in the euro area and there is
a risk of a “sharper adjustment.”  Housing transactions will post a “slight increase” to
about 880,000 in 2012, still less than half of the 1.67 million
achieved in 2006, before the financial crisis started, according
to RICS. “Mortgage lending is likely to remain subdued, which
will limit the scope for improvement,” it said.  In a November survey of estate agents’ house-price
expectations in 11 regions for the next year, all but  London  had
more respondents saying values will drop than those seeing
gains. Northern England, Yorkshire and East Anglia had the
largest proportions of agents predicting declines.  “One driver of the London market has been the continuing
appetite of foreign investors looking for safe havens,” RICS
said. “Ongoing political and financial-market turmoil around
the globe suggests that this factor will remain an influence on
the market even if it is not quite so powerful as it has been.”  The RICS house price forecast is based on an index being
compiled by the  Office for National Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  