-- U.K. Commercial Property Values May Drop About 5% Next Year on Debt Crisis
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2011-12-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-k-commercial-property-values-may-drop-about-5-next-year-on-debt-crisis.html
U.K. commercial property values
probably will fall by 4.9 percent next year as the European debt
crisis and concern that Britain may slip back into recession
hurts demand for assets in all but the best locations.  Six economists, analysts and executives surveyed by
Bloomberg News all predicted a decline in 2012. Prices tracked
by Investment Property Databank fell last month for the first
time since July 2009. The biggest drop estimated was 7 percent
and the smallest was 2.5 percent.  “Businesses are not feeling confident,” said  Ed Stansfield , chief property economist at London-based  Capital
Economics Ltd . “They’re not investing, they’re not employing,
none of which is good news for the commercial property sector.”  A two-year recovery in values for U.K. shops, offices and
warehouses petered out in the second half of this year as
efforts to shore up the finances of countries such as Greece,
Spain and  Italy  failed to stem rising government borrowing
costs. The British economy has a 50 percent chance of slipping
back into recession next year, the National Institute for
Economic and Social research said last month.  The  average value  of U.K. commercial real estate declined
0.02 percent in November from October, IPD said on Dec. 14.
Values fell 44.1 percent from June 2007 to June 2009 and then
rose by 17.9 percent in the following months through November.  A forecasting model used by IPD suggests the market will
fall by slightly more than 4 percent in 2012 before rising by
less than 0.5 percent the next year, said Malcolm Hunt, the data
company’s client services director for the U.K. and Ireland.  Avoiding Risk  In periods of economic uncertainty, investors and tenants
tend to focus on buildings in the best locations “and away from
the secondary, more risky areas of the market,” Hunt said.  Non-prime asset prices are under pressure as lenders such
as  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  seek
to reduce their loan books by selling repossessed real estate or
portfolios of loans. Also about 4.8 billion pounds of loans
linked to commercial mortgage backed securities are due to
mature next year,  Standard & Poor’s  wrote in a Nov. 30 report.
That means the loans must be refinanced or the assets backing
the commercial securities must be sold.  There’s a mismatch between the “pretty poor quality”
assets backing bank loans coming due and the kind of properties
sought by those with cash to invest, Stansfield said. Insurance
companies and pension funds entering the real estate lending
market only want to fund “high quality assets in prime and
near-prime locations,” he said.  U.K. real estate investment trusts with high-quality assets
will benefit from that preference, said Sue Munden, an analyst
at investment bank Seymour Pierce Ltd. “The good are going to
continue getting better and the bad are going to carry on
getting worse,” she said.  Rich Get Richer  Munden predicted that other property companies will follow
 Derwent London Plc (DLN)  in issuing convertible bonds as an
alternative to bank financing.  The value of larger U.K. property companies such as  Land
Securities Plc (LAND)  may increase by 20 percent next year, leaving
them trading at a discount of about 10 percent to net asset
value, said JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Harm Meijer .  Munden is advising clients to focus on companies with
assets in London such as  Shaftesbury Plc .  “In order for rents to rise, you need the economy to be
positive, to have GDP growth, and London is probably the only
area in the U.K. that has remained buoyant,” she said.  Retail is the weakest area of the market and IPD expects
that to remain the case until 2013, according to Hunt.
Stansfield said  Capital Economics  currently prefers warehouses.  “There’s a marginal preference for the industrial
sector,” he said. “It’s not a positive bias in favor of it,
it’s rather that it’s the best of a bad job.”  Takeover Targets  The market may also see more publicly traded real estate
companies being targeted by for takeovers, said Meijer of
JPMorgan. “We wouldn’t be surprised if an overseas REIT comes
sniffing around. The U.K. small caps look pretty vulnerable.”  He predicted that values will fall by 3.5 percent by the
middle of next year, with non-prime assets dropping the most.
Development Securities Chief Executive Officer Michael Marx
predicted a drop of as much as 5 percent in the first half, with
a possible rebound cutting the decline to zero to 2.5 percent
for the full year. Stansfield estimated a 5 percent decline for
2012.  U.K. commercial properties are still more than a third
cheaper than they were at the peak of the market, said Hunt at
IPD. “Although we’ve talked about the end of a recovery, we’re
still a long way shy of where we were.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  