-- U.S. OKs Nuclear Reactor Design to Allow Licenses
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2011-12-22T18:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-approves-reactor-design-to-allow-licenses.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission approved  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s AP1000 reactor design,
clearing the way for the agency to issue its first new reactor
construction license in more than 30 years.  The five-member agency voted unanimously in favor of
certifying the design, Scott Burnell, a commission spokesman,
said in an e-mail today.  Southern Co. (SO)  and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  are
seeking permission to use the reactor design to expand nuclear
power output at existing sites in Georgia and  South Carolina .  No dates were set for decisions on issuing construction and
operating licenses for Southern and Scana, Burnell said in an
interview. The agency hasn’t given permission to build a new U.S.
reactor since the partial meltdown at Three Mile Island in
 Pennsylvania  in 1979.  Southern expects its license “any time now,” Steve Higginbottom, a spokesman for the Atlanta-based company, said
after the vote. It has estimated the project’s total cost at $14
billion.  Licenses  will create 3,000 jobs at each site,
Westinghouse Electric, a unit of Tokyo-based Toshiba, said today
in a statement.  Scana anticipates licensing of its two planned reactors
later this year or early in 2012, the Cayce, South Carolina-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement. It estimated
the cost at $9.1 billion in February 2011. The first new reactor
is scheduled to begin operation around the beginning of 2016,
according to the company  website .  ‘Holiday Gift’  “Today, the NRC has presented its holiday gift to the
nuclear industry,” said Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, who had urged the commission to reject
the acceleration of construction.  Receipt of a license within 60 days will enable Scana to
maintain its current work schedule to add new reactors at its
V.C. Summer site, Alan Torres, general manager for nuclear plant
construction at Cayce, South Carolina-based Scana, said in a Dec.
20 telephone interview.  The schedule for the Westinghouse certification was
“fairly well maintained,” Russell Bell, director of new plant
licensing for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a U.S. trade group,
said today in an interview. The commission has studied potential
rule revisions following the March nuclear-plant meltdowns in
Fukushima, Japan.  “The commission made the determination that this design in
particular addressed a number of those issues that arose in
 Japan  and new requirements that we learned from Fukushima can be
imposed later,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  