-- U.S. Third Quarter Third GDP Technical Note (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2011-12-22T13:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-third-quarter-third-gdp-technical-note-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Technical Note  Gross Domestic Product  Third Quarter of 2011 (Third Estimate)  December 22, 2011  This technical note provides background information about the
source data and estimating methods used to produce the estimates
presented in the GDP news release.  The complete set of estimates
for the third quarter is available on BEA's Web site at
www.bea.gov; a brief summary of "highlights" is also posted on
the Web site.  In a few weeks, the estimates will be published in
BEA's monthly journal, the Survey of Current Business, along with
a more detailed analysis of the estimates ("GDP and the
Economy").  Sources of Revision to Real GDP  Real GDP increased 1.8 percent (annual rate) in the third
quarter, which was 0.2 percentage point less than in last month's
estimate.  The downward revision to GDP primarily reflected a
downward revision to personal consumption expenditures (PCE) that
was partly offset by an upward revision to inventory investment.  *       The downward revision to PCE was more than accounted for
by a downward revision to PCE for services. Within PCE for
services, the largest contributor to the revision was health
careùmainly, nonprofit
hospital services.  The revision reflected newly available
quarterly services survey data for the third quarter from the
Census Bureau.  *       The upward revision to inventory investment was primarily
accounted for by farm inventories and reflected a newly available
2011 Farm Income Forecast from the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture .  The  price index  for gross domestic purchasesùthe prices paid by
U.S. residents for goods and services wherever producedùincreased
2.0 percent in the third quarter, 0.1 percentage point more than
in last month's estimate.  Corporate Profits and Gross Domestic Income  Profits from current production increased $32.5 billion, or 1.7
percent (quarterly rate), in the third quarter. Domestic profits
of financial corporations increased $9.2 billion, domestic
profits of nonfinancial corporations increased $17.9 billion, and
rest-of-the-world profits increased $5.4 billion.  Effective with today's release, the estimates of real gross value
added of nonfinancial corporate business were revised beginning
with 1929, to reflect the use of a revised deflator for
nonfinancial industries from the annual revision of BEA's
industry accounts that was released earlier this month.
Revisions to percent changes before the first quarter of 2003 are
small.  Real gross domestic income (GDI) increased 0.2 percent in the
third quarter, 0.2 percentage point less than in last month's
estimate.  GDI measures output as the costs incurred and the
incomes earned in the production of GDP. In theory, GDP should
equal GDI, but in practice, they can differ because they are
estimated using largely independent and less-than-perfect source
data.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  