-- U.S. Third Quarter Third Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2011-12-22T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-third-quarter-third-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  THIRD QUARTER 2011 (THIRD ESTIMATE)  CORPORATE PROFITS:  THIRD QUARTER 2011 (REVISED ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the third
quarter of 2011 (that is, from the second quarter to the third
quarter), according to the "third" estimate released by the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the second quarter, real GDP
increased 1.3 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete
source data than were available for the "second" estimate issued
last month.  In the second estimate, the increase in real GDP was
2.0 percent.  The increase in real GDP in the third quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from nonresidential fixed
investment, personal consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, and
federal government spending that were partly offset by negative
contributions from private inventory investment and state and
local  government spending .  Imports, which are a subtraction in
the calculation of GDP, increased.  The acceleration in real GDP in the third quarter primarily
reflected accelerations in PCE, in nonresidential fixed
investment, and in exports, and a smaller decrease in state and
local government spending that were partly offset by a larger
decrease in private inventory investment.  Final sales of computers added 0.22 percentage point to the
third-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.07 percentage
point to the second-quarter change.  Motor vehicle output added
0.12 percentage point to the third-quarter change in real GDP
after subtracting 0.10 percentage point from the second-quarter
change.  ____________
FOOTNOTE.--Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-
quarter dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates.  Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  "Real" estimates are in chained (2005)
dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA's Web site along with
the Technical Note and Highlights related to this release.  For
information on revisions, see "Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their
Major Components."
____________  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 2.0 percent in
the third quarter, 0.1 percentage point more than the second
estimate; this index increased 3.3 percent in the second quarter.
Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross
domestic purchases increased 1.8 percent in the third quarter,
compared with an increase of 2.7 percent in the second.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.7
percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 0.7
percent in the second.  Durable goods increased 5.7 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 5.3 percent.  Nondurable goods
decreased 0.5 percent, in contrast to an increase of 0.2 percent.
Services increased 1.9 percent, the same increase as in the
second.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 15.7
percent, compared with an increase of 10.3 percent.
Nonresidential structures increased 14.4 percent, compared with
an increase of 22.6 percent. Equipment and software increased
16.2 percent, compared with an increase of 6.2 percent.  Real
residential fixed investment increased 1.3 percent, compared with
an increase of 4.2 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 4.7 percent in
the third quarter, compared with an increase of 3.6 percent in
the second.  Real imports of goods and services increased 1.2
percent, compared with an increase of 1.4 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment increased 2.1 percent in the third quarter, compared
with an increase of 1.9 percent in the second.  National defense
increased 5.0 percent, compared with an increase of 7.0 percent.
Nondefense decreased 3.8 percent, compared with a decrease of 7.6
percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.6 percent, compared
with a decrease of 2.8 percent.  The change in real private inventories subtracted 1.35
percentage points from the third-quarter change in real GDP,
after subtracting 0.28 percentage point from the second-quarter
change.  Private businesses decreased inventories $2.0 billion in
the third quarter, following increases of $39.1 billion in the
second quarter and $49.1 billion in the first.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 3.2 percent in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent in the second.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
1.3 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
1.0 percent in the second.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 1.9 percent in the third quarter, compared with an
increase of 2.2 percent in the second.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which increased $3.9 billion in the third quarter after
increasing $28.0 billion in the second; in the third quarter,
receipts decreased $13.3 billion, and payments decreased $17.2
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's
output of goods and services -- increased 4.4 percent, or $163.3
billion, in the third quarter to a level of $15,176.1 billion.
In the second quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 4.0 percent,
or $145.0 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 0.2 percent in the third
quarter, the same increase as in the second.  For a given
quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may differ for a variety of
reasons, including the incorporation of largely independent
source data.  However, over longer time spans, the estimates of
GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of change.  Revisions  The third estimate of the third-quarter increase in real
GDP is 0.2 percentage point, or $6.2 billion, lower than the
second estimate issued last month, primarily reflecting a
downward revision to personal consumption expenditures that was
partly offset by an upward revision to private inventory
investment.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
increased $32.5 billion in the third quarter, compared with an
increase of $61.2 billion in the second quarter.  Current-
production  cash flow  (net cash flow with inventory valuation
adjustment) -- the internal funds available to corporations for
investment -- increased $35.8 billion in the third quarter,
compared with an increase of $86.2 billion in the second.  Taxes on corporate income decreased $9.1 billion in the
third quarter, compared with a decrease of $1.8 billion in the
second.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments increased $41.6 billion in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of $63.0 billion in the
second.  Dividends increased $14.0 billion, compared with an
increase of $13.6 billion; current-production undistributed
profits increased $27.7 billion, compared with an increase of
$49.3 billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $9.2
billion in the third quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $54.2
billion in the second.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations increased $17.9 billion in the third quarter,
compared with an increase of $80.8 billion in the second.  In the
third quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations decreased, and profits per unit of real value added
increased.  The increase in unit profits reflected an increase in
unit prices that was partly offset by increases in both the unit
labor and unit nonlabor costs corporations incurred.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $5.4
billion in the third quarter, compared with an increase of $34.6
billion in the second.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.  The
third-quarter increase was accounted for by a larger decrease in
payments than in receipts.  Profits before tax with inventory valuation adjustment is
the best available measure of industry profits because estimates
of the capital consumption adjustment by industry do not exist.
This measure reflects depreciation-accounting practices used for
federal income tax returns.  According to this measure, domestic
profits of both financial and nonfinancial corporations
increased.  The increase in nonfinancial corporations reflected
increases in manufacturing, in "other" nonfinancial industries,
and in transportation and warehousing that were partly offset by
decreases in information, in wholesale trade, and in utilities.
Within manufacturing, the largest increase was in "other" durable
goods.  Profits before tax increased $22.3 billion in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of $13.5 billion in the
second.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption and
inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment decreased $4.6 billion in the
third quarter (from $107.3 billion to $102.7 billion), compared
with a decrease of $8.1 billion in the second.  The inventory
valuation adjustment increased $14.9 billion (from -$60.4 billion
to -$45.5 billion), compared with an increase of $55.6 billion.  Effective with this release, chained-dollar gross value
added of nonfinancial corporate business was revised beginning
with 1929.  Chained-dollar gross value added is derived by
deflating current-dollar gross value added by a revised chain-
type price index for nonfinancial industries from the annual
revision of BEAs industry accounts that was released this month.  Next release -- January 27, 2012, at 8:30 A.M. EST for:
Gross Domestic Product:  Fourth Quarter and Annual 2011 (Advance  Estimate)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  