-- U.S. Military Says It Shares Blame for November Clash on Pakistan Border
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-22T16:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-military-says-it-shares-blame-for-november-clash-on-pakistan-border.html
U.S. military forces in  Afghanistan 
share responsibility for a Nov. 26 border clash that resulted in
the deaths of 24 Pakistani soldiers, the Pentagon said in a
statement today.  “Inadequate coordination by U.S. and Pakistan military
officers” and “our reliance on incorrect mapping information”
helped allow the battle to take place, the Defense Department
said in the  statement . “For the loss of life -- and for the
lack of proper coordination between U.S. and Pakistani forces
that contributed to those losses -- we express our deepest
regret.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said today that the
incident stemmed from “misunderstanding” about the location of
Pakistani border posts. “We cannot operate effectively on the
border and other parts of our relationship without addressing
the fundamental trust still lacking between us,” he said at a
news conference on the results of a U.S. investigation.  The Pakistani military didn’t participate in the inquiry.  The late-night strikes, in which an AC-130 gunship and two
AH-64 Apache U.S. helicopters fired rockets and munitions at two
Pakistani border posts, led  Pakistan  to close its territory to
military supplies for American forces in Afghanistan and to
suspend much of its military and intelligence cooperation with
the U.S.  ‘Lack Of Trust’   U.S. forces raiding a village at night about a kilometer
(0.6 mile) inside Afghanistan took heavy machine-gun fire from a
high ridge line inside Pakistan and assumed that it came from
insurgents,  Air Force  Brigadier General Stephen Clark, who
conducted the Pentagon’s investigation, told reporters via video
teleconference from Hurlburt Air Force Base in  Florida , the home
of Air Force Special Operations Command.  U.S. forces weren’t aware that the gunfire was coming from
two Pakistani border posts, Clark said. The U.S. ground
commander was told by higher headquarters that there were no
Pakistani troops in the area, Clark said, and U.S. forces made
no attempt to corroborate what turned out to be erroneous
information.  The accidental attacks stemmed from a series of errors by
U.S. personnel and “overarching lack of trust between the two
sides in terms of giving out specifics” that resulted in
reluctance by the Pakistani forces to disclose their locations
prior to the operation, Clark said.  There was “quite a bit of confusion,” Clark said.  ‘Improving Relations’  “If the U.S. investigation is accepting responsibility in
this incident, it will be very helpful and provide space for the
Pakistani military and civilian leaderships to move toward
improving relations with the  United States ,” said  Talat Masood ,
an independent political analyst and retired army lieutenant
general in Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital.  The U.S. aircraft surveilling, attacking and ultimately
failing to identify the Pakistan border posts included an MC-12
Project Liberty propeller plane, the Air Force’s newest manned
reconnaissance aircraft.  The MC-12 is a modified commercial King Air 350 propeller
plane that is equipped with electro-optical and heat-sensing
cameras produced by New York City-based L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc. and radios from Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon Co. and Melbourne, Florida-based Harris Corp.  The aircraft is capable of beaming images and video down to
ground troops and command centers equipped with L-3
Communications “Rovers” -- laptop and hand-held devices that
allow soldiers to see the same images as airborne operators.
Almost 4,000 Rovers have been delivered to the U.S. by L-3
Communications.  It isn’t known whether the U.S. ground troops under attack
were equipped with the Rover technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  