-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Dec. 20 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2011-12-22T13:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-dec-20-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: During the past week, the active storm
track across the 48 contiguous states was oriented from the
southwest to the northeast, passing over the Middle Mississippi
River and Ohio River Valleys.  The first storm system moved from
the Central High Plains to the  Great Lakes  in two days,
spreading precipitation along most of the Ohio and Tennessee
River Valleys.  The cold front associated with that system
cleared the east coast during the weekend.  The next storm
system developed over the southwest and moved eastward,
spreading rain and snow to the southern Rockies and Great
Plains. The heaviest precipitation fell over the central Great
Plains, Midwest, and Lower Great Lakes.  Dry conditions were
generally observed over the southeast, Intermountain West and
Northern Great Plains.  Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Dry conditions continued for most of
the northeast and Mid-Atlantic.  Abnormal dryness (D0) was added
to portions of northern  New York , Vermont, and  New Hampshire 
where the 30-, 60-, and 90- day rainfall totals were less than
50 percent of normal. Further south, across the southeastern
portions of  North Carolina , the coverage of moderate drought
(D1) was expanded as rains continued to skirt the area, favoring
the western portions of the state.  SPI values out through 24
months continue to support the depiction as do soil moisture
models from NASA.  Southeast: A lack of recent rains prompted expansion of abnormal
dryness across portions of central and southern  Florida .  Since
November 1, Fort Lauderdale International Airport (FLL) has
measured 1.75 inches of rain, 35 percent of normal.  Similarly,
Palm Beach International (PBI) and Miami International (MIA)
have reported precipitation totals that are below normal since
November 1 (26 percent and 62 percent, respectively).  Total
Soil Moisture Percentile from  NASA  showed that most of South
Florida was running near normal levels, except Glades and Hendry
Counties, where the model showed the soil moisture value ranging
between 10 and 30 percent of normal with some isolated areas in
Glades County at less than 10 percent of normal.  A reassessment of the drought conditions across  Georgia  and the
continued dry conditions prompted an expansion of D3 (extreme
drought) and D2 (severe drought) across southeastern Georgia.
Rainfall deficits for the past year range from 16 to 20 inches
along coastal Georgia, SPI blends indicate that exceptional
drought (D4) status is warranted, and some soil moisture models
(Leaky Bucket Model from Climate Prediction Center and NLDAS)
indicate D2 status, so the area is indicated as D3.  Great Plains: Improvements are made across northern and central
Texas as rain and snow (0.5-2.4 inches, liquid equivalent of
snow included) fell there as a result of the storm earlier in
the week and storm just near the data cutoff at 12Z on Tuesday,
December 20.  Widespread rains (0.5-2.7 inches) contributed to
improving conditions are also indicated across  Missouri ,  Kansas 
and  Arkansas .  Recent rains prompted the removal of D1 and D0
from western Missouri and portions of eastern Kansas.  According to the  Oklahoma  Climatological Survey, across the
eastern 2 tiers of counties in Oklahoma, reservoirs are now
full, so runoff is occurring with rains.  Further west, rains
have helped but the length and intensity of the current drought
is hard to overcome in a short period.  Central and most of
western Oklahoma saw no change in lake levels. Canton Lake
remained virtually unchanged at 29 percent of capacity; while
Thunderbird Lake was steady at 75 percent of capacity and Altus-
Lugert is at 18 percent of capacity.  A lack of precipitation for at least the past 60 days
contributed to the expansion of moderate drought conditions
across  North Dakota  and  Minnesota .  According to the preliminary
data, Fargo, ND has experienced the second driest September -
December period.  Southwest:  Multiple storm systems have brought drought
relieving precipitation to much of  Arizona , especially southern
Arizona.  Rainfall totals ranged from 0.5-2.8 inches during the
past week. Thirty day precipitation totals are in excess of 150
percent of normal across much of the region with isolated areas
receiving more than 200 percent of normal over the past 60 days.
Beyond 90 days in the past, dry conditions are evident in the
data, so a 1-category improvement is depicted.  The same weather systems that brought the much needed rains to
Arizona and  Texas , also brought some rain and snows to  New
Mexico .  Drought relief indicated in last week’s Drought Monitor
was continued this week as more rains and snows (0.5 to 2.8
inches) fell mostly across southern New Mexico.  West: Abnormal dryness was expanded across portions of
 California ,  Nevada , and  Oregon .  Precipitation deficits continue
to mount as a dry pattern has been in place across the
Intermountain West for the past 90 days.  The depiction was
based on a combination of SPI blends, Objective Drought
Indicator Blends, soil moisture models and percent of normal
precipitation (where precipitation during the past 30-, 60-, and
90-day periods was less than 50 percent of normal).  The area
around Redding, CA has received little rain, with one observer
reporting .11 inch during the month of December.  Additionally,
ski resorts are being impacted due to the lack of natural snow.  Hawaii : Across Kauai,  rainfall (0.5 - 3.6 inches) fell during
the week and ranchers working pastures on the southeast portions
have had pastures improving, even though the rainfall total at
Lihue AP for December is less than 50 percent of normal.  On
Oahu, water levels at the Waimanalo Reservoir have come up a bit
over the last week in response rains measuring up to 3.6 inches,
but there’s still a mandatory 20 percent water use restriction
in place.  Across the Big Island, pastures on the north tip
(near Upolu Point) received enough rainfall recently to carry
them through the wet season.  The area from Kawaihae to Waimea
has also received rainfall so the existing D3(S) was pared back
away from the coastal section.  Conditions across the interior
and southeast slope of the Big Island remained dry.  Macadamia
nut growers have had to irrigate heavily and ranchers have had
to supplement feed.  Looking Ahead: During the ensuing 5 days (December 22-26), a
cold front is expected to linger across the southeast.  A cold
front is expected to move across the northern portions of
contiguous 48 states later this week and settle along the
southeast coast.  The western portions of the cold front are
expected to move southward along the Rockies and bring rain and
snow to the mountains.  Two low-pressure systems are expected to
move along the over the southeast, bringing significant rains
from the Central Gulf Coast to the Ohio Valley to the Mid-
Atlantic before high pressure builds in from the west.  The Climate Prediction Center (CPC) 6-10 day precipitation
forecasts indicate enhanced probabilities for above-average
precipitation across the southeast, Pacific Northwest, and the
Alaskan Panhandle.  The anticipated pattern would likely support
drier than average conditions from the southwest to the
Tennessee Valley during the period from December 27-31.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  