-- U.S. November Leading Economic Indicators (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2011-12-22T15:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-november-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  Next month’s release will incorporate benchmark revisions
to the composite indexes. The indexes are updated throughout the
year, but only for the previous six months. Every January, data
revisions that fall outside of the moving six-month window are
incorporated when the benchmark revision is made and the entire
histories of the indexes are recomputed. As a result, the
revised indexes and their month-over-month changes will no
longer be directly comparable to those issued prior to the
benchmark revision.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.5 percent in November to 118.0 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.9 percent increase in October, and a 0.1 percent
increase in September.  Says  Ataman Ozyildirim , economist at The Conference Board:
“November’s increase in the LEI for the U.S. was widespread
among the leading indicators and continues to suggest that the
risk of an economic downturn in the near term has receded.
 Interest rate  spread and housing permits made the largest
contributions to the LEI this month, overcoming a falling
average workweek in manufacturing, which reversed its October
gain. The CEI also rose on improving employment and personal
income although industrial production fell in November.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board: “The
LEI is pointing to continued growth this winter, possibly even
gaining momentum by spring. For the second month in a row,
building permits made a relatively strong contribution and there
is a chance that the long decline in housing is finally slowing.
However, this somewhat positive outlook for the domestic economy
is at odds with a global economy that appears to be losing steam.
In particular, a deeper-than-expected recession in  Europe  could
easily derail the outlook for the  U.S. economy .”  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index (LEI) for the
U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component -- primarily because they smooth out some
of the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for  unemployment insurance   Manufacturers’ new orders,  consumer goods  and materials  Index of supplier deliveries - vendor performance  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Money supply, M2  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Index of consumer expectations  For full press release and technical notes:  http://www.conference-board.org/data/bcicountry.cfm?cid=1   For more information about The Conference Board global business
cycle indicators:  http://www.conference-board.org/data/bci.cfm   About The Conference Board  The Conference Board is a global, independent business
membership and research association working in the public
interest. Our mission is unique: To provide the world’s leading
organizations with the practical knowledge they need to improve
their performance and better serve society. The Conference Board
is a non-advocacy, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3)
tax-exempt status in the  United States . www.conference-board.org  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.1 percent in November to 103.7 (2004 = 100),
following a 0.2 percent increase in October and a 0.1 percent
increase in September.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.1
percent in November to 110.9 (2004 = 100), following a 0.6
percent increase in October, and a 0.1 percent increase in
September.  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, January 26, 2012 at
10 A.M. ET.  SOURCE: The Conference Board 