-- U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Better-Than-Estimated Economic Reports
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-12-22T21:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-amid-optimism-on-economic-recovery.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a third day, as better-
than-estimated jobless claims, consumer confidence and leading
indicators bolstered optimism in the world’s largest economy.  Financial (S5FINL)  shares had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among
10 industries as  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Citigroup (C)  Inc. and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  jumped more than 4.5 percent.  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  added at least 1.4 percent, pacing gains
among companies most-tied to economic growth. Akamai
Technologies Inc. surged 19 percent after agreeing to buy
Cotendo to  expand (AKAM)  Internet-based and mobile services.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.8 percent to 1,254 at 4 p.m. New
York time, rallying 4 percent in three days. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  gained 61.91 points, or 0.5 percent, to
12,169.65 today. About 6 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 25 percent below the three-month average.  “The  U.S. economy  is a lot stronger than people think,”
 Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity market
strategist at Federated Investors Inc., said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees about $355 billion. “Investors are
scared to death about what’s going on in Europe. You’ve got to
separate domestic economic fundamentals, which are in good
shape, from the negative psychological overhang. We’re in the
decoupling camp. The bears will be proven wrong.”  The three-day rally in the  S&P 500  trimmed the decline for
2011 to 0.3 percent. The index was still down 8 percent from
this year’s high in April, joining a global rout in equities, as
concern about Europe’s debt crisis overshadowed better-than-
estimated American economic data.  Economic Data  Stocks rose today as the number of applications for
 unemployment  benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to the
lowest since April 2008. Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
more than forecast in December, to a six-month high, according
to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index,
as Americans began wrapping up their holiday spending. The index
of U.S. leading indicators climbed more than estimated in
November, a sign that the economy will keep growing in 2012.  “We’re muddling through in the U.S.,” Michael Mullaney,
who helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in Boston, said
in a telephone interview. “It may not be a bullish case, but
the jobs situation is less grim than it was. You still have to
be wary that a significant recession in Europe could pull the
rest of the world into a global recession, including the U.S.”  Nine out of 10  groups (SPXL1)  in the S&P 500 rose as gauges of
financial and energy shares added at least 1.1 percent. The
Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index rallied 1.3 percent amid economic
optimism. GE jumped 3 percent to $18.05. Exxon Mobil increased
1.4 percent to $84.29.  Banks Rally  The KBW Bank Index gained 2.8 percent. Morgan Stanley added
6.5 percent to $15.88. Citigroup gained 5.9 percent to $27.65.
Bank of America advanced 4.6 percent to $5.47.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  rose 3.5 percent to $33.45.  Akamai surged 19 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$31.63. The operator of a server network that lets businesses
speed data delivery agreed to buy startup competitor Cotendo for
about $268 million in cash. The deal helps Akamai “maintain its
leadership position and high margins” by eliminating a
competitor, according to a research note from  Gray Powell , an
analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  soared 16 percent to $6.41. The
largest U.S. maker of computer-memory chips was raised to
“outperform” from “neutral” at Wedbush Securities Inc. The
12-month price estimate is $8 a share.  Never So Cheap  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  climbed 7.4 percent to $34.15. The largest
maker of thin-film solar panels may attract takeover interest
from GE or Siemens AG on the expectation that demand will grow
in the $55 billion solar power industry during the next decade
as prices become more competitive with fossil fuels and other
forms of electricity, according to Robert W. Baird & Co.  Once worth $25 billion, First Solar was valued this week as
low as $2.64 billion, the steepest discount to net assets since
its 2006 initial public offering and cheaper than 94 percent of
renewable energy equipment companies greater than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. fell 6.3 percent to $57.58. The home
furnishings retailer reported third-quarter  sales (BBBY)  of $2.34
billion, below the average analyst estimate of $2.35 billion in
a Bloomberg survey.  Baby Formula  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  plunged 10 percent to $68.76.
The maker of the Enfamil baby formula plunged after Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. pulled a batch of the product from stores after a
baby who had taken the formula died from a bacterial infection.  American Greetings Corp. sank 21 percent to $13.39. The
second-largest U.S. maker of greeting cards posted third-quarter
earnings of 50 cents a share excluding some items,  missing (AM) 
Northcoast Research’s estimate of 81 cents a share.  The S&P 500 is poised for a breakout as the proportion of
investors expecting the market to stay in a range rose to a six-
year high, said  Michael Shaoul  of Marketfield Asset Management.  The fluctuation of the benchmark index, which has been
stuck in a 233-point band since Aug. 1, has turned more
investors neutral as optimism about the American economy offset
concern that Europe’s debt crisis will slow global growth. A
weekly survey from the American Association of Individual
Investors, released today, showed 38 percent of the  respondents 
expected the market to be little changed over the next six
months, the highest ratio since April 2005.  ‘Weary’  “It may indicate that retail investors have finally grown
weary of responding to the market’s movements and have resigned
themselves to a range-bound market,” Shaoul, chairman of
Marketfield in New York, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Given the
tendency of extreme readings to serve as contrary indicators, we
cannot help wonder whether a surge in Neutral answers will
presage the end of this five-month  trading range (SPX) , with our money
being on an upside breakout if one were to occur.”  AAII’s survey showed 28 percent of respondents were
pessimistic while bulls accounted for 34 percent. Investors who
expected the market to be flat jumped from 26 percent last week,
for the biggest increase since November 2010, according to data
compiled from Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  