-- U.S. Economy Expands Less Than Estimated
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2011-12-22T13:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-economy-expands-less-than-estimated.html
The economy in the U.S. grew less
than previously estimated in the third quarter, reflecting a
smaller gain in  consumer spending  that is giving way to a pickup
in demand this quarter as the job market improves.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from July through September, down from the 2 percent estimated
last month, revised Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected it would hold at 2 percent. Household
purchases increased at a 1.7 percent rate, down from 2.3 percent.  The world’s largest economy has picked up this quarter as
manufacturers rebuild depleted inventories, Americans take
advantage of holiday discounts and pent up demand boosted sales
of new cars. Nonetheless, the threat of government cutbacks and
fallout from financial turmoil in Europe remain obstacles for
expansion heading into 2012.  “The fourth quarter should be the strongest of all this
year,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc., who correctly forecast the revision. “We
are avoiding a recession and the persistent calls for a double
dip are wrong.”  Fewer Claims  The number of applications for  unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest since April 2008, a
sign that the labor market is strengthening heading into 2012.
Jobless claims fell by 4,000 to 364,000 in the week ended Dec.
17. The median forecast of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected an increase to 380,000.  Stock-index futures extended earlier gains following the
unexpected drop in jobless claims. The contract on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index maturing in March rose 0.6 percent to 1,243.5 at
8:46 a.m. in  New York .  GDP forecasts in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 1.5
percent to 2.8 percent. The government’s GDP estimate is the
third and final one for the quarter. The economy grew at a 1.3
percent rate in the prior three months.  “Growth is modest, but at this point modest feels pretty
good,”  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN Financial in New York,
said before the report. “Growth has been stronger each
quarter.”  Consumer Spending  The smaller gain in consumer spending, about 70 percent of
the economy, reflected a drop in outlays on health care that was
previously reported as an increase. Spending on  health services 
reduced GDP by 0.1 percentage point in the third quarter,
compared with the 0.6 contribution initially estimated.  The revision “won’t change peoples’ view that consumer
spending on discretionary holiday items is actually doing very
well,” said Hoffman.  “Everything we have seen so far in the fourth quarter
suggests that consumer spending will be up at a faster clip than
the third quarter,” he said. “Holiday sales are good, the
unemployment claims are down.”  Households are also willing to buy big-ticket items. Sales
of car and light trucks  advanced  in November at a 13.6 million
seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the best month since August
2009, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  The  unemployment rate  fell to a more than three-year-low of
8.6 percent in November, Labor Department figures showed this
month. Spending during the Thanksgiving weekend jumped 9.1
percent per customer from a year earlier to $398.62, according to
the  National Retail Federation . Sales totaled a record $52.4
billion.  Inventories Lean  Fewer stockpiles also put producers on track to increase
output. Inventories subtracted 1.4 percentage points from third
quarter growth. Excluding inventories, gross domestic product
advanced at a 3.2 percent annual rate.  Stockpiling could boost fourth quarter growth by up to 1
percentage point, Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc, estimated in a Dec. 14 research note. The
overall economy will expand 3 percent in the final three months
of 2011, LaVorgna forecasts.  An improving economic outlook put Federal Reserve policy
makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on hold last week from
taking new actions to lower borrowing costs. The economy “has
been expanding moderately, notwithstanding some apparent slowing
in global growth,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
Dec. 13 statement.  Corporate Profits  Corporate profits last quarter also rose less than
previously estimated. Earnings grew 1.7 percent and were up 7.5
percent from the same time last year. That was revised down from
2.1 percent and 7.9 percent.  There are still hurdles for growth. The savings rate last
quarter  dropped  to 3.9 percent from 4.8 percent in the prior
three months. After-tax incomes adjusted for inflation decreased
at a 1.9 percent annual rate, the biggest drop since the third
quarter of 2009.  “I have seen consumption grow at a faster rate than real
income for pretty much a year, and that worries me,” said  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
“It just can’t be sustained. Consumption growth will have to
slow perhaps quite sharply next year.”  Tightening fiscal policy may also constrain consumers next
year. The U.S. House of Representatives rejected this week the
extension of both an expiring 2 percentage-point payroll tax cut
and benefits for the long-term unemployed. Failure to prolong
those measures will curb GDP growth next year by about 0.6
percentage point, economists at IHS Global Insight estimate.  A recession in  Europe  triggered by the region’s sovereign
debt crisis could also set the  U.S. economy  back.  “We’re planning for slow growth in Europe and  North
America ,”  Louis Chenevert , chief executive officer of  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  said during a Dec. 15 presentation. Citing IHS
estimates, the Hartford, Connecticut-based maker of Pratt &
Whitney jet engines projected worldwide expansion of 2.9 percent.
“Despite what’s been advertised here and there, strong holiday
sales, U.S. consumer sentiment as well as housing, unemployment
remain very weak, and there are more challenges in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  