-- U.S. Reins in $1 Billion Truck Rules After Industry Backlash
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2011-12-22T21:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/u-s-reins-in-1-billion-trucker-driving-rules-following-industry-backlash.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration  maintained  an 11-hour limit on truck drivers’
hours today, scaling back a proposal to give them more rest.  The U.S. Transportation Department’s proposed rule to
reduce the daily driving limit to 10 hours was one of seven
regulations the Obama administration said would cost companies
at least $1 billion. Trucking companies opposed it, saying the
shorter hours would force them to rework routes and hire more
drivers.  Consumer groups were “keenly” aware of the industry’s
lobbying in the year since the Obama administration proposed the
10-hour day, said Henry Jasny, vice president of Washington-
based Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety.  “This is a breach of promise of making safety the No. 1
goal of the agency and the Transportation Department,” Jasny
said in a telephone interview today. “It’s more than
disappointing.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, had said 
the industry already had reduced driver fatalities and 
couldn’t afford additional personnel.  Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety will continue to
pursue a 10-hour rule, and may take the issue to court, Jasny
said. The debate over the revision of driving-time regulations
that originated in the 1930s dates back to the creation of the
FMCSA in 1999.  Costs, Benefits  The final regulation, which takes effect July 1, 2013, has
annual costs of about $470 million and benefits of around $630
million, the Transportation Department said in a statement
today.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration failed to
“definitively demonstrate” that the proposed 10-hour limit
would carry “higher net benefits” than the current 11 hours,
according to the rule.  The White House’s Office of Management and Budget met with
industry groups at least four times in October and November,
according to the agency’s website.  The American Trucking Associations and the International
Foodservice Distributors Association came in October. The Food
Marketing Institute, the American Bakers Association, the Snack
Food Association and McKee Foods Corp. met with OMB in November.
The White House met with safety groups and the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters once in October. A Nov. 28 meeting on
the hours-of-service rules doesn’t list participants.  Less Severe  While the regulation retained other changes opposed by the
industry, it also made some less severe than initially proposed.
For example, drivers must get at least two weekly rest periods
spanning 1 a.m. to 5 a.m., the Transportation Department, which
oversees the FMCSA, said. The proposal was for two rest periods
of 12 a.m. to 6 a.m.  The inclusion of that new requirement was the biggest
objection for industry groups.  The scientific research on the need for two consecutive
overnight rest periods isn’t conclusive, said  Bill Graves , chief
executive officer of the American Trucking Associations. The
change is going to ensure that trucks flood onto the roads
during morning rush hours, he said, adding that the trucking
industry will consider a court challenge.  ‘Weaker Legs’  “It was one of the weaker legs they had to stand on,”
Graves said. “We’re still wrestling with why we spent such
extensive resources of this federal agency on this issue while
not pursuing issues we know will have a much more significant
impact.”  A mandatory 30-minute rest break came after seven
consecutive hours of driving in the proposed rule. The final
version pushed that back to eight hours.  The  rule  reduces a driver’s maximum possible work week by
12 hours to 70 hours, the Transportation Department said.  The changes will cause shipping costs to increase for
companies like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Best Buy Co., said Kelly Kolb,
vice president for government relations at the Retail Industry
Leaders Association, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group.  “Supply chain optimization is the bread and butter of
America’s most successful retailers,” Kolb said in an e-mailed
statement. “The new hours-of-service rule will upend the
advances in efficiency made over the past decade.”  Violations, Fines  Companies and drivers committing “egregious violations”
of fatigue rules will face penalties, the Transportation
Department said. Companies that allow drivers to exceed the 11-
hour driving limit by 3 or more hours could be fined $11,000 per
offense. Drivers face penalties of $2,750 for each offense.  “Trucking is a difficult job, and a big rig can be deadly
when a driver is tired and overworked,” Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood said in an e-mailed statement.  Regulators weighed industry costs against billions of
dollars in health-care savings and reduced accidents in a
profession that has more on-the-job deaths than any other in the
U.S.  There were 3,675 truck-related fatalities in 2010, up 8.7
percent from 3,380 in 2009, according to preliminary data from
the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration . As recently
as 2006, there were 5,027 fatalities.  Life Expectancy  The average  life expectancy  of a truck driver is 61, or 16
years less than the U.S. average, LaHood wrote in a September
2010 blog posting, citing Centers for Disease Control data.
Trucking is the most dangerous profession in on-the-job
fatalities, and the eighth-most dangerous in deaths per worker,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  A related $2 billion safety requirement to add electronic
data recorders to monitor truckers’ hours that is opposed by
independent drivers is still under consideration. That
regulation isn’t opposed by the biggest trucking companies,
which already have bought the equipment.  Safety groups said they were disappointed that the Obama
administration didn’t take the driving-time limits down to 10
hours.  “I don’t know what it is going to take for the government
to get real about protecting us on our roads,” Daphne Izer, a
co-founder of Parents Against Tired Truckers whose son Jeff and
three other teenagers were killed in a 1993 crash, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  