-- Ukraine’s Parliament Approves State Budget for Next Year
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2011-12-22T16:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ukraine-s-parliament-approves-state-budget-for-next-year-1-.html
Ukraine’s parliament approved the
2012 state budget in a second and final reading, setting a
deficit target of 2.5 percent of economic output to meet the
demands of its international bailout loan.  The plan, which assumes economic growth of 3.9 percent, was
backed by 250 lawmakers in the 450-seat legislature today in
Kiev, the capital. The budget had been delayed as the government
looked to reach an accord with  Russia  before the end of the year
on natural-gas prices.  “We based our budget on a conservative forecast,” Finance
Minister Fedir Yaroshenko told lawmakers before the vote. “We
will review it after the first two months of next year” once
Ukraine and Russia agree on a new natural-gas price, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  approved a $15.6 billion
loan to Ukraine in July 2010, the second in two years, after
global financial turmoil pushed the country’s economy into a
recession. The Washington-based lender has so far disbursed $3.4
billion. It froze lending in March after the government failed
to raise gas prices for households to trim the  budget deficit  by
erasing losses at state energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy.  The former Soviet republic is seeking cheaper imports of
the fuel from Russia as an alternative solution. Ukraine depends
on Russia for more than 70 percent of its gas needs. The budget
assumes the average price will be $416 per thousand cubic meters
of gas, compared with $400 this year. President  Viktor Yanukovych  said yesterday he’d like to see the price cut to
$250.  Government bonds  due in 2021 rose as of 6 p.m. in Kiev,
pushing the yield down to 9.936 percent, the lowest since Dec.
12, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 akrasnolutska@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  