-- UN Vote Could Allow Mankind to Control the Sun: Richard Cohen
-- B y   R i c h a r d   C o h e n
-- 2011-12-22T00:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/un-vote-could-allow-mankind-to-control-time-commentary-by-richard-cohen.html
“It shall be what o’clock I say it
is,” declares Petruchio in “The Taming of the Shrew,” to
which his companion Hortensio jovially retorts: “Why, so this
gallant will command the sun.” Next month, the 193 member
states of the  International Telecommunications Union  will meet
in Geneva and attempt to do exactly that.  Indeed, if a proposal before the body passes, says David
Rooney, curator of timekeeping at the U.K.’s  Royal Observatory ,
“It will be the first time that time is not dependent on the
rising and falling of the sun.”  First, some history. Over the centuries, man has constantly
had to change the way he clocks time, as no method has measured
its passing with absolute accuracy. One can go on fiddling with
time almost indefinitely (the old joke runs that even a stopped
clock is right twice a day, and people will talk about today’s
winter solstice making it the “shortest” day of the year).  Back in 1907, Einstein came up with the “equivalence
principle,” which states that gravity is locally
indistinguishable from acceleration and diminishes as distance
increases from the center of mass. This means that time goes
faster in, say,  Santa Fe , high up in  New Mexico , than in
Poughkeepsie, down in  New York , by about a millisecond per
century. A recent experiment on a westward round-the-world jet
flight showed that clocks gained 273 nanoseconds, of which about
two-thirds of the effect was gravitational.  Because of such natural effects, clocks have been reset to
agree with the Earth’s rotation -- thus the distinction between
a clock and a chronometer, which ticks on, as undisturbed as
possible.  Stargazing in Greenwich  The moment when the sun passes its highest point over
Greenwich, in East London, is noon Greenwich Mean Time, which in
the late 19th century became the standard by which every
timepiece in the world was measured. More recently, however, GMT
has had its rivals, including agencies such as the  U.S. Naval
Observatory  in  Washington , D.C., the International Earth
Rotation Service at the Paris Observatory, and the Bureau
International des Poids et Mesures in Sevres,  France , all of
which employ remarkably sophisticated timepieces.  Today, Universal Time is something of a compromise, based
on both the sun’s position in the sky and International Atomic
Time, or TAI, a global effort that reckons time using the
metallic element cesium.  Some 60 years ago, scientists at the National Physical
Laboratory at Teddington,  England , discovered that timekeeping
calculated by vibrating atoms was more accurate than using the
rotation of the Earth. This is because the planet’s spin is
slowing down, while the gravitational pull of the sun and moon,
plus changes in the molten core beneath our feet, cause our
globe to go its own way in space, irrespective of atomic time.  Modern atomic instruments count the tick-tock cycles of
cesium, each cycle being the exceptionally fast vibrations of
the atoms when exposed to microwaves in a vacuum. Cesium 133
atoms have their 55 electrons ideally distributed for this
purpose, all but the outermost being confined to orbits in
stable electromagnetic shells. The reactions to microwaves by
the outer one can be accurately determined. As the microwaves
hit, the electron absorbs and releases measurable packets of
light energy. This entails a time measurement inaccuracy of just
two nanoseconds per day, or one second over 1.4 million years.  The scientists were still not happy. “It was slightly
embarrassing,” says Rooney. “But by the '70s, we needed
another fudge factor. So the leap second was introduced, to push
together Earth rotation time and atomic vibration time.” These
extra seconds are not inserted every year or even on a regular
schedule: The last correction was made on Jan. 1, 2008. (It
required an extra pip being added to the BBC Radio time signal,
a series of short tones at the beginning of every hour.) The
time thus regulated is called Coordinated Universal Time, or
UTC, and approximates the traditional Greenwich Mean Time to
within plus or minus 0.9 seconds.  Forgetting the Sun  For a decade or more a movement has been afoot to take the
Earth’s rotation and the sun’s position out of the equation
altogether. In late 2004 a draft formula to have time governed
entirely by the atomic clock was submitted to the International
Telecommunication Union, the United Nations body charged with
coordinating information and communication technologies. It did
not immediately win favor, but since then the basic concept has
been worked on by scientists in several countries, and it has
been put forward again for the Geneva conference to decide.  The proposal would not only obviate leap seconds within
five years, it would abolish the requirement that time services
reconcile the difference between Coordinated Universal Time and
the time of day as based on the Earth’s rotation. Such a
differential, known as DUT-1, will have to be introduced into
numerous software systems that currently have the luxury of
pretending it doesn’t exist.  This poses a gigantic problem for our technology-based
society -- computers would in effect need to be connected to two
clocks, to relate cesium time to the sun-based time-of-day. But
then the very word “day” would no longer have a single
coherent meaning.  While the proposal has caused intense controversy among
scientists, there has been very little comment in the mainstream
news media. “It’s a sad train wreck of people not communicating
with each other,” says  Steve Allen , a senior analyst at the
 University of California ’s Lick Observatory. “The document has
been put through without a consensus in the study group
commissioned to resolve the question, without a public record of
an analysis of requirements, and even without cost estimates of
the various alternative options. The research simply isn’t in.”  In October, Allen and a group of like-minded scientists and
engineers held a colloquium outside Philadelphia. They
recognized that the current methods of timekeeping cost
businesses and governments money -- probably several million
dollars a year -- but they estimated that the proposed change
would cost far more, some $100 million alone to reset the Global
Positioning System to the new timing.  Deploying Man-Hours  And there would be other implications, stemming from the
globalized technical infrastructure to the legal, historical and
economic domains. Allen worries about equipment at his own
observatory. Many telescopes were designed in an era when
systems that provide civil time were based on the rotation of
the Earth. “It would take two man-years’ work just to get the
telescopes reset,” he warns.  The situation is even worse for aerospace industries and
research. The Hubble Space Telescope, for instance, currently
operates by UTC on its computer. This reckoning sets the time
for its downlinked data stream, and is also employed for on-
board calculations. Were leap seconds discontinued, it would be
necessary to alter the on-board software as well as that at
ground level.  Celestial navigation, though a backup of last resort, is
still widely taught at maritime academies worldwide. In some
future emergency, the proposed changes would probably leave
navigators (who are often not even aware of the distinction
between UTC and GMT) unable to function accurately. One second
of time equates to a quarter of a mile navigation error; without
leap seconds, UTC would diverge from Greenwich Time at an
accelerating pace as the decades pass.  Legal and cultural issues arise, too. Many legal agreements
employ the phrase, “time is of the essence.” This may seem
irrelevant in the short term, but over a century or two, large
international contracts will provide ample opportunities for
conflict. The Chinese, among others, have raised cultural
objections. “Most Chinese scholars think it is important for
timekeeping to have a connection to astronomical time because of
traditional Chinese culture,” says Chunhao Han of the Beijing
Global Information Center of Application and Exploration.  Lastly, there are the effects the change would have on all
of us. “Psychologically it will be very strange,” Allen says.
“You’d be telling people that time is nothing to do with
time.”  Lacking Diligence  Rob Seaman , a senior software systems engineer at the
National Optical Astronomy Observatory in Tucson,  Arizona ,
compares the proposed change unfavorably to the way scientists
prepared for the so-called Millennium Bug before 2000. “The new
millennium was inevitable, so resources were marshaled, things
happened,” he recalls. “Those making the current proposal
haven’t performed due diligence. Does air traffic control have
embedded assumptions about mean solar time or Earth orientation?
How about global shipping? Nobody has looked.”  Why would scientists rush into something like this? In
part, it is an extension of a turf war between an alphabet soup
of international agencies: ITU-R (the Radiocommunication Sector
of the International Telecommunication Union), CGPM (the General
Conference of Weights and Measures), IERS (the International
Rotation and Reference System Service) and BIPM (the
International Bureau of Weights and Measures). “It’s quite a
zoo of little bureaucracies,” Seaman says. “There exists an
extraordinary tolerance for imprecision within a community that
prides itself on precision.”  Proponents of the change seem to have the momentum. “Most
delegates will think, this proposal’s been put forward, it must
have been researched, it must be all right,” a concerned Allen
says.  The motion is just one of many to be considered in Geneva
next month, and has been put together by a small group that has
obtained letters of approval from various agencies in their
governments. So at the very least it will receive a surprisingly
large number of “yes” votes from people who are not educated
on the issue. So, while there is a significant likelihood that
it may indeed get through, only time will tell.  (Richard Cohen, the author of “Chasing the Sun: The Epic
Story of the Star That Gives Us Life,” is writing a book on the
history of historians. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Cohen at  racohen12@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 