-- UPS Pilots Union Sues FAA Challenging New Anti-Fatigue Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2011-12-22T19:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/ups-pilots-union-sues-faa-challenging-new-anti-fatigue-rules-2-.html
The union representing  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  pilots is challenging the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration’s decision to exempt the crew of cargo planes
from rules aimed at combating fatigue.  The Independent Pilots Association filed a lawsuit today in
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  seeking to have cargo
operators covered “because of the safety benefits provided by
the rule,” William Trent, the union’s general counsel, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The FAA yielded to “unprecedented industry pressure” when
it exempted cargo airlines in the new rules, Robert Travis,
president of the pilots group, said yesterday after the
regulation was published.  Laura Brown , an FAA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The FAA rules, which take effect in two years, require that
passenger-airline pilots work shorter shifts and get longer rest
periods. It was the first revision of rest rules since 1985.  While the agency had proposed applying the new measures to
cargo-carrier pilots, the final rule exempted them because the
costs were too steep, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
said yesterday.  After Comment Period  The pilots’ union argued that the FAA let cargo operators
submit information about costs of complying with the rule after
the comment period ended, and the data weren’t subjected to
public scrutiny.  “The rule is wholly and utterly opaque when it comes to
providing any factual support for the cost benefit
conclusions,” Trent said in the statement.  Mike Mangeot, a UPS spokesman, declined to comment on the
union’s lawsuit.  “The bottom line is that the FAA made the right
decision,” he said in an e-mail. “Cargo flying is different
than passenger flying.”  The case is Independent Pilots Association v.  Federal
Aviation Administration , 11-1483, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Snyder at   asnyder5@bloomberg.net  