-- Turkey Halts Political Talks With France After Genocide Vote
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2011-12-22T17:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/turkey-halts-all-talks-with-france-after-armenian-genocide-denial-measure.html
Turkey  froze all political and
military relations with  France  after the French parliament’s
lower chamber approved a measure that makes it a crime to deny
genocide against Armenians a century ago.  The government recalled its ambassador to Paris for
consultations, canceled a joint meeting of economy and trade
ministers in January and halted all programs for training and
cultural affairs, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said today
in televised remarks in Ankara following the vote in Paris.  Turkey has been warning France for the past week that its
fast-growing economy means it can hurt companies such as Airbus
SAS and Electricite de France SA if the measure goes through. It
was presented by a member from the party of President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is seeking re-election in April and trailing his
socialist opponent in the polls.  “This process has been sacrificed because of the
government’s electoral calculations and Mr. Sarkozy’s political
calculations,” Erdogan said. “This is practicing politics via
xenophobia.”  The premier said Ottoman Turkey had not committed genocide
against Armenians and his country is proud of its history. The
measures are the first steps in a series of sanctions against
France that will follow, depending on what course the French
parliament and government take, he said.  Punishing Denial  The French parliament approved a law that would punish
denial of any genocide recognized by French law with as long as
a year in prison and a 45,000-euro ($59,000) fine. The motion
was backed in a voice vote and now moves to the Senate, which
hasn’t set a timetable to debate it.  Armenians say 1.5 million ethnic Armenians were killed from
1915 to 1923 in a deliberate campaign of genocide. About 20
countries including Greece, Canada and  Russia , Turkey’s second-
biggest trading partner behind  Germany , recognize the events as
genocide.  The Turkish government says mass killings of Armenians took
place as part of clashes in which thousands of Turks and
Armenians died after Armenian groups sided with the invading
Russian army.  Little Progress  Turkey and its eastern neighbor  Armenia  have made little
progress toward establishing relations as set out in protocols
signed in 2009. Still, that agreement to set up joint
commissions of historians to examine what took place showed that
“Turkey has moved from complete negation toward a much greater
awareness of what happened,” according to Hugh Pope, a project
director in Turkey for the  International Crisis Group .  “The French bill is counter-productive because the
emotional reaction in Turkey can set back the cause for years,”
Pope said by telephone. “That’s why France is so short-sighted
to introduce this bill.”  After the French lower house approved similar legislation
in 2006, Erdogan blocked Gaz de France SA’s participation in the
7.9 billion-euro Nabucco pipeline and suspended military
relations. Turkey last year temporarily withdrew its ambassador
from the U.S. after a  House of Representatives  committee
approved a resolution recognizing the killings as genocide.  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  is lobbying to build a nuclear
plant on Turkey’s northern Black Sea coast, Istanbul-based Aksam
newspaper reported in August. Turkey has also held talks with
Japanese and Korean companies.  Turkey’s  economy grew  an annual 8.2 percent in the third
quarter, a pace only exceeded by  China  among the Group of 20
major economies.  French carmakers including Renault SA control a fifth of
Turkey’s auto market and French banks including  BNP Paribas SA 
have assets in the country exceeding $20 billion. French direct
investment in Turkey between 2002 and 2010 was $4.8 billion, the
Turkish embassy in Paris says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  