-- Turkey Freezes Relations With France Over Armenian Genocide Denial Measure
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2011-12-23T16:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/turkey-freezes-relations-with-france-over-armenian-genocide-denial-measure.html
Turkey  froze political and military
relations with  France  in retaliation for the approval by the
French parliament’s lower chamber of a measure that makes it a
crime to deny genocide against Armenians a century ago.  The government recalled its ambassador from Paris for
consultations, canceled a joint meeting of economy and trade
ministers in January, and halted all programs for training and
cultural affairs, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said
yesterday in televised remarks in Ankara following the vote.  Turkey has been warning France for the past week that its
fast-growing economy means it can hurt companies such as Airbus
SAS and Electricite de France SA if the measure goes through. It
was presented by a member from the party of President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is seeking re-election in April and trailing his
socialist opponent in the polls.  The French legislation is “unjust, inaccurate and Turkey
condemns it vehemently,” Erdogan said. “People will not
forgive those who distort history, or use history as a tool for
political exploitation.”  The premier said Ottoman Turkey hadn’t committed genocide
against Armenians. The French Algeria in 1945 “massacred 15
percent of the population; this is a genocide,” he said in
Istanbul today.  Turkey will take incremental steps against France and
“apply them with determination as long as this position
continues,” Erdogan said.  Punishing Denial  The French parliament approved legislation that would
punish denial of any genocide recognized by French law with a
prison term of as long as a year and a 45,000-euro ($59,000)
fine. The motion was backed in a voice vote and now moves to the
Senate, which hasn’t set a timetable to debate it.  “I’ve called on Turkish authorities not to overact to the
parliament’s vote,” Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters
today in Bordeaux. “I have seen some declarations that are
excessive. There are many reasons to maintain relations of
confidence and friendship between France and Turkey.”  Armenians say 1.5 million ethnic Armenians were killed from
1915 to 1923 in a deliberate campaign of genocide. About 20
countries including Greece, Canada and  Russia , Turkey’s second-
biggest trading partner behind  Germany , recognize the events as
genocide.  The Turkish government says mass killings of Armenians took
place as part of clashes in which thousands of Turks and
Armenians died after Armenian groups sided with the invading
Russian army.  Little Progress  Turkey and its eastern neighbor  Armenia  have made little
progress toward establishing relations as set out in protocols
signed in 2009. Still, that agreement to set up joint
commissions of historians to examine what took place showed that
“Turkey has moved from complete negation toward a much greater
awareness of what happened,” according to Hugh Pope, a project
director in Turkey for the  International Crisis Group .  “The French bill is counter-productive because the
emotional reaction in Turkey can set back the cause for years,”
Pope said by telephone. “That’s why France is so short-sighted
to introduce this bill.”  After the French lower house approved similar legislation
in 2006, Erdogan blocked Gaz de France SA’s participation in the
7.9 billion-euro Nabucco pipeline and suspended military
relations. Turkey last year temporarily withdrew its ambassador
from the U.S. after a  House of Representatives  committee
approved a resolution recognizing the killings as genocide.  Nuclear Plant  Electricite de France SA (EDF)  is lobbying to build a nuclear
plant on Turkey’s northern Black Sea coast, Istanbul-based Aksam
newspaper reported in August. Turkey has also held talks with
Japanese and Korean companies.  Turkey’s  economy grew  an annual 8.2 percent in the third
quarter, a pace only exceeded by  China  among the Group of 20
major economies.  French carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  employs 6,800 people in Turkey
and is pressing on with production because the “French decision
is a political development,” Ibrahim Aybar, chief executive
officer of Renault Mais, Renault’s Turkey sales unit, said today
in an interview with CNBC-e television.  French carmakers including Renault control a fifth of
Turkey’s auto market and French banks including  BNP Paribas SA 
have assets in the country exceeding $20 billion. French direct
investment in Turkey between 2002 and 2010 was $4.8 billion, the
Turkish Embassy in Paris said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  