-- Turkish Central Bank Says It Plans to Keep Policy Tight on Inflation Risk
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2011-12-22T12:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/turkish-central-bank-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-5-75-.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a fifth month and said it
will keep bank borrowing costs high to restrain inflation and
slow credit growth.  The central bank held the one-week repo rate at 5.75
percent today, according to a statement on the website of the
Ankara-based institution. That matched the  estimate  of all 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes
of the meeting within five working days.  Governor Erdem Basci on Oct. 26 shifted policy away from
the benchmark by announcing a “corridor” in which the rate
banks pay to borrow from the central bank fluctuates daily
between 5.75 percent and 12.5 percent. He has pushed bank
borrowing costs to the upper end of the range to reduce credit
growth and slow an economy that expanded an annual 8.2 percent
in the third quarter. The bank will keep costs high “for some
time” since growth has been stronger than expected and
inflation will accelerate, it said in today’s statement.  “The bank is marginally more hawkish,”  Yarkin Cebeci ,
economist in Istanbul for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone.
“The parameters of the corridor won’t change and liquidity will
remain tight until inflation dynamics improve or there’s a shift
in the global outlook.”  The lira weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar after the
bank sold $50 million for liras, less than the $150 million
maximum it had set. Yields on  two-year lira bonds  rose 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 10.43 percent. They have
risen about a percentage point since Basci introduced the
corridor.  Lira Volatility  The central bank’s corridor gives the bank the flexibility
to handle the volatility in capital flows caused by  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis, according to the statement.  The lira fell to 1.9056 per dollar on Dec. 19, the lowest
close on record. The bank sold $700 million the following two
days to stabilize the currency and pledged to sell as much as
$1.7 billion for lira today and tomorrow. The bank’s foreign
exchange  reserves  were $94 billion as of Dec. 9, equivalent to
almost five months of imports.  The new monetary policy has reduced lira volatility
compared with other emerging-market currencies, Basci said last
month. The bank manages lira liquidity on a daily basis by
varying the amount it lends at different rates and by selling
dollars through daily auctions.  ‘Some Time More’  In the past month, the lira’s drop of 1.1 percent was
exceeded by the currencies of  Brazil ,  Poland ,  Russia  and the
 Czech Republic . Still, the lira is the second-worst performer
this year among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, and its decline has pushed up import costs,
driving  inflation  to 9.5 percent in November, compared with the
bank’s goal of 5.5 percent this year.  Inflation will subside by the end of next year to approach
the target of 5 percent, the bank said today. Keeping price-
growth in line with targets will require “tight monetary policy
for some time more,” it said.  The benchmark rate may rise to 6.1 percent over the next
six months, according to the central bank’s fortnightly survey
of economists and executives.  Higher borrowing costs and curbs on loans meant profit in
the banking industry, which includes lenders such as  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) 
and Turkiye Is Bankasi AS, fell 12 percent to 16.5 billion liras
($8.8 billion) in the first 10 months of the year, the bank
regulator said on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  