-- Vulcan Meets With Investors to Urge Against “Low-Ball” Bid
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2011-12-22T21:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/vulcan-urges-shareholders-to-reject-martin-marietta-offer-1-.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  will try to
convince shareholders in private meetings to reject a hostile
bid from  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM) , telling them that
Vulcan’s profits will rise more quickly than its suitor’s once
U.S. construction rebounds.  Vulcan, which broke off merger talks with Martin Marietta
in late June, said today its board unanimously opposed the
offer, valued at $4.7 billion when it was made on Dec. 12.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which Vulcan hired to assess the deal,
said the bid was “inadequate.”  “We’re in faster growing markets, we have great reserves
in those markets and we think we’ve got far more upside than
Martin Marietta over the next number of years,” Vulcan Chief
Executive Officer Don James said in a telephone interview. “Our
shareholders can benefit better stand-alone than we can in
combination with Martin.”  Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer of crushed stone, has
posted net losses in three of the past four quarters, and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast losses for the next two
quarters. The company cut its dividend this year as it struggles
with debt after paying $4.2 billion for Florida Rock Industries
Inc. in 2007 just as the construction slump began.         Martin
Marietta  said its offer of half of one of its shares for each
Vulcan share would result in cost savings of as much as $250
million and boost the quarterly dividend to the equivalent of 20
cents per share of Vulcan from 1 cent now.  Vulcan wasn’t able to discuss the bid with investors until
it made the public recommendation, while Martin Marietta had no
such restriction.  Martin Marietta Support  “We are pleased with the support we have received
regarding the combination,” Martin Marietta said in a statement
responding to Vulcan’s rejection. “We are committed to
completing this combination and are moving forward on a number
of fronts to make it a reality.”  James said the offer is “very low-ball” and was made at
the bottom of the construction cycle. Analysts said Martin
Marietta may now have to raise its bid to win support, and the
Raleigh, North Carolina-based company said it would “consider
in good faith demonstrable evidence of additional value.”  ‘More Compelling’  “It still comes down to the offer needing to be more
compelling,” Keith Johnson, an analyst with Morgan Keegan & Co.
in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said in a telephone interview.  Martin Marietta may have to make a bid of $45 a share or
higher to succeed, Robert C. Wetenhall, a New York-based analyst
with  RBC Capital Markets , said in a telephone interview before
Vulcan’s rejection.  The proposal from Martin Marietta, the second-largest U.S.
producer of crushed stone, gravel and sand, “does not take into
account the very valuable assets that Vulcan would bring to the
table,” James said. “It does not value our recovery
potential.”  Vulcan said its profits will rebound faster than Martin
Marietta’s because it has more sales in markets hardest hit by
the downturn, such as Florida and  California . In a Dec. 19
letter included in the filing, Goldman Sachs said a review of
the offer found it “inadequate from a financial point of view”
for Vulcan shareholders.  A nine-month study done by both companies showed synergies
of as much as $150 million, James said. He said he didn’t know
how Martin Marietta calculated as much as $250 million in cost
savings.  ‘Significant’ Asset Sales  The companies’ operations overlap in 10 or 11 states, and
James said the U.S.  Justice Department  might require
“significant” asset sales, which would fetch low prices in a
depressed market.  The offer is “subject to a great deal of execution risk,
which Martin Marietta seems to have glossed over,” James said.  Vulcan’s rejection was anticipated by analysts after the
company called the bid an attempt to “snatch Vulcan for the
lowest possible price” in a court filing last week. Vulcan also
filed a federal lawsuit this week seeking to block it.  That lawsuit, in U.S. District Court in Birmingham,
 Alabama , alleges Martin Marietta is exploiting inside knowledge
from the earlier merger negotiations “to buy Vulcan at an
unfair price” in violation of a confidentiality agreement.
Vulcan CEO James told his board on July 8 that the talks between
the two companies, which had begun in April 2010, had ceased,
according to the regulatory filing.  Martin Marietta fell 0.8 percent to $75.79 at 4:15 p.m. in
 New York , and Vulcan rose 0.9 to $39.22. At those prices, a
Vulcan share is valued 3.5 percent higher than the offer of half
of a Martin Marietta share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  