-- Vulcan Sues Martin Marietta in Bid to Block Hostile Takeover
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-22T00:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/vulcan-sues-martin-marietta-in-bid-to-block-hostile-takeover.html
Vulcan Materials Co.  asked a federal
court to block a takeover bid by  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM) ,
accusing the company of using confidential information “in the
preparation of its hostile attack.”  Vulcan, which filed its lawsuit in U.S. District Court in
Birmingham,  Alabama , on Dec. 19, alleges  Martin Marietta  has
inside information from earlier merger negotiations between the
two companies and is “exploiting this informational advantage
to buy Vulcan at an unfair price” in violation of a
confidentiality agreement.  “Martin Marietta has used Vulcan’s information in
precisely the manner that the agreement prohibits -- first, by
using Vulcan’s confidences to formulate its hostile bid, and
then by disclosing certain of those confidences in public
filings to support its bid,” according to the lawsuit.  Martin Marietta announced an all-stock bid for Vulcan last
week that was valued at about $4.7 billion on Dec. 12. The offer
is being made directly to investors after Vulcan, the largest
U.S. producer of crushed stone, broke off talks on combining,
Martin Marietta has said.  “We believe the Vulcan lawsuit is without merit,”
according to a statement from Martin Marietta. “Martin Marietta
is focused on effecting this value-enhancing transaction for the
benefit of both companies’ shareholders.”  Meghan Stafford, an outside spokeswoman for Vulcan,
declined to comment on the litigation.  Martin Marietta, the second-largest producer of crushed
stone, gravel and sand in the U.S., is offering 0.5 shares for
each share of Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan. Martin Marietta
is based in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  ‘Palpably Deficient’  Martin Marietta is seeking a court order in  New Jersey 
declaring that only a simple majority vote is required to
approve a merger, according to a Dec. 16 court filing by Vulcan.
 Vulcan  said in the filing that Martin Marietta’s lawsuit is “so
palpably deficient that the court should dismiss it.”  Martin Marietta has also sued Vulcan in  Delaware  Chancery
Court in Wilmington. It asked a judge in its Dec. 12 complaint
to declare that a May 3, 2010, non-disclosure agreement between
the two “does not prohibit Martin Marietta’s public offer to
purchase all issued and outstanding shares of Vulcan’s common
stock in exchange for Martin Marietta’s stock.”  That suit also seeks a ruling that allows Vulcan
stockholders “to vote for the election of Martin Marietta’s
five independent nominees” to Vulcan’s board.  Vulcan, in a Dec. 20 court filing in Delaware, denied the
allegations and filed a counterclaim against Martin Marietta.  The combined companies would create the world’s largest
aggregates supplier.  The offer follows losses for Vulcan in three of the past
four quarters amid a U.S. construction recession.  The bid was a 15 percent premium to the average exchange
ratio based on the closing share prices for Vulcan and Martin
Marietta for the 10 days ended Dec. 9, Martin Marietta said.  The case is  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  v. Martin Marietta
Materials Inc., 11-4248, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 