-- EU Says Women May Avoid Higher Car, Health Insurance Prices
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-22T16:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/women-may-avoid-higher-auto-health-insurance-premiums-eu-commission-says.html
Insurers may avoid charging higher
premiums to women by automatically renewing some existing
contracts under European Union guidelines published today.  Contracts agreed to before Dec. 21, 2012, may not need to
be changed to comply with a European Court of Justice ruling
forbidding insurers from taking gender into account when
calculating premiums, the European Commission said today.  Automatic extensions of some pre-existing contracts for car
insurance,  life insurance  and private health insurance “should
not be considered as constituting a new contractual agreement,”
the regulator said in recommendations for putting the ruling
into practice.  Auto insurance premiums for female drivers could rise as
much as 50 percent as a result of the March 1 ruling from the EU
court, KPMG LLP said earlier this year. The present system
“works against the achievement of the objective of equal
treatment” for men and women and should end by the end of next
year, the court said in its March decision.  Belgian consumer group  Test-Achats in 2008 challenged the
country’s law implementing EU equality rules that  allowed 
European countries to differentiate between men and women when
calculating insurance premiums if data shows “sex is a
determining factor” in the assessment of risk.  ‘Unisex Pricing’  “It is likely that a transition towards unisex pricing
will have consequences on premiums,” the Brussels-based
commission said today. Price increases or decreases for
individuals shouldn’t have an “unjustified impact on the
overall price level” of insurance and the EU will “remain
vigilant” on how insurers apply the ruling.  While insurers will still be able to collect, store or use
gender to rate risk in general for motor insurance, life
insurance and private health insurance, the commission said
companies won’t be able to refuse access to an insurance product
because of gender.  European insurance companies will face compliance costs as
they “reassess data and adjust premiums, terms and conditions
and marketing materials for certain products,” the Brussels-
based CEA, the European insurance and reinsurance federation,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Women above the age of 40 may see life insurance premiums
rise by around 30 percent and young women aged 20 could see
motor insurance premiums increase by 11 percent as a result of
the ruling, according to Oxera, an economic consultancy that
prepared a  study for CEA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 