-- Woori Sees Korean IPOs Increasing 8% in 2012 on Won Advance
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2011-12-23T01:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/woori-finance-sees-south-korean-ipos-rising-8-next-year-on-won-advance.html
South Korea ’s initial public
offerings may increase about 8 percent next year as “ample”
global  money supply  and a possible strengthening of the won draw
investors to the nation’s assets, according to the country’s
biggest IPO underwriter.  Companies may raise about 4 trillion won ($3.5 billion) in
IPOs in South Korea in 2012, Jeong Young Chae, head of  Woori
Investment & Securities Co. (005940) ’s global investment banking
division, said in an interview in Seoul yesterday. That compares
with 3.7 trillion won raised so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A stock rebound this week following the
death of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il shows geopolitical risk
won’t deter investor appetite, he said.  “Abundant global liquidity bodes well for next year’s IPO
market outlook, while there won’t be much to expect from
economic conditions,” Jeong said. “The won is also one of the
most undervalued currencies, and an expected appreciation could
benefit overseas investors.”  The won lost 7.1 percent versus the dollar in the past six
months, the second-worst performer among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded
currencies. A stronger currency would boost the value of won-
denominated assets for foreign investors when repatriated. The
 European Central Bank  said this week it will lend euro-area
banks a record amount for three years in its latest attempt to
keep credit flowing amid the region’s debt crisis.  Money raised in South Korean initial equity offerings has
more than halved this year from 2010’s record 10.3 trillion won.
Last year’s tally was boosted by  Samsung Life Insurance Co. (032830) ’s
4.9 trillion won sale.  Top Underwriter  Seoul-based Woori topped the South Korean IPO underwriter
rankings this year, rising from eighth in 2010, as it advised on
initial share sales by  Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. , the
country’s largest planemaker, and GS Retail Co., the nation’s
No. 2 convenience-store operator, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Korea Aerospace has more than doubled from its IPO
price, while  GS Retail  rose 4.4 percent from its IPO price to
20,350 won at 10:46 a.m. on its trading debut today, compared
with the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index’s 1.1 percent gain.  Next year’s IPOs will include Hyundai Oilbank Co., the
country’s fourth-biggest refiner, and LG Siltron Inc., which
makes silicon wafers, Jeong said. Woori will lead the Oilbank
sale, which may allow the brokerage to retain the top position
among underwriters next year, he said.  The Kospi index has fallen 8.9 percent this year as
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis raised concerns that the nation’s
overseas shipments will slow. That compares with a 20 percent
drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and an 8.3 percent
decline in the MSCI World Index, a gauge for developed markets.  Kim Jong Il  South Korea’s economy, Asia’s fourth largest, will grow 3.7
percent in 2012, the slowest pace in three years amid global
economic weakness, the country’s finance ministry said on Dec.
12. The nation has so far seen little impact to its economy
since the death of  Kim Jong Il , Deputy Finance Minister Kang Ho
In told reporters two days ago in Seoul.  The Kospi slipped 3.4 percent, the most in five weeks, on
Dec. 19 after Kim’s passing sparked concerns over succession in
 North Korea . The  stock index  has rebounded 4 percent since then.
Overseas  investors  purchased a net 329.9 billion won ($287
million) of shares in Kospi companies on Dec. 21, the most in
three weeks, according to Korea Exchange Inc. data.  “The quick bounce-back shows the South Korean market is
resilient to risks from the North,” said Woori’s Jeong.
“Investors have already learned a lot from past experiences so
they have confidence in fundamentals of our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ; 