-- Workday Said to Plan to Raise as Much as $500 Million in IPO
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2011-12-22T19:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/workday-is-said-to-plan-to-raise-as-much-as-500-million-in-a-2012-ipo.html
Workday Inc., a maker of software
that helps companies manage operations, plans to file for an
initial public offering next year that would raise as much as
$500 million, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company would file its plan in the first half and make
its debut in the second half, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans aren’t public. Workday is likely
to hire Allen & Co. to help with the sale, which would raise at
least $200 million, the people said. Other banks being
considered include  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., one person said.  Workday software, which handles tasks like payroll and
human resources, is delivered through the Internet. The market
for such cloud-computing services will surge to $241 billion in
2020 from $40.7 billion this year, according to  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)  Workday follows other debuting business-software
companies, including  Jive Software Inc ., which before today had
risen 25 percent since its Dec. 12 IPO.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive  Michael Dell , through his private
investment firm MSD Capital, joined the ranks of Workday
investors in a recent round of funding, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. Workday raised $100 million, the
people said, after initially  announcing  financing of $85 million
on Oct. 24.  Christine Cefalo, a spokeswoman for Pleasanton, California-
based Workday, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  New Investors  Allen & Co. served as financial adviser in the recent
funding round, which was led by new investors, including  T. Rowe
Price (TROW)  Group Inc., Morgan Stanley Investment Management,  Janus
Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  and Bezos Expeditions, the personal
investment company of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  founder Jeff Bezos.  Workday is recruiting a chief financial officer who can
help navigate the IPO process and assist in hiring bankers, one
person said, without identifying candidates.  As of October, Workday had more than  230 customers ,
including consumer-goods maker  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , which
recently started to deploy the software to manage 57,000 workers
in 60 countries, and electronics manufacturer  Flextronics
International Ltd. (FLEX) , which uses the software for managing  more
than 200,000 workers . Workday’s sales rose  more than 160 percent 
in 2010, according to the company.  Founders  Workday was founded in 2005 by co-Chief Executives Dave Duffield and Aneel Bhusri, both veterans of human-resources
software company PeopleSoft Inc. Duffield founded PeopleSoft in
the 1980s and served as its CEO. Bhusri, who was a top executive
there, is also a partner at venture capital firm Greylock
Partners, an investor in Workday.  Workday isn’t for sale, said one person close to the
company. Duffield and Bhusri are averse to selling the company
because of the experience of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s hostile takeover of
PeopleSoft, the person said.  Workday would join online-business software companies that
have gone public in recent years. SuccessFactors Inc., which is
being acquired by SAP AG for $3.4 billion, held its IPO in 2007.
NetSuite Inc., majority owned by Oracle Chief Executive Larry Ellison, went public the same year. Salesforce.com Inc., the
largest seller of online customer management software, went
public in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  