-- World Bank Sees Ukraine’s Economic Growth Slowing in 2012
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2011-12-22T15:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/world-bank-sees-ukraine-s-economic-growth-slowing-in-2012-1-.html
Ukrainian economic growth will slow
to 2.5 percent next year from an estimated 4.5 percent this year
as  Europe ’s debt crisis hits output, the  World Bank  said.  “Ukraine’s economic situation is worsening because of the
euro-region’s debt crisis and the government should renew its
cooperation with international lenders,” World Bank economist
Ruslan Piontkivskyi told reporters today in Kiev. The World Bank
in June forecast GDP to rise 5 percent in 2012.  Getting an  International Monetary Fund  tranche payment back
on track will help compensate for negative expectations in the
economy and reduce the cost of borrowing, the World Bank said.
The country’s current-account deficit will be about 5.4 percent
of gross domestic product this year and the gap will shrink to
4.9 percent next year, according to the forecast.  Ukraine’s cooperation with IMF was on hold this year as
authorities failed to meet the requirement to increase domestic
tariffs for natural-gas consumers.  Ukraine  has so far received
$3.4 billion of a $15.6 billion stand-by loan program approved
in the summer of 2010.  The fiscal situation remains “vulnerable because of the
structural deficit of NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy,” the bank said.
Prices have increased Naftogaz pays for imported natural gas.  The World Bank sees Ukraine’s inflation at 5.6 percent this
year, while inflation may accelerate to 9.4 percent next year,
Piontkovskyi said.  The government “is unlikely” to keep the  budget deficit 
at 3.5 percent of GDP this year, Piontkovskyi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Moscow at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  