-- Yahoo Is Said to Consider Selling Most of Its Alibaba Stake
-- B y   T o m   G i l e s   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2011-12-22T22:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/yahoo-is-said-to-consider-selling-most-of-its-40-percent-stake-in-alibaba.html
Yahoo! Inc. is considering cutting
its 40 percent stake in  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd . to about 15
percent, two people briefed on the matter said.  The Yahoo board was scheduled to meet today to consider the
transaction, said the people, who asked to remain anonymous
because the deliberations are private. The deal, which may let
 Alibaba  repurchase the stake in a tax-free manner, values the
Asian assets at about $14 a Yahoo share, or more than $17
billion, one of the people said. Yahoo also would sell all of
its stake in  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  in the deal, this person said.  Alibaba stepped up efforts to buy back the stake after the
September ouster of Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz ,
who had opposed a sale. Yahoo, buffeted by user attrition and
search-market share losses to Google Inc., is also considering
proposals by private-equity firms seeking to buy minority
stakes.  “Yahoo is probably more determined to find a solution to
this,” said Paul Wuh, head of Internet research at  Samsung
Securities Co. (016360)  in  Hong Kong . “They obviously changed their CEO,
which makes it a bit easier now.”  Yahoo acquired its stake in Alibaba, based in Hangzhou,
eastern China, for about $1 billion in 2005. Alibaba Group is
 China ’s biggest e-commerce company.  Tax-Free Structure  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, and Alibaba spokesman John Spelich both declined to
comment.  Yahoo shares were little changed at $16 at the close in  New
York . Yesterday, the stock gained 5.8 percent after the  New York
Times  reported that the company is considering reducing its
stake in Alibaba in a tax-free deal valued at about $17 billion.
Alibaba’s publicly traded unit  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  fell 0.5 percent
to HK$7.76 in Hong Kong trading today.  The transaction has a complicated structure and may take
several weeks to complete, a person with knowledge of the matter
said. Alibaba and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , the co-owner of Yahoo  Japan ,
are seeking to repurchase stakes held by Yahoo without
triggering taxes associated with the gains on the investments.  To help do that, Alibaba and Softbank each would create a
standalone entity, investing cash and operating assets in each,
another person said. Yahoo would then exchange all of its stake
in Yahoo Japan and most of its stake in Alibaba for those new
entities, this person said. Yahoo would retain 15 percent of
Alibaba, this person said.  ‘Putting Pressure’  “Both Alibaba and Softbank are putting pressure on the
company to find a solution,” said Samsung’s Wuh.  Fumihiro Ito, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Softbank,
declined to comment.  Yahoo has also considered offers for a minority stake from
bidders including TPG Capital and a group led by  Silver Lake ,
people familiar with the matter have said. Silver Lake’s bid
valued Yahoo at about $16.60 a share, these people said. TPG
Capital’s offer was higher, they said.  Yahoo investors, including Di Zhou, a Santa Fe, New Mexico-
based analyst at Thornburg Investment Management, have said they
would prefer that the company be sold in its entirety, at a
higher price.  In September, Temasek Holdings Pte, Silver Lake and DST
Global were among investors that acquired closely held Alibaba
Group shares in a transaction that valued the Chinese Internet
company at $32 billion, people familiar with the deal said at
the time.  Alibaba Group is considering a loan of about $4 billion
from a group of banks including Credit Suisse Group AG,  DBS Bank
Ltd. (DBS)  and Deutsche Bank AG, a person familiar with the matter
said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  