-- Yanzhou to Buy Gloucester Coal for $709M
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2011-12-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/yanzhou-to-buy-gloucester-coal-for-709-million-stake-in-australian-unit.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171)  agreed to
acquire Gloucester Coal Ltd. for about A$700 million ($709
million) and a 23 percent stake in its Australian unit, gaining
mines and port capacity in the largest coal-exporting nation.  Under the plan, Sydney-based Gloucester will merge with
Yancoal Australia Ltd., and Yanzhou will own 77 percent of the
new company, the Chinese coal producer said yesterday in a
statement. Gloucester stockholders will receive A$3.20 a share
in cash, it said.  Buying Gloucester, controlled by  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , will add
four coal projects and access to ports in Australia, where
Yanzhou operates six mines. Yanzhou plans to boost annual output
there to about 30 million metric tons from about 16 million tons
in the next five years to help meet growing demand from  China ,
UBS AG said in a Dec. 20 note, citing an investor presentation.  “ Yanzhou Coal  wants to make sure its coal-mine portfolio
in Australia is strong enough to support its production growth
in years to come,” said Felix Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. “The port facilities are
of strategic importance because they will allow it to connect
its mining sites directly to marine transportation.”  Yanzhou’s board approved the transaction, the company said
in an earlier statement. It’s advised by Citigroup Inc., UBS and
Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC, as well as by law firms Freehills,
 Baker & McKenzie  and King & Wood. Gloucester is advised by
Lazard Ltd. and Noble by Blackstone Group LP.  Coal Deals Increase  Coal deals involving companies in  Australia  swelled to more
than $11 billion this year from $9.44 billion in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest transaction was
Peabody Energy Corp.’s $4 billion takeover of Macarthur Coal
Ltd. in July. The average premium paid globally this year in
coal acquisitions is 19 percent, the data show.  Yanzhou also offered a payment of as much as A$3 a share
should the stock fall below A$6.96 in the 18 months after the
deal closes, according to the statement. The so-called value
protection clause and the dividend payment imply a value of
A$2.2 billion for Gloucester, a person with knowledge of the
matter said, declining to be identified.  Calls to Marie Festa, director of  investor relations  at
Gloucester Coal, went unanswered after normal business hours.  Australian Trading  Yancoal Australia will replace Gloucester on the country’s
stock exchange, allowing Yanzhou to use the purchase as a means
of listing its Australian assets. Gloucester closed at A$7.03 in
Sydney on Dec. 19 before trading in the shares was suspended.  Yancoal Australia is required to list at least 30 percent
of its local assets by the end of 2012 as part of conditions
attached to its A$3.1 billion takeover of Felix Resources Ltd.
in 2009.  “Upon completion of the merger proposal we will have made
a significant step toward meeting all the undertakings including
a listing of Yancoal core assets,” Yanzhou said in the
statement. Some of those assets aren’t included in the merger
plan, which is subject to approval from Chinese and Australian
regulators, and from Gloucester holders, the statement shows.  Yanzhou can profit from shipping coal back to  Asia  rather
than relying on local markets. It’s among producers expanding as
demand from power utilities and steelmakers rises, while asset
prices drop. Global consumption of the fuel is projected to
climb by an annual 2.8 percent in the six years to 2016, driven
by China’s economic growth, the  International Energy Agency  said
this month.  Yancoal Expansion  Yancoal may spend more than $1 billion buying mines in
Australia, Murray Bailey, managing director of the unit, said in
a September interview. Yancoal had net income of A$415 million
for the year to Dec. 31 and debt of A$3.3 billion, according to
a statement on its website.  Noble, a Singapore-listed commodities supplier, owns 64.5
percent of  Gloucester (GCL) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Noble, whose main business involves trading and shipping bulk
commodities including coal, took control of the company in 2009
when it offered A$7 a share. Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Leiman quit last month after Noble reported a quarterly loss.  Noble shares have declined 45 percent this year in
 Singapore .  Yanzhou this month proposed selling as much as 15 billion
yuan ($2.4 billion) in bonds over three years. Buying Gloucester
would be Yanzhou’s fourth acquisition in Australia following the
Felix takeover, the purchase of coal developer Syntech Resources
Pty for A$202.5 million in August and two coal subsidiaries of
Wesfarmers Ltd. in September for A$296.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 