-- Yanzhou Said to Offer Cash, Australia Unit Stake for Gloucester Coal
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2011-12-22T11:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/yanzhou-said-to-offer-cash-australia-unit-stake-for-gloucester-coal.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171)  offered
about A$700 million ($709 million) in cash and a 23 percent
stake in its Australian unit for  Gloucester Coal Ltd. (GCL) , said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Under the proposal, Gloucester Coal will be merged with
Yancoal Australia Ltd., and Yanzhou will own 77 percent of the
new company, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the terms aren’t public. Gloucester Coal shareholders
will receive A$3.20 in cash per share, on a fully diluted basis,
the people said.  Buying Gloucester, controlled by Hong Kong-based  Noble
Group Ltd. (NOBL) , will add four coal mines and access to ports in
Australia, where Yanzhou operates six mines. Yanzhou plans to
boost production there to about 30 million metric tons from
about 16 million tons over the next five years to help meet
growing demand from  China , UBS AG said in a note dated Dec. 20,
citing an investor presentation.  Yanzhou Coal  also offered a payment of as much as A$3 per
share should the stock fall below A$6.96 in the 18 months after
the deal closes, the people said. The so-called value protection
clause, and the dividend payment imply a value of A$2.2 billion
for Gloucester, one person said.  Gloucester Coal closed at A$7.03 in Sydney trading on Dec.
19, before trading in the shares was suspended. Yanzhou Coal
plans to use the purchase as a means of listing its Australian
assets, a person with knowledge of the matter said earlier this
week.  Zhang Baocai, Yanzhou Coal’s board secretary, declined to
comment on details of the deal. Calls to Marie Festa, director
of  investor relations  at Gloucester Coal, went unanswered after
normal business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  