-- Euro Weakens as French Economy Signals Slowing Growth in European Region
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-23T22:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-22/yen-weakens-as-signs-of-u-s-economic-recovery-damp-demand-for-havens.html
The euro traded at almost the lowest
level since January against the dollar as French gross domestic
product grew at a slower pace than previously estimated, adding
to concern the European economy is stalling.  The 17-nation common currency fluctuated as U.S. durable
goods orders rose more than forecast, adding to evidence of
economic growth in America and a sign of decoupling between the
U.S and the euro area. European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said policy makers shouldn’t shirk
from using quantitative easing if it’s needed to avoid
deflation.  “Most of the likely options for the ECB will be negative
for the euro in fundamental terms,” said Noel Hebert, a credit
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in  New York .
“The trend in European GDP is pointing to recession, which in
addition to looming maturity issues in both regional sovereigns
and banks is likely to have President  Mario Draghi  and his ECB
cohorts exploring alternatives for further easing.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3044 at 5:01 p.m. New York
time. It touched $1.2946 on Dec. 14, the weakest since January.
The U.S. currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 78.09 yen. The euro
dropped 0.2 percent to 101.86 yen.  Canada Strength  Canada’s currency reached to its strongest level in more
than a week versus the greenback after reports showed the
economic recovery gaining momentum in the U.S., the nation’s
largest trading partner. The loonie, as the currency is known
for the image of the waterfowl on the dollar coin, traded at
C$1.0206, after reaching C$1.0181, the strongest level since
Dec. 12.  The euro depreciated 1.3 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts as  Europe ’s crisis intensified,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The dollar has advanced 1.1 percent and the yen has gained 3.8
percent.  South Africa ’s rand has declined 18.7 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s most-traded
peers, according to Bloomberg data, followed by Mexican peso
with a 10.8 percent loss. The yen has advanced 4 percent for the
largest gain against the greenback.  French Economy  France ’s GDP rose 0.3 percent from the second quarter, when
it fell 0.1 percent, French statistics institute Insee in Paris
said today. It had previously reported a gain o 0.4 percent. In
the year, the economy expanded 1.5 percent, down from 1.7
percent in the previous quarter.  Futures traders decreased their bets from a record level
that the euro will decline against the dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 113,697 on Dec. 20,
compared with net shorts of a record 116,457 a week earlier.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent. U.S. 10-
year notes fell, pushing the yield up eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 2.02 percent.  The markets have “a slightly bullish tone overall,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia 
in Toronto.  Orders for U.S. durable goods jumped in November by the
most in four months, data showed today, helping to offset
weaker-than-forecast  consumer spending .  Sales of new U.S. homes rose in November to a seven-month
high, adding to evidence of stabilization in the housing market.
Purchases of single-family properties increased 1.6 percent to a
315,000 annual pace, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington .  Congress passed a two-month payroll tax cut extension eight
days before its scheduled expiration after  House Republicans 
dropped their objections under growing political pressure.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, a gauge of
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.1 percent to 79.997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  