-- Tacita Dean’s Oldsters Shuffle Poetically in New Show
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/tacita-dean-s-olsdters-shuffle-poetically-in-new-show.html
Choreographer Merce Cunningham sits
in a wheelchair, directing his dance troupe in the vast Craneway
Pavilion, a former Ford assembly plant overlooking  San Francisco
Bay .  Enormous walls of windows look out toward the city, and the
late-afternoon sun illumines his fuzzy arc of thin, curly, gray
hair like a halo -- as if he were the source of light.  This is among many poignant moments in  Tacita Dean ’s 108-
minute, 16mm film “Craneway Event” (2009), which chronicles
Cunningham and his dance company as they rehearse over a three-
day period.  It’s the most ambitious and compelling artwork in the  New
Museum ’s “Tacita Dean: Five Americans,” an uneven exhibition
of conceptual portraits that document and pay homage --sometimes
in elegiac form -- to Cunningham and to artists Julie Mehretu,
Claes Oldenburg,  Cy Twombly  and art historian Leo Steinberg.  Born in 1965, Dean emerged in the 1990s as one of the
strongest of the Young British Artists, a group that included
 Damien Hirst  and Tracey Emin.  “Five Americans” is the most substantial New York
presentation of her work to date. In these intimate documentary
films and photographs, primarily from 2011, Dean plays with the
idea that watching an artist at work can be extremely boring.  Thought Balloon  In one over-the-shoulder, close-up-shot of Cunningham,
faraway dancers appear to flutter just outside the
choreographer’s head like images conjured in a thought balloon.  In other scenes, we hear the heavy, rhythmic pound and
squeak of dancing feet off-camera, but all we see is the
motionless choreographer, who in one instance naps in his
wheelchair and in another contemplates a sailor on the dock and
a pigeon scurrying across the dance floor.  The dancers, passing birds and boats and the changing light
-- which turns walls and floor into liquid -- inspire Dean to
take risks and let her wide-angle lens linger lovingly on the
sidelines, as well as the action.  Not so successful works here include “More or Less,” a
set of large minimalist prints resembling erased chalkboards and
vaguely relating to Steinberg and Twombly.  Mumbling Incoherently  “GDGDA” is a two-film installation which numbly follows
Mehretu’s creation of an 80-foot-long abstract mural
commissioned by Goldman Sachs.  The two other 16mm films, mundane though mildly interesting
follow Oldenburg and Twombly as they dodder in their studios.  In the 16-minute film “Manhattan Mouse Museum,” Dean
observes Oldenburg, wheeling noisily back-and-forth in his
office chair, as he examines, dusts, fondles and rearranges his
collection of hundreds of small artifacts -- rubber stamps,
perfume bottles, figurines -- like someone rummaging through his
childhood toy chest.  The 29-minute film “Edwin Parker,” titled after Twombly’s
given name, documents the late artist in his storefront studio
in Lexington,  Virginia .  Twombly mumbles incoherently. He fidgets with artworks,
books and his glasses. He and his two elderly assistants tape an
abstract painting into an ornate, gilded frame.  And they go to a diner, where Twombly asks their waitress
about the turkey: “Not dry, is it?”  “Dry” could be applied to some of Twombly’s work. But
here, where Dean films unobtrusively from the wings,
occasionally transforming shifting light and shadow into
abstract pattern, his cluttered studio has probably never looked
better.  Twombly’s artworks take on a magical air.  “Tacita Dean: Five Americans” runs through July 1 at the
New Museum, 235 Bowery. Information: +1-212-219-1222;
 http://www.newmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include McCoy on  wine  and Gerard on
 theater .  To contact the writer on the story: Lance Esplund in  New York  at
 lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 