-- AIG Chief Sees Retirement Age as High as 80 After Crisis
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-04T11:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/aig-chief-sees-retirement-age-as-high-as-80-after-crisis.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said  Europe ’s debt
crisis shows governments worldwide must accept that people will
have to work more years as  life expectancies increase .  “Retirement ages will have to move to 70, 80 years old,”
Benmosche, who turned 68 last week, said during a weekend
interview at his seaside villa in Dubrovnik, Croatia. “That
would make pensions, medical services more affordable. They will
keep people working longer and will take that burden off of the
youth.”  The crisis, now in its third year, threatens to destroy
Europe’s 17-nation currency union as Greece contemplates exiting
the euro and  Spain  sees its bond yields rise and banking
industry falter. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened her
opposition to joint debt sharing in the euro region as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  singled out Europe’s leaders for not
doing enough to arrest the crisis.  Greece abandoning the euro could be a disaster for the
country and Europe must work to keep that from happening, said
Benmosche, whose company was the world’s biggest insurer before
it took a U.S. bailout.  “People in Greece have to see there is no easy way out of
this” and the government must get them to work longer, he said
in the June 2 interview on the Adriatic coast. “If not, and if
they go to their own currency, I think they will see huge
inflation and it will be devastating for people on fixed
incomes.”  Life Expectancy  Greece, where the average  life expectancy  is 81.3 years,
has an effective  retirement age  of 59.6, among the lowest in
Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. French
President  Francois Hollande , the Socialist who was sworn in last
month, has pledged to cut the retirement age to 60 from 62 while
increasing corporate and bank taxes and introducing a 75 percent
levy on earnings of more than 1 million euros ($1.2 million).  Peter Hancock , CEO of AIG’s Chartis property-casualty unit,
said last week the insurer has assigned staff from  Argentina  to
advise their counterparts in  Athens  as the company prepares for
a possible Greek exit from the euro, with the common currency at
its lowest against the  U.S. dollar  since June 2010. Argentina
defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt in 2001 and later
abandoned a decade-long 1-to-1 peso peg to the greenback.  “We have gone through the crisis in Argentina and other
countries over time, so we have experience,” Benmosche said.  The short-term nature of some of the company’s insurance
contracts would minimize disruption if  Greece  stopped using the
euro, he said.  Local Currency  “Our premiums would convert to the local currency, but if
they do, so will our obligations,” he said. “We will deal with
the rules at the time.”  Benmosche has sold non-U.S. life insurers, a consumer
lender and other businesses to pay back its taxpayer rescue,
which swelled to $182.3 billion as the U.S. extended more credit
and lowered the interest charged. The Treasury Department has
cut its  stake  to 61 percent from 92 percent through  three share
sales  totaling about $17.6 billion. In the most recent two, AIG
bought back a total of $5 billion in stock.  AIG still seeks to divest its  plane-leasing  unit and sell
its remaining stake in Hong Kong-based insurer AIA Group Ltd.  ‘The Overhang’  “The overhang from the government’s ownership interest in
AIG is in the process of going away,” Paul Newsome, an analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, wrote in a May 30 research
note. “AIG should have sufficient enough capital to facilitate
the Treasury Department’s exit.”  Treasury raised $5.8 billion in the first offering in 2011,
selling for $29 a share. At the same time, AIG sold 100 million
shares for $2.9 billion to demonstrate access to the  capital
markets  and satisfy a condition of its bailout. The insurer
bought half of the $6 billion in stock the department divested
at $29 apiece in March and $2 billion of a $5.75 billion
offering that went for $30.50 a share in May. The government
needs to average $28.72 to break even on its investment.  AIG slid 6.8 percent on June 1 to close the week at $27.21
after U.S. employers created the fewest jobs in a year and the
nation’s  jobless rate  rose to 8.2 percent. Reports also showed
manufacturing grew less than estimated in the U.S. and China,
and contracted for a 10th month in the euro region.  Benmosche said people and businesses in the U.S. lack
confidence and are hesitant to invest as financial regulation
and tax policies remain unsettled.  “I am optimistic that we’ll continue to grow, and if we
get past this period of uncertainty and gain confidence again in
the U.S. economic system, that will help lead the world out of
the situation we are in today,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  