-- Mauritius Central Bank Asks Lenders to Cut Exposure to Euro Area
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-06-03T06:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/mauritius-central-bank-asks-lenders-to-cut-exposure-to-euro-area.html
Mauritius’ central bank advised
domestic lenders to minimize their exposure to the euro zone as
the currency slumps against the rupee, Week-End reported, citing
Governor Rundheersing Bheenick.  “I am very worried,” Bheenick was quoted as saying by the
Port Louis-based newspaper. Local lenders should take “extreme
prudence in all their transactions with the euro zone.”  The Indian Ocean island nation’s rupee strengthened 9.3
percent against the euro in the past year, Bheenick said. A weak
euro and lower demand from  Europe , embroiled in a debt crisis,
is hurting exports income and widening the  trade gap , he said.  “There is a structural imbalance between exports and
imports,” the governor said. “We import almost twice of what we
export. Imports are billed up to 60 percent in dollar.”  Export income is about 60 percent euro-denominated,
according to the newspaper. The crisis has cost the island-
nation a 1.4 percentage points drop in growth, now forecast at
3.6 percent, Finance Minister Xavier Luc Duval said on May 30.  “We have limited scope” of intervention, Bheenick said. “It
isn’t in the national public interest to peg the rupee to the
euro.” Such a measure will only result in the population
becoming poorer and social instability, according to Bheenick.  The central bank has initiated the process of currency
diversification, he said. The weight of the dollar, the pound
sterling and the euro in foreign currency reserves has dropped
to less than 50 percent at the end of May compared with 80
percent in 2007.  “We don’t have direct exposure to the European sovereign
debt,” he said. “Less than 2 percent of the country’s reserves
are in risk countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port
Louis  at   kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Antony
Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  