-- Aussie Dollar Shorts Increase to Record on Growth Concern
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-06-03T23:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/aussie-dollar-shorts-increase-to-record-on-growth-concern.html
Futures traders waged record net  bets 
the Australian dollar will decline against the  U.S. dollar  as
concern intensified that global growth is slowing.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
35,527 on May 29, the most ever in figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission that go back to 1993.  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has dropped 5 percent against the U.S. dollar over the
past month. Demand for riskier assets is evaporating on concern
a recession in  Europe , weaker Chinese manufacturing and an
increase in the U.S. jobless rate signal the global economy is
faltering.  Australia ’s dollar has climbed 37 percent since the
start of 2009 as demand from China and  India  for the nation’s
resources spurred a record mining boom.  “There’s a broader bearish sentiment about the Aussie,
reflecting gloom on the global economic outlook,” said Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Sydney. “The cyclical upswing in the currency
associated with the resources boom is under a cloud.”  The Aussie dropped to 96.66 U.S. cents as of 9 a.m. in
Sydney, 0.4 percent below the close in  New York  on June 1 when
the currency slid as low as 95.82, the weakest since Oct. 5.  Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price
and date. The figures reflect holdings in currency-futures
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of May 29.  Each Friday the CFTC publishes aggregate numbers for long
and short positions for speculators such as  hedge funds  and
institutional investors that buy or sell futures to protect
against price moves. Analysts and investors follow changes in
speculators’ positions because such transactions can reflect an
expectation of a change in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  