-- Axelrod Blames Job Data on Inaction by Congress
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-03T18:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/axelrod-blames-job-data-on-inaction-by-congress.html
President Barack Obama’s chief
political strategist  David Axelrod  blamed last week’s worse-
than-forecast job numbers on Congress’s failure to act on the
administration’s job-creation proposals.  “If you look at this jobs report, manufacturing is up, the
best record in two decades, largely because of what the
president did relative to the auto industry,” Axelrod said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” today. “What was down was
construction, what was down was education -- the very things the
president has been trying to get Congress to act on were the
things that were down.”  Obama’s campaign was hit June 1 by news the  unemployment 
rate last month rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, as
employers added 69,000 jobs -- the fewest in a year and less
than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
economists’ survey. Manufacturing maintained its expansion and
consumers stepped up spending. Construction companies cut 28,000
jobs, the most in two years, according to the report.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus
called the Obama campaign’s efforts to discredit Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s jobs record as governor of
Massachusetts “amusing,” and said Romney has spelled out in
detail policies that will help the economy grow.  “They want us to believe that we’re not living on Earth
and that the president isn’t the president and all of these
things that are going wrong have nothing to do with  Barack
Obama ,” Priebus said later on “Face the Nation.”  Drone Targets  Axelrod also denied a  New York  Times report May 29 and a
recently-published book on foreign policy that said he was
present at where the president made decisions on which
terrorists were eligible for lethal attacks by U.S. drones.  “I’m flat out asserting that that is not true,” Axelrod
told “Face the Nation” host Bob Schieffer. “There were
meetings -- I know there were weekly meetings dealing with
terrorist threats and planning around it, but I did not attend
those meetings.”  Axelrod defended Obama’s efforts to revive the economy and
said that while Romney may have been a good businessman, his
strategies at  Bain Capital  aren’t ones that would move the
economy forward. Axelrod referred to a Kansas City steel company
bought out by the private equity firm when it was run by Romney.  Lost Benefits  “The company ultimately went bankrupt, workers lost their
benefits, creditors lost out, and they walked away with millions
of dollars,” Axelrod said. “That’s not an economic strategy
that’s going to rebuild the middle class in this country, that’s
going to grow our economy in the long run.”  Romney’s senior campaign adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom  said on
ABC’s “This Week” that the weaker jobs report shows that the
administration’s efforts to revive the economy aren’t working.  “It’s not that we don’t think that this president is
trying -- I think he is,” Fehrnstrom told host George Stephanopoulos. “It’s just that his policies are not working.”  Fehrnstrom said Obama was limited by the fact that he “did
not have any prior executive leadership experience.”  Economist  Paul Krugman , also on “This Week,” said
statistics show that the current administration has actually
already put into effect tax cuts and lower spending policies
advocated by Republicans.  Stimulus Funds  Real  government spending  is plunging, Krugman said, because
states and localities are cutting back as stimulus funds dry up
while unemployment benefits expire because of Republican
opposition in Congress to extending them.  “We’re actually practicing government austerity on a scale
that we haven’t seen in 60 years,” Krugman said.  “Nobody is happy with the rate of job creation today,”
 Steven Rattner , who headed Obama’s automobile task force, said
on “Fox News Sunday.”  “Without the policies that the president put in place, we
would not even have this level of  job creation ,” Rattner said.  Republican strategist  Ed Gillespie  countered on the same
show that the Obama administration has created a “hostile
environment for job creation,” citing the administration’s
denial of a permit of the Keystone XL pipeline as an example.  Analysts including  George Will  said Wisconsin’s June 5
special election, when voters will be asked whether to recall
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  and install Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a Democrat, may foreshadow the national campaign.  Barrett, speaking on CNN’s “ State of the Union ,”
disagreed.  “Scott Walker wants to make this a national race because
he wants to be on the national stage as the rock star of the far
right, as the poster boy of the  Tea Party ,” Barret said to host
Candy Crowley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at   fstrasser@bloomberg.net . 