-- Banks Cut Cross-Border Lending Most Since Lehman: BIS
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-03T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/banks-cut-cross-border-lending-most-since-lehman-bis.html
Global banks scaled back cross-border
lending to companies, governments and each other at the fastest
rate since 2008 in the final quarter of last year, with lenders
based in the euro area leading the way.  Lenders reporting to the  Bank for International Settlements ,
the record-keeper of the world’s central banks, shrank their
cross-border assets by $799 billion, or 2.5 percent, in the
three months ended Dec. 31,  data released  by the BIS on June 3 
show. The decline was the sharpest since the fourth quarter of 
2008, when interbank lending markets froze worldwide following 
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The decline was led by a significant drop in interbank
lending arising from the spillover of the euro-area sovereign
debt crisis to bank funding markets,” BIS said in its  quarterly
report . “The reduction was especially marked for cross-border
claims on residents of the euro area and was mostly attributable
to euro-area banks.”  European banks were trimming their balance sheets to help
meet stricter  capital requirements  set by the European Banking
Authority and by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .
Foreign banks also reduced their lending to European banks on
concern that the region’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading,
prompting concerns that a credit drought might further cripple
the economy of the currency union.  Interbank Loans  Interbank lending contracted by $637 billion during the
fourth quarter as the  European debt crisis  infected bank-funding
markets, particularly affecting the euro’s 17 member countries,
the BIS said. Cross-border claims on banks in the euro region
fell $364 billion during the period. The Libor-OIS spread, a
gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, “increased to
high levels on the back of higher risk premia and the growing
reluctance of market participants to engage in interbank loan
transactions,” BIS said.  Italy and  Spain  saw the largest funding contractions,
falling $57 billion, or 10 percent, and $46 billion, or 9
percent respectively, according to the report. Banks also cut
their cross-border claims on German banks by 9 percent, or $104
billion, and on French banks by 4 percent, or $55 billion.  Greece Plummets  Lending to Greek borrowers continued to shrink in the
quarter. At $96.3 billion by the end of 2011, it was less than
half the level two years earlier, when it stood at $217.2
billion.  The cutoff point for the BIS data was before the country’s
debt swap in March, which will be reflected in upcoming first-
quarter numbers. More than two-thirds of the total, or $69.4
billion, is lending to the private sector and includes the
assets of foreign banks’ subsidiaries in  Greece .  Euro-area banks slashed cross-border lending by $584
billion in the quarter as institutions including  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  cut assets to meet
European Banking Association capital rules. That included a $197
billion retreat by French-headquartered banks, predominately
from their euro-denominated assets, the BIS said. The 5.3
percent cutback is the second-biggest drop for French banks in
12 years, after the 7.1 percent decline the previous quarter.  Wary of lending to one another, firms are increasing the
amount they park with the  European Central Bank . Deposits with
the central bank rose to a record 828 billion euros on March 5,
and were at 770 billion euros on May 30. European lenders
deposited an average of about 280 million euros with the ECB in
the eight years before Lehman’s collapse.  ECB Cash  Markets recovered earlier this year after the ECB pumped
more than 1 trillion euros into the region’s banks via two
three-year Longer Term Refinancing Operations. That optimism has
now evaporated as concern mounts about the future of the euro,
the BIS said.  The BIS data record the cross-border business of banks in
the countries reporting to it. Data for banks’ consolidated
cross-border claims -- which include bonds, loans and funds
deposited at banks -- are reported by 30 countries. Those
countries include most developed and some emerging economies.  Lending to  emerging markets  also shrank in the quarter for
only the second time in three years, the BIS reported. Cross-
border claims from foreign banks to those countries fell by $75
billion, or 2.4 percent, following a $17 billion decline in the
previous three-month period. The Asia-Pacific region, especially
Chinese banks, accounted for 91 percent of the reduction in
cross-border credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  