-- Billionaire Sy Plans Record Share Sale for Bank: Southeast Asia
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2012-06-03T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/billionaire-sy-plans-record-share-sale-for-bank-southeast-asia.html
Henry Sy  went from running a shoe
store in  Manila  to become the Philippines’ richest billionaire
and owner of the nation’s largest retailer. Now the Chinese
immigrant plans to raise $1 billion to expand his bank.  Sy’s BDO Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender by
assets, will price a rights offer tomorrow, it said in May. The
share sale will be a record for the nation and give the bank
funds to compete for infrastructure lending, said Teresita Sy- Coson, eldest child of the 87-year-old Sy and vice chairwoman at
his flagship company and the parent of BDO.  The bank aims to reduce its dependence on consumer loans by
tapping credit demand from the nation’s biggest companies,
including  Ayala Corp. (AC)  and  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , as they bid for $16
billion in infrastructure projects unveiled in 2010 by President
 Benigno Aquino . The fund infusion will also bolster Manila-based
BDO’s risk buffers and spur overseas expansion, Sy-Coson said.  “Infrastructure is not our area of expertise, but we
intend to join the government’s initiatives by providing funding
for those who will take up those projects,” Sy-Coson, 61, said
in a May 21 interview. “We want to be a real nationwide bank
and at the same time have some play in the region.”  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
United Overseas Bank Ltd. and BDO Capital & Investment Corp. are
managing the sale of 896 million shares in a one-for-three
rights offer from June 18 to June 27, according to a May 24
filing. The shares were valued at 59.1 billion pesos ($1.36
billion), based on the June 1 closing price. BDO has climbed 15
percent this year, even after falling 6.4 percent to 66 pesos in
Manila trading on June 1.  ‘A Good Deal’  “I doubt anyone will pass up the rights offer,” said
Jesse Ang, chief representative in the  Philippines  for
International Finance Corp., which gave BDO a $20 million  loan 
in 2002. “You are buying shares in a good bank at a discount.”  A successful rights offer may be the biggest in  Asia  this
year, excluding  Japan .  BDO “has grown phenomenally” since IFC, the private-
sector affiliate of the  World Bank , invested in the bank to
bolster development of the local  capital market , Ang said. IFC
has a 5 percent stake in BDO, according to the investor-
relations department at Sy’s SM Investments Corp.  Sy, who emigrated from  China  at the age of 12, started
selling rice, sardines and soap in his father’s Manila store in
1936. He opened a shoe store in 1948, and eventually built his
business empire in the 1980s by opening malls that sold low-
priced  consumer goods .  Retail Empire  His retail operations include 176 department stores,
supermarkets, grocers and hypermarkets. The family’s flagship  SM
Investments (SM)  is the country’s third-largest company by market
value, and his publicly traded holdings are valued at about $9.9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sy bought  Acme Savings Bank , set up in 1968 as a thrift
bank, in 1976 and renamed it as Banco do Oro Savings and
Mortgage Bank the following year. The lender sold shares in an
1.8 billion-peso initial public offering in May 2002. SM
Investments owns about 46 percent of BDO, according to its
annual report, giving Sy a stake worth about $1.8 billion.  BDO’s net income grew 15 percent in the first quarter,
lagging the 40 percent profit growth at  Metropolitan Bank &
Trust Co. (MBT) , the nation’s No. 2 bank by assets, and the more than
doubling at third-ranked  Bank of the Philippine Islands. (BPI)   Valuation Laggard  Bank of the Philippine Islands , which has 20 percent less
assets than BDO Bank, has a market value of 242 billion pesos,
and Metropolitan Bank & Trust has a valuation of 187 billion
pesos. BDO Bank has a 177 billion-peso market value.  BDO’s rivals “are doing quite well” and “can very well
overtake us in terms of assets,” Sy-Coson said.  BDO emerged as the nation’s biggest lender in 2008
following nine acquisitions for a total of about $1.34 billion
starting in 2001, according to Bloomberg data.  The bank has kept the top spot by expanding credit faster
than competitors. BDO’s loans grew about 23 percent annually in
the four years ended in 2011, compared with 15 percent for the
industry, according to Alfred Dy, an analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  Profit at  BDO (BDO)  rose 19 percent to 10.5 billion pesos last
year, with its 24 percent growth in loans outpacing the 19
percent industry average, it said in February. The bad-loan
ratio also shrank to 3.4 percent from 4.7 percent.  “These infrastructure projects give BDO Bank the
opportunity to diversify its loan portfolio,” said CLSA’s Dy.  Dilution Concern  BDO should concentrate on attracting more depositors,
rather than selling shares, said Daniel Picache, an analyst at
DBP-Daiwa SB Capital Markets.  “I wouldn’t say that this is a game changer for BDO
because capital raising through equity isn’t sustainable since
it will create dilution,” he said. “A bank’s main fund-raising
should be through growing its deposit base.”  BDO announced on May 28 that it would buy assets of Rural
Bank of  San Juan  for an undisclosed amount. The lender isn’t
closing the door on further acquisitions to expand its branch
network, Sy-Coson said before the announcement of the purchase.  The  Philippine economy  expanded 6.4 percent last quarter,
the fastest pace since 2010 and exceeding economists’ estimates
as President Aquino boosted  government spending  to counter
faltering global demand.  San Miguel President Ramon Ang reiterated on May 23 that
the nation’s largest company plans to join bidding for airport,
road and infrastructure projects. Ayala has a venture with Metro
Pacific Investments Corp. to take on railway projects.  “BDO’s aggressive capital-raising is an indication the
group doesn’t want to be left out of opportunities that will be
opened up by the government’s infrastructure program,” said
Alex Pomento, a strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. “The size of
the new capital also puts BDO in a place to pursue opportunities
other than growing its loan books aggressively, like
acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  