-- BIS Says Europe’s Debt Crisis Stoking Global Financial Turmoil
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-03T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/bis-says-europe-s-debt-crisis-stoking-global-financial-turmoil.html
The  Bank for International
Settlements  said investors are becoming increasingly concerned
about the consequences of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
weaker growth in Asia and the U.S.  “By late May, optimism had given way to doubts about
European economic growth, the financial health of euro-area
sovereigns and banks, the impact of fiscal consolidation on
growth, and political stability inside the euro area,” the
Basel, Switzerland-based institution said in its quarterly
report published today. “Together with signs of greater
fragility in U.S. and Chinese growth, all this unsettled
investors and stoked global financial-market volatility.”  Confidence among investors, entrepreneurs and consumers had
increased at the beginning of the year after the  European
Central Bank  flooded financial markets with more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.2 trillion) in cheap three-year loans to unlock
credit. While the market for unsecured bank bonds reopened
temporarily at the beginning of the year, many banks from the
euro-area periphery continued to rely on covered bonds and
government-guaranteed bonds for funding, the BIS said.  Optimism started to fade in the second half of March. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has since dropped about 14 percent,
reversing first-quarter gains, and yields on Spanish and Italian
debt have surged.  Changed Mood  “The mood shifted as it became increasingly clear that
monetary-policy actions alone would not be sufficient to resolve
underlying euro-area economic problems,” the BIS said. “A
trickle of weaker-than-expected economic data cast further
doubts on the strength of the global growth recovery.”  China led a slowdown in manufacturing across Asia in May,
the number of Americans applying for  unemployment benefits  rose,
and euro-area business confidence tumbled to the lowest in 2 1/2
years. The  International Monetary Fund  on April 17 forecast
global economic growth will slow to 3.5 percent this year from
3.9 percent in 2011.  The BIS said banks recorded the largest decline in
aggregate cross-border claims in the fourth quarter since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The decline
was “largely driven by banks headquartered in the euro area
facing pressures to reduce their leverage,” the BIS said.  The BIS also said that while the expansion of central-bank
balance sheets in emerging  Asia  over the past decade coincided
with stable inflation and stable financial systems, they “have
now reached a size that distorts markets and increases the risks
of inflation and financial instability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  