-- BIS Says Asia Can Consider Currency Gains to Cap Reserve Growth
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-06-03T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/bis-says-asia-can-consider-currency-gains-to-cap-reserve-growth.html
Asian central banks should consider
allowing more currency appreciation to contain an expansion of
their balance sheets that risks spurring inflation and financial
instability, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements .  The balance sheets of nine Asian central banks surged to
$6.4 trillion in 2011 from $1.1 trillion in 2001, the Basel,
Switzerland-based BIS said in a report released June 3. A high
rate of increase may strain the ability of the financial system
to absorb the funds and generate price pressures, it said.  Asian nations have built up foreign-exchange holdings to
record levels since the 1997-98 regional financial crisis to
bolster confidence in their economies after the turmoil depleted
their reserves and led some countries to seek International
Monetary Fund bailouts. The BIS said the increase in reserves
since the mid-2000s was largely a result of Asian central banks
resisting currency appreciation pressures generated by trade and
capital flows in the region.  “The balance sheet expansion by these central banks has
produced financial distortions,” Stephen Cecchetti, BIS
economic adviser and head of the Monetary and Economic
Department, said in a conference call on June 1. “The fact that
inflation is low and financial systems are stable now does not
mean that they will necessarily remain so in the indefinite
future. There are no reasons to become complacent.”  While the increase in Asian central banks’ balance sheets
isn’t an immediate inflation risk and policy makers have been
successful in the so-called sterilization of foreign-exchange
purchases, large balance sheets may leave central banks
vulnerable to large financial losses, and the accumulation of
foreign reserves may “crowd out” domestic lending, according
to the report.  Currency Gains  “Serious consideration should also be given to capping and
then shrinking the size of central bank balance sheets,” the
BIS said. “Greater tolerance of currency appreciation over time
could be a key element of a framework to limit further
accumulation of foreign assets.”  The central bank balance sheets in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore 
are about equivalent to the size of their gross domestic
products, compared with about 50 percent of GDP for  China ,
 Malaysia  and  Thailand  and 35 percent for the region as a whole,
the BIS said.  “The ratios as a share of GDP in emerging  Asia  generally
exceed those in advanced economies even after the substantial
expansion in the latter following the recent crisis,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  