-- California High-Speed Rail Losing Support, Poll Shows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/california-high-speed-rail-losing-support-poll-shows.html
A majority of voters no longer
support building a $68 billion high-speed passenger rail system
connecting  California ’s population centers, a new poll shows,
even as Governor  Jerry Brown  is pushing the project forward.  While 53 percent of voters approved a  bond issue  for the
project in 2008, a USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times  poll  published
in yesterday’s edition of the newspaper, found that 59 percent
would oppose it if given another chance to vote.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, allocated some of the $9.95
billion of bonds for the system in his budget for the fiscal
year that begins July 1, even though a deficit in the spending
plan has ballooned to $15.7 billion. He wants voters to increase
sales and income taxes or slash 3 weeks off the school year
while still spending money on the rail line.  “California voters have clearly reconsidered their support
for high-speed rail,” said  Dan Schnur , director of the USC
Dornsife/ Los Angeles  Times Poll and director of the Unruh
Institute of Politics at University of  Southern California .
“They want the chance to vote again -— and they want to vote
no. The growing budget deficit is making Californians hesitant
about spending so much money on a project like this one when
they’re seeing cuts to public education and  law enforcement .”  The state-run authority charged with building the system
revised its business plan in April amid public opposition,
chopping $30 billion off the cost.  Bullet Train  The bullet-train project, eventually linking  San Francisco 
to Los Angeles, would cost $68.4 billion, down from the $98.5
billion estimated in November, according to the California High-
Speed Rail Authority. The proposal saves money by upgrading
existing commuter and freight lines in some areas, rather than
build new track, and counts on funds from California’s new
program selling pollution credits.  “Over the past several months, the California High-Speed
Rail Authority has made significant and positive changes to its
plans for constructing and operating a high-speed rail system,”
Dan Richard, the board chairman of the authority, said in a
statement in response to the poll. “We made these changes in
direct response to public input from across the state.  ‘‘The result is a revised plan to deliver the benefits of
high-speed rail sooner and at significantly less cost to the
taxpayers.’’  Brown’s budget includes $6.1 billion in infrastructure
costs for the first 130 miles (209 kilometers) of the project.
Of that, $2.8 billion is from state bonds, according to the
Finance Department.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains to run as fast as 220 miles (354 kilometers) an hour,
after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such projects.  The USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times poll surveyed 1,002
registered voters May 17 through May 21. It has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  