-- Cameron Says ‘No Question’ of Queen Elizabeth Abdicating Throne
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-03T10:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/cameron-says-no-question-of-queen-elizabeth-abdicating-throne.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
rejected any suggestion that  Queen Elizabeth II  might abdicate,
or that the crown might skip a generation and go straight to
 Prince William  instead of her heir, Prince Charles.  “Both of those things are out of the question,” Cameron
told the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show,” in an interview to mark the
Queen’s Diamond Jubilee. “You get the sense that she will go on
doing the amazing job she’s been doing as long as she can.”  Elizabeth, 86, is celebrating 60 years on the throne with a
weekend of pageantry. Only one other English monarch, her great-
great-grandmother, Queen Victoria, has ruled for as long.  Cameron used the interview broadcast today to acknowledge
that his government had made mistakes in its March Budget,
leading to a series of policy reversals, including three on tax
last week.  “When you’ve got something wrong, there are two things you
can do,” the prime minister said. “You can plow on regardless,
or you can say ‘No, we’re going to change it, we’re going to get
it right.’”  He rejected the suggestion that, having given way on
policies that affected bakers, charities and caravan-makers, his
coalition government was unlikely to be able to stick to its
austerity plans. “Nobody thinks this government lacks resolve,
strength and grit,” he said.  He also repeated his defense of Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  over his handling of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  last year.  ‘Advice’  During six hours of testimony under oath before a media
ethics inquiry in London last week, Hunt denied that
congratulatory text messages sent to James Murdoch, News Corp.’s
deputy chief operating officer, showed he was biased. He then
said that with hindsight, he would have avoided such private
contacts.  “The advice I was given was that what mattered was not
what Jeremy Hunt had said publicly or privately but how he was
going to conduct himself during the bid,” Cameron told the BBC.
“That’s how I think we should judge him: did he adjudicate this
bid wisely and fairly? And he did. He took legal advice at every
stage, and he followed that legal advice and he did many things
that were not in the interests of the Murdochs or BSkyB and that
side of things.  “And I think he gave a good account of himself to the
Leveson Inquiry, he’s given a good account of himself to
Parliament, and I think that’s the key point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  