-- Chevron Phillips Chemical Signs Letter to Study Iraq Plant
-- B y   K h a l i d   a l - A n s a r y
-- 2012-06-03T08:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/chevron-phillips-chemical-signs-letter-of-intent-for-iraq-plant.html
Iraq and  Chevron Phillips  Chemical
Co., a joint venture of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , signed
a letter of intent to evaluate the feasibility of developing a
petrochemical plant in the country, officials said.  The company would examine building a new facility and
upgrading an existing Iraq-owned petrochemicals factory in
southern Basra province, Hanaa al-Husseini, a spokeswoman for
the Industry and Minerals Ministry, said today in Baghdad.  Melanie Samuelson, a spokeswoman for Chevron Philips, said
in an e-mailed statement that the company, with headquarters in
The Woodlands, Texas, wants to assess “the feasibility of
developing an integrated petrochemical complex.” Both Chevron
Phillips and the ministry declined to give additional details,
including cost estimates or dates for the project.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves and the
fifth-biggest natural-gas deposits in the Middle East, according
to data from BP Plc that also include Canadian  oil sands . The
government, which depends on crude sales for more than 90
percent of its official income, wants to diversify into
chemicals production and other industries.  Iraq’s oil output is on the rebound after stagnating for
years during the rule of  Saddam Hussein , ousted by a U.S.-led
invasion in 2003. The nation burns off natural gas produced in
association with crude because it lacks the infrastructure to
use it as a fuel for electricity plants or feedstock for
petrochemicals.  The ministry’s al-Husseini said April 9 that Shell
Chemicals Ltd. agreed in a separate arrangement to study the
feasibility of a petrochemical plant.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  