-- Commodities Slumping as China Sees Weaker Yuan: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/commodities-slumping-as-china-sees-weaker-yuan-chart-of-the-day.html
Slumping commodity prices may plunge
11 percent further this month as  China ’s weakening currency
slows demand for dollar-priced raw materials from one of the
world’s largest consumers, according to TD Securities Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Standard & Poor’s Spot Index
of 24 raw materials plunged 13 percent last month to 596.2, the
biggest drop since 2008, while China’s yuan slipped to 6.3685
per dollar, a 1.4 percent decline that was the most since a peg
was ended in July 2005. The GSCI may fall to 530 by end of June
while the yuan reaches 6.4 per dollar, said  Bart Melek , the head
of commodity strategy at TD Securities.  “The weakening Chinese currency is another bite of bad
news for commodities,” after the widening debt crisis in
 Europe , Melek said by telephone from Toronto. “At a time when
exports are falling, it’s unlikely that China will want the  yuan 
to appreciate.”  Exports from China to the European Union fell 2.4 percent
in April from a year earlier, according to government data.
China, the world’s largest consumer of everything from pork and
cotton to copper and soybeans, is looking to reduce its reliance
on the dollar after accumulating $3.3 trillion of foreign-
exchange reserves, the world’s largest stockpile.  The central bank widened the yuan’s trading band against
the dollar in April and regulators raised quotas for global
funds investing in China’s stocks and bonds to $80 billion from
$30 billion. China will promote convertibility of the yuan
capital account this year and expand investment channels for its
foreign-exchange reserves,  Yi Gang , head of the nation’s State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, wrote in a June 1 report.  Commodities tumbled on June 1 to the lowest since Oct. 4,
extending a three-month slump that was the longest since the
recession of 2009. China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to
50.4 in May from 53.3 in April, the nation’s statistics bureau
and logistics federation said on June 1, signaling a deepening
slowdown for the world’s largest economy behind the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  