-- Danish Housing Crisis Spells Pain for Banks, Moody’s Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-06-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/danish-housing-crisis-spells-pain-for-banks-moody-s-says.html
Denmark ’s housing crisis is set to
deepen as private debt burdens remain high, property values sink
and the job market struggles, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “We see asset quality deteriorating among financial
institutions and we expect those pressures to continue because
of the operating environment,” Simon Harris, a London-based
managing director at Moody’s, said in an interview. “Real
estate prices are weakening” and “unemployment has risen and
is at higher levels than a couple years ago.”  Moody’s downgraded nine Danish financial institutions last
week, including Danske Bank A/S and mortgage lender Nykredit
Realkredit A/S, as part of a review of 114 European lenders.
Denmark’s economy is struggling to emerge from the fallout of a
burst housing bubble and regional banking crisis that has
stalled business growth, killed jobs and claimed five banks
since last year.  House prices , which have plunged 25 percent since their
peak in 2007, will probably fall another 5.5 percent this year,
the government said last month. Property values sank an annual
8.6 percent in March,  Statistics Denmark  said May 31.
Unemployment will rise to 7.6 percent this year from 7.4 percent
in 2011, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said last month.  The cocktail of declining property values and rising
joblessness has left households vulnerable, according to
Moody’s. The rating company estimates private debt burdens
reached 142 percent of gross domestic product at the end of
2010, twice the European Union average of 79 percent.  ‘Negative Feedback’  The weak  property market  and its fallout for lenders is
creating a vicious circle for the economy, as a “negative
feedback” loop hampers recovery prospects, Moody’s said in a
May 30 report.  Yet investors fleeing Europe’s debt crisis have ignored the
warnings. Denmark, which is one of only 12 nations graded AAA at
the three main rating companies, pays about 20 basis points less
than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years. Danish two-year yields fell
below zero last week as investors pay for the privilege of
holding the Nordic nation’s debt.  The country has emerged as a haven thanks to its fiscal
discipline. The government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning- Schmidt in May cut the budget deficit target to 1.7 percent of
gross domestic product for next year and 3.8 percent for 2012.
That compares with a 3.6 percent average deficit in the European
Union this year and 3.3 percent in 2013, the European Commission
said May 11. Denmark also boasts a current account surplus.  Capital Influx  The central bank has fought to offset a capital influx into
Denmark’s economy by cutting  interest rates  to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro. Governor Nils Bernstein warned last
month rates can even fall below zero to deter investors from
purchasing kroner.  “The Danish economy is strong compared to many of the
other European countries,” Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior
strategist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Copenhagen, said in an
interview. “A strong economy will overall mean that losses
among companies and households will decrease in the future. That
has also been confirmed in the latest reports from the Danish
banks.”  Denmark emerged from its recession in the first quarter
after businesses boosted investments and exports grew. Gross
domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in the three months
through March from the fourth quarter, official figures show.
The GDP report suggests companies are proving resilient to
Europe’s debt crisis as fixed investments grew 2.3 percent in
the first quarter, led by a 6.9 percent jump in purchases of
machines and transport goods.  According to Moody’s, investors shouldn’t assume Denmark is
safe from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “We do see that Denmark is not immune to what is happening
in the eurozone,” Harris said. “Yes, it has its own currency
and so on, but the Danish economy and banks are exposed” and
the operating environment is “relatively challenging,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  