-- Davos Goes to Istanbul as Erdogan Seeks to Assert Regional Role
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-06-03T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/davos-goes-to-istanbul-as-erdogan-seeks-to-assert-regional-role.html
Three years after Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  stormed out of the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, vowing never to return, he has invited the organization
to Istanbul as part of Turkey’s bid for regional leadership.  Erdogan abandoned a panel with Israeli President Shimon Peres in January 2009, protesting the invasion of the  Gaza
Strip . The move won him regional acclaim, adding a reputation
for political forthrightness to the allure of Turkey’s  booming
economy . At the forum’s  conference  on the  Middle East , North
Africa and Eurasia this week, Erdogan will be seeking to expand
Turkey’s influence as host, rather than absentee guest.  “The premier had an outburst in Davos, fine, but isolating
Turkey from events like this isn’t a solution,” said Suhnaz
Yilmaz Ozbagci, a professor of international relations at Koc
University in Istanbul. “As the host, you’re the lead actor,
which is what Turkey wants: to be a global power.”  Since Erdogan’s Davos walkout, political unrest in the Arab
world and the debt crisis in Europe have brought upheaval to
Turkey’s neighborhood. That poses challenges for Erdogan’s
management of the $800 billion economy, as Europe’s contraction
hits exports, and to his diplomacy after efforts to cultivate
ties with Syria’s Bashar al-Assad backfired.  For Turkish companies, crisis may bring opportunities. The
country’s  benchmark stock index  has added 11 percent this year,
outperforming all European peers and trailing only Egypt’s EGX-
30 among Middle Eastern benchmarks.  ‘Balkans to Afghanistan’  Ersin Ozince, chairman of the biggest listed bank,  Turkiye
Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR) , said last month that lenders have an historic
opportunity to expand outside Turkey. He said his own bank is
looking at opportunities “from the Balkans to  Afghanistan .”  Billionaire Ferit Sahenk, due to speak at a forum panel
tomorrow on  emerging markets  as financial hubs, has announced
plans to invest as much as 300 million euros ($373 million) in
Greek marine assets. Sahenk sold shares in  Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the most valuable company on the Istanbul bourse, to
Spain’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA last year as part of
a $2.1 billion deal.  Guler Sabanci, chairwoman of  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) ,
is one of the co-hosts of the forum’s Istanbul event. The
group’s cement units,  Akcansa Cimento Sanayi & Ticaret AS (AKCNS)  and
 Cimsa Cimento Sanayi & Ticaret AS (CIMSA) , are seeking acquisitions
abroad to continue growing. They have 20 percent of Turkey’s
market and regulations cap their share at 25 percent.  ‘Broader Role’  “The business community sees a broader role and
opportunity” that’s reflected in Turkey’s decision to host the
forum, said Varel Freeman, vice president of the European Bank
for Reconstruction & Development, in an interview in Ankara on
May 30, when the lender opened its second office in the country.  Erdogan has presided over growth averaging about 5.5
percent a year since his party came to power in 2002, and stated
his aim of lifting the economy into the world’s top 10 by 2023.  The expansion of the past two years, though, has sucked in
imports and left  Turkey  with the world’s second-biggest  current-
account deficit , equal to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product. The crisis in Europe, Turkey’s main trade partner, and
the conflict in Syria, where the government has pushed for
expanded commercial ties, are making it harder to close the
 trade gap  through increased exports.  Assad Ties  Erdogan was feted during a tour of Egypt, Tunisia and Libya
in September. The premier’s Justice and Development Party is
cited as a model by the Ennahda movement in Tunisia and the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party in Egypt, which
won post-revolt elections.  Elsewhere in the region, Erdogan’s policy of “zero
problems” with neighbors has stumbled. He cultivated ties with
Assad and opened the border to boost trade, before reversing
course months into  Syria ’s violent crackdown on protests, which
has left more than 10,000 dead.  Turkey now shelters leading members of Syria’s political
and military opposition. The break with Assad has strained ties
with  Iran , a Syrian ally and one of Turkey’s main energy
suppliers. Turkey, like most Western countries, has expelled
Syrian diplomats and called for an end to Assad’s rule without
saying how it can be brought about.  That suggests a cap on Turkey’s regional aspirations, said
Naz Masraff, a London-based analyst at Eurasia Group, which
monitors political risk.  “Turkey is unable to act and doesn’t want to act
unilaterally,” she said. “There’s a major gap between rhetoric
and reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 