-- Djokovic, Federer Clear French Open Hurdles as Experience Pays
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-03T22:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/djokovic-federer-clear-french-open-hurdles-as-experience-pays.html
Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic and
2009 champion  Roger Federer  overcame challenges from lower-
ranked opponents as experience paid at the  French Open .  Djokovic of Serbia fought back from two sets down for the
third time in his career to beat Italy’s Andreas Seppi 4-6, 6-7
(5-7), 6-3, 7-5, 6-3 at  Roland Garros .  “The more you play and the big matches and the big
tournaments, the more you’re going to feel comfortable getting
out from situations like today,” the world No. 1 said after
yesterday’s match. “I don’t think you can really train that.
You can just get it over time and with experience.”  The 25-year-old Djokovic will play Switzerland’s Stanislas Wawrinka or Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France in the quarterfinals.
Their match was suspended for darkness at 9:37 p.m. in Paris
last night with Tsonga leading 4-2 in the fifth set.  Djokovic is trying to win his fourth straight major title
to complete a non-calendar Grand Slam.  Australia ’s  Rod Laver 
swept the titles in 1969 and also achieved the feat in 1962.
American Don Budge in 1938 is the only other man to win four in
a row in one calendar year.  At Roland Garros today, defending women’s champion  Li Na  of
China plays Yaroslava Shvedova of Kazakhstan while defending
men’s champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain faces Argentina’s  Juan Monaco . Women’s No. 2 seed  Maria Sharapova  of Russia meets Czech
Klara Zakopalova.  Federer’s Victory  Federer dropped the first set against David Goffin and the
Swiss player was two points away from losing the second when he
turned things around. The third-seeded Federer beat the 109th-
ranked Goffin, 5-7, 7-5, 6-2, 6-4 to move to his 32nd straight
Grand Slam quarterfinal.  Goffin was the first so-called lucky loser to reach the
last 16 of a major since fellow Belgian Dick Norman at Wimbledon
in 1995. Federer will play the winner of the match between
former Wimbledon finalist Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic
and 2009 U.S. Open winner Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina.
Their match was suspended at 9:15 p.m. local time with Del Potro
leading two sets to one.  “I almost lost,” Federer, the holder of a record 16 major
titles, said in a news conference. “It was a very tight match.
So I’m very happy that I’m still here.”  He advanced to his 36th major quarterfinal overall. He’s
now in second place alongside  Andre Agassi  for most appearances
at that stage of a Grand Slam.  Jimmy Connors  made 41
quarterfinals.  Women’s Top Seed  Experience playing on the big stage didn’t help women’s top
seed  Victoria Azarenka . No. 15 seed Dominika Cibulkova of
Slovakia knocked out the Belarussian 6-2, 7-6 (7-4) on Court
Suzanne Lenglen on a cold and windy day at Roland Garros.  “I’m just really, really unhappy with the way I played,”
Azarenka told reporters. “I’m going to look for what I did
wrong to make sure it doesn’t happen again.”  Azarenka smashed her racket on the clay early in the second
set. She said she’ll take a break from playing on the tour until
Wimbledon.  The 22-year-old, who became No. 1 in January after winning
her first Grand Slam title at the Australian Open, came within
two games in the opening round of becoming the first female top
seed at Roland Garros to lose at that stage.  She began 2012 on a win streak of 26 matches, the longest
to start the season since  Martina Hingis  of  Switzerland  in 1997.  “In the tiebreak I’m very, very proud of myself that I was
still going for my shots, and I just made it because she would
never give me the match,” said Cibulkova, who struck 28 winners
to Azarenka’s 19.  American Teens  U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur of Australia, a finalist
in Paris in 2010, beat  Sloane Stephens , 7-5, 6-4.  Stephens, 19, was one of two unseeded American women into
the fourth round of a major for the first time since 2002 at
Wimbledon. Two days ago,  Varvara Lepchenko  of the U.S. upset
2010 winner Francesca Schiavone in three sets. No American men
reached the third round in Paris this year, the worst result
since 2007.  The defeat of Stephens puts Lepchenko in contention for a
spot on the U.S. Olympic team. Only the top four women will make
the team and her fourth-round spot will make Lepchenko the
fourth-ranked American. She plays Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic today.  Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 2009 champion from Russia, lost to
22nd-seeded Sara Errani, 6-0, 7-5.  Italy ’s Errani will next play
Germany’s Angelique Kerber, the No. 10 seed, who beat Croatia’s
Petra Martic, 6-3, 7-5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 