-- Drugmakers Afflicted by Greek Pain With or Without Euro
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/drugmakers-afflicted-by-green-pain-with-or-without-euro.html
A Greek exit from the euro would
further depress drug prices throughout Europe, creating an
additional dilemma for manufacturers already wrestling with how
to keep supplies flowing as Greek health-care funds dry up.  European countries including  Germany , the region’s biggest
market, use Greek prices as part of a benchmark when governments
and other payers negotiate with drugmakers, according to the
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations. A price plunge in Greece because of a return to
the drachma may pull down prices across the region, said Richard Bergstrom, president of the industry group.  “We would lose more money outside of Greece than in
Greece,” Bergstrom said in a telephone interview. “This is
quite fundamental: if Greece or other countries would leave the
euro, and you would have to make adjustments on everything, then
that could throw into question the whole model for pricing in
Europe.”  Falling drug prices in  Europe  and elsewhere, precipitated
by the crisis in Greece, have already cost drugmakers more than
$2.67 billion in lost revenue, according to Bergstrom.  Makers of drugs and devices have been struggling with how
best to deliver products to cash-strapped -- and often non-
paying -- Greek hospitals since the beginning of the crisis. The
Greek state’s debts to drugmakers will probably climb to about
1.55 billion euros ($1.9 billion), by the end of June from 1.21
billion on March 31, according to EFPIA. Greece has budgeted
3.67 billion euros for public drug spending and hospital drug
costs combined this year. The country agreed in 2010 to issue
more than 5 billion euros in bonds to settle three previous
years of arrears.  Penny-Pinching  At the same time, penny-pinching national governments are
already pushing down drug spending throughout the region.  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  said in April that first-
quarter sales dropped in Europe as governments slow or cut
spending on health care. Drugmakers agreed in May to a spending
cut in  Portugal  of a further 300 million euros, according to a
copy of the government’s agreement with the Portuguese
Association of Pharmaceutical Industry. In Germany, a new
oversight system is pushing companies to prove their new
medicines are better than existing therapies in order to charge
a premium. Payments have lagged in parts of Spain, Italy and
Portugal.  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , has tightened its bill-
collecting policy for hospitals in Spain and Portugal, requiring
clinics with the worst arrears to pay down debts before they can
get more drugs on credit, and may do the same in Italy.  Generic drug-makers are also under pressure, with  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the market leader, saying on May
24 that the European market won’t grow this year.  No Growth   “What is really difficult to predict is what are the new
politicians in  France  or in Greece going to do,” Rob Koremans,
head of the Israeli company’s European unit, told analysts on a
call last month. “We do not expect any growth.”  Germany and seven other European countries include Greece
in the official basket of countries used to help governments and
insurers set drug prices, EFPIA said. Belgium, Hungary, Italy
and Poland include Greece informally in their price guides, the
drugmakers’ association said.  If Greece stays in the comparison basket after a euro exit,
its lower prices will push the average down everywhere else as
well, giving other governments an incentive to keep  Greece 
included in the pricing mechanism.  Ripple Effect  Price cuts in Greece already have had an impact outside the
country, according to EFPIA. Last year, a 10 percent price drop
in Greece cost the  drug industry  299 million euros in that
country, 799 million euros in Europe and 2.15 billion euros
around the world because of price referencing, the practice of
linking prices in one country to those of another, the
association said. Price referencing isn’t limited by euro-area
boundaries.  “If Greece would leave the euro area, they would have a
new currency -- let’s call it the drachma -- and then the debts
they already have, the Greek state or the companies in Greece,
will remain in euros,”  Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in
Hannover, said by phone.  That would make it even more difficult for Greeks to pay
back the money as the new currency depreciates relative to the
euro. “This would mean a lot of creditors would have to write
down their debts,” Gruppe said.  For Greek patients, the bigger crisis in the immediate
aftermath of a euro exit could be access to drugs. The health-
care industry is also making contingency plans for how to
continue supplying essential products to Greece if payments stop
completely in the chaos of a currency switch, company
representatives said.  Patient Access   “Obviously there is increasing potential that Greece falls
out of the  euro zone ,” said Gary Ellis, chief financial officer
of U.S. device maker  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  “We are working with the
government to make sure we get our products to those
customers.”  Spokespeople at European drugmakers Roche, Glaxo,  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
 Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  said they’re also planning
for developments in Greece.  “We continue to work very closely with our private and
public customers in Greece to ensure continued supply to
patients,” said  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Basel,
Switzerland-based  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  “We are protecting our business
in Greece through sensible and proactive contingency planning as
well as other measures to ensure we collect receivables.”  Bergstrom is probably right about the reference-pricing
impact, said Mike Rulis, a spokesman for Novo Nordisk, the
Danish insulin maker.  “We could certainly not rule out that there could be
spillover effects,” Rulis said in a telephone interview. “It
all depends on how this plays out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  