-- Dubai Shares Drop to 4-Month Low on Global Risk; Egypt Retreats
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-03T14:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/dubai-shares-head-for-biggest-drop-in-3-months-as-oil-tumbles.html
Dubai’s shares fell to the lowest
level in more than four months on concern Europe’s debt crisis
is worsening and a slowing global economy will damp demand for
oil from the Persian Gulf. Egypt’s benchmark index retreated.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper in Dubai, slumped the most in almost six months.
 Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , a mortgage lender, fell to the lowest since March
1. The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 2 percent to 1,441.8
at the close in Dubai, the lowest level since Feb. 2. Egypt’s
 EGX30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 1.3 percent at the close in Cairo as a
verdict in the trial of former President  Hosni Mubarak  sparked
protests.  Oil tumbled 17 percent last month, the most since December
2008, to $83.23 a barrel, amid concerns Greece may become the
first country to drop out of the euro area. U.S. and European
stocks fell for the fourth time in five weeks. The six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes the  United Arab
Emirates , Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain and Oman, sits on
one-fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  The decline in Dubai is “more related to oil,” Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $100 million at The National Investor
in  Abu Dhabi , said by e-mail. “The second reason is the lack of
visibility in the  euro zone . Losing only 2 percent in this
current international meltdown is very good.”  About 124 million shares were traded in Dubai, compared
with 12-month daily average of about 139 million shares,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar tumbled 4.1
percent, the most since Dec. 15, to 2.79 dirhams. Tamweel lost
4.4 percent to 1.1 dirhams.  Egypt Protests  Egypt ’s gauge declined to 4,625.62, the lowest level since
April 10.  A Cairo court yesterday handed life sentences to Mubarak
and his interior minister Habib El-Adli for complicity in the
deaths of demonstrators during last year’s uprising. It also
acquitted six assistants of El-Adli of charges related to the
killings and Mubarak’s two sons of corruption charges. All
decisions are subject to appeal. Thousands of demonstrators
filled Cairo’s Tahrir Square within hours of the verdict to
voice their discontent.  “Today’s market is definitely politically driven and the
global scene is not helping make things better,” said Omar Darwish, equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial
International Brokerage Co. “People are back in Tahrir
demanding the fall of the regime as if nothing had happened over
the past year and a half and this may result in the delay of the
presidential election.”  EFG-Hermes Gains  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  advanced as much as 9.9 percent to
12.06 before closing at 11.01 Egyptian pounds, the highest level
in more than a week. The biggest publicly traded Arab investment
bank rejected a takeover bid from Planet IB Ltd. in favor of a
joint-venture with Qatar’s QInvest LLC.  Elsewhere in the  Middle East , Israel’s  benchmark  TA-25
Index fell 2.3 percent in Tel Aviv. The yield on the 5.5 percent
Mimshal Shiklit government bonds due January 2022 dropped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.31 percent.  Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index fell 0.6 percent, Kuwait’s
measure dropped 1.2 percent and Qatar’s QE Index fell 1 percent.
Oman’s MSM30 Index retreated 0.6 percent, while Bahrain’s index
declined 0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s measure rose 1 percent
after tumbling the most since August yesterday. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  gained 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  