-- Hedge Funds in Longest Rout Since Global Recession
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-06-04T20:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/hedge-funds-in-longest-rout-since-global-recession-commodities.html
Hedge funds curbed bullish bets on
commodities for a third consecutive month, the longest retreat
since the global recession, as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis
and slowing U.S. job growth sent prices tumbling.  Money managers reduced net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 8.1 percent to 620,715  contracts  in the
week ended May 29, extending the monthly decline to 26 percent,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Speculators are
now the most bearish since the start of year on copper, oil,
heating oil, corn, gold and silver. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Spot Index of 24 raw materials slumped 13 percent in May.  The euro fell to a 23-month low against the dollar June 1
after the  European Central Bank  rejected a plan to recapitalize
Bankia group, Spain’s third-largest lender. The region’s
manufacturing fell to a three-year low, and unemployment reached
a record 11 percent, reports showed. Europe accounts for 18
percent of copper and wheat demand. The U.S., the world’s
biggest oil and natural-gas consumer, said last week that
employers added the fewest workers in a year in May.  “Commodities are continuing to take a beating in light of
global macro uncertainties,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham
Park , New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
which oversees more than $115 billion. Europe has “thrown a wet
blanket on speculators’ desire to hold risk,” he said.  Plunging Prices  Speculators reduced their net-long position by 47 percent
since the end of February, the longest slump since a four-month
retreat ending in October 2008. Commodity prices fell 61 percent
in the seven months through January 2009 as the global economy
contended with its worst recession since World War II.  The S&P GSCI fell 6.4 percent last week, the most since
September. Today, the index touched 571.55, the lowest since
Nov. 26, 2010, before rebounding to close up 0.6 percent. The
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities dropped 2.7 percent
last week, while the dollar rose 0.6 percent against a basket of
six major currencies, the fifth consecutive gain. Treasuries
returned 1.35 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Twenty of the materials tracked by the S&P GSCI declined
last week. Crude oil tumbled 8.4 percent and reached the lowest
price in almost eight months, while cotton slumped to a 27-month
low. Nickel led the declines in base metals, dropping 5.6
percent. Wheat dropped 10 percent even as  hedge funds  became the
most bullish since June 2011. Crude rebounded today, jumping 0.9
percent, the first gain in five sessions.  A gauge of  manufacturing  within the 17 nations that use the
euro contracted for a 10th month, dropping in May to 45.1, the
lowest since mid-2009, compared with 45.9 in April, London-based
Markit Economics said June 1. The European Union said June 1
that Spain’s unemployment rate was the highest in the trade bloc
at 24.3 percent in April.  Slow Growth  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, the Labor
Department said June 1 that payrolls climbed by 69,000 last
month, less than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
survey. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 8.2 percent
from 8.1 percent. Treasuries rallied, driving 10-year yields
below 1.5 percent for the first time.  “When there’s concern about the global economy, you’re not
going to be rushing into commodities, and end-users are going to
be more cautious about buying,” said Adrian Day, the president
of Adrian Day Asset Management in Annapolis,  Maryland , who
oversees about $170 million of assets. “People are selling
because they’re looking for liquidity and they’re nervous about
the global economic outlook.”  Commodities may rebound should governments take further
steps to revive economic growth, said Jason Votruba, the co-
manager for small-cap equities at Scout Investment Advisors in
 Kansas City ,  Missouri , which manages about $22 billion.  ‘Coordinated Effort’  “We will get some sort of rebound in the second half of
the year,” Votruba said. “This is tied to global macroeconomic
concerns, and we’re going to see a coordinated effort by
governments to focus on getting global growth going in the right
direction, and that will drive commodities higher.”  The U.S. jobs report last week “does change the game” for
the  Federal Reserve , said  John Silvia , the chief economist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in Charlotte,  North Carolina . The central bank
may consider new stimulus at its June 20 meeting, said  Dean Maki , the chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in  New York  and a
former Fed economist.  Bullish gold bets were little changed at 77,325 contracts,
close to the lowest since December 2008, CFTC data show. Gold
futures rallied 3.2 percent last week to $1,622.10 an ounce on
the Comex in New York, on renewed concern that further steps by
the Fed to spur growth will accelerate inflation and boost
demand for the metal as a hedge.  Money Flows  Investors added $510.2 million into commodity funds in the
week ended May 30, according to data from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.
That’s the first inflow in six weeks, said  Brad Durham , a
managing director for EPFR. Investors seeking a haven investment
put money mostly into gold and silver, he said.  “Investors are running scared,” Durham said by telephone.
“They’ve lost faith in equities and lost faith in anything
that’s so-called higher risk. The money has to go somewhere. The
general comfort level with holding cash is pretty low.”  Speculators cut their net-long position in crude for a
fourth week, down 0.1 percent to 136,584 contracts, the lowest
since September 2010, CFTC data show. Prices tumbled as low as
$82.29 a barrel last week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest since Oct. 7.  Copper futures fell 3.9 percent last week, touching $3.30 a
pound on the Comex in New York, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Dec. 20. The metal has dropped 21 percent in the
past year. Speculators more than doubled their bets on lower
copper prices last week to 6,757 contracts, the most bearish
since Nov. 29, CFTC data showed.  China Manufacturing  China ’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.4 last month
from 53.3 in April, the statistics bureau and logistics
federation said June 1 in Beijing. Economic growth in China may
slow for a sixth straight quarter to 7.9 percent in the three
months that end June 30, according to the median of estimates
from 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  A  measure  of net-long positions in 11 U.S. farm goods fell
11 percent to 389,702 contracts, the CFTC said. Bullish holdings
have dropped 47 percent in the past 10 weeks.  Corn holdings plunged 44 percent to 61,493 contracts, the
fewest since June 2010, CFTC data show. Prices tumbled to an 18-
month low of $5.51 a bushel on the CBOT.  “Commodities are falling because folks are downgrading
growth and supply expectations,” said  Mihir Worah , who manages
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $22 billion Commodity Real
Return Strategy Fund from  Newport Beach , California. There’s “a
general desire to avoid risky or volatile assets, given all the
uncertainties in Europe,” he wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  