-- Egypt Misses Debt Target as Mubarak Verdict Sparks Protests
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-03T13:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/egypt-offers-t-bills-as-mubarak-verdict-sparks-renewed-protests.html
Egypt  sold 2.5 billion Egyptian
pounds ($414 million) of treasury bills today, missing its
fundraising target after a verdict in former President  Hosni
Mubarak ’s trial sparked demonstrations in several cities.  The North African country accepted bids for three- and
nine-month notes valued at 1 billion pounds and 1.5 billion
pounds, respectively, central bank data on Bloomberg show. It
had sought to raise 2 billion pounds of nine-month notes. The
average yield on the  three-month bills  rose six basis points, or
0.06 of a percentage point, from last week’s sale to 14.45
percent, the highest since Bloomberg started tracking the data
in 2006. The  nine-month rate  was unchanged at 15.825 percent.  A Cairo court handed life sentences to the former leader
and his interior minister Habib El-Adli yesterday for complicity
in the deaths of demonstrators during last year’s uprising. It
also acquitted six senior police officials of charges related to
the killings and Mubarak’s two sons, Alaa and Gamal, of
corruption charges. All decisions are subject to appeal.
Thousands of demonstrators filled Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  within
hours of the verdict to voice their discontent.  Egypt is less than two weeks away from the second round of
the first post-Mubarak presidential election, which pits the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi against Mubarak’s last prime
minister Ahmed Shafik.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in April
2020 fell three basis points to 6.79 percent on June 1,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The Egyptian pound
was little changed at 6.0393 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  