-- Egypt Stocks Slump to Two-Month Low on Verdict, Global Economy
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-03T09:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/egypt-stocks-slump-to-two-month-low-on-verdict-global-economy.html
Egypt’s stocks tumbled to the lowest
level in almost two months after the verdict in the trial of
former President  Hosni Mubarak  sparked protests and on concern
global economic growth is slowing.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  declined to the lowest
intraday level since April 22. Ezz Steel, the country’s biggest
publicly traded manufacturer of the metal, lost 1.5 percent.
The benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 1.9 percent to 4,599.13, the
lowest intraday level since April 11, at 11:09 a.m. in Cairo.  A Cairo court handed life sentences to Mubarak and his
interior minister Habib El-Adli for complicity in the deaths of
demonstrators during last year’s apprising. It also acquitted
six assistants of El-Adli of the charges related to the killings
and Mubarak’s two sons of corruption charges. All decisions are
subject to appeal. Thousands of demonstrators filled Cairo’s
 Tahrir Square  within hours of the verdict to voice their
discontent.  “Today’s market is definitely politically driven and the
global scene is not helping make things better,” said Omar Darwish, equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial
International Brokerage Co. “People are back in Tahrir
demanding the fall of the regime as if nothing had happened over
the past year and a half and this may result in the delay 
of the presidential election.”  EFG-Hermes Retreats  European stocks declined for the fourth week in five and
U.S. shares tumbled, erasing the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) ’s
2012 gain. Oil dropped 3.8 percent in New York on June 1 after
the Labor Department said American employers added the fewest
workers in a year in May. The jobless rate in the euro region,
which has been in the grips of a debt crisis for three years,
reached a record high, of 11 percent in April and March.  Orascom Construction, the country’s biggest publicly traded
builder, lost 1.3 percent to 254.5 pounds.  Ezz Steel (ESRS)  slipped to
6.55 Egyptian pounds, poised for the lowest close since April
11.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  lost 0.6 percent after the biggest
publicly traded Arab investment bank rejected a takeover bid
from Planet IB Ltd. in favor of a joint-venture with Qatar’s
QInvest LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  