-- Eisenhower in War or Peace Is Model for 2012 Contenders
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-06-03T15:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/eisenhower-in-war-or-peace-is-model-for-2012-contenders.html
Dwight D. Eisenhower  was one of
America’s greatest presidents. A half-century ago, as a teenager
enamored with politics, I argued incessantly to the contrary
with my father, a devout Republican.  It seems relevant this week. June 6 marks the 68th
anniversary of D-Day, the greatest military expedition in modern
history, led by Supreme Allied Commander Eisenhower. There’s a
magnificent new biography, “Eisenhower in War and Peace,” by
the historian  Jean Edward Smith . The presidential candidates,
 Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney , should study the 34th president.  Eisenhower, Smith writes, wasn’t a brilliant military
strategist. He made miscalculations during World War II, and the
British tried to take away his command.  The reasons he was perfectly suited for his task were his
acute political sense and leadership qualities, born out of a
sense of self-security. On the military side, as a young officer
he had learned to deal with the ego of Douglas MacArthur; that
was good training for directing the likes of Field Marshal
Bernard Montgomery and General George Patton on the battlefields
of  Europe .  Politically, he juggled the competing demands of  Franklin Roosevelt ,  Winston Churchill ,  Joseph Stalin  and  Charles de Gaulle , all of whom shared confidence in Ike.  Supreme Commander  As the supreme allied commander -- a position he was given
by Roosevelt and George C. Marshall over more senior officers --
he inspired his soldiers and the public as he defeated  Nazi
Germany .  His political antennae paved the way for him to become the
first Republican president in two decades. Any naiveté -- the
day he was nominated by the party he didn’t realize he could
pick his running mate -- was dwarfed by his often underestimated
instincts. (He picked  Richard Nixon  who became embroiled in
controversy and gave the famous “Checkers” speech to salvage
his place on the ticket; it was very effective, but Eisenhower
thought he had been double-crossed, forever affecting his
relations with Nixon, according to Smith.)  He ended the  Korean War  and presided over eight years of
peace during the  Cold War . Domestically, a fiscal conservative,
Ike resisted the right wing of his party, which wanted to repeal
New Deal programs such as Social Security. He authorized the
construction of the St. Lawrence Seaway, which connects the
Great lakes to the Atlantic Ocean. He also created the U.S.
Interstate Highway System, the largest public-works program in
the country’s history that connects 47,000 miles of roads and
transformed American life.  A blemish on the Eisenhower record is his slowness on the
great struggle over civil rights. If a hugely popular president
had been more forceful it might have been a less painful
process. However, at the critical juncture when the governor of
Arkansas tried to block the integration of the Little Rock
schools, Ike sent in the 101st Airborne Division, a momentous
decision.  Smith also refutes a myth that Eisenhower regretted the
 Supreme Court ’s seminal 1954 Brown versus Board of Education
decision on school integration, and his appointment of  Earl Warren  as chief justice. In 1956, as he weighed not running for
re-election, the president thought Warren might be a possible
replacement on the Republican ticket. Even so, Smith writes, it
was unlikely Warren would step down as chief justice and
Eisenhower was skeptical of his ability to make “crisp
decisions.”  McCarthy Era  This year’s Republican candidate, Romney, should study how
Eisenhower took on the right-wing elements in his party, not
just the infamous Joe McCarthy, who the president shrewdly let
hang himself, while his “hidden hand” provided some of the
rope. (An Eisenhower regret was that during the 1952 campaign he
deleted from a speech in Wisconsin a defense of Marshall, his
commanding officer and mentor, out of deference to McCarthy who
had tried to smear Marshall.)  He told conservative Republicans lobbying for more robust
defense spending that it would necessitate  higher taxes , that
choices must be made. In his farewell address, the five-star
Army general famously warned against the “unwarranted
influence” of the military-industrial complex.  For Obama, who privately has ruminated about deference to
the military, Ike could be a role model. On three occasions,
Eisenhower overruled his joint chiefs of staff who wanted to use
atomic bombs against  North Korea , North Vietnam and  China . He
consistently followed a firm policy toward the  Soviet Union 
without escalating into war, over the objections of some hawks
in his party.  Obama’s always politically directed National Security
Council might consider this: On the eve of his 1956 re-election,
Eisenhower derailed the British, French and Israeli attempt to
seize the  Suez Canal .  And, for any would-be presidents, Eisenhower set a model of
how to accept responsibility. On June 5, 1944, as he was about
to send 160,000 allied troops to assault the beaches of
Normandy, he wrote a  memo  in the event of failure: “Our
landings have failed and I have withdrawn the troops. My
decision to attack at this time and place was based on the best
information available. The troops, the air and the Navy did all
that bravery could do. If any blame or fault attaches to the
attempt it is mine alone.”  Close to the end of his presidency, when the Soviets shot
down a U.S. spy plane, he was urged to blame others and fire the
director of the Central Intelligence Agency who had assured him
the aircraft wasn’t vulnerable. He refused and publicly accepted
responsibility. This, Smith writes, “may have been the finest
hour of his Presidency.”  How many American politicians would do this today?  Fondly recalling the spirited political debates with my
Dad, who died decades ago, I wouldn’t retreat on much. But he
was right about Ike.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter, lighter cars 
and  smarter health spending ; William D. Cohan on  delusional
Facebook investors ; Severin Borenstein on  saving the airline
industry ;  David Crane  on politicians and  unions ; A. Gary
Shilling on Japan’s  strong currency and weak economy ; Marc Joffe
and Anthony Randazzo  on mortgage investors.   To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 