-- Euro Gains for 2nd Day on Optimism Leaders Near Solution
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-04T20:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/euro-drops-as-german-opposition-boosts-debt-crisis-woes.html
The euro rose for a second day versus
the dollar as traders said the shared currency’s decline may
have been too quick after European leaders agreed to discuss
closer banking cooperation in the euro bloc.  The 17-nation currency gained from a more than 11-year low
against the yen amid speculation that traders were unwinding
wagers the shared currency would decline. The dollar
strengthened against the yen as Treasury yields rose for the
first time in four days, from record lows. Australia’s dollar
fell as investors bet the central bank will cut rates at
meetings tomorrow.  Canada ’s dollar weakened as policy makers are
expected to back away from interest-rate increases this week.  “Talk of banking cooperation calms the market,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “It’s a short-term calm and the market
will challenge them. Traders have pushed the bearish thematic as
much as they can and it’s a week to settle down.”  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2494 at 4:19 p.m. New York
time. It fell to as low as $1.2288 on June 1, the weakest level
since July 1, 2010. Europe’s shared currency climbed 0.9 percent
to 97.91 yen. On June 1 it reached 95.60, the least since
November 2000. The dollar gained 0.5 percent to 78.37 yen.  Markets were closed in  London  in celebration of the Queen’s
diamond jubilee.  Technical Levels  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro versus the
dollar rose above 30 for the first time in nine-days, ending the
longest streak since 2008. The level indicates an asset’s
decline may have been too fast.  Futures traders increased net bets against the euro versus
the dollar to a record high for a third week. So-called net
shorts rose by 8,054 to 203,415 contracts in the period ended
May 29, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.  “The euro shorts, which are at a record, are being
squeezed,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York . “Some of the
momentum traders have to get out. There’s nothing fundamental
behind it -- it’s some momentum squaring up.”  Canada’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to C$1.0408 after touching
C$1.0447, the lowest level since Nov. 28. Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said last month interest-rate rises may be
necessary as growth outpaces his earlier projections. Investors
are now pricing in as many as 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, of central-bank easing by December as the
central bank will have to react to a worsening global economy.  Real Weakness  Brazil’s real fell against all its major counterparts,
declining 0.6 percent to 2.0516 per dollar. Policy makers cut
the target lending rate by a half-percentage point to a record
low 8.5 percent last week, citing “fragility” abroad that is
having a “disinflationary” effect on Latin America’s biggest
economy.  In  Australia ,  interest-rate swaps  indicate better-than-even
chances the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower its 3.75
percent overnight cash-rate target to 3.25 percent tomorrow and
to a record 2.25 percent by November.  Net shorts  for the Australian dollar also climbed to an
all-time high last week, rising to 35,527. The so-called Aussie
rose 0.2 percent to 97.22 U.S. cents today after dropping as
much as 0.8 percent.  The Aussie has had the biggest year-to-date decline against
nine-developed nation counterparts, as tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The 2.7 percent loss is followed
by the 1.8 percent decline in the Swedish krona and 1.4 percent
retreat in the euro.  Euro Talks  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agreed to discuss proposals on banking
coordination when they meet today in Berlin.  The shared currency’s breakout suggests a possible climb to
$1.2620  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and interest-
rates technical strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York
wrote to clients.  “Do not be fooled by near-term strength,” he wrote.
“Gains remain corrective before a resumption of the larger
downtrend for $1.2143 and below.”  The commission, the European Union’s executive, last week
called for a “banking union” that would integrate supervision
of lenders more tightly and create a pool of EU funds to clean
up banks with cross-border exposure. The Brussels-based
commission also proposed that the euro’s permanent bailout fund
inject cash to banks instead of channeling the money through
national governments.  German Views  Germany views jointly issued bonds in the euro area as an
unsuitable measure to overcome the debt crisis at this time,
government spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin.  “The discussion in Europe on what needs to be done has
become very public,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency
strategist at Barclays Plc’s Barclays Capital unit. in New York.
“Euro-dollar had sold off quite a bit last week so we are
seeing some retracement.”  The dollar snapped a three-day drop against the yen after
Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  pledged on June 1 to take
“decisive action” on his nation’s currency should “excessive
moves” persist. Azumi declined to comment on whether Japan has
intervened in the  currency market  at a news conference.  Japan’s Vice Finance Minister for International Affairs
Takehiko Nakao said today he discussed currencies with  Bank of
Japan (8301)  Executive Director Hiroshi Nakaso as part of an exchange
of views on global markets.  The yen was also buoyed as the premium received or
investing in  U.S. debt  instead of Japanese securities widened.
The so-called  yield spread  rose to 68 basis points from a record
low 63 basis points June 1.  U.S. 10-year Treasury yields rose seven basis points to
1.52 percent. The benchmark reached a record 1.4387 percent on
June 1.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was 0.4 percent lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  