-- Teva’s Treanda Delays Tumor Growth
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-03T16:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/teva-s-treanda-delays-tumor-growth.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
Treanda worked better than a standard therapy and with fewer
side effects to slow the growth of immune system tumors, a
finding that could push more doctors to prescribe the drug as an
initial treatment.  Patients given Treanda and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Rituxan lived
more than three years longer without their tumors progressing
than those taking chemotherapy with Rituxan, according to
results released today at the American Society of Clinical
Oncology  meeting  in  Chicago .  The study looked at patients with slow-growing lymphoma and
mantle cell lymphoma who hadn’t been treated with other drugs.
The finding may boost sales of Treanda, which are projected to
increase five-fold to $670 million next year, the average of
eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The drug, which
isn’t approved for first-line use, generated $131 million in
sales last year for Teva.  Treanda “is not only less toxic but also more effective
than the most often used first line treatment approach,” said
Mathias Rummel, professor of medicine at University Hospital
Giessen in  Germany  and one of the study’s researchers. “It
should be considered as a preferred, front-line treatment for
patients.”  The treatment was developed decades ago in East Germany and
has been widely used in Eastern Europe for decades, said Rummel.
Doctors outside of the former  Soviet Union  only learned about it
after the reunification of Germany and have been hesitant to use
it, he said.  U.S. Approval  Treanda won U.S. approval in March 2008 for patients with
chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a cancer of the soft tissue inside
bones where blood cells are made. The drug was cleared seven
months later as a back-up therapy for patients with the slow-
growing form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or NHL.  Teva, based in Petach Tikvah,  Israel  gained the drug
through its $6.8 billion purchase of Cephalon Inc. in 2011.  The study, which followed 514 patients, didn’t show a
difference in survival between those taking Treanda or the
standard regimen. Treanda plus Rituxan delayed tumor progression
by about 70 months in patients compared with 31 months in those
taking a placebo with chemotherapy and Rituxan. Patients taking
Treanda had less hair loss and infections.  “This should likely become the new standard of care for
these individuals,” said Bruce Roth, a professor of medicine at
 Washington University  in  St. Louis . “It is remarkable to have
an agent that provides superior efficacy and less toxicity.”  Data released in 2009 showed the drug delayed tumor growth
by 55 months as an initial treatment compared with 35 months for
patients taking the standard regimen.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 