-- Formula 1 Legend Makes a Lighter Smart Car for the Street
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/formula-1-legend-makes-a-lighter-smart-car-for-the-street.html
Apple Inc., we are confident, will
not be selling cars anytime soon. But the  auto industry  -- like
music, film or, dare we say,  publishing  -- could use a little
bit of old-fashioned  disruptive innovation , and maybe Gordon Murray can provide it.  Murray, the famed London-based automotive designer and
entrepreneur responsible for some of the most successful Formula
1 race cars, has lately turned his attention to a less
expensive, less speedy pursuit: He wants to provide a small,
light, efficient car to the masses.  As Bloomberg Markets 
reports, Gordon Murray Design has spent about $50 million over
the last five years on just such a vehicle.  The highways are jammed, to paraphrase a  famous automotive
poet , with broken entrepreneurs who tried to take on  Detroit .
Nonetheless, Murray’s effort is notable on a few counts.  First, he does not intend to build the car itself; instead,
Murray plans to license its manufacturing process, called
“iStream.” (The prefix has worked well for Apple, which Murray
quixotically hopes will build his car.) Murray has reduced the
process of car assembly from the usual five steps to two, and
the vehicle -- why not, let’s call it the iCar -- is made mostly
of fiberglass-based composites. There is almost no steel in it.  The drive for greater automotive efficiency, from both
 outside  the industry and  within  it, is longstanding. Federal
standards for fuel economy are scheduled to climb from 25.2
miles per gallon for cars and light trucks to 54.5 mpg by 2025.  Since their establishment 37 years ago, these rules have
undoubtedly helped reduce oil consumption, made the U.S. cleaner
and saved drivers billions. Yet they are dauntingly complex,
administered by both the Environmental Protection Agency and the
Department of Transportation, and have proved difficult to
modernize, though the Obama administration gets  credit for
trying .  The next frontier in automotive efficiency may well be
automotive weight. Which is to say: That crazy dreamer Gordon
Murray may be on to something. His gasoline-powered prototype is
only 550 kilograms (1,200 pounds), about half the weight of a
BMW Mini Cooper. In part because of its weight, it gets 96 mpg.
If strong, lightweight materials become more popular, they may
also become cheaper to produce.  The standard hesitation with smaller cars, as any parent
who’s ever handed over the keys to a newly minted teenage driver
can attest, is the worry that they are less safe. But these
concerns aren’t entirely founded on fact. A new small car may
not fare so well in a head-on crash with a new big car. But
today’s small cars  are safer  than yesterday’s big cars, and many
are  just as safe  as larger models.  Another benefit of smaller, lighter cars -- at least to
taxpayers -- is that they are far easier on the roads. One
( admittedly small ) study found that overweight trucks cost
 Arizona  between $12 million and $53 million a year in road
damage. This doesn’t necessarily mean that  Washington  should
issue weight standards the way it issues fuel standards. But
maybe automakers -- like jockeys, certain  Northeastern governors 
or, say, race-car designers -- should think even more about
their weight.  As should the rest of us: Slimmer cars, after all, may
require slimmer drivers.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter health spending ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of Dwight D. Eisenhower ; William
D. Cohan on  delusional Facebook investors ; A. Gary Shilling on
 Japan ’s  strong currency and weak economy ; Severin Borenstein on
 saving the airline industry ;  David Crane  on the  future of
unions ; Marc Joffe and Anthony Randazzo  on mortgage investors.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 