-- Greco Faces Task of Reviving Generali’s 9-Year-Low Profit
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-06-04T07:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/greco-faces-task-of-reviving-generali-s-9-year-low-profit.html
  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  Chief
Executive Officer-designate  Mario Greco  faces the task of
reviving the largest Italian insurer’s profit that is at a nine-
year low as the  European debt crisis  threatens to engulf  Italy .  The 52-year-old, who as CEO of Riunione Adriatica di
Sicurta SpA expanded that company before its 2005 buyout by
Allianz AG, will take the helm at Generali after he resigns from
 Zurich Insurance Group AG. (ZURN)  Giovanni Perissinotto, who has led
Generali since 2001, was voted out by its board 10-to-5 June 2.  Greco arrives at a time when the insurer’s capital is
weakened by exposure to Italy’s sovereign debt and its stock is
trading near the lowest level in more than 20 years. Investors
led by  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and Leonardo Del Vecchio, which together
own 16 percent of the Trieste, Italy-based company, are turning
to Greco for a new strategy after profit fell for four
consecutive quarters on writedowns of assets including Greek
bonds and lower earnings at the life unit.  “Generali’s main problem isn’t linked to the management
but to the country’s risk,” said Angelo Drusiani, who manages
about 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) at Banca Albertini Syz & C.
in Milan. “The insurer should focus on internationalization. To
do that Greco would need to attract new investors and fresh
capital, something that’s not easy in the current environment.”  Italian Bonds  Investors are shunning shares of financial institutions
exposed to Europe’s debt as  Spain  struggles to avoid becoming
the next country to call for a rescue and the euro slides near a
two-year low against the dollar. Generali held 45.9 billion
euros of Italian  government bonds  at the end of 2011.  Generali rose 3 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 8.52 euros by
9:06 a.m. in Milan trading today. The shares have  fallen  27
percent this year, the third-worst performance in the  Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index (BEINSUR) , which was down 5.8 percent. Generali
reached  8.22 euros on May 31, the lowest level since December
1988.  Generali’s solvency I ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, was 117 percent at the end of last year, compared
with an average of 188 percent of 12 life insurance companies in
Western Europe, according to Bloomberg Industries data.  Even though the ratio rose to 133 percent at the end of
March, the levels “limit room for maneuver,” Alberto Villa, an
analyst at Intermonte SIM SpA, wrote in report last month.  PPF Venture  Net income  slumped 50 percent to 856 million euros last
year, the lowest level since 2002.  Greco may need to raise funds to help pay for Generali’s
venture in eastern  Europe  with Amsterdam-based PPF Group NV.  The Italian insurer may spend as much as 2.7 billion euros
in 2014 to exercise an option to acquire the 49 percent stake it
doesn’t already own, according to Generali’s 2011 annual report.  Perissinotto had dismissed calls for a capital increase and
said in March Generali could buy the stake using “internal
resources.” A month later, he said raising capital could be an
option if “there were real opportunities to grow.”  Investors are betting Greco, a former McKinsey & Co.
consultant, can replicate what he has achieved over his 17 years
in the  insurance industry , when he oversaw businesses in
countries including France, Spain and  Turkey , as well as Italy.  In 1998 he became CEO of Riunione Adriatica di Sicurta,
Italy’s second-biggest insurer at the time. He ran the company
until 2005, when he joined  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  as head of its
insurance division.  ’International Flavor’  During his tenure at RAS, Greco combined units, expanded
the insurer’s sales channels and banking services and fostered
distribution alliances. RAS was fully taken over by Allianz in
2005.  RAS’s shares rose about 66 percent under his management,
beating a 50 percent decline of the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  “Greco is a very high-quality manager as confirmed by
RAS’s performance under his leadership,” said Carlo Alberto
Carnevale-Maffe, professor of business strategy at Milan’s
 Bocconi University . “He will bring an international flavor.”  A Zurich Insurance spokeswoman declined to make Greco
available for comment. Greco, who is the Zurich-based company’s
head of general insurance, didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Greco may need to prove his independence from leading
shareholders after Perissinotto accused Mediobanca, Generali’s
biggest investor with a 13 percent stake, of protecting its own
interests by pushing him out of office.  Mediobanca Link  “Mediobanca has obstructed Generali management efforts to
diversify risk into new high-growth areas” because this might
have led to a dilution of its stake and “reduced influence”
over the group given the investment bank’s unwillingness to take
part in a capital increase, Perissinotto wrote in a May 31
letter to board members.  Mediobanca is leading a rescue plan for  Fondiaria-Sai SpA (FSA) ,
Italy’s second-biggest insurer, by supporting a proposal of
Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA to carry out a merger. Mediobanca
has lent more than 1 billion euros to Fondiaria.  Generali Board Member Diego Della Valle, who backed
Perissinotto, said after the June 2 meeting that he plans to
resign. “I agreed neither with the form nor the substance” of
his departure, Della Valle told reporters in Milan.  Mediobanca and Generali have shared business interests
beyond Mediobanca’s stake in the insurer. Generali has a 30
percent holding in Telco SpA,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s biggest
investor. The insurer last month agreed with shareholders
including Mediobanca on a 3.4 billion-euro financing package to
help repay loans they obtained in 2007 to buy stakes in the
phone company.  Generali has bought 624 million euros of Mediobanca’s bonds
and 500 million euros of Mediobanca’s hybrid instruments,
according to its more recent annual report.  “Governance is the company’s Achilles heel, as investors
have several times interfered in the management to preserve
their interests,” Banca Albertini’s Drusiani said. “If he
fails in this mission he will not go far.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  