-- Tiger Woods’s Agent Mark Steinberg Charged With Drunken Driving
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/tiger-woods-s-agent-mark-steinberg-arrested-for-drunken-driving.html
Mark Steinberg , the agent for golfer
 Tiger Woods , was charged with drunken driving after being
stopped by police two nights ago in suburban New York.  Steinberg, 44, was charged with aggravated driving while
intoxicated and DWI because he had a blood-alcohol content
higher than .18, more than twice the legal limit of .08 in New
York state, the Ardsley, New York, police department said in a
news release yesterday.  Steinberg, who has represented Woods since 1999, was one of
11 people arrested June 2 by police from Westchester County,
 Dobbs Ferry  and Ardsley at a sobriety checkpoint off of the New
York State Thruway, Sergeant Dave Fisher of the  Ardsley Police
Department  said.  After smelling alcohol coming from Steinberg’s car, he was
issued a field sobriety test, which he failed, Fisher said.
Steinberg was then arrested and was charged at 10:43 p.m.  New
York  time, the release said.  “He did inform us who he was,” Fisher said in a telephone
interview. “It is what it is. He was intoxicated.”  Steinberg, in an e-mail, said “it’s a medical issue that I
was dealing with. It’s not what you think.”  Steinberg gave police no indication of a medical issue,
Fisher said.  “It was alcohol related,” Fisher said. “He submitted to
a chemical test to determine alcohol-blood content and he failed
that test.”  Steinberg was released without bail after a couple of
hours, Fisher said.  Steinberg left New York-based IMG Worldwide in May 2011 and
joined  Excel Sports Management two months later, where he is a
partner. The New York-based company also represents Woods’s
niece, Cheyenne Woods, and U.S.  PGA Tour  players Matt Kuchar and
Gary Woodland.  Tiger Woods, who won the Memorial Tournament by two shots
yesterday, said he was aware of the incident involving Steinberg
and wouldn’t comment. With the victory, Woods tied event host
 Jack Nicklaus  for the second-most wins on the U.S. PGA Tour with
73, nine fewer than  Sam Snead .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at  mbuteau@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at  msillup@bloomberg.net  or 