-- Tiger Woods Wins Memorial to Tie Host Nicklaus With 73 PGA Wins
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/tiger-woods-wins-memorial-for-second-title-this-year-on-pga-tour.html
Tiger Woods  won the Memorial
Tournament to tie event host  Jack Nicklaus  for the second-most
titles on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour.  “To do it here and have him here -- actually right next to
me right now -- all that means something to us as players and
it’s awfully special for me,” Woods told reporters at Muirfield
Village Golf Club in Columbus,  Ohio , yesterday.  Woods, 36, birdied three of the final four holes, the
highlight of which was a flop shot at the par-3 16th that gave
him a share of the lead. Nicklaus, 72, said it was the best shot
he’d ever seen under the circumstances.  Woods shot a 5-under-par 67 -- matching the best score of
the final round -- to finish with a four-round total of 9-under-
par 279. Andres Romero of  Argentina  and Rory Sabbatini from
 South Africa  tied for second place at 7-under.  Woods’s fifth win at the Memorial lifts him to 73 titles on
tour, nine fewer than  Sam Snead . Woods is now the 6-1 favorite
at the Las Vegas Hotel and Casino’s sports book to win this
month’s U.S. Open, moving from 15-1 a week ago. He said his form
gives him a good chance of collecting a fourth U.S. Open win and
15th major title at the June 14-17 tournament.  “Every shot was exactly the same -- the shape, the
trajectory, the distance control, I had it all,” said Woods,
who hasn’t won a major since his third  U.S. Open  triumph in
2008. “That was fun to have when I needed it.”  Woods, who trailed third-round leader Spencer Levin by four
shots at the start of play, moved into a share of the lead with
Sabbatini with his birdie at the par-3 16th.  Full Swing Flop  From deep rough behind the green and facing water on the
far side of the putting surface, Woods took a full swing with a
wedge and sent his ball high into the air. It flopped softly to
the grass and trickled down the slope into the hole.  “What a shot,” record 18-time major champion Nicklaus
told reporters. “I don’t think under the circumstances I’ve
ever seen a better shot.”  As the crowd erupted, Woods delivered two of his trademark
fist pumps and roared his approval. Later, he said that holing
it was a bonus.  “I was trying to get it inside eight or 10 feet,” said
Woods. “If the lie wasn’t that bad then I wouldn’t have been
worried about the water and I would have tried to get it really
close.”  Woods took the lead for good minutes later as Sabbatini had
a bogey from a greenside sand trap at the 16th.  Woods closed his round with a 9-foot birdie putt on the
18th hole, raising his putter above his head just before his
ball fell into the cup and then walking off the green to accept
Nicklaus’s congratulations. He also won $1.12 million.  ‘In My Face’  “He had to rub it in my face right here, didn’t he?”
Nicklaus said, laughing. “No, if he’s going to do it, as he’s
obviously going to, I’d like to see it happen here.”  Woods’s victories this year have come at events hosted by
two of the most famous golfers in history. He won the Arnold Palmer Invitational on March 25 for a seventh time to end a
winless run on the tour that stretched back to September 2009.  His latest success marks the 13th time Woods has won at
least twice in a season on the PGA Tour and fourth time he’s won
Palmer’s and Nicklaus’s events in the same year.  Woods will climb to fourth from ninth in the Official World
Golf Ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  