-- IPads on a Plane Let Scoot Save Fuel by Shedding TV Tons
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-06-04T09:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/ipads-help-budget-carrier-scoot-save-fuel-by-dumping-tons-of-tvs.html
Scoot Pte is offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPads to budget long-haul travelers after ripping out aircraft
entertainment systems weighing more than two tons to save fuel.  The tablets helped the carrier cut 7 percent off the weight
of planes obtained from parent  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  even
after a 40 percent increase in seating, Chief Executive Officer
Campbell Wilson said. The savings will help Scoot, which makes
its maiden flight today, cope with fuel prices that have jumped
about 36 percent in two years.  Fuel is “the number one worry” for any airline, as it
usually accounts for at least 40 percent of costs, Wilson said
in a June 1 interview in  Singapore . Scoot will charge economy
passengers S$22 ($17) a trip to rent the tablets, which are
loaded with movies, music, games and television shows.  Cutting costs and finding new sources of revenue will be
key for Singapore-based Scoot as it seeks to make a profit
flying older planes than other low-cost carriers and selling
tickets as cheap as S$158 one-way to Sydney, a flight of more
than seven hours. Singapore Air formed Scoot after budget
operators led by Jetstar and AirAsia Bhd. won 26 percent of the
city’s air-travel market.  The iPads are “a very smart move,” said Corrine Png,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Singapore-based head of regional
transportation research. “If they can make the aircraft lighter,
it does help improve  fuel efficiency .”  Business-Class Seats  The budget carrier will loan the iPads free to passengers
in its business-class seats. It eventually intends to have users
access content via a wireless system onboard planes.  JetStar,  Qantas Airways Ltd. ’s budget arm, also offers
preloaded iPads on domestic and international flights lasting
longer than 90 minutes. Qantas’s main unit began trialing a
wireless iPad system in December.  Singapore Air fell 1.4 percent to S$10.25 at the close of
trading in the city-state. The  carrier  has tumbled 28 percent in
the past year, compared with a 14 percent decline for the
Straits Times Index.  Scoot will have four Boeing Co. 777-200s this year, each
fitted with 400 seats, including 32 in  business class . Flights
to its second destination,  Australia ’s Gold Coast, will start
next week.  ‘Defensive Measure’  “We view this as initially a defensive measure by
Singapore Airlines,” Timothy Ross, managing director and head
of Asia-Pacific transport research at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Singapore, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. “The economics of
long-haul low-cost are unproven,”  Charging extra for services such as the iPads and catering
may help boost earnings, he said.  “Given that margins on those revenues are so much higher
than they are on carrying passengers, anything you can do to
increase that as a proportion generally augers well for the
bottom line,” Ross said.  Scoot will begin flights to Tianjin,  China  in August
followed by two other northern Chinese cities before the end of
the year, Wilson, 40, said.  “China has a huge amount of potential,” he said. “It’s
developing fast and the propensity of people there to spend is
increasing dramatically.”  The country will probably be the world’s fastest-growing
aviation market through 2014, with international passenger
numbers swelling at an average pace of 11 percent, the
 International Air Transport Association  said last year.  Scoot plans to increase its fleet to as many as 14 777s by
the middle of the decade. The carrier will be able to pare
maintenance costs by working with its parent, Wilson said.  Singapore Air also owns regional carrier SilkAir and has a
stake in short-haul budget carrier  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  