-- Iran Backs Iraq’s Thamir Ghadhban to Head OPEC, Shahristani Says
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l   A n s a r y
-- 2012-06-03T15:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/iran-backs-iraq-s-thamir-ghadhban-to-head-opec-shahristani-says.html
Iran  backs the Iraqi government’s
candidate for the post of OPEC secretary-general, said Hussain al-Shahristani, Iraq’s deputy prime minister for energy affairs.  Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi expressed his country’s
support for former Iraqi Oil Minister  Thamir Ghadhban  during
talks in Baghdad today, Shahristani said in an e-mailed
statement. Qasemi also discussed with Shahristani ways of
boosting cooperation between the neighboring countries in the
field of energy, by exchanging expertise and encouraging Iranian
companies to invest in Iraq, Shahristani said.  Iraq’s Cabinet nominated Ghadhban, 67, to the post of
secretary-general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries on March 6, competing against a candidate from  Saudi
Arabia , OPEC’s de facto leader. Ghadhban is currently a top
adviser to the Iraqi prime minister. He was oil minister in 2004
and 2005, after the U.S.-led invasion ousted  Saddam Hussein .  Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki maintains close ties
with the leadership in neighboring Iran which has tense
relations with other Gulf neighbors including Saudi Arabia.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, nominated
Majid al-Moneef, its OPEC governor, as head of the producer
group, a person with knowledge of the matter said Feb. 1.
Ecuador, OPEC’s smallest producer, nominated Oil Minister Wilson
Pastor, a person with knowledge of the matter said May 31.  OPEC’s current secretary-general, Abdalla el-Badri of
Libya, will complete his second three-year term at the end of
this year. OPEC ministers will probably consider the nominations
at their June 14 meeting at the organization’s Vienna
headquarters. OPEC’s members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  