-- Iran Sanctions Will Deepen Hatred Toward West, Khamenei Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-06-03T08:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/iran-sanctions-will-deepen-hatred-toward-west-khamenei-says.html
Sanctions against  Iran  will serve
only to deepen the Persian Gulf country’s antipathy toward the
West without harming its scientific advances, Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said.  “We should relentlessly continue our progress in the
fields of politics, science and technology,” Khamenei, the
highest authority in the country, said in a speech aired live
today on  state television . “Sanctions can not hamper the
Iranian nation’s progress and will only deepen its hatred
towards the West.”  Iran is at loggerheads with the U.S. and its allies over
its nuclear program, which western powers suspect of covering
the development of atomic weapons. Iran maintains the work is
civilian and intended to generate power and for medical
research. As a result of its nuclear activities, Iran has come
under financial, trade and energy sanctions imposed by the
 United Nations , the U.S. and the European Union.  The U.S. is “magnifying” Iran’s nuclear issue in the
media, said Khamenei, who was speaking outside of Tehran at an
event commemorating the death of the founder of the Islamic
Republic,  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini . The U.S. administration
describes  Iran’s nuclear program  in “deceitful” terms,
diverting public opinion from pressing problems at home, he
said.  The Iranian government has portrayed the country’s nuclear
program domestically as a sign of the country’s independence and
resistance in the face of world powers.  “Iran has proven that without reliance on U.S. or other
powers, and even despite being an enemy of the U.S., a nation
can achieve genuine progress,” Khamenei told supporters
gathered for the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  