-- Iraq, Iran Agree to Coordinate Oil Stance at OPEC Meeting
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i ,   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-06-03T13:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/iran-calls-on-opec-to-keep-output-ceiling-press-tv-says.html
Iraq  and  Iran  said they will take a
common position on OPEC’s production policy when the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets this month.  The neighbors agreed “to coordinate the two countries’
stance at OPEC,”  Asim Jihad , a spokesman for Iraq’s oil
ministry, said today by telephone from Baghdad, without
elaborating. OPEC ministers plan to meet to assess markets and
the group’s output ceiling on June 14 in Vienna.  Iran and Iraq will adopt a unified position on OPEC’s
production, and they emphasized the need for its 12 members to
pump crude in line with their collective target, Iran’s state-
run  Press TV  reported, citing a meeting in Baghdad yesterday
between Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi and Iraqi Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Iran will insist that OPEC maintain
its current ceiling for crude when the ministers gather, Press
TV said in a separate report yesterday, citing Qasemi.  Iran and Iraq are OPEC’s second- and third-biggest
producers, respectively, after  Saudi Arabia , which has boosted
supplies as U.S. and European sanctions against Iran curb the
Islamic republic’s exports. OPEC produced 31.62 million barrels
a day in April, 5 percent more than its 30 million barrel-a-day
ceiling, according to monthly estimates from the group’s
secretariat. Iraq holds the organization’s presidency this year.  Brent crude , a European benchmark for more than half of the
world’s oil, dropped below $100 on June 1 for the first time
since October as reports of higher unemployment in the U.S. and
euro area signaled fuel demand may tumble. Brent for July
settlement tumbled $3.44, or 3.4 percent, to $98.43 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , the lowest close
since Jan. 27, 2011. The contract lost 15 percent through May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  