-- Fortescue Sees ‘Sustainable’ Iron Ore Price at $110 a Ton
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-03T02:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/iron-ore-to-fall-19-to-sustainable-level-fortescue-ceo-says.html
Iron ore  prices will fall 19 percent
before finding a “long term, sustainable” level as  China ’s
economy slows, according to the head of  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG) ,  Australia ’s third-biggest producer.  The steelmaking raw material will drop to about $110 a
metric ton, Fortescue Chief Executive Officer Neville Power said
on today’s ‘ Inside Business ’ program on the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.  Iron ore  traded at $135 on June 1, according
to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  “Looking forward, we’ve allowed the forecast to drop down
to around $110 a ton and done all our modeling around that,”
Power told the ABC. “Long term, that will be the sustainable
price.” He didn’t say how long that decline may take.  Iron ore in May posted the biggest monthly drop since
October on concern that slower growth in China, the biggest
buyer, is curbing demand from mills. While the nation is still
expanding at an enviable rate, the Chinese economy is enduring
“short-term fluctuations,” Power said on today’s program.  China’s economy  is forecast to expand 8.2 percent this year,
the least since 1999, based on the median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg last month.  Power said iron ore has proved to be “resilient” and will
fetch between $130 and $150 a ton “in the short term.”  Forecasting declines, Power said the Australian government
will struggle to meet income targets from its mining tax. The
contribution from Perth-based Fortescue, which plans to almost
triple annual iron-ore output to 155 million tons by June 2013,
will be “negligible” over the next two to three years, Power
said.  ‘Very Difficult’  A tax on profits from iron ore and coal, which won
Australian Senate approval in March and takes effect July 1,
will reap about A$6.5 billion in revenue over two years from
companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group,
government estimates show.  “That’s going to be very difficult for them to achieve
those revenues,” Power said. “As the iron ore price goes up,
that tax liability goes up, but at these iron ore prices, I
don’t see us paying any.”  The commodity has lost 21 percent in the past year.  Steel output in China, the world’s biggest producer,
declined 1.6 percent to 60.57 million tons in April, the World
Steel Association said May 21. Iron-ore  imports  dropped 8.2
percent to 57.69 million tons in the same month, according to
General Customs. Iron-ore and coking-coal buyers are seeking to
defer imports as  steel mills  in China reduced output amid lower
prices, Mirae Asset Securities Co. said on May 21.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has vowed to focus on increasing  growth 
after trade and domestic demand were below forecasts in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  