-- ITC to Raise Some Food Prices on Edible Oil Import Costs
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-06-03T18:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/itc-to-raise-some-food-prices-on-edible-oil-import-costs.html
ITC Ltd. (ITC) , India’s biggest tobacco
company and a maker of cookies and potato chips, will increase
prices of some food products as the rupee’s plunge to a record
low threatens its highest profit margin in nine years.  The rupee has weakened 19 percent against the dollar in the
past year, making it the worst performer among Asia’s 11 most-
traded currencies. The depreciation has prevented ITC,  Britannia
Industries Ltd. (BRIT)  and other makers of processed foods from
benefiting from an 11 percent drop in prices of edible oil
imported from Indonesia and  Malaysia . The commodity is used to
prepare cookies, instant noodles and pasta.  “It’s imperative to increase prices because inflation is
eroding margins,” Chitranjan Dar, who heads ITC’s food
business, said in a telephone interview from Bangalore. “The
real concern is edible oil. It’s something we are not
comfortable with.”  ITC Chairman Yogesh Deveshwar has over the past decade
expanded into new businesses including food, matches and apparel
to cut dependence on tobacco as India tightens rules to
discourage smoking. With Indian consumers living with the
highest rate of inflation among the largest  emerging markets ,
ITC is betting it can retain customers for its Sunfeast cookies
and Bingo! potato chips even as the economy expands at its
slowest pace in nine years.  “If they raise the prices at a nominal level of 8 to 10
percent, we don’t think that is going to impact,” sales, said
Ajay Jaiswal, head of research at Microsec Capital Ltd. in
Kolkata. “Brand loyalty is definitely one thing that is major
source of confidence for the company.”  ITC, which is 31 percent owned by  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS) , has  gained  16 percent this year, compared with a 3.3
percent advance for the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index. The
shares rose 2 percent to 233.85 rupees in Mumbai on June 1.  Additional Burden  The Kolkata-based company’s operating  profit margin  widened
to 32.3 percent in the year ended March 31, the highest since
2003, when ITC started selling cookies and snacks. The division,
which includes personal care products has yet to post operating
profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India, the world’s second-biggest vegetable oil user,
imports about 55 percent of its requirement of 16 million tons.
The cost of importing refined, bleached, deodorized palmolein
oil has risen, according to the Solvent Extractors’ Association.
The landed cost increased to 58,410 rupees ($1,055) a metric ton
on average in May, compared with 53,323.9 rupees in June last
year, B.V. Mehta, executive director of the association, said by
phone from Mumbai. The weakening rupee has put an “additional
burden” on imports, he said.  Smoking Control  Slowing growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy may affect
demand for ITC’s products. India’s gross domestic product
expanded at 5.3 percent last quarter, the slowest pace in nine
years and below the median estimate of 6.1 percent growth in a
Bloomberg survey of 31 economists.  Inflation in the country, at 7.23 percent, is the highest
among the BRIC nations. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted its
estimate for the benchmark wholesale price gauge to a 6.5
percent gain for the fiscal year that began April 1, from 5
percent previously.  Boosting margins at ITC’s non-tobacco businesses may be key
to growth as India toughens smoking control. The Indian health
ministry banned tobacco advertising in 2004, making it harder
for ITC to promote new and existing brands. States such as  New
Delhi  have prohibited smoking in public places, including
railway stations.  ITC, which was set up in 1910, started selling ready-to-eat
foods under its Kitchen of India brand in August 2001. It added
confectionery, staples and snack foods in 2003. The company got
24 percent of its revenue from the sale of consumer products
including cookies, pasta, shampoo and soap, in the quarter ended
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Share  Revenue at ITC’s consumer products business, which includes
Fiama di Wills shampoo and Sunfeast cookies, jumped 24 percent
in the quarter ended March 31, outpacing the 17 percent increase
in cigarette sales. Profit before taxes from cigarettes rose 20
percent, while losses from the other consumer goods business
narrowed.  ITC’s earnings may increase 14 percent to 71.8 billion
rupees in the year ending March 31, according to the median of
12 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the slowest
pace of growth in four years.  The market for cookies in the world’s second-most populous
nation is estimated to increase to 266 billion rupees in 2015
from 156 billion rupees last year, according to Euromonitor
International.  ITC, with a 13.2 percent share of the market, was  India ’s
third-largest cookie-maker in 2010 after closely held Parle
Products Pvt. and Britannia, both held 33 percent share of the
market each, Euromonitor said. ITC’s market share was 7.9
percent in 2006, while Britannia’s share was 36 percent.  ITC, which sells its food products through 2.5 million
outlets, plans to increase this reach by as much as 10 percent,
said Dar. Modest price increases in packaged foods will not hurt
growth in the segment, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  