-- Noda Reshuffles Japan Cabinet in Bid for Support on Sales Tax
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-06-04T05:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/japan-s-noda-to-reshuffle-cabinet-in-bid-for-opposition-backing.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  reshuffled his Cabinet in an effort to win opposition
backing for his bill to double the  consumption tax , after his
bid to heal a breach in the ruling party failed.  Noda today named Satoshi Morimoto as defense minister,
replacing Naoki Tanaka, and Yuichiro Hata as transportation
minister, in place of Takeshi Maeda. Tanaka and Maeda were
censured by parliament in April and the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party  had insisted they be replaced as a condition to
negotiate on the  sales tax  bill.  “We are reaching a very important juncture, with less than
20 days to go until the end of the parliamentary session,” Noda
said at a press conference in  Tokyo . “I reshuffled the Cabinet
to create an environment for progress on a number of issues,
including the tax and welfare reform bill now being discussed.”  Noda has staked his career on the bill to double the five
percent tax and address a debt burden that Fitch Ratings cited
last month in cutting Japan’s sovereign credit rating. LDP
leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has signaled that a deal on the
legislation is possible.  “This is all about getting rid of the two cabinet
ministers who were censured,” said  Jiro Yamaguchi , a political
science professor at  Hokkaido University . “It’s hard to say how
effective this will be. The LDP knows how to get the better of
Noda, so they may demand something more.”  Also named to the Cabinet were Tadahiro Matsushita as
financial services minister, replacing  Shozaburo Jimi , Makoto
Taki as justice minister and Akira Gunji as agriculture
minister. The new ministers are all lawmakers with the exception
of Morimoto, a professor at Takushoku University in Tokyo.  Finance Minister Jun Azumi, Trade and Industry Minister
Yukio Edano and Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  kept their
posts.  Ozawa Showdown  The prime minister yesterday failed for the second time in
a week to persuade ruling party powerbroker Ichiro Ozawa to drop
his opposition to a tax increase, hindering efforts to pay for
rising welfare costs. The Noda-Ozawa showdown threatens to widen
a rift in the Democratic Party of Japan three years after it
ousted the LDP from half a century of rule.  Maeda and defense chief Tanaka were censured on April 20 by
the opposition-controlled upper house of parliament. Today’s
shakeup was the second time Noda has replaced some ministers
since he took office in September, and Morimoto becomes his
third defense minister.  Ozawa, head of the DPJ’s largest faction and engineer of
its August 2009 election victory, says a tax increase
contradicts the party’s platform and could fail in its aim of
boosting the economy if it prompts consumers to cut spending.
Noda has said the combination of the world’s most-rapidly aging
society and a declining birthrate has put  Japan  in an
“unprecedented situation” that requires increasing revenue and
reining in welfare expenditures.  Ozawa’s influence in the DPJ has risen since he was
acquitted last month of charges of campaign finance violations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  