-- JPMorgan So-Called Hedge Is Awkward for Fed Knowing Its Meaning
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-03T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/jpmorgan-so-called-hedge-is-awkward-for-fed-knowing-its-meaning.html
When is a hedge not a hedge?  That’s the question regulators from the Federal Reserve to
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency are confronting
after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported a $2 billion trading loss
from a credit-derivatives position Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called a “hedge.”  Regulators are under pressure to respond to JPMorgan’s loss
as they finish writing the so-called  Volcker Rule , which
restricts banks' proprietary trading and is the most
controversial provision in the Dodd-Frank Act. They’re
scrutinizing the so-called hedging exemption in the proposed
regulation and probably will narrow the exceptions for trades
banks say are designed to mitigate risk, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  JPMorgan’s loss “will reinforce the position of those who
want to be tough,” Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat and co-author of the financial-overhaul legislation,
said in a telephone interview. “I do think it will mean Volcker
will not allow” such trades.  The rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , is
intended to reduce the chance that banks will put depositors’
money at risk. Dodd-Frank, signed into law in 2010, largely left
regulators to define the provisions, and in October, they
released a proposal for the rule, which is scheduled to take
effect in July. In April, the Fed said banks would have two
years to implement it, as long as they make a “good faith”
effort to comply with the ban on proprietary trading.  Pool of Investments  Under the proposed version, bankers would be permitted to
do “risk-mitigating hedging activities” for “aggregate
positions.” That means using derivatives or other products to
reduce the risk of an entire pool of investments, as opposed to
a single transaction or position.  The JPMorgan loss has ignited a debate whether aggregate or
portfolio hedging is appropriate at all and how to define and
spot these trades.  Frank said he hopes regulators will prevent such positions,
allowing banks to hedge only against specific investments to
offset potential losses.  “Aggregate hedging isn’t hedging, it’s a profit center,”
he said. “They are talking about making money out of it,” when
“hedges break even.”  Skeptical Look  In the wake of JPMorgan’s loss, regulators “clearly” are
looking “more skeptically at the claim about portfolio hedging
and what does the word ‘aggregate’ in the law mean you have to
do,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal
Financial Analytics, a Washington research firm.  Wall Street  has aggressively lobbied against the Volcker
Rule. The five regulators implementing the provision received
over 17,000 comment letters -- the most for any part of the law.
Bankers devoted the majority of their efforts to aspects other
than hedging, such as allowances for trading by so-called
market-makers who buy and sell securities to establish prices
and whether banks can take positions in sovereign debt.  JPMorgan employs 12 lobbyists and spent $7.6 million on
these activities in 2011, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics in Washington. Dimon led Wall Street bosses in a
closed-door meeting with Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  on May 2 to
press the central bank to ease regulations, including the
Volcker Rule.  Public Challenge  Dimon publicly challenged Ben S. Bernanke in June 2011 on
tougher oversight, asking whether the Fed chairman had “a fear
like I do” that overzealous regulation “will be the reason it
took so long” for banks, credit and job creation to recover
from the financial crisis.  Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  declined to comment.  The KBW Bank Index of 24 financial stocks has dropped  14
percent (BKX)  since July 2010, the month Dodd-Frank was passed,
compared with a  16 percent  gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of stocks. JPMorgan shares have underperformed both,
tumbling  21 percent  to $31.93 on June 1.  Bank lobbyists now say they’re on hold in reaction to the
attention JPMorgan has attracted. Their complaints may only
strengthen the call for tougher rules, said Oliver Ireland, a
partner at  Morrison & Foerster LLP .  “The problem with this event is it doesn’t do the
industry’s credibility any good, so it’s not clear the industry
pushing a lot harder now would do any good,‘‘ Ireland said. ‘‘It
may create a backlash.’’  ‘Egregious Mistakes’  Dimon, who asked regulators in a February letter to loosen
up their definition of portfolio hedging, said on a May 10 call
with analysts that JPMorgan’s chief investment office made
‘‘egregious mistakes’’ by taking flawed positions on synthetic
credit. He previously pushed the unit, which oversees about $360
billion, to seek profit by speculating on higher-yielding
assets, ex-employees said in April.  The positions were ‘‘done with the intention to hedge the
tail risk for JPMorgan’’ and could result in an additional $1
billion loss or more as they’re wound down, Dimon said. ‘‘But I
am telling you it morphed over time; and the new strategy, which
was meant to reduce the hedge overall, made it more complex,
more risky, and it was unbelievably ineffective.’’  JPMorgan profited in 2011 by betting that credit conditions
would worsen. Then in December, the  European Central Bank 
provided long-term loans to euro-zone banks, igniting a bond
rally and leaving JPMorgan’s bearish bets vulnerable. So the
chief investment office made offsetting bullish investments
using credit-default-swap indexes that are thought to expire at
the end of 2017, according to market participants.  Bearish Trade  The office put on another bearish trade to protect against
short-term losses using contracts due in 2012, market
participants said. Losses may have mounted when prices between
the two indexes became distorted because JPMorgan was such a big
seller of insurance. The trader who built the credit-derivatives
positions, Bruno Iksil, was nicknamed the ‘‘London whale’’
because the investments became so large.  Credit conditions subsequently deteriorated, and  hedge
funds  increased purchases of the 2017 contracts, sending those
higher than the 2012 index and boosting JPMorgan’s losses.  The company’s investments can’t ‘‘be described in any way
as a hedge,”  Michael Platt , co-founder and CEO of BlueCrest
Capital Management LLP, said in a May 21 interview with
Bloomberg Television. “I think it’s a trading loss. They
deliberately put the positions on. The London whale, who has
subsequently been harpooned, put the positions on.”  Geneva-based BlueCrest manages $32 billion and took a
“small” position against JPMorgan, Platt said.  Gone Too Far  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler and U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro both acknowledged May 22 the difficulty regulators face
in allowing some risk-mitigating hedging and then trying to
determine when it’s gone too far.  “The challenge when somebody uses a word like ‘portfolio
hedging’ is that it can mutate and morph into many things beyond
hedging specific positions,” Gensler said May 21, 10 days
before the CFTC held a round-table discussion about narrowing
exemptions in the Volcker Rule.  An administration official told reporters on May 22 that
regulators will use the JPMorgan loss as a real-life example to
inform the final rule. Regulators feel pressure to react and
will scrutinize the hedging exemption, according to another
person who works for an agency involved in the writing of the
law who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly and declined to be
identified.  Unpopular Regulations  More stringent regulations are sure to be unpopular with
bankers. “You wouldn’t want to make a big change based on one
event,” said  Tim Ryan , president and CEO of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall Street’s main
lobbying group. “This is a complicated proposal.”  Lawmakers are using JPMorgan’s loss for “political
expediency,” and it’s unlikely that portfolio hedging actually
will be banned, predicted Douglas Landy, a partner at Allen &
Overy LLP in New York.  Banks do need the ability to mitigate risks in their
portfolio using derivatives, said Ernest Patrikis, a partner at
White & Case LLP.  “It’s insanity to think that they shouldn’t be doing it,”
said Patrikis, former general counsel at the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. Regulators may consider options such as
forcing financial institutions to “demonstrate more fully”
their positions or restricting how they can hedge, he said.  Prohibit Trades  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, created by Dodd-
Frank and led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ,
discussed JPMorgan’s loss and the Volcker Rule at a May 22
meeting, Treasury spokesman  Anthony Coley  said. It’s
“premature” to conclude whether the rule “would have
prohibited these trades and the hedging activity” the bank
conducted,  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman for the comptroller’s
office, said May 14 in an e-mailed statement.  Senators  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat, and  Carl Levin ,
a Michigan Democrat, who co-wrote the Volcker provision, said
JPMorgan’s trading losses underline why hedging on a portfolio
basis should be barred in the final version.  “Pressure from lobbyists during the rule-making process
gave rise to regulatory loopholes that would allow proprietary
trading to be hidden within market-making, risk-mitigating
hedging and wealth management, among other areas,” the senators
said in a May 17 letter to the Fed and other regulators.  The Senate Banking Committee has begun hearings on JPMorgan
and its implications for regulatory changes. The bank regulators
and Neal Wolin, Treasury Department deputy secretary, will
testify on June 6; Dimon will testify June 13. Dimon also will
appear before the House Financial Services Committee on June 19.  The main impact of JPMorgan’s sour trades will be to speed
up work on finalizing the Volcker rule, said Brian Gardner,
senior vice president in  Washington  at investment bank Keefe
Bruyette & Woods Inc.  Regulators “are under the gun to finish” in a way that is
“totally unreasonable, which is to make sure there are no
losses at banks,” he said. “They’ve basically been assigned
mission impossible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  