-- NetApp Near Record-Low Value May Lure Suitors: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-06-04T20:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/netapp-near-record-low-value-seen-attracting-suitors-real-m-a.html
NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , viewed as a takeover
target for almost a decade, is becoming increasingly attractive
for potential acquirers as the data-storage company nears its
cheapest valuation on record.  With a market capitalization as high as $21.9 billion last
year, NetApp has lost 51 percent of its value as sales
disappointed and it gained less market share than larger rival
 EMC Corp. (EMC)  The almost $11 billion company, with a record $4.1
billion in net cash, was valued last week at 6.2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
approaching its all-time low of 5.1 reached during the financial
crisis in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The maker of hardware and software to more efficiently
store and access data may finally be affordable enough to draw
interest from International Business Machines Corp.,  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  or  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , said NetApp shareholder Thrivent
Financial for Lutherans. The Sunnyvale, California-based company
would likely command as much as $45 a share in a takeover, said
FBN Securities Inc., a 53 percent premium to last week’s  close .  “NetApp is very cash rich and has a phenomenal balance
sheet,”  Brian Marshall , a San Francisco-based analyst for ISI
Group, said in a phone interview. “2011 was a tough year for
NetApp. It’s a wounded bird, so people can get it on the
cheap.”  Today, NetApp shares rose 1.6 percent to $29.90, the
seventh-biggest increase among 70 information technology
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Stock Decline  Dave Black, a spokesman for NetApp, declined to comment on
whether the company would consider a sale or has been approached
by buyers.  Through last week, the  51 percent decline  in NetApp’s
shares since last year’s peak market value on Feb. 11, 2011, was
the sixth-steepest in the S&P 500  Information Technology (S5INFT)  Index.  On May 24 the stock tumbled 12 percent after NetApp said
fiscal first-quarter revenue will be $1.4 billion to $1.5
billion, trailing analysts’  estimates  at that time for $1.6
billion. The company cited the “deteriorating macro-
environment” in Europe and the “slow-growing  U.S. economy .”  “They’ve kind of been serial underperformers with respect
to delivering on their guidance over the last 18 months,”  Mark Moskowitz , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in San
Francisco, said in a phone interview. “A lot of investors are
like, ‘I don’t need this.’”  Investors have become concerned about overall growth in the
storage market, increased competition and management’s ability
to accurately  forecast , Moskowitz said.  Low Valuation  Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based EMC, the world’s biggest
maker of storage computers, controlled 31.7 percent of global
disc-storage-system revenue in 2011, up 6.8 percentage points
from 2009, according to data from  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Gartner Inc. NetApp’s market share increased only 3.2 percentage
points to 11.5 percent.  In the wake of its disappointing forecast, NetApp’s Ebitda
multiple fell to 6 on May 24, the lowest since November 2008,
two months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in the
biggest bankruptcy in history. Excluding that period of the
financial crisis, last month’s multiple would be an all-time
low, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At the same time, NetApp boosted its  cash  to a record $5.4
billion and only has $1.3 billion in  debt . That means a buyer
would be getting a company with net cash that’s the equal to 39
percent of its market value.  IBM, Oracle  “Just from a pure investment basis, it makes a lot of
sense because of how cheap it’s trading and still how good the
 cash flow  is,”  Tim Cunningham , who helps oversee $83 billion at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in Santa Fe, New Mexico,
said in a phone interview. The company’s potential free cash
flow yield “is pretty attractive, and so from that standpoint
it would be interesting as a takeout candidate.”  A takeover would make sense for  IBM (IBM) , Oracle or Cisco as
businesses require more data-storage capacity and turn to
NetApp’s network-attached storage, or NAS, which gives quick
access to frequently used files, Peter Karazeris, a Minneapolis-
based analyst at Thrivent, said in a phone interview. Thrivent,
which oversaw $75.8 billion as of February, owned about 877,000
NetApp  shares  as of March 31, according to a regulatory filing.  While NetApp’s largest competitor controls almost three
times more market share, EMC has an almost $49 billion market
capitalization that makes it too large for an acquisition, said
ISI’s Marshall.  ‘Attractive Valuation’  “NetApp is a good, bite-size target for an IBM or an
Oracle to acquire,” Marshall said. “Both strategically and
financially the deal makes perfect sense.”  While Cisco is the “king of networking,” it needs to add
storage systems because hardware, storage and networking are all
converging in the technology industry, said  Shebly Seyrafi , a
New York-based analyst at FBN.  “Until recently, NetApp’s had a very high valuation, which
has probably deterred Cisco from making that bid,” Seyrafi said
in a phone interview. “But considering the storage landscape
has changed and that NetApp’s now trading at a much more
attractive valuation, Cisco must be salivating here with the
stock where it’s at.”  Mike Fay, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
wasn’t reachable by phone and didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, and Cisco’s Robyn Jenkins-Blum in  San
Jose ,  California , declined to comment on speculation regarding
NetApp.  Takeover Price  After subtracting net cash, NetApp’s enterprise value was
only $6.6 billion as of June 1, which makes it more digestible
for a buyer, according to Thornburg’s Cunningham.  FBN’s Seyrafi said NetApp would probably consider a
takeover bid of $38 to $45 a share, implying a price at least 29
percent higher than last week’s closing level of $29.44.  While Thrivent’s Karazeris said $45 a share would be enough
for the  board  to consider a deal, the company is worth at least
$50 a share in a takeover, according to ISI’s Marshall.  The size of NetApp’s market value and its hardware-based
business model will deter potential suitors such as IBM and
Cisco even at the lower stock price, said Kevin Stadtler, the
founder of investment advisor Stadtler Capital Management LLC in
Fort Worth,  Texas .  Unlikely Sale  IBM is focused on buying software companies for less than
about $1.5 billion, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said
at a conference last month. After announcing the $5 billion
purchase of software maker NDS Group Ltd. in March, Cisco Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  said the company was “moving to
a more software-based model.”  While Oracle’s share of the storage market has declined to
1.7 percent, the world’s largest maker of database software
wouldn’t be an interested buyer because it already has a
partnership to resell NetApp gear, said Doron Eisenberg, a
Baltimore-based partner with Brown Advisory, which owned 6.3
million shares of NetApp as of March, according to a regulatory
filing. Eisenberg said he doubts NetApp management would
consider bids at its current price.  “This is one of the most credible management teams I
follow,” Eisenberg said. “I’m sure they wouldn’t be interested
in selling at these valuation levels.”  NetApp’s management could eventually take the company
private if its stock remains undervalued and no suitor emerges,
said Thrivent’s Karazeris.  Still, potential buyers may decide to act before the  share
price  has a chance to rise, said FBN’s Seyrafi.  “At these levels, I think the company’s a very attractive
target,” Seyrafi said. “A potential acquirer may say, ‘We may
need to strike sooner before they beat that lower bar or come
out of their seasonally weak quarter and people realize that
this is still a high quality company.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 