-- Northern Nigeria Bauchi Church Bombing Injures at Least 40
-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-03T12:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/northern-nigeria-bauchi-church-bombing-injures-at-least-40-1-.html
A suicide car bombing of a church on
the outskirts of the northern Nigerian city of Bauchi seriously
injured at least 40 people, according to the  Red Cross .  The explosion happened at 10 a.m. local time at the Living
Faith church in the Yelwan Tudu district, Adamu Abubakar, a Red
Cross official, said in an interview in Bauchi today. Abubakar
couldn’t immediately confirm how many people had died. Joseph
Michael, a worshipper at the church, said he saw four people who
died from the blast.  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, have
blamed Boko Haram, which seeks to impose strict Islamic law in
the country, for a surge in attacks since 2009 in the mainly
Muslim north and the capital Abuja in which hundreds of people
have died this year.  The Bauchi State Emergency Management Agency “and security
officials are at the scene of the blast doing some rescue job,”
Muhammad Bello, chairman of the agency, said in a text message.
Thirty-five people had been injured by their count, though he
couldn’t yet confirm the number of deaths.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a
sin,” claimed responsibility for multiple blasts and attacks in
the northern city of Kano on Jan. 20 that killed at least 256
people and for the Aug. 26 suicide car-bombing of a United
Nations office in Abuja in which 25 people died.  Nigeria , Africa’s most-populous country with more than 160
million people, is almost evenly split between the largely
Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  