-- To Help Fix Housing, Disclose Mortgage Addresses
-- B y   M a r c   J o f f e   a n d   A n t h o n y   R a n d a z z o
-- 2012-06-03T22:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/to-help-fix-housing-disclose-mortgage-addresses.html
Imagine going into a community bank
and getting a mortgage but not telling the lender exactly where
the house you want to buy is. You give the lending officer the
zip code, and a few other clues about the home, but you walk out
of the bank without having given your name or a street address.  Sounds like a scam, right?  Well, that’s how most mortgages are financed in the U.S.
Investors in private, residential mortgaged-backed securities
(or RMBS) are prevented by law from knowing the address for the
mortgages they purchase. Naturally, a bank wouldn’t want to lend
a few hundred thousand without knowing this information. We
argue in a  recent study  by Reason Foundation that mortgage
investors should be allowed the same privilege. It’s an
important part of getting the housing market on a path toward
recovery.  The market for mortgage-backed securities collapsed as a
result of high  foreclosure rates , particularly on subprime
mortgages. Investors lost considerable sums on AAA rated
mortgage-backed bonds and have been suing rating companies ever
since.  Critics of these lawsuits are correct in suggesting that
many investors failed to perform due diligence, blindly trusted
the ratings system and ignored prospectuses. But even greater
investor attention probably wouldn’t have prevented the
financial crisis. Since RMBS investors were given only partial
details about the properties backing their bonds, and the
borrower address wasn’t among them, they could conduct only a
limited risk analysis.  Details, Details  Before the mortgage meltdown began in 2007, some had argued
that investors shouldn’t have to worry about the exact details
of underlying mortgage loans, because the large number of loans
in a given portfolio reduced the risk posed by individual
borrowers. Clearly, that logic was flawed.  Many investors would prefer to do more research on their
own, or work with analytic firms to do so. But ignorance of the
borrower’s address and identity is a substantial disadvantage.
Perhaps the single-most-important predictor of a mortgage
default is the ratio between all mortgage debt on a property and
its current value, the so-called combined  loan-to-value ratio ,
or CLTV. Loan-level data provides the CLTV at the time a deal is
originated, but this value isn’t updated over the life of the
deal.  When  prices  were soaring at the peak of the bubble, a
mortgage in Phoenix or  Las Vegas  might have had a relatively
safe CLTV, even on a mortgage with little down payment. But as
prices rapidly declined, many of those homes began to slip
“underwater” with a risky CLTV. Without address-level data, it’s
impossible to get a precise fix on a mortgage’s value in real
time. As a result, it was challenging for investors to
understand how rapidly the value of their mortgage-backed bonds
was declining.  As we point out in our study, zip codes can contain several
thousand properties and may also include large, often
heterogeneous areas. For example, single-family homes recently
listed on Zillow.com in zip code 20002 (in Northeast  Washington )
ranged from $250,000 fixers in the Little Trinidad neighborhood
to a $2.8 million upscale townhouse on  Capitol Hill . Zip codes
simply don’t provide enough data to give more than an imprecise
estimate of a change in property value.  Lawmakers, regulators and industry leaders want to keep
identifying information out of investor reports to protect
borrowers’ confidentiality. The language of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act of 1970 -- the foundation of  consumer credit 
rights -- is a bit hard to interpret, but giving out borrower
addresses to investors probably violates its intent. Doing so
also clearly violates a nonessential clause of the proposed
Private Mortgage Market Investment Act now pending before the
House Financial Services Committee.  Cheaper, Easier  Protecting privacy is important. But mortgages are
typically recorded in county registers and made available to
anyone visiting a county clerk’s office. This is one reason why
mortgagors receive refinance offers in the mail: A lender has
obtained publicly available mortgage records that he then uses
to solicit refinancing business.  If another lender can see that you owe money on your house,
why shouldn’t investors in the bonds that back your mortgage see
that, too? Clearly some investors value this information because
they pay companies such as CoreLogic to match data in RMBS
portfolios against these public records. The matching process
can be costly and isn’t totally reliable.  It would be cheaper and easier for investors to receive
this publicly available information with their mortgage
listings. This would encourage more due diligence and give
investors more confidence to jump back into the market.  One way to address privacy concerns would be to allow
borrowers to choose during the  mortgage-origination  process
whether to allow disclosure of their addresses to investors. In
exchange, those who provide authorization could be compensated
with reduced closing costs or lower  interest rates  since their
mortgages would be easier to securitize. Privacy would
ultimately be the borrower’s choice.  Having access to address-level data wouldn’t solve all the
problems in the housing-finance market. But it would make risk
analysis substantially more accurate. Combined with a few other
reforms -- such as encouraging a common format for RMBS
collateral data and creating a Mortgage Underwriting Standards
Board to compete with ratings companies -- it would lead to
private capital taking back a sizable chunk of credit risk from
the government.  And that would be good news for taxpayers. If the mortgage-
backed-securities market rebounds, government-backed  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  could be scaled down without simultaneously
shutting down housing finance. Taxpayers, homeowners and
investors would all win.  (Marc Joffe is a principal consultant at Public Sector
Credit Solutions. Anthony Randazzo is director of economic
research at the Reason Foundation. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter, lighter cars 
and  smarter health spending ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of
Dwight D. Eisenhower ; William D. Cohan on  delusional Facebook
investors ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan ’s  strong currency and weak
economy ; Severin Borenstein on  saving the airline industry ;
 David Crane  on the  future of unions .  To contact the writers of this article:
Marc Joffe at  marc@publicsectorcredit.org 
Anthony Randazzo at  anthony.randazzo@reason.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  