-- Oil Falls a Fifth Day on Concern U.S., China Demand Will Falter
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-04T12:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/oil-futures-open-0-3-lower-at-82-96-a-barrel-in-new-york.html
Oil fell for a fifth day in  New York 
to the lowest price in almost eight months on signs of an
economic slowdown in the U.S. and  China . London-traded Brent
crude dropped from the lowest close in more than a year.  Futures tumbled as much as 2.4 percent to the lowest
intraday price since Oct. 6, extending last week’s 8.4 percent
decline after U.S. unemployment rose and payrolls increased less
than the most-pessimistic forecasts. China’s purchasing
managers’ index for non-manufacturing industries fell to the
lowest level in a year, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday in
Beijing. European leaders remain divided on solutions for the
region’s debt crisis.  “We’re very, very negative on the outlook” for oil demand
this year,  Johannes Benigni , managing director of JBC Energy
GmbH, a researcher in Vienna, said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” Crude
consumption will contract in advanced economies even as demand
grows in  Asia  and the  Middle East , he said. “Economic
indicators are not looking great.”  Oil for July delivery lost as much as $2.02 to $81.21 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and pared some losses to trade at $82.38 at 12:58 p.m. in
London. Prices slid 3.8 percent on June 1, ending the biggest
weekly drop since Sept. 23. U.S. crude futures fell in 17
trading sessions in May, or the most days in a single month
since January 1997. Oil is 16 percent lower this year.  Brent Premium  Brent futures for July settlement were at $96.97 a barrel,
down 1.5 percent, on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London .
The European benchmark closed June 1 at the lowest level since
January 2011 after falling below $100 for the first time since
October. The contract’s premium to New York-traded crude was
$14.61 today, compared with $15.20 on June 1.  China’s purchasing managers’ index for non-manufacturing
industries decreased to 55.2 in May from 56.1 in April. That’s
the lowest reading since March 2011, when the federation started
seasonally adjusting the data. A Chinese manufacturing index
signaled the weakest reading in five months in May, the data
showed last week.  In the U.S., payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, the
Labor Department said June 1. The median projection called for a
150,000 May advance, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 87
economists. The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1
percent and has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the
longest such stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  ‘Weak’ Numbers  “When we see weak numbers in China and very weak job
numbers in the U.S., it kicks away at the foundations,” said
 Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia
Pacific Pty in Sydney. “If the European situation is dragging
both Asia and the U.S. into a contracting economic situation,
then that is very bad for oil.”  The price of OPEC’s  basket of crude oils  dropped below $100
a barrel for the first time since Oct. 5, ending the longest run
in triple digits. The basket, a weighted average price of the
main crude grades produced by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, was at $97.44 a barrel on June 1, data on
the group’s website showed today.  Iran will insist that OPEC keep its current production
ceiling for crude when oil ministers from member nations meet
this month in Vienna, Iranian state-run Press TV reported
yesterday, citing Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi.  Iraq’s Position  Iraq  has agreed with  Iran  to adopt a unified position on
OPEC output and emphasized the need for the group’s members to
produce in line with their collective target, Press TV said in a
separate report, citing a meeting between Qasemi and Iraqi Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki in  Baghdad  on June 2.  Iran is OPEC’s second-biggest producer after  Saudi Arabia ,
which has increased supplies as U.S. and European sanctions
threaten to curb the Islamic republic’s exports. OPEC produced
31.6 million barrels a day in April, 5 percent more than its 30
million barrel-a-day ceiling, according to monthly estimates
from its secretariat.  Hedge funds  cut bullish oil bets for a fourth week before
futures plunged. Money managers reduced net-long positions, or
wagers that  oil prices  will rise, to 136,584 in the week ended
May 29, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on June 1. It was the lowest level
since September 2010.  On  Brent crude , hedge funds and other money managers cut
bullish bets by 10,250 contracts in the week ended May 29, to
the lowest level in more than five months, according to  data
from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 80,958 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s the least since Dec. 20, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  