-- London City Job Vacancies Rose 25% Last Month, Recruiter Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/london-city-job-vacancies-rose-25-last-month-recruiter-says.html
Job vacancies at  London ’s financial-
services companies increased 25 percent last month as banks
added positions in areas such as foreign exchange and
derivatives, recruitment firm  Astbury Marsden  said.  New vacancies in the British capital’s City and Canary
Wharf financial districts rose to 4,320 in May from 3,455 in
April, the London-based recruiter said in a statement today. The
number of jobs created in May is the highest since August 2011.  “Volumes within these areas seem to have picked up over
the year,” said  Mark Cameron , chief operating officer at
Astbury Marsden in London, referring to foreign exchange and
interest rate derivatives. “The threat to the euro is now seen
as a risk that businesses need to consider hedging against. That
has created a lot of activity.”  Barclays Plc’s (BARC)  investment banking revenue from  currency
trading  rose 27 percent last year, “benefiting from market
volatility and strong client volumes,” the London-based company
said in February.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, said
in May pretax profit at the investment bank in the first
quarter, rose 5 percent to $3.08 billion. It profited from an
improvement in trading after the  European Central Bank  provided
unlimited three-year loans to the region’s lenders through its
Longer Term Refinancing Operation.  Still, the number of jobs available from a year ago fell 35
percent, Astbury Marsden said.  “Sentiment has improved since the latter stages of 2011
but, to put this recent recovery in perspective, the jobs market
is still far lower than this time last year,” Cameron said.
“Given that the recent political deadlock in  Greece  and the
banking crisis in  Spain  have made a swift resolution of the
euro-zone crisis less likely, this significant uptick in the
number of new jobs is a pleasant surprise for City staff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  