-- Monetary Aid Coming as Wal-Mart Helps Housing: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-06-03T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/monetary-aid-coming-as-wal-mart-helps-housing-cutting-research.html
Morgan Stanley economists are
forecasting “more monetary medicine” as the U.S. labor market
buckles and manufacturing output stumbles from the U.K. to  China .  Their description of a “triple-B” world economy was
reinforced last week as data suggested what Morgan Stanley
called bumpy, below-par and brittle expansions. U.S. employers
in May added the fewest workers in a year and the jobless rate
rose to 8.2 percent. Elsewhere, purchasing managers indexes
showed factory production falling in Germany, France and the U.K.
at the fastest pace since 2009 and a further slowing in China.  Such signs of a third consecutive midyear lull in
international expansion have Morgan Stanley predicting in a May
30 report that central bankers from the developed world and
 emerging markets  will again try to come to the rescue, perhaps
starting as soon as this week in  Europe .  “Any optimism related to the improvement in labor market
conditions seen during the winter months is now fading away, and
financial conditions have tightened significantly,”  David Greenlaw , Morgan Stanley’s New York-based chief fixed-income
economist, wrote last week. “The Fed is likely to do what it
can to provide some support.”  There is an 80 percent chance the U.S. Federal Reserve will
decide on a third round of asset purchases when policy makers
convene June 19-20, according to Greenlaw. Prior to last week he
had put the chances of additional accommodation in coming months
at 50 percent.  Australia Rates  The Fed may not be the first to act. The  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  sets its cash rate tomorrow and the median of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict a cut to 3.5
percent from 3.75 percent.  In Europe, economists are divided over whether officials
from the  European Central Bank  and the Bank of England will
inject fresh stimulus when they meet this week. The Frankfurt-
based ECB, plagued by a debt crisis President  Mario Draghi  says
governments should take the lead in solving, may still ease its
benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points to a record low from
1 percent as soon as June 6, according to Morgan Stanley’s Elga Bartsch. A delay until after Greece’s June 17 elections could
mean a deeper reduction of 50 basis points in July, she said in
the May 30 report.  The factory slump in the U.K. prompted Deutsche Bank AG to
predict the  Bank of England  will expand its quantitative easing
program this week by another 50 billion pounds ($77 billion).
 George Buckley , chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank, sees a
“non-negligible” risk of the first rate cut since March 2009
to 0.25 percent, he said in a report last week.  Global Easing  The industrial economies may not be alone in trying to
boost growth. The Morgan Stanley economists see monetary easing
on the way from China, India, Brazil and other key emerging
market central banks.  Economists led by Bruce Kasman at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
nevertheless, don’t see much more room for monetary loosening
even though on June 1 they forecast a 2.1 percent expansion in
the world economy this year, down from 2.3 percent the prior
week.  “Rates are already close to their floor in the developed
world and a number of large emerging market central banks appear
reluctant to lower rates further, particularly where currencies
have come under pressure,” Kasman wrote.  Douglas Borthwick of Faros Trading is betting on action.
“It’s not often that all paths collide and all major central
banks have an interest to intervene of some kind,” he wrote on
June 1. “We reached levels that have provoked action in the
past.”  Young Hurt  It doesn’t pay to be young in the U.S. these days. The 12.9
percentage point unemployment rate of 20-24 year olds is almost
double the 6.9 percent of 25-year-olds and above.  One reason may be that this age group traditionally finds
employment in firms on the youthful side too: those that have
been in existence for five years or less, said Beata Caranci,
deputy chief economist at TD Bank Group in Toronto.  Research she co-wrote published May 15 found businesses
with fewer than 250 employees typically create and destroy three
times the number of jobs as their larger peers. In any given
year 1 percent of all companies generate 40 percent of the jobs;
most of those firms are less than five years old, she said.  As new firm creation slows, young people are
disproportionately affected. About 45 percent of those employed
at firms five years or younger are under the age of 35, U.S.
Census Bureau data show. By comparison, fewer than a third of
workers at firms that have lasted for more than two decades are
in that age range, she said.  Fading Firms  “The legacy of a drop-off in these firms in the past few
years may be behind some of this weakness for the” 20-24 age
bracket, Caranci said.  Stephen Bronars, an economist at Welch Consulting in
 Washington , says more young adults are also being forced into
part-time work. While the number of 20-24 year olds has
increased 6.8 percent over the past 4 years, full-time
employment has plunged 17 percent. Part-time hiring has jumped
37 percent.  ‘It’s not clear what has caused this sharp shift,” said
Bronars. “One possibility is that college and junior college
students are delaying their graduation. These students may be
staying in school, taking a few more courses while working part-
time jobs, rather than starting their post-college careers.”  Consumer Alive  Even as the U.S. labor market shows signs of stalling,
American consumers may still be supporting the economy. Personal
outlays in April were 4 percent above their level of a year ago
and the savings rate fell to 3.4 percent, matching its lowest
level since the end of 2007, according to  Steven Wood  at Insight
Economics LLC in Danville,  California .  “The consumer still appears to be alive and well and
helping to drive economic growth although increasingly
financially squeezed,” said Wood in a June 1 report.  Households may also get an imminent boost from falling
gasoline prices, according to  Peter Newland  of  Barclays Capital .
The April consumption increase was enough for him to say in a
June 1 report that consumers had made a “solid start” to the
second quarter and raise his estimate of economic growth from
April through June by a 10th to 2.5 percent.  Wal-Mart Homes  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  promises “always low prices” at its
4,000 U.S. stores. That may not be the case for nearby homes,
according to a  study  published by the National Bureau of
 Economic Research .  While the world’s largest retailer often runs into local
opposition when opening a new store, those protesting may
benefit: The price of houses located within 0.5 miles (0.8
kilometer) can rise by as much as 3 percent and by as much as 2
percent for homes a mile away, economists Devin Pope and Jaren
Pope found.  The finding is based on a study of over 1 million housing
transactions near 159 Wal-Mart outlets between 2000 and 2006.
For the average priced home, the arrival of the company
translates into about a $7,000 increase in price for the nearest
homes, the economists said.  The research suggests a “preference by many households to
live near a Wal-Mart and the stores that naturally agglomerate
nearby,” the Pope brothers wrote. “On average the benefits to
quick and easy access to the lower retail prices offered by Wal-
Mart and shopping at these other stores appear to matter more to
households than any increase in crime, traffic and congestion,
noise and light pollution, or other negative externalities that
would be capitalized into housing prices.”  The results should be useful to policy makers responsible
for passing zoning regulations and other laws that influence
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s ability to open new
outlets, they said. Devin Pope teaches at the  University of
Chicago  and Jaren Pope at  Brigham Young University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  