-- Toronto Police Seeking Suspect Shoppinig Mall Shooting
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-06-03T19:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/toronto-police-seeking-suspect-shoppinig-mall-shooting.html
Police in  Canada ’s biggest city are
seeking at least one suspect in a shooting that killed one man
and injured seven people at Toronto’s Eaton Centre mall.  Ahmed Hassan, 24, of Toronto, was killed in last night’s
shooting, which took place in a food court at the downtown mall
around dinnertime, police said. The shooting sent hundreds of
panicked people running for the exits, the Toronto Star
newspaper  reported .  “Our investigation clearly suggests that this is a
targeted shooting and not a random act of violence against the
members of the general public,” Detective Sergeant Brian Borg
said at a news conference in Toronto today.  Six others were shot. A 23-year-old man who was shot in the
neck and chest was in critical condition. A 13-year-old boy who
was shot in the head was in critical but stable condition, Borg
said.  A 28-year-old pregnant woman who was injured, though not
shot, was “doing well” and being monitored in the hospital, he
said.  Eaton Centre said in a  statement  on its website that the
mall would be closed today as authorities continue their
investigation.  Police said they have made progress in identifying the
shooter, partly through footage from closed-circuit cameras at
the mall. They declined to provide details about the suspect.  Gang Connections  The victim was known to police and may have had gang
connections, said Borg. At least one of the shooting victims has
gang links, he added.  Police called the shooting an isolated incident.  “One idiot with a gun on a Saturday afternoon in downtown
Toronto does not speak to the state of affairs of the city of
Toronto,” said Acting Deputy Chief Jeff McGuire.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  condemned the shootings in a
statement issued by his office today. “Canadians should be
assured that such depraved and monstrous acts will be met with
the full force of the law,” he said.  Toronto Blue Jays third baseman Brett Lawrie  said  on
Twitter that he was at the mall when the shots broke out.
“Pretty sure someone just let off a round bullets in eaton
center mall .. Wow just sprinted out of the mall ... Through
traffic,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  