-- How ’Death Panels’ Can Prolong Life
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-03T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/how-death-panels-can-prolong-life.html
Average  life expectancy  is one of two
statistics commonly used to compare the health-care systems of
different nations. (The other is infant mortality.)  One of the puzzles about the U.S. system is that we spend
 far and away  the most money per capita for health care, but we
rank  50th  in average life expectancy -- after Macau, Malta, and
Turks and Caicos, among others.  We are all familiar with  statistics  about how much of
health-care spending takes place in the last year of life, and
with stories about old people who are tortured with costly
treatments they don’t want and which prolong dying but don’t
extend life in any meaningful sense. (Michael Wolff’s
 confessionary tale  about his mother in  New York  magazine is a
vivid example.)  Certainly, ailing old people should be allowed to die in
peace, if that’s what they want, and not be subject to
excruciatingly painful surgeries and drugs that will do nothing
for them. These are more the fault of lawyers than doctors. In
our experience, doctors can be all too cool and rational in
their thinking about the end of life. It’s fear of lawsuits (or,
in a few cases, trolling for customers) that prevents doctors
from behaving rationally when prescribing treatment for the old
and terminally ill.  But not providing treatment to people who don’t want it
won’t save enough money to rescue the U.S. health-care system.
Nor will eliminating new and expensive pills, and other
therapies, that do no good at all or are no better than existing
therapies.  Indelicate Questions  So what do we do about old people who, on balance, would
rather get even older -- whatever that means in terms of
“quality of life” -- than give up? This is one of the
indelicate, unmentionable questions in the health-care debate.  The slope here is slippery indeed. You start by obeying the
wishes of someone with at best two months to live, who wants to
trade them in for one month with no pain and no intrusive
treatments. Next you’re assuming that this is what someone who
had expressed no preference (and is now demented or sedated)
would have wanted. Then you are subtly, or not so subtly,
pressuring her, or her children, to get with the program. Or you
are even enacting regulations that deny Medicare reimbursement
for treatments that don’t meet some criterion of benefit.  In short, all the Republican talk during the health-care-
reform debate about “death panels” was melodramatic and unfair,
but not ridiculous. One way or another, holding down health-care
costs will require policies that deny treatment to people who
want it. And want it because it will extend their lives.  This goes on already, all the time. Health insurance
companies have been known to deny payment for treatments deemed
unnecessary. Age limits for organ transplants are another
example. All policies that involve denying care because of
“quality of life” considerations are, in effect, “death panels.”
But no society can afford to give every citizen every possible
therapy. Medicare is going broke trying.  How do other countries manage to give their citizens longer
life expectancies than the U.S., at a lower cost? One way or
another, they spend less on the dying and more on the living.  A $200,000 operation can add a year or two to the life of
an octogenarian, or it can save decades of life for younger
people. In a country like the U.S., with an average life
expectancy of 78.5, it takes 10 septuagenarians who get an extra
five years from the health-care system to balance a single 30-
year-old who gets 50 extra years. Or save the life of a newborn,
who then enjoys a normal life span and dies at 78.5, and you
have the same impact on national life expectancy as 16
operations on septuagenarians. The average national life
expectancy can increase even as the cost goes down.  How do you persuade fellow citizens to accept limits on
their right to consume health-care resources? The trick, we
think, is to ask them when they’re healthy, not when they’re
sick. If you think a $200,000 operation is going to give you a
few more years to live, it’s going to be hard to convince you
that it’s not worth the cost. But before then, when your odds of
needing that expensive operation are the same as everybody
else’s, you might well choose a system that offers a higher life
expectancy, even though it costs less. In fact, why wouldn’t
you?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter, lighter cars ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of  Dwight D. Eisenhower ; William
D. Cohan on  delusional Facebook investors ; A. Gary Shilling on
 Japan ’s  strong currency and weak economy ; Severin Borenstein on
 saving the airline industry ;  David Crane  on the  future of
politicians and unions ; Marc Joffe and Anthony Randazzo  on
mortgage investors.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 