-- Panetta Is First Top U.S. Official Since War in Cam Ranh Bay
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-03T06:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/panetta-is-first-top-u-s-official-since-war-in-cam-ranh-bay.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
today met U.S. personnel at Cam Ranh Bay, becoming the top most
American official to visit the former U.S. military base since
the end of the Vietnam War.  “This is a historic trip,” Panetta told sailors aboard
the USNS Richard E. Byrd, a U.S. merchant marine supply ship.
“The fact that the ship is here and being serviced by
Vietnamese contractors is a tremendous indication of how far we
have come”  Cam Ranh Bay, a deep-water port located about 220 miles
(354 kilometers) north of Ho Chi Minh city, hosted the U.S.
naval and air base that was the main point of entry for
equipment and supplies during the  Vietnam War .  Panetta’s visit signals closer military ties between one-
time foes who resumed diplomatic relations 17 years ago. The
warming relationship with Vietnam, which shares a land border to
the north with  China , has received a boost since President
 Barack Obama  announced a strategy to rebalance U.S. military
forces toward the Asia-Pacific region.  “This is the place where lots of ships, troops and
supplies” came through during the war and a “tremendous amount
of blood was spilled on all sides,” Panetta said. “Access to
U.S. naval ships to this facility is a key component” of the
U.S. strategy for the Asia-Pacific region and “we see a
tremendous opportunity” to take the relationship with  Vietnam 
“to the next level,” Panetta said.  Vietnamese Ports  U.S. vessels including non-military medical and supply
ships began calling at Vietnamese ports after relations were
normalized in 1995. In November 2003, the missile frigate USS
Vandegrift arrived in Ho Chi Minh City, the first U.S. Navy ship
to dock in Vietnam since the end of the war.  Panetta travels to Hanoi tonight and will meet with his
counterpart, Defense Minister Phung Quang Thanh, to discuss
implementing a defense memorandum of understanding the two
countries signed last year, according to U.S. defense officials
who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic
talks.  The agreement made in September calls for regular top-level
meetings as well as cooperation on maritime security, search and
rescue, peacekeeping activities and humanitarian aid and
 disaster relief .  Panetta is on a three-country trip to  Asia  including
Singapore, Vietnam and  India  to bolster military ties in a
region that Obama has said is critical to U.S. interests.  The U.S. will increase its naval power in the Pacific,
Panetta said yesterday at the Shangri-La Dialogue security talks
held in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  