-- Plane Crash in Nigeria’s Commercial Capital Kills 163
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-04T17:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/plane-crashes-in-area-of-lagos-nigerian-emergency-agency-says.html
The world’s deadliest air disaster
this year killed at least 163 people in  Nigeria  when a  Dana
Airlines Ltd.  passenger plane slammed into a heavily populated
suburb in Nigeria’s biggest city, Lagos.  The plane, a  Boeing Co. (BA)  MD-83 with 146 passengers and seven
crew members, crashed into the Agege suburb yesterday as it was
approaching Murtala Muhammed Airport on a flight from Abuja, the
capital. A least 10 people on the ground were killed, Hakeem
Bello, a spokesman for Lagos state governor Babatunde Fashola,
said in an e-mailed statement. The pilot was a U.S. citizen and
the co-pilot was an Indian, the airline said.  “No survivors were found,” Tony Usidamen, a spokesman for
 Dana Group , which owns the Lagos-based airline, said today in a
phone interview. “As we speak 94 bodies have been recovered.”  The crash was the worst civilian air disaster in Africa’s
top oil producer since Jan. 22, 1973, when a plane carrying 176
passengers and crew went down in the northern city of Kano,
killing all on board. It was the fourth accident in the country
in 10 years that claimed the lives of more than 100 people. A
military transport plane crashed in September 1992 shortly after
takeoff from Lagos, killing 163 soldiers and crew aboard.  Smoldering Wreckage  Emergency workers continued work at the crash scene for the
second day, pulling out bodies from the still smoldering
wreckage.  “We can still see bodies in the buildings, so we can’t
give final figures until we complete the recovery exercise,”
said Tunji Oketunbi, a spokesman for the Aviation Ministry’s
Accident Investigation Bureau.  Thousands of people thronged to the site at Popoola Street,
where the plane clipped the roofs of buildings before plowing
into three, its nose breaking into a fourth, an apartment
complex.  “I hardly can find words to express it all; ordinary
people trying to earn a living and ending up so tragically and
untimely,” Governor Fashola told reporters at the crash site,
according to a statement from his office. “It’s all so
horrific, the pilot, the crew, young Nigerians whose lives have
been so drastically and suddenly cut short.”  Mayday Call  Aviation Minister Stella Oduah said on state-owned NTA
television that the pilots issued a Mayday call to the Lagos
control tower at 3:43 p.m. from about 11 nautical miles from the
airport. “A minute later the aircraft disappeared from the air
traffic control radar,” she said.  The pilot told the control tower that the plane was having
engine trouble, Harold Demuren, director general of the Nigerian
 Civil Aviation Authority , said in a phone interview.  “The captain said they were having problems in this
area,” Demuren said. The investigators need to check the
plane’s black box to confirm if this had been the reason for the
crash, he said.  The black box was recovered at 4 p.m. and will be sent to
the U.K. or the U.S. for analysis, Oketunbi said.  The plane, built in 1990, was delivered to Dana in February
2009, according to the Aviation Safety Network database. It was
previously operated by Alaska Airlines.  National Mourning  “We will make sure this doesn’t repeat itself in this
country,” President  Goodluck Jonathan  told reporters at the
scene of the crash. Yesterday he declared three days of national
mourning and ordered a full investigation.  U.S. National Transportation Safety Board investigators are
helping the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority to probe the cause
of the crash, Dana said today in a  statement  on its website.  “We don’t know what went wrong,” Usidamen said. “The
NCAA, the body charged with responsibility with investigating
such incidents, has been to the crash site. They have met with
officials of the airline to get facts about the flight and
investigations are ongoing.”  Today’s jet engines have become so reliable that it is
extremely improbable that two could fail at the same time, John Cox, a safety consultant at  Washington , D.C.-based Safety
Operating Systems and a former airline pilot, said in an
interview.  Fuel Check  The first place investigators will check would be whether
fuel was reaching the engines, Cox said. An issue with the fuel
could explain why both engines stopped at or near the same time,
he said.  Nigeria’s aviation industry, which had one of the world’s
worst safety records before 2006, worked to improve it after an
ADC Airlines plane crashed that year near Abuja, killing 97
people, Harro Ranter, president of the  Flight Safety
Foundation’s Aviation Safety Network , said in a telephone
interview from Roosendaal,  Netherlands .  The  U.S. Federal Aviation Administration  gave Nigeria a
Category 1 rating in August 2010, allowing domestic carriers to
fly to the U.S.  The aircraft that crashed was forced to carry out an
emergency landing in Lagos on April 20, 2010, after it hit a
bird on takeoff, according to the Aviation Safety Network
database. It also experienced emergencies, including electrical
smoke in the cabin, in 2002 and 2006.  Emergency Landing  A Dana aircraft had to make an emergency landing in Lagos
on May 11 after developing hydraulic problems. It wasn’t the
same plane that crashed yesterday, Usidamen said.  Dana Airlines canceled its flights today, according to a
statement on its  website .  The airline has been operating since November 2008 in
Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation. The carrier runs 27
flights a day, according to a company press statement in
December.  Boeing released a  statement  extending “profound
condolences to the family and friends of those lost in the Dana
Airlines crash” and said the Chicago-based company “stands
ready to provide technical assistance” in the investigation.  Levi Ajuonuma , a spokesman for the state-owned oil company
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., was on the flight.  Africa had the highest airline accident rate in the world
in 2010, accounting for 17 percent of cases, even though it has
the world’s lowest traffic rate, with only 3 percent of the
population traveling by plane, according to the Montreal-based
 International Civil Aviation Organization .  In Nigeria, 12.5 million passengers flew on domestic and
international carriers in 2009, according to the Federal
Airports Authority of Nigeria.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index fell for a
fifth day, retreating 0.8 percent to 21,785.37 in Lagos,
according to an e-mailed statement from the bourse. The naira
fell 0.4 percent against the dollar, reaching a four-month low
on a closing basis at 161.245 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  