-- Pocock to Captain Wallabies Against Scots; All Blacks Name Squad
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-03T03:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/pocock-to-captain-wallabies-against-scots-all-blacks-name-squad.html
David Pocock  will captain an
Australia team featuring five rookies in its one-off rugby Test
against Scotland in Newcastle on June 5.  The Zimbabwe-born openside flanker, who takes over from
injured regular skipper James Horwill, will lead a team
including two New Zealand-born backs with Mike Harris and Joe
Tomane chosen to make their debuts at inside center and wing.  Full-back Luke Morahan, blindside flanker Dave Dennis and
prop Dan Palmer are the other newcomers in the starting lineup,
while openside flanker Michael Hooper could make his Test debut
off the replacements’ bench.  World champion New Zealand included seven newcomers in a
30-man squad for its three-Test series against Ireland starting
June 9 in Auckland. The opener will be the All Blacks’ first
match since winning the  World Cup  in October.  The new forwards are second-rowers Brodie Retallick and
Luke Romano, flanker Sam Cane and prop Ben Tameifuna. Fly-half
Beauden Barrett, scrum-half Aaron Smith and winger Julian Savea
were also called up for the first time.  AUSTRALIA TEAM TO PLAY SCOTLAND: Luke Morahan, Joe Tomane,
Anthony Faingaa, Mike Harris, Digby Ioane, Berrick Barnes, Will
Genia, Scott Higginbotham, David Pocock, Dave Dennis, Nathan
Sharpe, Sitaleki Timani, Dan Palmer, Stephen Moore, James
Slipper. Replacements: Saia Faingaa,  Ben Alexander , Rob Simmons,
Michael Hooper, Nick Phipps,  Pat McCabe , Adam Ashley-Cooper.  ALL BLACKS 30-MAN SQUAD FOR SERIES AGAINST IRELAND:  Forwards: Sam Cane, Wyatt Crockett, Ben Franks, Owen
Franks, Andrew Hore, Richie McCaw (captain), Keven Mealamu,
Kieran Read, Brodie Retallick, Luke Romano, Ben Tameifuna, Adam
Thomson, Victor Vito, Sam Whitelock, Ali Williams, Tony
Woodcock.  Backs: Beauden Barrett, Dan Carter, Aaron Cruden, Israel
Dagg, Tamati Ellison, Hosea Gear, Zac Guildford, Ma’a Nonu,
Julian Savea,  Aaron Smith , Ben Smith, Conrad Smith,  Piri Weepu ,
Sonny Bill Williams.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  