-- Putin to Meet With Ahmadinejad in Beijing Before Nuclear Talks
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-03T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/putin-to-meet-with-ahmadinejad-in-beijing-before-nuclear-talks.html
Russia’s President  Vladimir Putin 
will meet with  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in Beijing on June 6 or June
7 before world powers gather in Moscow to discuss  Iran’s nuclear
program .  The meeting with Ahmadinejad will allow Putin to “feel the
heat surrounding the Iranian problem and how this issue is
perceived in Tehran,” Yuri Ushakov, a former ambassador to the
U.S. who advises Putin on foreign policy, told reporters in
Moscow yesterday.  The Ahmadinejad meeting foreshadows an international round
of talks about Iran’s atomic program in Moscow on June 18-19,
the third attempt in three months to address global concerns
that Iran is developing atomic weapons. Iran has said its
nuclear program is for peaceful purposes, and is seeking relief
from the economic sanctions the U.S. and European Union have
imposed.  “We weren’t too happy with the results of the last round
of talks, but we determined the mutual readiness to continue the
discussion,” Ushakov said. At the Moscow meeting, Russia will
“promote the thought that Iran’s right to develop peaceful
energy under the oversight of the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  should be approved.”  Iran is an observer nation to the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization, a security alliance led by China, Russia and
Kazakhstan, which will hold a summit on June 6-7 in Beijing.
Putin will attend and meet with China’s President  Hu Jintao  and
Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao , according to Ushakov. He will also
meet with Afghan President Hamid Karzai in China.  New ‘Intrigues’  “Iran will never give up its nuclear program, this is just
an opportunity to extend the talks through Russia,” Alexei Malashenko, a Middle East analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center,
said by phone today. “The talks won’t lead to anything besides
intrigues and new offenses.”  Brent crude , the benchmark for half of the world’s oil,
rose 18 percent this year through March 13 as Iran threatened to
shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s oil.  The Chinese and Russian leaders are expected to sign 17
political and economic agreements, including the promotion of
bilateral strategic relations, Ushakov said.  Russia ’s goal is to
boost trade volumes to $100 billion by 2015 from $83.5 billion
in 2011, Ushakov said. Russia is “hoping” its representative,
Dmitry Mezentsev, will be chosen as the next general secretary
of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, Ushakov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  