-- Queen Elizabeth Joins 1,000-Strong Flotilla for Jubilee Pageant
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-03T14:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/river-thames-flotilla-assembles-for-queen-s-jubilee-pageant.html
Queen Elizabeth II  joined the Diamond
Jubilee pageant on the  River Thames  where 1,000 vessels and an
estimated 1 million people waited to mark her 60 years on the
throne.  Cheering crowds ignored rain and low temperatures to line
the banks of London’s river to witness its largest pageant for
350 years. The queen, 86, and her husband, Prince Philip, 90,
boarded a lavishly decorated royal barge, which formed the
centrepiece of a flotilla of vessels including kayaks, skiffs,
Dunkirk little ships, tugs, barges and sailing ships.  “To finally see these boats mustered on the Thames, it
just lifts the spirit,” Pageant Master Adrian Evans told the
British Broadcasting Corp. today. “History unfolds at every
step with these boats.” The last flotilla of such magnitude on
the river was in 1662 when Charles II introduced his new Queen,
Catherine of Braganza.  The armada will sail along a seven-mile stretch of the
Thames, ending at Tower Bridge when the final music barge --
carrying members of the  London  Philharmonic Orchestra and the
Royal College of Music Chamber Choir -- will perform Land of
Hope and Glory, Rule Britannia and the national anthem.  Evans said the biggest “wow” moment of the day was likely
to be the sight of the 90 feet (27 meters) royal barge. “It’s
stunning; she’s like a palace on the water,” he said.  Queen Victoria  The Diamond Jubilee weekend got under way yesterday when
the queen arrived at the Derby, the highlight of the flat horse-
racing season. The celebrations will culminate on June 5 with a
day of pageantry including a service of thanksgiving at  St.
Paul’s Cathedral  in central London, when Britons will enjoy an
extra public holiday.  Only one British monarch has spent longer than the current
queen on the throne: Victoria, who reigned from 1837 to 1901.
Her  Diamond Jubilee in 1897 , captured on  grainy black-and-white
film , is the only precedent for this weekend’s events. It’s just
over a year since London’s streets saw the last major royal
event, the marriage of the queen’s grandson,  Prince William , to
 Kate Middleton .  “For 60 years the queen has been a point of light in our
national life; brilliant, enduring and resilient,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  wrote in a tribute to the monarch last
week for Parliament’s The House magazine. “Through a reign of
unparalleled change -- from postwar Britain through to the jet
age, space age and digital age -- she has remained resolutely
unchanged in her commitment to this country.”  Weekly Audiences  The queen -- the 40th monarch in a line that began with
William the Conqueror in 1066 -- took the throne at a time when
Britain was recovering from the ravages of World War II, with
food rationing still in force, and beginning to grant
independence to its colonies.  Winston Churchill , who’d led the
country to wartime victory, was again prime minister, the first
of 12 who’ve held weekly audiences with the monarch.  Cameron today rejected any suggestion that she might
abdicate, or that the crown might skip a generation and go
straight to Prince William instead of her heir, Prince Charles.  “Both of those things are out of the question,” Cameron
told the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show,” in an interview. “You get
the sense that she will go on doing the amazing job she’s been
doing as long as she can.”  Despite showers forecast for most of the day, thousands of
street parties will be held across Britain after more than 9,500
applications for road closures approved for jubilee events, the
British Broadcasting Corp. said.  Palace Concert  Matt Dobson, a forecaster at MeteoGroup, the weather
division of the Press Association, said: “The radar image shows
a scattering of heavy showers out to the west of London and
these are expected to move slowly eastwards across the capital
during the course of the afternoon.”  The jubilee celebration will continue tomorrow, when a
concert will be held outside  Buckingham Palace , the monarch’s
central London residence, featuring stars such as  Paul McCartney ,  Elton John  and  Tom Jones  -- all of whom have been
knighted by the queen.  The final day of events will see the queen and the extended
royal family attending the national service of thanksgiving at
St. Paul’s in London’s financial district on June 5.  After a reception at the Mansion House hosted by the  Lord
Mayor  of London and lunch at the Houses of Parliament, the queen
and Prince Philip will return to Buckingham Palace in a horse-
drawn open carriage. The heir to the throne, Prince Charles, and
his wife Camilla will also be in the procession, along with
William and his wife and William’s brother, Prince Harry.  Rifle Fire  The climax of the event, just before 3:30 p.m., will see
those senior royals appear on the palace balcony, in time for a
flypast by planes of the Royal Air Force and a celebratory
cascade of rifle fire from the soldiers of the Queen’s Guard,
interspersed with the national anthem.  A  YouGov Plc poll  conducted May 27 and May 28 found 86
percent of 1,743 respondents saying the queen had done a good
job as monarch. Of those surveyed, 73 percent said Britain
should continue to have a monarchy, up four points on a year
ago.  “It’s only really been over the last five, eight, 10 years
that I’ve really learned to understand and accept the huge deal
that she is around the world,” Harry said in an  ABC television
interview  that aired last week. “She has managed to get the
family to move with the times.”  Public Grief  The queen has weathered less popular times. Many found her
response to the 1997 death of  Princess Diana , an internationally
popular figure before and after the breakup of her marriage to
Prince Charles, to be cold and indifferent to the outpouring of
public grief. “Show Us You Care,” shouted a headline in the
Express newspaper before the queen broke days of silence over
the tragedy.  Paying his own jubilee tribute to the queen, the head of
the Church of  England , Archbishop of Canterbury  Rowan Williams ,
spoke of her sense of humor in their one-to-one meetings.  “I found in the queen someone who can be friendly, who can
be informal, who can be extremely funny in private -- and not
everybody appreciates just how funny she can be --, who is quite
prepared to tease and to be teased, and who, while retaining her
dignity always, doesn’t stand on her dignity in a
conversation,” he said in a video released by his office.  The celebrations may do little to help the economy, with
spending on food and drink and tourist revenue likely to be
offset by a loss of output as some companies shut down for the
entire week. The holiday is forecast to depress gross domestic
product in the second quarter, raising the risk that Britain
slides deeper into recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  