-- Roche Smart-Bomb Cancer Drug Delays Breast Tumor Growth
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-06-03T12:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/roche-smart-bomb-cancer-drug-delays-growth-of-breast-tumors.html
An experimental breast cancer drug
from  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  that carries chemotherapy directly into
malignant cells while bypassing healthy ones delayed tumors
longer and with fewer side effects than an established therapy.  The treatment, combining Roche’s Herceptin with an older
chemotherapy medicine, delayed progression of tumors 3.2 months
longer than  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb with chemotherapy in
women with advanced disease. The data is being reported today at
the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago .  More patients on the drug, dubbed T-DM1, were alive after
two years, though the difference fell short of statistical
significance. Still, the results “are the first proof” that
using an antibody to precisely target a toxic chemotherapy dose
into a solid tumor can work, said Kimberly Blackwell, a study 
author and professor of medicine at  Duke University .  “It is fantastic data,” said Shanu Modi, a breast cancer
oncologist at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York,
who was not involved in the current trial. If approved, “it is
going to be rapidly taken up by the oncology community. For sure,
I will be using a lot of it.”  Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , is in talks with the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  and plans to file for
marketing approval in the U.S. and  Europe  by the end of the year,
said Sandra Horning, head of oncology research for Roche. A
final review of survival data is due in 2014, she said.  ImmunoGen Technology  The Swiss drugmaker used technology from  ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN) , a
Waltham, Massachusetts-based biotechnology company, to strap
Herceptin together with a compound derived from a chemotherapy
drug that proved too toxic for patients two decades ago. The
combination delivers the powerful treatment straight to the
tumor -- avoiding healthy cells and releasing its payload only
once it gets to the cancer cells.  Cancer researchers have dreamed for decades of developing
“smart bombs that can deliver cancer-killing agents directly to
the tumor,” Blackwell said in the interview at the conference.  The study looked at women whose disease had progressed
after previous treatment with Herceptin and chemotherapy. The
experimental treatment delayed progression of the disease for
9.6 months, versus 6.4 months for the standard therapy. About 65
percent of patients who got T-DM1 were still alive after two
years, compared with 47.5 percent of patients who got Tykerb and
chemotherapy.  Modi and Blackwell predicted in interviews that a survival
benefit will be proven with longer patient follow-up. Blackwell
said the survival difference may turn out to be more than a year.  ‘Significantly Better’  “The drug worked,” Blackwell, at Duke’s Durham, North
Carolina campus, said in a statement. “It was significantly
better than a very effective approved therapy.”  The data may be a “coming of age” for antibody-drug
conjugates like T-DM1,  Howard Liang , a Boston-based analyst for
Leerink Swann & Co., wrote in a note to investors before the
conference.  The study is “good news for women” because it shows T-DM1
can deliver a potent poison to cancer cells without many of the
side effects suffered by the patients who got Tykerb, Roche’s
Horning said. Diarrhea, vomiting and swollen, painful hands and
feet were all less common in patients who took T-DM1.  “What we’re trying to do is deliver chemotherapy in a
smarter way,” she said. “We feel like we’re moving to the next
generation.”  Less Toxic  Fewer toxic side-effects could be “a major selling point”
for the T-DM1 drug, said Jennifer Litton, a  breast cancer 
specialist at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, who was not
involved in the trial. “I have patients calling me asking for
this drug.”  Roche is testing the armed antibody technology in eight
molecules in early patient trials for prostate, ovarian, breast,
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and other cancers, Stefan Frings, head of
medical affairs oncology, said in a telephone interview. Also
due for completion in 2014 is a trial combining T-DM1 with
another new Roche breast cancer therapy, pertuzumab.  “This may really represent a transformational event in
cancer therapies,” ImmunoGen Chief Executive Officer Dan Junius
said in a telephone interview. Numerous antibody-drug conjugates
like T-DM1 may be available within four years, he said.  The FDA rejected a request in 2010 to speed up the approval
process for T-DM1 based on data from preliminary trials. It said
that patients those trials had not exhausted all available
options, said  Charlotte  Arnold, a Roche spokeswoman, in an e-
mail.  Cancer Killer  About 1.4 million women are newly diagnosed with breast
cancer every year and almost 460,000 die, making it the biggest
cancer killer among women, according to the  International Agency
for Research on Cancer  in Lyon,  France .  About 25 percent of cases are distinguished by a protein
called HER2 on the surface of the cancer cells that causes them
to multiply more quickly. Herceptin latches onto HER2, blocking
it without killing the cell.  Herceptin, approved in 1998 as one of the first targeted
therapies against breast cancer, had 5.3 billion Swiss francs in
sales last year, making it the drugmaker’s third-biggest-selling
cancer drug after therapies Rituxan and Avastin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  