-- S.Korea to Focus More on Boosting Growth, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-06-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/s-korea-to-focus-more-on-boosting-growth-finance-minister-says.html
South Korea  will focus policy efforts
more on boosting economic growth and allocate additional state
funds to support small companies and exporters, Finance Minister
Bahk Jae Wan said.  “We need to make more effort to support economic growth as
some progress has been made in terms of stabilization” of
prices, Bahk told reporters in Seoul yesterday. “We’re not in a
situation where we need an extra budget but we will try to use
more state funds to support small firms and exporters.”  Bahk reaffirmed the government’s commitment to draft a
budget that will achieve fiscal balance by next year, reducing
its fiscal deficit to zero.  South Korean officials are trying to sustain momentum in
 Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy after the fastest growth in a year
in the first quarter. A slowdown in China and the risk of a
Greek exit from the euro are clouding the outlook for exports
which account for about half of gross domestic product.  South Korea’s overseas shipments declined for a third month
in May, adding pressure on the central bank to hold off from
raising  interest rates  at a meeting on June 8.  Exports fell 0.4 percent from a year earlier in May, after
a revised 4.8 percent decline the previous month, the Ministry
of  Knowledge Economy  said June 1. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.1 percent drop. A separate
report showed inflation held at a 21-month low of 2.5 percent in
May.  While South  Korea ’s gross domestic product expanded at the
fastest pace in a year last quarter, the  Bank of Korea  reduced
its 2012 growth forecast to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent on
April 16 as the outlook for Europe’s economies worsened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  