-- SEC’s Top Enforcer Defends Lack of Cases Against Execs
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-03T15:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/sec-s-top-enforcer-defends-lack-of-cases-against-execs.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission hasn’t sought enforcement actions against top
investment banking officials in connection with the housing-
finance collapse because decisions about mortgage securities
can’t usually be traced to the executive suite, the agency’s
enforcement director said.  Collateralized debt obligations and “other deal-specific
matters often aren’t vetted at the senior corporate levels,”
SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in an interview
broadcast today on the C-Span cable network. “You’re not going
to see as many prosecutions of those folks for those types of
violations as you might otherwise.”  The SEC has faced criticism from lawmakers, judges and
investors who say it hasn’t been tough enough in holding
individuals on  Wall Street  to account for actions leading to the
2008 financial crisis, which was triggered by the failure of
mortgages packaged into securities.  The agency has largely targeted its enforcement effort at
lower-level employees or at Wall Street firms themselves for
misleading investors about the quality of loans in securities
they were selling.  The SEC is litigating at least four cases related to
complex financial products linked to residential mortgages.
Firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have settled SEC claims without admitting
wrongdoing. Individuals named in the suits were those who
structured the faulty deals, not the executives who run the
firms.  Pursuing Lenders  The SEC has taken action against more than 55 senior
executives at companies such as Countrywide Financial Corp. and
New Century Financial Corp., both lenders dealing in subprime
loans, with misconduct leading to the financial crisis, Khuzami
said. Those cases often center on whether the executives made
misleading statements to investors about their firms’ exposure
to souring home mortgages.  Continuing litigation includes lawsuits against six former
executives of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac , three executives from
IndyMac Bancorp Inc., the ex-CEO and chief financial officer of
 Franklin Bank Corp (FBTXQ) , and three former executives of Thornburg
Mortgage Inc.  “I think our performance has been very strong in this
area,” Khuzami said.  At the same time, Khuzami said the agency needs a bigger
budget to be even more effective.  “We are significantly underfunded,” he said. “We are
responsible for regulating 35,000 entities, and yet we are about
the size of the D.C. police force.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  