-- U.S. Service Industries Probably Kept Growing
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-03T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/service-industries-probably-kept-growing-u-s-economy-preview.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably  grew  in May at the same pace as the prior month,
indicating the economy is failing to gain momentum as employment
slows and the European crisis intensifies, economists said
before reports this week.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index, which covers almost 90 percent of the economy, held at
53.5, matching April’s four-month low, according to the  median 
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a
report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group on June 5. Separate
figures may show the  trade gap  narrowed in April.  Budget cuts aimed at reducing sovereign debt and putting
countries like Greece and  Spain  on a more sustainable fiscal
path are bringing  Europe  to the brink of a recession that is
rippling through the global economy. Investors will also be
parsing Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony
before Congress this week to determine if policy makers are
ready to take additional steps to support growth.  “The  U.S. economy  is somewhat resilient to the situation
in Europe, but not immune,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , who projected
the ISM index will be little changed. “Business leaders need to
add jobs, but are reluctant given the uncertainty. Hiring will
remain soft until we get greater resolution out of Europe.”  Concern about the economic outlook is weighing on stocks.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slumped 2.2 percent on June 1,
erasing its 2012 advance. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note dropped to 1.46 percent from 1.56 percent late on
May 31, after sliding to a record 1.4387 percent.  Manufacturing Cools  The figures on services follow the ISM group’s report last
week that showed factories, the mainstay of the expansion,
tempered production in May and pared inventories in response to
weakness in the global economy. The manufacturing index fell to
53.5 from a 10-month high in April. At the same time, the orders
gauge climbed to 60.1 last month, the highest since April 2011.  Businesses are continuing to invest, a Commerce Department
report may indicate tomorrow. Orders to factories climbed 0.2
percent in April after a 1.9 percent drop in March, according to
the Bloomberg survey.  Weakness in the labor market may help explain why demand
has yet to accelerate. Payrolls climbed by 69,000 in May, less
than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey,
after a revised 77,000 gain in April that was smaller than
initially estimated, according to Labor Department figures
released June 1. The median projection called for a 150,000 May
advance. The  jobless rate  rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Consumer Spending  Faster hiring and wage growth would ensure sustained growth
in consumer purchases, which increased 0.3 percent in April
after a 0.2 percent rise the prior month.  “The overall economy is still our customers’ main
concern,”  Bill Simon , the U.S. chief executive officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. said during a May 17 earnings call. “In
particular, they remain concerned about  job security  or the
availability of jobs, followed by gas and energy prices and
rising food costs.”  Car purchases eased in May, company data showed June 1.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Toyota Motor Corp. led five of the six
largest automakers in reporting U.S. sales gains in May that
trailed estimates as incentive offers failed to draw enough
buyers amid slumping payrolls growth.  The employment report raised the odds that Fed policy
makers will step in to boost growth. Bernanke is due to testify
on the state of the economy before Congress on June 7.  Bernanke Testimony  “Bernanke will remind Congress of the things we need to do
so the U.S. doesn’t wind up with a situation like Europe,”
Price said. “They need to come up with a plan sooner rather
than later. The time for a wake-up call is now for everyone, and
that includes Congress.”  One fallout from concern about weakness in the global
economy is that  oil prices  have slumped. Crude fell to the
lowest level in almost eight months on June 1 as employment
reports in the U.S. and the euro area signaled demand for fuel
may tumble.  Cheaper oil also helped to trim the  trade deficit  in April,
Commerce Department figures may show on June 8. The gap narrowed
to $49.5 billion from $51.8 billion in March, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  Among other reports, revised figures from the Labor
Department may show the productivity of American workers fell
0.7 percent in the first quarter, indicating businesses are
reaching the limit of how much efficiency they can wring from
the workforce. The data is due on June 6.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  