-- Shirakawa Bows to Yen Bulls as Intervention Fails
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-06-04T19:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/shirakawa-bows-to-yen-bulls-as-intervention-fails-on-euro-escape.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is being steamrolled by investors pushing the yen
toward a post-World War II high against the dollar, negating his
attempts to weaken the currency.  After depreciating 10.4 percent in the first quarter, the
most since 1995, the yen is up 12.5 percent since March, the
best among 10 developed-nation currencies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rebound from an almost 10-month low
reached March 21 is set to continue as the fallout from Europe’s
debt crisis rattles markets from the U.S. to China, say an
increasing number of investors and strategists from  Tokyo  to
 London  and  New York .  “All investors know that intervention will not stop the
yen strength,”  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer at Fukoku
Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo, which manages $7.3 billion of
assets, said in a telephone interview on May 30. “Intervening
at this stage would be unwise and a waste of money. As long as
Europe remains in a state of confusion, yen will continue to be
bought for its relative safety.”  Japan sold 14.3 trillion yen ($183 billion) last year, the
third-most on record, Ministry of Finance data show, to slow the
currency’s gains after the country was struck by an earthquake
and the worst nuclear crisis in a generation. While officials
said last week they are ready to take further action to prevent
the yen’s strength from damaging  Japan ’s nascent  economic
recovery , currency traders pushed it to its biggest weekly gain
of 2012.  Hedge funds  have cut bets it will weaken versus the
dollar by 83 percent from an almost five-year high in March.  ‘Recent Appreciation’  The yen may rise to as much as 75 per dollar, Sakurai said.
It slipped 0.44 percent to 78.35 per dollar at 3:03 p.m. in New
York, after climbing 2.1 percent last week. Against the euro, it
strengthened 2.8 percent to 97.01 in the five days ended June 1
and was at 97.89 today.  We’ve been monitoring “the recent appreciation of the
yen,” Shirakawa, 62, said at a forum in Tokyo today. “The bank
carefully monitors the development of the foreign-exchange rate
from the viewpoint of how it affects the economy through its
impact on business sentiment.”  Japan’s currency is stronger now than the 80 per dollar
level reached in 1995, when global coordinated intervention sent
it tumbling to 147.66 over the next three years.  Not Overvalued  Even with the gains, the yen isn’t overvalued compared with
1995, according to strategists at New York-based Morgan Stanley.
They said in a report dated May 31 that on a trade-weighted
basis, the yen is “roughly” in line with its average over the
past two decades and would need to appreciate to about 55 per
dollar to equal its strength in the mid-1990s.  “The discrepancy between nominal and real valuation
reflects improved Japanese competitiveness as a consequence of
deflationary declines in domestic prices and wages,” Ronald Leven, an executive director and strategist at Morgan Stanley in
New York, said in the report.  The yen tends to strengthen during economic and financial
turmoil because while it has the world’s most debt, which is
twice gross domestic product, the current-account surplus makes
the country less reliant on foreign capital. The yen has risen
even as Japan’s credit rating was cut on May 22 by  Fitch
Ratings , which cited the nation’s “leisurely” efforts to
tackle its burden.  Bonds Rally  Yields on 10-year Japanese  government bonds  touched 0.79
percent today in Tokyo, the lowest since 2003, and stocks
tumbled after Spain struggled to recapitalize its banks last
week, while last month’s inconclusive Greek elections fueled
bets the nation may quit the currency. Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX) 
plunged to the lowest level since 1983 and entered a  bear
market . The gauge declined 1.8 percent in the five days to June
1, falling for a ninth week, the longest losing streak since
September 1975.  The turmoil in  Europe  is taking its toll on the global
economy, diminishing the odds that world leaders will move to
help Japan weaken its currency at the expense of theirs through
coordinated intervention in the foreign-exchange market.  The U.S. Labor Department reported job gains of 69,000 in
May, the fewest in a year, and said the  unemployment rate  rose
to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in April. Commerce Department
figures a day earlier showed the economy expanded at a 1.9
percent annual rate last quarter, less than a 2.2 percent
previous estimate.  Haven Flows  Manufacturing in China grew last month at the slowest pace
this year, trailing 26 of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg survey,
according to an index published by the nation’s statistics
bureau and logistics federation.  “With the ongoing concerns about Europe, Greek elections
and Spanish banking sector, we’re seeing the yen benefit from
the safe-haven flows,”  Sue Trinh , a Hong-Kong based senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a
telephone interview May 30. “The goal of Japanese officials is
to manage the pace of appreciation in the yen and not try to
engineer its outright weakness.”  RBC, the most accurate yen-dollar forecaster in a first-
quarter survey by Bloomberg News, predicts the Japanese currency
will appreciate to 73 per dollar and 93 per euro by year-end.  The yen will average 80 per dollar this quarter and 82 in
the final three months of the year, according to the median
estimate of more than 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
That’s stronger than predictions made at the end of March that
it would weaken to 83 per dollar in the second quarter and about
85 in the fourth quarter.  Net Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a drop in the yen against the dollar
versus those on an advance -- so-called  net shorts  -- fell to
11,330 in the week ended May 29, from 67,622 on March 27,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Japan refrained from selling yen in the month to May 29,
the Ministry of Finance said on its website on May 31. It last
sold the currency on Nov. 4 as Europe’s deepening crisis and
slower global growth spurred the currency to a post-World War II
high of 75.35 per dollar on Oct. 31.  While the yen immediately weakened to 79.53 that day, it
began to slowly appreciate until reaching 76.03 on Feb. 1.  “We will continue to carefully monitor  currency market 
moves with more caution,” Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi ,
50, told reporters in Tokyo on June 1. “If these excessive
moves continue, I think I must take decisive action.”  Intervention Speculation  Japan probably didn’t conduct intervention last week to
weaken the yen after the currency’s largest gain since July,
said Totan Research Co., citing its analysis of the Bank of
Japan’s current-account balances. The yen climbed to a more than
three-month high versus the dollar on June 1 after the U.S. jobs
data. It then retreated, spurring speculation that Japanese
authorities may have sold the currency to rein in its advance.  Shirakawa said last week events in Europe may dictate what
happens in the foreign-exchange market.  “A large factor determining the foreign-exchange market is
a valuation about how much risk global investors can take,”
Shirakawa said in the Diet on May 31. “Whether the situation
over the European debt problem is improving or worsening seems
to be the big determinant factor.”  The central bank’s press office declined to comment on the
yen in a phone call made by Bloomberg.  Manufacturers’ Estimates  A stronger yen raises prices for exporters and reduced the
value of their repatriated income. Every one-yen movement
against the dollar leads to a 2.4 percent drop in operating
profit at  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and 3.3 percent at Toyota Motor
Corp., according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. report in April.  Japan’s large manufacturers expected the currency to trade
at an average rate of 78.14 in fiscal 2012, according to the
BOJ’s Tankan quarterly survey released on April 2. That compares
with an estimate of 79.02 for the fiscal year ending March 31,
indicated in the survey released on Dec. 15.  Toyota, which makes 3 million vehicles in Japan, has
announced plans to increase production in Indonesia, Russia and
the U.S., while Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
on May 11 that the appreciating yen poses the biggest risk for
his company’s performance this fiscal year.  Japanese exporters losing customers to overseas rivals are
cutting labor costs.  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the biggest employer among
companies on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, said May 29 it may cut
headquarters jobs after streamlining production units. Sony
Corp. announced plans on April 12 to reduce its workforce by
10,000 after four straight years of losses. The company forecast
profit on May 10 that was less than half of what analysts
estimated.  No ‘Control’  Policy makers may be waiting until the current bout of risk
aversion abates, according to Adrian Lee & Partners, which
manages more than $5 billion from London and Dublin, according
to its website.  “The BOJ realizes that the key factors driving the yen
higher are beyond their control,” Adrian Lee, president and
chief investment officer, said by telephone on May 31. “They
are doing the best they can to slow its appreciation and may
intervene when the market is on their side. There was a boost to
growth from the temporary stimulus. That is now fading.”  A resurgent economy is also fueling the yen. Japan’s gross
domestic product probably grew at a 4.5 percent annual pace in
the first quarter, according to the median forecast of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. GDP grew at a 0.1 percent
annual rate in the final quarter last year.  The probability of Japan intervening at the yen’s current
level and pace of change is low, said Tomoya Masanao, head of
 money management  for Japan at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  Yen selling last year wasn’t able to stop the currency’s
appreciation, so “it’s hard to see intervention this time
around would be able to change the market trend,” Masanao said
in an interview on June 1 at a Euromoney conference in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  