-- Small Fish Burned in Facebook IPO Knew Better
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-06-03T22:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/small-fish-burned-in-facebook-ipo-knew-better.html
You know that the hand-wringing over
the almost 25 percent drop in the value of  Facebook ’s Inc.’s
stock since its May 17 IPO has reached a new level of
disproportion when ABC’s  “Good Morning America”  weighs in with
the idea that maybe  Mark Zuckerberg  should abandon his honeymoon
and return to Silicon Valley to somehow make things better for
the gullible investors who got singed.  Lots of reasons have been posited for the  Facebook IPO 
“debacle” -- as the news media like to describe it --
including that perhaps Zuckerberg, the company’s founder and
chief executive officer, and his management team failed to
disclose declining quarterly advertising revenue in a timely
way. Or that  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. failed to process initial
purchase and sale orders properly on IPO day. Or that some
underwriters passed “quiet guidance” to big, institutional
investors about Facebook’s financial prospects but not to
smaller investors. Or that technical “trading glitches” caused
the problem. Or that  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Facebook’s lead
underwriter, botched the whole IPO process.  Burned investors will grasp at anything -- except their own
role in fueling Wall Street’s Facebook IPO hype machine -- in an
effort to recoup some of the billions of dollars they have lost
as the stock continues to slide. On May 23, the plaintiff’s bar
got into the act by filing three separate shareholders lawsuits
accusing Facebook’s management, board and underwriters of
failing to provide material information about the company’s
second-quarter financial performance to small investors during
the roadshow, while providing the same information to some
institutional investors. This, the suits claim, caused the small
investors to lose more than $2.5 billion after Facebook’s IPO.  The Diepersloots  The  New York  Times managed to find Robert Diepersloot, a
dairy farmer in Madera,  California , who said the Facebook IPO
“confirmed all the fears and suspicions” that led him and his
wife to take all of their savings -- in the tens of thousands of
dollars -- out of the stock market and invest it, instead, in
real estate. (Good luck with that Mr. Diepersloot.) “We just
pulled out completely,” he told the paper. “We’ve lost trust
in the whole scenario.”  OK, once and for all: When will small investors finally get
the message that investing in IPOs is a fool’s game and that yet
again they served as mere grist for  Wall Street ’s IPO selling
machine? The current IPO market -- controlled by Wall Street’s
cartel of five or six leading firms -- exists only to benefit
three groups of constituents.  Foremost are the Wall Street banks themselves, which reap
hundreds of millions in fees from the IPOs whether the resulting
stock price goes up or down. Either way, Wall Street makes
money.  The second group consists of Wall Street’s big
institutional trading partners -- the ones that provide banks
with huge fees every day of the week, whether or not there is an
IPO to be hyped and priced. For obvious reasons, Wall Street
wants to keep these big investors happy. That is why they are
sometimes given (inside) information about a company that small
investors are not given -- as has been alleged in the Facebook
shareholder lawsuits. IPOs are priced to put money in these big
shareholders’ pockets, either by underpricing the company in the
first place so that it “pops” when it begins trading, allowing
the institutional shareholders to flip the stock quickly after
it rises in early trading, or by giving them information that
will allow them to get out fast while smaller investors are
getting in.  Lowest Priority  Third on the list of priorities is the company being taken
public. The Wall Street underwriters strive to get just enough
value in the IPO to keep the company’s management and early
investors happy, while also leaving enough on the table so
institutional investors get their “pop.” Wall Street wants its
IPO clients to stick around for the longer term, so that
additional fees can be generated from future secondary
offerings, as well as future debt offerings, mergers and wealth
management services. Wall Street is engaged in a delicate
balancing act between its fee interests and those of its
institutional trading partners and its corporate-finance
clients.  You’ll notice, of course, that small investors don’t make
the list of important constituents. Their concerns are nearly
irrelevant to the Wall Street cartel, despite the marketing
dollars that big firms often invest in attracting small
investors to their brokerage businesses. Not that banks hate
small investors -- they generate fees (through churning those
brokerage accounts) and they provide liquidity to the market --
for example, in the form of misplaced demand for IPOs. But Wall
Street sees little point in keeping them informed or helping
them make wise decisions.  That Facebook’s IPO would be a product of the Wall Street
hype machine was obvious from the beginning. For at least the
past 18 months -- starting perhaps with the January 2011
investment by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  into the company that
valued it at $50 billion -- Facebook has been awarded one
ridiculous valuation milestone after another.  It’s easy to blame Wall Street for all this hype, and it’s
easy to blame Facebook’s management for whipping up the
valuation frenzy. It’s also easy to blame Nasdaq for botching
the orders or Morgan Stanley for mismanaging the process.  The truth is that if small investors simply remembered they
are nowhere to be found on the list of important constituents
for an IPO such as Facebook’s, and simply stayed away, the
traditional Wall Street IPO machinery would break down. Is that
a lesson that can be finally learned, once and for all?  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the author
of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter electric cars 
and  smarter health spending ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of
Dwight D. Eisenhower ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan ’s  strong
currency and weak economy ; Severin Borenstein on  saving the
airline industry ;  David Crane  on the  future of unions ; Marc
Joffe and Anthony Randazzo  on mortgage investors.   To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 