-- Pressure Builds on Merkel as Spain Calls for Bank Aid
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-04T14:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/spain-seeks-joint-bank-effort-as-pressure-rises-on-merkel.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman
said that Spain knows where to look for aid if it’s needed,
giving no ground to Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s pleas that
Germany consider new ideas to resolve the debt crisis.  As markets brace for further deterioration in Spain’s
finance sector and a possible Greek departure from the 17-member
euro area, the Canadian government said that finance ministers
and central bank governors from the Group of Seven countries
will hold a conference call tomorrow to discuss the European
debt crisis.  Rajoy sought to open a new avenue of crisis fighting on
June 2, when he added his voice to calls for a “banking union”
in Europe involving a centralized system to re-capitalize
lenders. Merkel shut off another potential solution the same day
as she toughened her opposition to euro-area debt sharing,
telling members of her party that “under no circumstances”
would she agree to euro bonds.  Options “that resemble euro bonds” are conceivable after
a process of European integration lasting “many years,”
Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters in
Berlin today. For now, “it’s up to national governments to
decide whether they want to avail themselves of aid from the
backstop and accept the conditions linked to it, and that of
course also applies to Spain.”  Obama Blame  As euro-area unemployment reached its highest level on
record, manufacturing output contracted for a 10th straight
month in May and the currency plunged close to a two-year low
against the  U.S. dollar , leaders continued to wrangle over the
details of support for the currency bloc. President  Barack Obama 
meanwhile laid the blame for sluggish U.S. employment at the
feet of euro-area leaders, saying they haven’t done enough to
resolve the crisis, now in its third year.  European and Asian stocks fell, with Chinese shares in Hong
Kong headed for a  bear market . The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slid
0.4 percent at 4:04 p.m. in Frankfurt after the Hong Kong Hang
Seng Index dropped 2.3 percent. The euro was up 0.5 percent
against the dollar to $1.2493.  Merkel will discuss proposals on closer banking
coordination when she meets today in Berlin with European
Commission President  Jose Barroso , Commission spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen said today in Brussels. Merkel and Barroso
will make a statement at 7 p.m. local time.  French Pressure  Renewed pressure on the German leader came from French
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  and EU Economy Commissioner
 Olli Rehn , who said that a first step toward a banking union
should be to allow the euro’s permanent rescue fund inject cash
into banks instead of channeling it through governments.  “We have been considering this as a serious possibility of
breaking the link between the sovereigns and the banks,” Rehn
told reporters today in Brussels. “It is important to consider
this alternative of direct bank recapitalization.”  Germany  will await European Union proposals on a banking
union, Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said.  “With the term ’banking union’ there are not only a lot of
different concepts,” Kotthaus told reporters in Berlin. “The
term is used in many contexts with many different ways of
understanding it.”  Merkel’s coalition parties, meeting in Berlin, “stress that
all tools stand ready to ensure the safety of banks in the  euro
zone ,” the government said in a later e-mailed statement.  Urging Bailout  Merkel and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  have urged
Spain to accept an international bailout,  Der Spiegel  magazine
reported in this week’s edition, without saying where it
obtained the information. Spain’s  El Pais  said yesterday that
the EU is also pressing Spain to accept funds, citing
unidentified officials in Brussels.  “If aid is needed, everybody knows that  Europe  stands
ready, that Europe shows solidarity and that Europe has aid
instruments available,” Seibert said, when asked about the
report. “But the decision on that rests solely with the Spanish
government.”  In  Madrid , Maria Dolores de Cospedal, the deputy leader of
Spain’s ruling  People’s Party , told reporters that “Spain is
capable of getting out of this on its own.”  Yields on German two-year notes fell below zero for the
first time ever last week as investors fled riskier sovereign
debt. Spanish bonds dropped for a fourth week, pushing the
country’s  10-year yields  above 6.5 percent -- nearing the 7
percent threshold which triggered the three earlier bailouts.  Spain plans to sell bonds maturing in 2014, 2016 and 2022
on June 7. The amount hasn’t yet been set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  