-- Strong Yen Belies a Worrisome Japanese Economy
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-06-03T22:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/strong-yen-belies-a-worrisome-japanese-economy.html
Investors have enough to worry about:
the crisis in the euro area, the uneven U.S. recovery and the
probable hard landing in  China . So I hate to be the bearer of
more worrisome tidings: They also need to start keeping a
watchful eye on Japan.  The world’s third-largest economy has been in a
deflationary depression for two decades, with very low, if not
negative, gross-domestic-product growth, and deflation more
often than inflation. True,  first-quarter GDP  rose 4.1 percent
at annual rates after a flat reading in the fourth quarter of
2011. The strong showing is largely attributed to increased
domestic demand due to  government spending  and incentives to
help the country recover from the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami, and similar rates of growth aren’t expected in coming
quarters. The first-quarter  GDP deflator , a key price indicator,
rose 0.02 percent, its first increase in more than three years.
Prices, excluding food and energy, fell 0.3 percent in April.  Given this 20-year deflationary depression, the yen’s
enduring strength against the dollar and other major currencies
is a mystery.  Plaza Accord  It takes about 78 yen to buy $1 today. In 1985, it took
about 250 yen. That was the year the U.S.,  France ,  Germany , the
U.K. and Japan met in  New York  and reached what became known as
the Plaza Accord. The agreement was aimed at strengthening the
yen and weakening the U.S. dollar as a way to curb Japan’s
export juggernaut. Nevertheless, the Bank of Japan flooded the
economy with cheap money in order to offset the depressing
effects of a stronger yen.  A lot of that money found its way into real estate and
stocks and propelled the Japanese bubble economy of the 1980s.
But the bubble burst: The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  peaked at
38,916 on the last trading day of 1989 and has fallen 78 percent
since. Land prices are down 77 percent from the peak in the
third quarter of 1990.  The yen has maintained its strength for several reasons.
First, Japan has pursued a mercantilist foreign-trade policy
that recalls France in the 17th century. Exports have been
promoted by the government-industrial complex known abroad as
Japan Inc., with a concentration on cars, electronics and other
industries designated for global dominance. Meanwhile, imports
have been discouraged. A government official once proposed
banning the importation of U.S. skis on the grounds that they
hadn’t been tested on Japanese snow. And so, until recent years,
the  trade surplus  persisted. The yen also has been buoyed by the
steady repatriation of earnings and the money inflow to Japan’s
immense holding of foreign assets.  Second, investors have viewed Japan as a haven during
periods of turmoil, including the 1997-1998 Asian debt crisis,
the 1990s dot-com bubble and its 2000-2002 collapse, the U.S.
subprime-mortgage boom and meltdown, the global recession that
followed in 2008-2009 and, most recently, the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  Third, investors are well aware that repeated Japanese
 currency interventions  designed to curtail the yen’s strength
haven’t worked for long. In early May, officials threatened to
step in again to hold down the currency but didn’t take any
action at the central bank’s May 23 policy meeting. The yen
jumped. True, the government hasn’t usually been joined by the
U.S. and other major countries in trashing the yen, though the
Japanese central bank has asked the country’s major banks if
they could help it intervene overseas during European and North
American trading hours.  In any event, intervening against your own currency should
be relatively easy: It’s simply a matter of selling it on the
open market and because it’s your own currency, you can
manufacture an unlimited supply. In contrast, supporting your
currency requires selling other currencies and often borrowing
them from foreign governments.  Carry Trade  Fourth, the yen has been the darling of the carry trade
because of Japan’s liquid currency market and low  interest
rates . Speculators borrow yen at low rates, convert the funds to
higher-yielding currencies and profit from the interest-rate
spread.  Australia , with persistently higher rates, has often
been on the other side of the carry trade. Of course, if the yen
strengthens against the Australian dollar, speculators can lose
part or all of the carry-trade profit, but if it weakens, they
make money two ways.  This dynamic has been on display this year, at least until
very recently, with the  Mexican peso  up 3 percent against the
yen, the U.S. dollar up 3.3 percent, and the South African rand
down 0.3 percent, the Brazilian real down 5.1 percent and the
Australian dollar down 1.2 percent.  Nevertheless, other major  central-bank rates  have fallen
close to zero in recent years, so the yen is no longer unique as
a carry-trade funding currency, and the narrow rate spreads
largely eliminate carry-trade profits versus the dollar, the
pound and the euro. Since September 1995, the  Bank of Japan ’s
overnight interest-rate target has been generally around 0.4
percent or less and never higher than 0.7 percent. Today, the
two-year Treasury note yields only 0.18 percentage point more
than the comparable Japanese government debt.  The Bank of Japan surprised markets in February by
expanding its asset-purchase program by 10 trillion yen to 65
trillion yen ($81 billion) to stimulate economic growth. It also
set an immediate  inflation target  of 1 percent and a 2 percent
or lower goal in the longer run to counter chronic  deflation .
Just imagine, congenital inflation-worrying central banks
cheering for inflation. But then, in 2011, the consumer-price
index fell again, by 0.3 percentage point, and  inflation  rates
of 1 percent or more have occurred in only nine months since
2002, all largely caused by spikes in crude-oil prices.  BOJ Loans  More recently, the BOJ announced a 2 trillion-yen to 5.5
trillion-yen boost for its loan program for high-growth sectors,
such as renewable energy, medical treatment and nursing care.
The program, introduced in June 2010, will run until March 2014
and lend to private banks for one year at 0.1 percent interest.
As part of the total, the BOJ will offer 1 trillion yen in U.S.
dollar-denominated loans.  Last August, the  Japan  Bank for International Cooperation
set up the “Emergency Facility to Deal With the Strong Yen” to
lend U.S. dollars cheaply to Japanese companies for foreign
acquisitions or to buy foreign resources. The initial $100
billion was increased to $130 billion, which the program
borrowed from Japan’s $1.3 trillion foreign-currency reserves.
JBIC finances as much as 60 percent of overseas mergers and
acquisitions and 70 percent of purchases of foreign assets.
Borrowers are expected to obtain elsewhere the additional
dollars to complete their deals and thereby boost the dollar
against the yen.  Clearly, the independent BOJ is acting in concert with the
government to stimulate the economy, but some believe it’s also
buying  government securities  to finance huge  deficits .
“Monetizing the debt” in this way is taboo among major central
bankers because it can encourage profligacy. Yet it’s being done
under one guise or another in the U.S. with recent quantitative
easing and, more recently, in the euro area, where the  European
Central Bank  loaned 1 trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) to at least
800 banks at 1 percent interest for three years. The banks, in
turn, used much of the money to buy their governments’ sovereign
issues. Through the end of this year, the BOJ plans to spend 38
trillion yen in its asset-buying program, roughly equal to all
the planned new government bond issues.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the first in a five-part series.
Read  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter, lighter cars 
and  smarter health spending ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of
Dwight D. Eisenhower ; William D. Cohan on  delusional Facebook
investors ; Severin Borenstein on  saving the airline industry ;
 David Crane  on politicians and   unions ; Marc Joffe and Anthony
Randazzo  on mortgage investors.   To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary  Shilling  at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  