-- Assad Blames Terror, Foreigners for Unrest, Calls for Unity
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-06-03T13:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/syria-s-assad-blames-terrorism-for-unrest-and-calls-for-unity.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
brushed aside growing foreign pressure on his government,
telling parliament that the country is facing a “real war” and
blaming terrorists and foreign elements for the violence.  “The crisis is not an internal crisis but an external war
with domestic tools,” Assad said in a speech today. “What is
required today is to stand united.”  Burhan Ghalioun, head of the opposition Syrian National
Council, dismissed the speech as “pre-death delusions” and
said he expects the rebel Free Syrian Army to switch to a more
offensive mode and to start attacking forces loyal to Assad.  Assad has repeatedly blamed the violence, which according
to United Nations estimates has left as many as 10,000 people
dead, on terrorists and foreign forces seeking to undermine the
state.  France ,  Germany , the U.K. and U.S. have accused the Assad
regime of undermining peace efforts with military assaults
against opponents.  Kofi Annan , the UN special envoy to  Syria , said yesterday
that the level of violence has “escalated” and “the specter
of total civil war, with a worrying sectarian dimension, grows
by the day.” He spoke after a meeting of Arab League foreign
ministers in Doha, Qatar.  Western countries ejected top Syrian diplomats from their
capitals last week to protest the  massacre of more than 100
people in Houla, a cluster of villages in central Syria.  Massacre Reaction  Assad condemned the Houla massacre, saying not even
“monsters” could carry out such an act. The UN Human Rights
Council has called for a probe into those deaths, which it said
was the work of “pro-regime elements.” Syrian officials have
blamed gunmen for the slayings. According to UN estimates, 108
people were killed, including 49 children.  The speech tells “you that he’s not going to change course
and it may be because he feels he’s still in a position of some
strength,” Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings Doha
Center, said in a telephone interview.  While Western and other leaders have called on Assad to
stand down and quit the country, saying he has lost the
legitimacy to lead, Russia and  China  have blocked UN Security
Council resolutions pushing for stronger sanctions.  Assad told parliament that the doors for dialogue are open
for opposition figures who have no foreign affiliation or a hand
in violence.  He also said that promised changes such as parliamentary
elections have failed to stop the violence.  “The political process is moving forward but terrorism is
escalating,” he told parliament.  Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal accused the
Syrian government of “playing for time and maneuvering.”  “Every initiative that has been presented has been
accepted by the Syrian regime but was not implemented,” al-
Faisal said told a news conference in the Saudi Red Sea port
city of  Jeddah .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  