-- Universal’s ‘Snow White’ Tops Box Office With $56 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/universal-s-snow-white-tops-box-office-with-xx-million.html
“ Snow White  and the Huntsman,”
 Universal Pictures ’s action-adventure take on the classic fairy
tale, led the U.S. and Canadian box office over the weekend,
taking in $56.3 million in sales and knocking “Men in Black 3”
out of the top spot.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Men in Black 3,” last week’s No. 1 movie,
dropped to second place with sales of $29.3 million, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The weekend’s only other new film in wide release,
“For Greater Glory,” was 10th with $1.8 million.  Universal, controlled by Philadephia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,
is looking for a hit after its $209 million action film
“Battleship,” based on the  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ’s board game, bombed
with audiences. Comcast Chief Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  on
June 1 called the alien-invasion movie “an unfortunate miss”
that will contribute to a negative second quarter for  NBC
Universal .  “For Universal, this is a good opening weekend and takes
some of the hit from the disappointing results of
‘Battleship,”’ said  Paul Sweeney , a media and entertainment
analyst for Bloomberg Industries. “What you’re seeing from
Hollywood more than before is a focus on franchise movies and
sequels because those are the movies that play well globally.”  Universal Pictures , before the weekend, ranked third in
2012 box-office sales with $597.2 million in domestic sales.
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  was first with $742.7 million and Sony was
second with $641.1 million, according to researcher  Box Office
Mojo .  ‘Men in Black 3’  “Snow White,” a dark retelling of the story about a
jealous, aging queen’s plot against a young beauty, stars
 Kristen Stewart  as Snow White and Chris Hemsworth as the hunter
who helps her.  Charlize Theron  portrays the queen who preys on
the young women as a means of preserving her own beauty.  The film was forecast by  Boxoffice.com  to generate $42
million in opening-weekend sales.  The 3-D “Men in Black 3” stars  Will Smith  and Tommy Lee Jones as special agents charged with managing Earth’s secret
alien population. Smith’s character, Agent J, travels back in
time to prevent a villain’s attempt to change history. To
accomplish his mission, he must work with a younger version of
Jones’s character, played by  Josh Brolin .  Walt Disney Co.’s superhero film “Marvel’s the Avengers”
was third with $20.3 million. The movie has taken in $553
million in domestic sales and $1.36 billion since it opened on
May 4.  ‘For Greater Glory’  “Battleship” dropped to fourth place with $4.81 million
in sales. The film has taken in $55.1 million in domestic sales
since opening in the U.S. on May 18. The film, made for about
$209 million, stars Taylor Kitsch as a U.S. Navy officer who
helps lead a sea battle against invading aliens.  “The Dictator” fell to fifth with $4.73 million. The
film, from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures , features Sacha
Baron Cohen as the oppressive, all-powerful ruler of a North
African nation who is replaced by an impostor during a visit to
the U.S. Ben Kingsley co-stars.  Tenth place’s “For Greater Glory,” from Arc
Entertainment, is about Mexican Catholics’ 1920s revolt against
government restrictions on religion. It features Andy Garcia and
 Peter O’Toole .  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 12 percent
to $135.5 million, Hollywood.com said. Domestic film sales this
year have risen 10 percent to $4.46 billion, with attendance up
12 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
1 and June 2 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  