-- Warren Wins Democratic Endorsement for Massachusetts Senate Seat
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-03T14:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/warren-wins-democratic-endorsement-for-massachusetts-senate-seat.html
Harvard University law professor
 Elizabeth Warren  won an overwhelming endorsement at a convention
of Massachusetts Democrats, avoiding a primary challenge in her
bid for the U.S. Senate seat held by Republican  Scott Brown .  Warren, who has faced questions in recent weeks over her
claims to American Indian heritage, beat back potential primary
opposition by winning 95.7 percent of the 3,500 votes at a state
convention in Springfield.  “I am not backing down,” Warren told Democrats at the
convention. “I didn’t get in the race to fold up the first time
I got punched.”  A Boston Globe poll released yesterday showed the race
virtually tied, with 39 percent of voters supporting Brown and
37 percent supporting Warren.  Brown, winner of a special election in January 2010 for the
seat Democrat  Edward Kennedy  held before his death in August
2009, is seeking a full six-year term.  Warren served as an adviser to President  Barack Obama  and
helped set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created
by the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law. Republican senators
made clear they would block Warren’s appointment to head the
bureau, and Obama named someone else to the post. In her
campaign, Warren has stressed her commitment to consumer
protections.  Warren, 62, has faced recent questions about her background
after reports that she claimed an American Indian background in
directories of law professors. She said family members told her
that she had American Indian ancestry.  One issue is whether she received an advantage in landing
her professorship at Harvard and other schools by claiming to be
a minority.  The Boston Globe  poll  showed Warren’s approval rating at 48
percent, up one point since the newspaper’s last poll in March.
Her negative rating increased nine points, to 32 percent. Brown,
meanwhile, had a 60 percent job approval rating.  The Globe poll of 651 likely voters has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  