-- When You Hate Your Taxes but Can’t Name Your Legislator
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2012-06-03T22:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/when-you-hate-your-taxes-but-can-t-name-your-legislator.html
Who do you think has more influence
over the education, safety, health, welfare, transportation,
justice, recreation and economic well-being of 40 million
Californians? U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein  or California
State Senator Loni Hancock?  That’s easy: Loni Hancock. How can it be that someone so
powerful is so unknown?  The answer is that few people pay attention to the
elections that most affect their lives. In California and most
states, those elections are to the state legislature.  This year, the 120 members of the California  Assembly  and
Senate will levy $130 billion in taxes and fees, and direct
the spending of more than $200 billion, including federal
funds. They will pass legislation and issue regulations
affecting the jobs, wages and economic prospects of millions
of private-sector workers, and the health and safety of all
residents. They determine the size of prison populations and
the extent of social safety nets. They decide which parks and
recreation sites can stay open, and oversee the quality of the
state’s environment and infrastructure. They supervise the
education of 9 million students.  Finally, they award billions of dollars in compensation,
issue billions of dollars of debt in retirement promises, and
select the members of state boards investing hundreds of
billions of dollars set aside to protect future taxpayers from
having to pay more to meet these promises.  Prisons First  Under the U.S. Constitution, state governments have
primary responsibility for delivering domestic services.
According to the  Volcker-Ravitch Task Force  on the State
Budget Crisis, states and localities spend more than the
federal government on the direct implementation of domestic
policy.  Senator Hancock -- who represents Berkeley and
surrounding areas -- voted along with a majority of her
colleagues this year to, among other things, cut outlays for
higher education, welfare, courts and parks while boosting
spending on state employees. The net result: This year,
California will spend more than twice as much on the
 compensation  and  benefits  of just 67,000 corrections employees
-- $6 billion -- as the state  will allocate  to the entire
 University of California  system -- $2.5 billion -- consisting
of 10 campuses educating more than 200,000 students, including
the University of California, Berkeley, in her district.
Because of cuts imposed by the state Senate, more than 70
 state parks  will close, tuition for college students will
rise, welfare benefits will decline, wait times for court
dates will increase and litigants will even have to pay for
court reporters.  For Senator Hancock, this can’t be easy. What’s
progressive about cutting education, courts, welfare and parks
while  boosting  public-employee  compensation ? Or not reforming
the 1970s  sentencing  law largely  responsible  for California’s
excessively large prison population?  Both sides of California’s political aisle play the game
of saying one thing but doing another. In 2010, then
Republican State Senator Dennis Hollingsworth railed about the
problem of growing pension costs but then voted against
legislation that would have lowered them.  Yet in a single day the  California  Legislature could
address most of the state’s main issues. For example, it
could:  Rewrite the Uniform Determinate Sentencing  Act , which
raised the state’s prison population after it was signed into
law in 1978.  Change the tax system from one dependent on capital-gains
levies to a formula that taxes consumption, as a way to reduce
the Wall Street effect on California’s boom-and-bust revenues.  Reform the public-employee benefits system that is
cannibalizing funding for critical state and local services.  Changed Primaries  Because California requires a two-thirds vote to raise
fees or taxes, a small number of legislators on the margin can
have enormous influence whenever more revenue is requested.  For example, in February 2009, Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  sought a tax increase and got enough
legislators to agree, including a small number of Republicans
who normally oppose tax increases. One of them, Abel Maldonado, wanted the voters to have a chance to approve a new
primary system that would take power away from the extremists
who at that time controlled primaries and, as a result, much
of the state legislature. Though the rest of the legislature
did not want that new primary system, Maldonado got his way,
the tax increase passed, and the new primary system was
approved by the voters.  Now that California has a new primary system and citizen-
drawn (instead of gerrymandered) districts, the scarce
resource now is good candidates -- Democrat, Republican or
with no party preference.  Successful politicians can’t win without strong egos.
But to govern for the benefit of their fellow citizens, they
need to care about something greater than themselves and show
courage in countering special interests. As those candidates
emerge, let’s hope their fellow citizens know their names.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive and a
Democrat, is a lecturer at  Stanford University  and president
of Govern for California, a nonpartisan group. He was an
economic adviser to California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns,
editorials and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter, lighter cars 
and  smarter health spending ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of
Dwight D. Eisenhower ; William D. Cohan on  delusional Facebook
investors ; A. Gary Shilling on  Japan ’s  strong currency and
weak economy ; Severin Borenstein on  saving the airline
industry ; Marc Joffe and Anthony Randazzo  on mortgage
investors.   To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 