-- Why U.S. Airlines Need to Adapt to a Slow-Growth Future
-- B y   S e v e r i n   B o r e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-03T22:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/why-u-s-airlines-need-to-adapt-to-a-slow-growth-future.html
As the economy recovers and fuel
prices ease, U.S. airlines are doing better. Prospects for the
summer and the rest of 2012 look brighter, particularly because
there are fewer carriers after the mergers of the last five
years.  Yet  U.S. airlines  face a long-term challenge that should
concern industry executives as well as investors. That
impediment isn’t wages,  fuel prices  or a stagnant economy. It’s
growth in demand for  air travel , which has been anemic at best
for more than a decade, even when the economy was expanding.  Steadily dropping fares are the only reason traffic has
grown at all since 2000. And without substantive cost-cutting
innovation in the industry, that pace isn’t sustainable. Coca-Cola Co. can’t increase its business through constant price
cutting, and neither can airlines. If inflation-adjusted fares
hadn’t dropped 17 percent from 2000 to 2010,  my research 
suggests that domestic travel would have declined.  To understand why this is happening, just think about the
last time you flew. It’s a fair guess that the trip took longer
than the same journey would have taken 30 years ago and was less
comfortable. In-flight entertainment is better today -- TVs and
Wi-Fi -- but almost everything else is worse: less leg room,
less food, less service, more-crowded planes and more time
wasted getting through the airport.  Commuting Time  You might think air travel is like other  luxury goods  in
that people will want more of it as they get richer. That’s not
necessarily true because consuming air travel takes time, and
that is something we aren’t getting more of. Among experts who
study commuting, there is a rule of thumb that in any society
the average commute to work -- whether by foot, donkey or
automobile -- is about 20 to 30 minutes. The explanation is that
financial budgets might expand, but we still only get 24 hours
each day.  As a person moves from poor to middle class, they probably
will want to travel more. This is why air travel is growing
rapidly in the developing world. But as a person’s wealth
continues to increase, they probably won’t want to spend more
time in airports and on airplanes. Life is too short.  The same goes for business travel. As a company grows, it
doesn’t retain all its workers in one location and require them
to travel more. Instead, it opens up satellite offices closer to
its customers. Why? Because flying is expensive downtime.  Airlines (UAL)  find themselves in this dead end because there has
been almost no industry innovation in decades that has improved
the customer experience. That’s why airlines can still fly
airplanes that were manufactured 30 or more years ago. (Safety
is better than it was in 1980, but it was actually quite good
then, and few people were deterred from flying by safety
concerns.)  If airlines are going to overcome the time barrier to
growth in demand, air travel has to take less time or be less
unpleasant.  Sadly, the prospects for increasing flying speeds aren’t
good. The only commercial airliner ever to fly faster than
sound, the Concorde, was grounded almost a decade ago. There are
no imminent plans to bring back supersonic transport, partly
because it requires much more expensive technology and is even
less spacious than standard jetliners. In any case, the sonic
booms they created meant they couldn’t fly faster than sound
over populated areas.  The only real hope for shrinking travel time is on the
ground. Security screening may improve, allowing you to get to
the gate more quickly. And air-traffic control may finally adopt
modern technology -- a slightly higher-tech version of the
global positioning system available in automobiles -- that
reduces congestion and keeps more flights on time. But even in
the best-case scenario, the flying and airport time from  New
York  to  Los Angeles  will be about the same as it was in 1980.  Less Painful  The airlines are trying to make travel time less painful,
but so far the results aren’t too impressive. Wi-Fi and TVs are
nice, but the real barrier to making travel time more fun or
productive is space. Squeezed between two strangers, wondering
when the seatback you are facing will suddenly slam into your
knees (or into your laptop), isn’t a good environment for
relaxation or getting work done. The newest major airlines --
 JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  and Virgin America Inc. -- seem to
recognize this. They are increasing leg room and leading
innovation in in-flight entertainment.  For the most part, the legacy airlines are just giving up
on domestic-demand growth and focusing instead on international
travel, where prospects are better, at least for now. One U.S.
airline chief executive officer recently told me that his
company merely hoped to break even on  service  within the U.S.,
which he regarded as a tool to feed lucrative international
flights.  That strategy is problematic because U.S. carriers only
have the right to fly to and from the U.S., not within or
between other countries. And even on those routes, there are
strong home-country carrier biases: Americans prefer U.S.
airlines on a trip to  Korea , and Korean travelers tilt toward
their own jetliners when coming to the U.S. So, with American
travel demand closer to saturation, the biggest growth will be
among the markets and customers most difficult for U.S. carriers
to reach. Growth prospects may be better than inside the U.S.,
but they are still not great.  This doesn’t mean U.S. carriers can’t make money. Many
companies earn a good living in low-growth markets by focusing
on serving existing customers, with higher quality and at lower
cost. Those companies don’t get the thrill, or the earnings
growth, of being out in front to catch the next demand spike.
Still, that’s likely to be the slow-growth environment of the
future for the U.S. airline business.  (Severin Borenstein is E.T. Grether professor of business
administration and public policy at the Haas School of Business
at the  University of California , Berkeley. He is a contributor
to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  smarter, lighter cars 
and  smarter health spending ;  Albert R. Hunt  on the  virtues of
Dwight D. Eisenhower ; William D. Cohan on  delusional Facebook
investors ;  David Crane  on politicians and  unions ; A. Gary
Shilling on  Japan ’s  strong currency and weak economy ; Marc Joffe
and Anthony Randazzo  on mortgage investors.   To contact the writer of this article:
Severin Borenstein at  borenste@haas.berkeley.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  