-- Myanmar Leaders Compete With Suu Kyi Stardom to Showcase Changes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-06-03T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-03/myanmar-leaders-compete-with-suu-kyi-stardom-to-showcase-changes.html
Myanmar’s leaders are increasing
appearances abroad as they try to convince the world their shift
to democracy is genuine even as  Aung San Suu Kyi  warned against
“reckless optimism” on her first overseas trip in 24 years.  Defense Minister Hla Min told attendees at the Shangri-La
Dialogue in Singapore over the weekend that the military was
“100 percent” behind President Thein Sein, who has spearheaded
political change in the former dictatorship. He also urged
foreigners to invest in the impoverished nation of 64 million
people, which was rewarded with the suspension of U.S. and
European sanctions after April by-elections.  The appearance of Myanmar policymakers at events such as
the Shangri-La Dialogue and a  World Economic Forum  meeting in
Bangkok last week follows years of silence accompanied by
international isolation. The increased attention is testing the
political acumen of both  Thein Sein ’s 15-month-old government
and Suu Kyi’s opposition party as they focus on delivering
results for constituents unaccustomed to political openness.  “On the one hand, they both have an interest in seeing the
reforms succeed,” said Hans Vriens, managing partner of Vriens
& Partners, a Singapore-based political risk firm. “At the same
time they are also in competition for the 2015 elections.”  Hla Min told a security forum in Singapore two days ago
that the army will obey the civilian government and may
eventually accept a reduced role in Parliament. His statement
came a day after Suu Kyi questioned the military’s acceptance of
moves to allow greater political freedom on her first trip
outside Myanmar since 1988.  ‘Salt Water’  The military may support changing the constitution to drop
the 25 percent allotment of parliamentary seats “if and when
appropriate,” he said, adding that the transition needed time.
“If you have a fish in fresh water, you cannot put the fish
into salt water.”  Hla Min also appealed for the U.S. and  Europe  to completely
lift sanctions, a measure Suu Kyi opposes. He spoke at the
Shangri-La Dialogue a day after U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said the U.S. would hold talks with Myanmar on security
issues as engagement between the countries deepened.  Sanctions against Myanmar are “not beneficial to anybody
and the people are suffering,” Hla Min said at the event,
organized by the International Institute for Strategic Studies,
a London-based policy research group. “Instead of suspending
the sanctions, we would prefer that the sanctions are entirely
lifted so that investors to our country can have a better
deal.”  Western Sanctions  The U.S. and the European Union eased sanctions after April
1 by-elections that saw Suu Kyi’s party win 43 of 45 seats,
giving them representation in the 664-member body where a
quarter of positions are reserved for the military. London-based
 WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest advertising company, and  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  India ’s biggest automaker, were among companies
that announced investments in Myanmar last month.  “They need foreign investors and they want recognition,”
Vriens said. “This is their coming-out party.”  Hla Min’s remarks followed a speech by his Cabinet
colleague, Energy Minister Than Htay, at a meeting in Bangkok
sponsored by the World Economic Forum that Thein Sein was
supposed to attend before he canceled at the last minute. With
Suu Kyi in attendance, Than Htay called the government’s steps
toward democracy a “successful transition.”  Migrant Workers  Later this week, Industry Minister Soe Thane, who serves as
head of the Myanmar Investment Commission, will give a keynote
address at a separate forum in  Singapore  sponsored by the
Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. Two of Thein Sein’s
advisers, Ko Ko Hlaing and Winston Set Aung, will also speak at
the event.  Suu Kyi yesterday returned to Yangon, Myanmar’s biggest
city. During her six-day visit to  Thailand , she met thousands of
Burmese migrant workers, addressed Asian business leaders at the
World Economic Forum and visited a refugee camp on the Thai-
Myanmar border.  At the World Economic Forum, Suu Kyi said her top priority
is creating jobs to offset a youth unemployment “time bomb”
while declining to name industries the government should seek to
attract. Suu Kyi supported the suspension of sanctions because
it shows positive steps will be rewarded, “but at the same
time, if the good behavior is not continued then the reward will
be taken away again,” she said.  ‘Reckless Optimism’  “These days I’m coming across a lot of what I would call
reckless optimism,” Suu Kyi told the World Economic Forum
participants. “That is not going to help you. It’s not going to
help us.”  Suu Kyi will receive more attention later this month on a
trip to Europe, where she will address the British parliament
and accept the Nobel Peace Prize she won during her 15 years
under house arrest.  Thein Sein and his Cabinet ministers have hosted British
Prime Minister  David Cameron , South Korean President  Lee Myung
Bak  and Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  over the past few
months. Next year they will host a World Economic Forum
conference and the Southeast Asian Games, and in 2014 will hold
the rotating chairmanship of the 10-member Association of
Southeast Asian Nations for the first time.  “People should be confident that these changes are for
real,” Andrew Rickards, chief executive officer of  Yoma
Strategic Holdings Ltd. (YOMA) , a Singapore-based developer of
properties in Myanmar, said yesterday by e-mail. “However,
investors should be cautious before going in head-first. The
country has a long way to go and the institutions within the
country are not ready for a huge influx of money yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  