-- ‘Gotterdammerung,’ Aimee Mann, Glass Bash, Weirdos: NYC Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/-gotterdammerung-aimee-mann-glass-bash-weirdos-nyc-weekend.html
The end is near!  Robert Lepage ’s new
production of “Gotterdammerung” (“Twilight of the Gods”)
premieres Friday at the  Metropolitan Opera .  Siegfried puts the magic gold band on Brunnhilde’s finger
and sets off to flex his heroic muscles. Sadly, he proceeds to
marry the second woman he’s ever laid eyes on. It’s a potion, of
course.  Carb up: it takes nearly 6 hours for Brunnhilde to burn
along with Valhalla.  Jay Hunter Morris is the man without fear; Deborah Voigt
picks up Bruni’s speer. Fabio Luisi  has the baton.  At 6 p.m. at the Metropolitan Opera,  Lincoln Center . For
more:  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Another girl who plays with fire sings in David Lang’s
“Little Match Girl Passion” at Carnegie’s Zankel Hall.  Inspired by Bach’s “St. Matthew Passion” and the Hans
Christian Andersen story, the 40-minute piece won the Pulitzer
Prize in 2008.  Also on the program is Lang’s “Death Speaks,” woven from
Schubert songs including the grim reaper and performed by rock
musicians Bryce Dessner, Shara Worden and Owen Pallet, with the
addition of composer  Nico Muhly .  Begins at 6 p.m. at Zankel Hall, 57th St. and 7th Ave.
Information: +1-212-247-7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Saturday  Visionaries, late bloomers, lunatics and the plain weird
are represented at the Outsider Art Fair, running today and
tomorrow at galleries around town.  Consider limited edition transport vehicles with motifs
created by outsider artists from  Brooklyn ’s MAKE Skateboards.  Or collage drawings by Penny Rockwell, who charts her
pathological fear of electrical outlets at Pavel Zoubok Gallery.  There are also talks, films, and cocktails.  At 7 W. 34th St. and various venues. Information: +1-212-
777-5218;  http://www.sanfordsmith.com .  Saturday Matinee  Class war, anyone? Matthew Rhys, for five seasons the tough
gay lawyer on the television series “Brothers & Sisters,”
appears as the caustic antihero in a revival of John Osborne’s
“Look Back in Anger.”  Set in a crummy apartment, the play has Jimmy Porter
exuberantly ranting at his wife, the system and the general
meaninglessness of existence.  Though it scandalized critics and audiences at its 1956
London premiere, “Anger” caught on and was made into several
films, one starring  Richard Burton .  A Roundabout Theatre production, it’s in previews at the
Laura Pels Theatre, 111 W. 46th St. for a Feb. 2 opening.
Information: +1-212-719-1300;  http://www.roundabouttheatre.org .  Saturday Night  Aimee Mann’s voice is a heart-breaker: Her 30-year career
has encompassed punk, new-wave, folk, Oscar and Grammy
nominations.  Widely known for the songs she contributed to Paul Thomas Anderson’s film “Magnolia,” she exposes ugly human truths in
beautiful melodies.  Mann is at Zankel Hall on Saturday night as part of the
WFUV concert series.  Carnegie Hall, 57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-212-
247-7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Sunday  For his New Museum show, Enrico David, the Italian-born,
Berlin-based artist, has called up amorphous, delicate forms
rendered on paper with pencil and acrylic paint.  There is also a series of paravents, hand-painted folding
screens.  A darling of the European art scene, this is his first New
York exhibition.  “Head Gas” runs until April 22 at the New Museum’s Studio
231, at 231 Bowery. Information: +1-212-219-1222;
 http://www.newmuseum.org .  For sustenance, try Schiller’s Liquor Bar. Start with a
Country Time cocktail made with lemon vodka and fresh muddled
strawberries.  Then savor a classic steak frites, followed by sticky
toffee pudding.  At 131 Rivington St. Information: +1-212-260-4555.  Sunday Afternoon  Peter Orth plays Ravel’s “Valses Nobles et
Sentimentales,” Stravinsky’s “Petrushka” and works by Liszt
at Town Hall.  Presented by Peoples’ Symphony Concerts, an organization
dedicated to offering great music at minuscule ticket prices, he
joins such stars as Garrick Ohlsson, Daniel Hope and Eighth
Blackbird who’ve also appeared for a fraction of their normal
fees.  At 123 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-840-2824;
 http://the-townhall-nyc.org .  Sunday Evening  Head to Le Poisson Rouge to celebrate Philip Glass’s 75th
birthday with the Kronos Quartet, Dennis Russell Davies and Maki
Namekawa.  There’s a bigger bash at  Carnegie Hall  on Jan. 31, Glass’s
actual birthday, where the American Composers Orchestra will
present the U.S. premiere of his 9th Symphony, together with
Arvo Part’s “Lamentate.”  At 158 Bleecker St. Information: +1-212-505-3474;
 http://lepoissonrouge.com .  (With assistance from Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 