-- ‘No Turning Back’ on Myanmar Reforms, Government Spokesman Says
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-01-27T10:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/-no-turning-back-on-myanmar-reforms-government-spokesman-says.html
Ye Htut, director-general of
Myanmar’s Ministry of Information, comments on the Asian
nation’s transition from military dictatorship to democracy. He
spoke in an interview in Hong Kong today.  On political prisoners:  “Our government stance is that there are no political
prisoners in our country. But other people, who are serving
prison sentences under the existing law, and international
community and other stakeholders in our country are asking them
to be released in order to participate in the state-building
process.”  “The president has given the last amnesty as over 600 of
prisoners pursued by the international community and other
stakeholders like  Aung San Suu Kyi . Others cannot be released
because they are serving the sentence under the law like
terrorism or involved in subversion against the government by
using arms, so we cannot release them now. But the government
position is, if they should be released, their families or other
people can submit appeals to the Ministry of Home Affairs.”  On sanctions:  “Whether there’s sanctions or not, Myanmar’s government
will push through the reforms. There’s no turning back. We are
doing this kind of reform, not in order to lift the sanction.
Why we make this reform? Because people want them. People
decide. People want to see changes.”  On the April 1 by-elections:  “We have a very good election law in 2010. You know the
2010 election is our first election in nearly 20 years, so the
people have this experience to supervising voter stations. Now
the government has begun a lot of education to the people about
how to vote, and how to watch the politicians. These are all the
measures granting a free and fair election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  