-- Labor Professor Gets Death Threats as Italy Resists Jobs Revamp
-- B y   S t e p h a n   F a r i s
-- 2012-01-27T11:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/labor-professor-gets-death-threats-as-italy-resists-jobs-revamp.html
In just about any other country in
the world, Pietro Ichino’s biggest career liability would be
finding himself alone in a corner at cocktail parties. Ichino is
a professor of labor law. In Italy, that means his life is under
threat. For the past 10 years, the academic and parliamentarian
has lived under armed escort, traveling exclusively by armored
car, and almost never without the company of two plainclothes
policemen. The protection is provided by the Italian government,
which has reason to believe that people want to murder Ichino
for his views.  Ichino had just gotten off the plane when I met him at the
airport in  Rome , and he was already accompanied by his detail:
two unsmiling men in jeans and black jackets and those
overshined street shoes that only cops out of uniform seem to
wear. Ichino wore a suit and eyeglasses. He is tall and wiry,
with a thin face and a prominent nose. If a cartoonist were to
draw him as an animal, he probably would choose a bird of prey.
Without a word to his bodyguards, Ichino walked into an Alitalia
first class lounge and let the sliding glass doors close behind
us.  On Nov. 8, Ichino published Inquiry into Labor, his 19th
book, in which he argues for an overhaul of  Italy ’s congealed
jobs market. The Ichino Plan, as it has come to be known in the
Italian press, takes aim at one of the country’s hottest
political issues: a law, dating back to the 1970s, that protects
workers from being fired for anything short of the most
egregious behavior. Ichino argues that Italian companies can’t
compete in a global economy until the country’s labor
regulations are reformed -- a view that is gaining currency in
the political Establishment. With Italy’s borrowing costs now at
about 6 percent for the 10-year bond and the increasing
possibility of a sovereign-debt default, the new government has
introduced sweeping economic reforms to kick-start growth, which
has been averaging .27 percent a year for the past decade. At
stake is not just Italy’s long-term solvency but the survival of
the  euro zone  itself.  Wanted Man  All this has made Ichino a wanted man in more ways than
one. Since 2008 he has served as a senator in the  Democratic
Party ’s center-left coalition. Last fall he was briefly
considered for a Cabinet position in the technocratic government
headed by Prime Minister Mario Monti. Though he didn’t get the
post, Ichino remains in high demand by parliamentary committee
chiefs and talk show producers alike.  Fire at Will  As Ichino sees it, labor reform in Italy shouldn’t be
controversial. Italians may consider the current labor
arrangement a natural right, but it prevents companies from
downsizing in times of trouble and discourages them from hiring
during periods of growth. Ichino’s proposals would allow
companies to fire at will, but require them to provide generous
 unemployment benefits  and training for laid-off employees
seeking to re-enter the job market, a safety net that would
still make the country’s workers among the most protected in the
world. “We’d still be far from the ranks of countries where
it’s ‘hire and fire,’ ” Ichino says. And yet, there we were:
discussing labor reform, with the police standing guard outside
the door.  Ichino was born in 1949 into what his younger brother
Andrea Ichino -- an economist with whom he works closely --
describes as a “wealthy, bourgeois family, with many
generations of educated people.” His mother was ethnically
Jewish but converted to Catholicism in the 1920s. His father was
an Italian officer who spent two years in a German concentration
camp. Both were lawyers. His father worked first in civil law,
and later in labor law. His mother organized one of Italy’s
first foster care programs. They raised their children in an
environment that stressed education, community service, and the
left-wing Catholic teachings of such thinkers as Don Lorenzo
Milani, whose anti-capitalist message challenged the church
hierarchy.  Labor Unions  Ichino became politically active in secondary school,
during the first stirring of the student movement of the 1960s.
Upon graduation from secondary school he went to work as an
official in one of Italy’s largest unions, Fiom-Cgil; later he
coordinated the legal services for labor activists in Milan. In
1979 he was elected to Parliament as a member of the Communist
Party, then the standard bearer for Italy’s center left. As one
of Italy’s youngest parliamentarians, Ichino appeared to have a
bright political future. And then he wrote a book that took on
the country’s labor laws.  Opposite Effect  At the time, Italian companies were restricted in whom they
could hire. Unemployed workers submitted their qualifications to
a government office, which put their names on a waiting list.
Employers looking for new talent were required to take the next
person on this list. The intent was to prevent discrimination
during the hiring process. The effect was the opposite:
Companies got around the rule by poaching workers from other
companies. It became easy to switch jobs, but almost impossible
to find the first one. Ichino’s book, published in 1982,
challenged this system, arguing that companies should have their
pick of prospective job candidates. His fellow Communists
weren’t pleased. When he ran for re-election to his
parliamentary seat the following year, he lost in a landslide.  Labor and Capital  Ichino had stepped into the heart of one of Italy’s most
fraught and violent divisions: the battle between labor and
capital. In the 1970s and ‘80s, in what became known as the
Years of Lead (for all of the bullets flying through the air),
extremist militants from both sides of the political spectrum
carried out campaigns of escalating terrorism and murder. On the
right, bands of neo-Fascists planted bombs and planned coups.
But the real action happened on the left. Groups flying the red
flag of international communism assassinated police officers and
professors, culminating in the 1978 kidnapping and murder of
Aldo Moro, a former Italian Prime Minister, by a group that
called itself the Red Brigades. That operation was followed in
1981 by the kidnapping of an American general, James L. Dozier,
who was held for 42 days before being rescued by Italian special
forces. Other killings followed, including that of an Italian
general, until 1988, when the Red Brigades disbanded under heavy
police pressure and went dormant -- though not completely.  In 2002 a professor of labor law named Marco Biagi was
assassinated as he dismounted from his bicycle in front of his
home in the old Jewish ghetto of Bologna. Two men pulled up on a
motor scooter, their faces covered by their crash helmets. One
fired four shots from a pistol. Biagi was struck twice in the
nape of the neck. It was March 19, Father’s Day in Italy. His
wife and two teenage sons came running down the stairs and found
his body crumpled outside the front door.  Murdered Colleague  Ichino knew the murdered man well. After losing his seat in
Parliament, Ichino had spent two decades working as a lawyer and
a professor. Biagi traveled once a week to Milan to teach a
course in the master’s program that Ichino ran. The two
sometimes met in the cafeteria for lunch. Each penned regular
columns for major dailies -- mostly on labor issues -- and they
sometimes read each other’s pieces before publication. At the
time of his assassination, Biagi had been advising Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government on how to reform the
country’s labor laws. At the top of the agenda was an effort to
abolish the measures protecting workers from being fired. “We
were very close, even if we didn’t always think in the same
way,” says Ichino.  Red Brigades  After Biagi’s death, the Italian secret service admitted
that they had received warnings that a new generation of the Red
Brigades was targeting professors. Italian authorities have
since disclosed that the group’s hit list included not only
Biagi but also Ichino and a professor of industrial economics
named Carlo Dell’Aringa. After Biagi’s murder, Ichino and
Dell’Aringa were immediately put under armed guard. Ichino’s
daughter Anna Ichino, now pursuing a doctorate in philosophy at
the University of Nottingham, remembers that every morning, on
her way out of the house, she’d pass the police in the yard. She
got used to calibrating her level of concern to the size of her
father’s escort. One armored car was O.K.; if there was a chase
vehicle, her anxiety rose. “I was quite scared,” she recalls.
“I had long periods of insomnia.” On the rare occasions the
family ate out, the bodyguards kept watch at a nearby table.  Ichino, by nature formal and austere, withdrew deeper into
his work. “Sometimes I think he’s like a person without
[emotions],” says Anna. “He’s never hanging out or relaxing.”
At night, when she still lived with her parents, Anna would
sometimes hear her father up in the middle of the night. The
next morning, he would behave as if nothing had happened. Even
today, the only time Ichino’s family sees him unwind is when
he’s playing with his two-year-old grandson or hiking or biking
in the mountains. Says Federico Picinali, Ichino’s nephew,
godson, and climbing companion: “It’s the only time in his
everyday life that he can do something without being followed by
the guards.”  Rallying Point  For those promoting changes to Italy’s labor laws, the day
of Biagi’s shooting has become a rallying point. Sympathizers
gather every March 19 to ride their bicycles from the train
station to the dead man’s house. The year after his death, the
Italian government passed a law in his name that made sweeping
changes to the country’s labor laws. The bill left untouched the
provisions protecting workers from being fired, but it injected
flexibility by allowing companies to take on workers for fixed
projects and limited times without granting the extensive
protection due to those with traditional fixed contracts.  Labor Divide  In the wake of the Biagi legislation, unemployment had
dropped, as companies exploited the new options. But the law did
little to address the divide that had split the Italian  labor
force . On one side stand those workers with long-term contracts,
who are fully protected from being fired. On the other sit
people like Salvo Barrano, a young archeologist. Freelancers
like him are under continuously rolled-over, short-term
contracts. They have work, but very little  job security .
Together with those toiling in the black market, they make up
the majority of Italy’s workforce.  Not only do Barrano and his peers generally have lower
salaries and less job security than previous generations, they
don’t have many of the basic rights Italians have come to
expect: sick pay, maternity leave, any type of  unemployment
insurance . Barrano contrasts his experience with that of his
parents. “From the time when they were 25 years old, they could
count on an income that was stable, secure, and guaranteed for
the rest of their lives,” he says. When they retired, they
received a pension set at 80 percent of their last salary and a
bonus big enough that his father was able to realize his dream
of buying a house by the sea. “As retirees, their standard of
living went up,” Barrano says. “It didn’t diminish.” Italy’s
labor laws seem to have backfired. Rather than protecting all
workers, they have elevated a few into places of privilege and
barred entrance to the majority. “It feels like a scam,”
Barrano says.  Moral Crusade  That’s why Ichino insists his crusade is as much moral as
it is economic. He continues to view his efforts as driven by
the same philosophy that motivated his entrance into politics:
as a fight for workers’ rights. Replacing the absolute
protection from being fired with robust unemployment insurance,
he reasons, would open the doors to the marketplace to all
workers, benefiting not only the companies but the labor force
as well. “We have maintained the same ideals as we had in the
1970s,” says Ichino’s brother, Andrea. “It’s the unions that
have changed. They’re now protecting the rentiers, the insiders,
the ancien régime.” With the ouster of Berlusconi’s nominally
center-right government, the types of reforms favored by Ichino
have been given a chance to see the light.  Mario Monti , whom
Ichino considers a colleague and a friend, has expressed
interest in Ichino’s proposal and has said reform of the
country’s labor laws must be part of a pro-growth agenda.  Ditching Escort  In the 10 years since Biagi’s shooting, Ichino says he
twice felt comfortable enough to ask that his escort be dropped.
Both times, the request was refused. In 2005, five members of
the new incarnation of the Red Brigades were given long prison
sentences for Biagi’s murder. The following year, the police
arrested another group that they said had been plotting Ichino’s
assassination. The group included two students from his
department. Last fall, Carlo Dell’Aringa -- the professor whose
name had appeared on the same hit list as Biagi and Ichino --
received a death threat, written in red ink on the wall of his
university’s bathroom. It was signed with the five-pointed star
of the Red Brigades.  Even so, Ichino is increasingly convinced that his ideas
for changing Italy’s economy will eventually become real. “The
problem is that we can no longer afford delays,” he says. “The
situation in Italy today requires an acceleration.” In our
meeting at the airport, he pointed to other successful battles
he had taken on and won -- most recently an effort to
decentralize collective bargaining. “My life has been dedicated
to make sure these things take root in the left,” he says.
“They always come around a bit late, but at least they come
around.” It was time for him to head toward his next
appointment. I followed him out of the lounge, to where his
bodyguards were waiting for him, and then through the sliding
glass doors and out of the terminal. The professor got into his
armored car, and his escort slowly drove him away.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 