-- Lacker Says Interest-Rate Increase May Be Needed Sooner Than Late 2014
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-27T06:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/lacker-says-fed-may-need-to-raise-rates-before-late-2014-to-stop-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said interest rates may need to rise
before late 2014 to prevent an increase in inflation.  “I do not believe economic conditions are likely to
warrant an exceptionally low federal funds rate for so long,”
Lacker said in a  statement  on the Richmond Fed’s website
explaining his dissent from the central bank’s Jan. 25 decision
to pledge keeping its benchmark interest rate near zero “at
least through late 2014.”  “I expect that as economic expansion continues, even if
only at a moderate pace, the federal funds rate will need to
rise in order to prevent the emergence of inflationary
pressures,” he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been unable to forge
unanimity on the  Federal Open Market Committee  since June, as
decisions have drawn objection from five policy makers both in
favor and opposed to further stimulus.  Lacker this week objected to the Fed’s decision to extend
its previous pledge to keep borrowing costs low at least until
the middle of 2013. The Fed pushed the rate close to zero in
December 2008 and has since engaged in two rounds of asset
purchases totaling $2.3 trillion to boost the economy and reduce
the jobless rate, which stood at 8.5 percent in December.  “The Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative
stance for monetary policy,” the FOMC said in its statement.
“Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014.”  Other Objections  Lacker said he also objected to including a time period for
the first  interest rate  increase in the FOMC’s statement, and
said such information could better be provided in the central
bank’s Summary of Economic Projections.  After the two-day meetings at which policy makers update
their forecasts, a statement is released at around 12:30 p.m. A
table and charts showing policy makers forecasts for inflation,
gross domestic product, the  unemployment rate  and the Fed’s
target rate are released at 2 p.m. The complete forecasts and
explanatory text are published after a three-week lag, along
with the minutes of the meeting.  “My dissent also reflected the view that statements about
the future path of interest rates are inherently forecasts and
are therefore better addressed in the SEP than in the
Committee’s policy statement,” said Lacker, who became a voting
member of the FOMC this month as part of a rotation among the
Fed’s 12 regional presidents.  ‘On the Table’  Bernanke, speaking at a news conference after the
statements, said that the option of further large-scale bond
purchases is still “on the table.”  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” Bernanke said.  At Fed meetings in November and December, Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  dissented, favoring further
accommodation to boost the economy. In August and September,
Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser ,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and
 Narayana Kocherlakota  of  Minneapolis  opposed decisions to add
monetary stimulus.  Lacker, 56, became president of the Richmond Fed in 2004
after five years as director of the regional bank’s research
department. He has dissented from six previous decisions of the
FOMC, most recently when he opposed its decision in November to
arrange currency-swaps with other central banks and to lower the
pricing on temporary U.S. dollar swap arrangements by 0.5
percentage point.  Lacker said the program “amounts to fiscal policy, which I
believe is the responsibility of the  U.S. Treasury .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  