-- Ackermann Era Ends at Davos as Deutsche Bank CEO Cedes Power
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-01-27T14:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ackermann-era-ends-at-davos-as-deutsche-bank-chief-cedes-power.html
For  Josef Ackermann , head of
Germany’s biggest bank, the  World Economic Forum  is a curtain
call for the top power broker of an industry under attack.  The 63-year-old Swiss native became  Europe ’s most prominent
banker during a decade as chief executive officer of  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , transforming the Frankfurt-based firm into a top-tier
investment bank. He also steered the campaign to water down
tougher regulation and devised measures aimed at saving the euro
as chairman of the  International Institute of Finance , the
Washington-based trade group.  Ackermann, who steps down from both posts in four months,
is departing as the world’s biggest financial firms, facing
political and public backlash after more than $2 trillion in
losses and taxpayer bailouts, struggle to repair a broken model
of low capital and high leverage. He remains one of Europe’s
most influential and polarizing bankers, more than a dozen
investors,  analysts  and academics say.  “Ackermann achieved the status of a global banker and
political power broker,” said Christopher Wheeler, a London-
based analyst at Mediobanca SpA, who has been following the
lender for about 15 years. “He was a voice of authority and
represented a German bank, which gave him an incredible amount
of power to get stuff done, both within Deutsche Bank and the
industry as a whole.”  Advising Merkel  The man who led the bank to record profit in 2007 and
advised German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European officials
during the financial crisis also oversaw the company’s first
annual loss since World War II a year later. He was called “one
of the most dangerous bank managers” in the world by Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the  International Monetary
Fund , after pushing for a 25 percent pretax return on equity.  As the head of Europe’s biggest bank by assets and chairman
of the IIF, which represents more than 450 financial firms,
Ackermann was regularly spotted with government leaders and
regulators in Athens, Brussels, Berlin and Basel, where he
shaped talks to bail out German lenders, reduce Greece’s debt,
leverage the euro-area’s rescue fund and influence regulation.  “Financial markets have become highly political over the
past years,” Ackermann told Bloomberg News this week before
heading to Davos, Switzerland, for the annual conference.
“Politics and finance will become even more intertwined in the
future. Accordingly, bankers have to think and act more
politically as well.”  Local Hero  Davos, less than 60 miles from the town where Ackermann was
born, has provided him with a stage for the past 20 years. He is
as much a part of the scene as rock star Bono, winter boots and
roof-top snipers, often followed by a scrum of Swiss reporters.
A co-chairman of the forum’s foundation board, which manages
statutes, strategy, new members and funding, according to the
website, he has been mentioned as a potential successor to Klaus Schwab, the group’s founder and executive chairman.  Whether at the Palais Beauharnais residence of the German
ambassador in Paris, the New Year’s reception at the bank’s
office in Berlin or the  Eiswette  gathering in the port city of
Bremen, Ackermann has spent the waning days of his 35-year
career campaigning for European integration and the euro. In one
speech, he called on Europeans to remember the centuries of war
and millions of deaths as they weigh the costs of rescuing the
political and currency union.  ‘Very Effective’  “He was very effective on the national level and had some
influence on the international stage, but he didn’t always get
his way,” said Konrad Becker, a Munich-based analyst at Merck
Finck & Co. “He always assured there was some kind of solution
but that it didn’t put most of the burden on the banks or
threaten the global  investment-banking  model.”  Before a summit of European Union leaders in October,
Ackermann travelled to Brussels to meet with EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker to
advise them on a deal to tackle the sovereign-debt crisis. His
five-point proposal included a plan for private-sector
involvement in restructuring Greek debt, economic reforms,
closer fiscal integration, a leveraged 1 trillion-euro ($1.3
trillion) stability fund and the recapitalizing of weak banks,
according to two people who saw the presentation.  Moscow Calls  As leaders gathered in Brussels on Oct. 26, the Deutsche
Bank CEO flew to Moscow to discuss that capital city’s role as a
financial hub with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev . He also
attended the reopening of the  Bolshoi  Theater.  Later that evening, after midnight, Ackermann received at
least three phone calls from  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the IIF, who was representing financial institutions holding
Greek debt in talks in the Belgian capital, according to two
people familiar with the conversations who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private.  When negotiations stalled, Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy threatened bondholders with “total insolvency
of Greece,” which would’ve “ruined the banks,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister Juncker later recalled.  At about 3 a.m., from his room in Moscow’s Ritz-Carlton
hotel, Ackermann gave his approval for what he’d later call “a
satisfying compromise” that foresaw a 50 percent writedown on
the face value of Greek bonds with the aim of cutting the
nation’s debt load by about 100 billion euros.  ‘Political Instincts’  A few hours later, European leaders announced the debt-swap
agreement along with plans to boost their rescue fund to 1
trillion euros and recapitalize the region’s lenders -- just
what Ackermann had proposed about a week earlier. Bondholders
are still haggling with Greek, European and IMF officials over
the coupon for the new bonds to be issued in the swap.  “I’m confident that we can get our act together in Greece
and avoid a major contagion, but that is still a very open
question,” he told Bloomberg News in Davos yesterday. European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said
today authorities are “very close” to reaching an agreement on
private-sector involvement in a Greek debt swap this month.  “Ackermann has the cunning and political instincts to make
an impact,” said Klaus Fleischer, a professor of banking and
finance at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich. “Of
course, it’s in the bank’s own interest for him to be involved
in the behind-the-scenes talks and influence the outcome.”  Forecast Scrapped  Deutsche Bank, like many European lenders, has a lot at
stake: It holds 4.4 billion euros in Greek, Irish, Italian,
Portuguese and Spanish sovereign debt, and turmoil in European
markets forced it to scrap its full-year forecast for 2011.  As IIF chairman, Ackermann has scored some victories. EU
leaders on Dec. 9 watered down provisions that would have
exposed bondholders to losses in future debt restructurings,
marking a defeat for Merkel, who had campaigned for the
measures. He had blamed the chancellor for roiling markets, one
of a series of public disagreements with Merkel, who had earlier
counted him among her closest advisers on financial matters.  He also led a campaign to soften and postpone tougher
capital and liquidity requirements, warning of job losses and
economic consequences if banks were forced to curb lending. The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010 agreed to weaken
and delay its proposals. The changes included phasing in new
rules over a period stretching to 2019.  Liquidity Rule  The substance of the measures also was altered. Regulators
watered down proposals made by the committee in December 2009 to
toughen the definition of what assets banks could count toward
their core reserves. The committee relaxed a planned liquidity
rule that would require lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell
assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  “We were always supportive of regulatory changes, but
cautioned against too far and too fast,” Ackermann said.  He hasn’t always prevailed. France and  Germany  are pushing
ahead with a financial transaction tax over his opposition, and
global regulators have introduced capital surcharges for firms
such as Deutsche Bank deemed systemically important. Private
creditors also have agreed to accept losses on Greek sovereign
debt, something he warned against. And Deutsche Bank has been
unable to dodge market pressure to meet higher capital
requirements before Basel deadlines as well as European Banking
Authority requests for capital buffers by mid-2012.  “He was there and expressed his opinions, but I’m not sure
how big his influence was,” said Thomas Koerfgen, who helps
oversee about $16 billion at SEB Asset Management in Frankfurt.  Government Aid  Ackermann’s greatest achievement at Deutsche Bank, said
investors including Koerfgen, was steering the firm through the
financial crisis without taking direct government aid, a feat
few rivals can boast. He has been navigating turbulent markets
now for half of his 10-year tenure, since the U.S. real estate
bubble began to burst in 2007.  “He led Deutsche Bank though some very rough waters,”
Koerfgen said. “It was a fight for survival half of the time,
but he managed to build a powerful global bank.”  While the German lender didn’t get a direct capital
injection, as did Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  or New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , it  tapped  the U.S. Federal Reserve’s emergency-
loan program for as much as $66 billion in November 2008 and
received $11.8 billion from American International Group Inc.,
courtesy of a U.S. government bailout, to cover the insurer’s
obligations on its credit-default swaps.  “Deutsche Bank got indirect help and should be grateful
for government actions,” said Hans-Peter Burghof, a professor
of banking and finance at the University of Hohenheim in
Stuttgart. “The company is in a stronger position now than when
Ackermann took over. But it remains too big to fail.”  Europe’s Biggest  During Ackermann’s tenure, the bank grew into the biggest
in Europe by assets because of acquisitions and a growing
derivatives book, its balance sheet ballooning to about 90
percent of Germany’s gross domestic product. In the same period,
its stock lost 52 percent, lowering the company’s market value
to 31 billion euros, making it the 34th-largest bank in the
world. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 
fell 61 percent in the period.  “Based on market cap, he punches above his weight,” said
 Matthew Clark , a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc. “He’s the most influential banker in the euro zone. The
fact that he wasn’t bucked off the horse by now, like so many of
his peers, is an achievement in itself.”  Ackermann’s role at Deutsche Bank has been a juggling act.
He tried to strike a balance between the London-oriented
investment bank, responsible for most of the profit and risk,
and the less profitable, less volatile businesses of commercial
and retail banking -- between a trading house with the majority
of its revenue and employees abroad that competes with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and a 142-year-old German institution with deep
ties to the country’s companies and political establishment.  Succession Struggle  In 2004, he dispelled concerns that the bank might leave
Germany. He also didn’t pursue approaches from Citigroup head
Sanford Weill and Dutch lender ABN Amro Holding NV in the
mid-2000s about a possible combination.  When he took over in 2002, Ackermann merged management of
the investment bank with consumer banking and asset management
into an executive committee that he oversaw. The structure sped
up decision making and reduced the influence of the German-
controlled management board, which operates by consensus, giving
him more power along the lines of a U.S. CEO.  He also began selling the bank’s stakes in German
companies, including insurer Allianz SE and  Daimler AG (DAI) , to raise
money for investment banking as part of a politically encouraged
countrywide unraveling of cross shareholdings known as
Deutschland AG, or Germany Inc.  Finding Successor  The complexities of the job at Germany’s only remaining
global bank were showcased last year, when the supervisory board
struggled to choose a successor for CEO. After a two-year power
struggle between Chairman  Clemens Boersig  and Ackermann, the
board settled on dual leaders: Indian-born Anshu Jain, head of
the corporate and investment bank, who is credited with building
a fixed-income powerhouse and breaking into the top ranks in
takeover advisory; and Juergen Fitschen, head of the bank’s
operations in Germany and its regional management, who is known
for his business and political contacts.  While Boersig managed to push through his choices to lead
the bank, he was forced out as chairman after the supervisory
board asked Ackermann to seek his post. Still, in November, he
dropped plans to head the board after investor concern about
corporate governance, and the bank instead named Allianz finance
chief  Paul Achleitner  to the post.  “The handling of succession was unfortunate,” said Daniel Hupfer, who helps manage about $48 billion in assets, including
Deutsche Bank shares, at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg. “The bank
could have done a better job with the transition.”  Both Jain, 49, and Fitschen, 63, have been in top jobs at
the bank for 10 years, evidence of Deutsche Bank’s stable
management, analysts say. The new heads, who start after the
annual general meeting on May 31, take over as the financial
industry fights profit head winds amid tougher regulation,
volatile stock and bond markets and slowing economic growth.  ‘New Commercial Realities’  “The best possible help I could give is to hand over a
bank in good shape, well-positioned and well-prepared for the
future,” Ackermann said.  He’ll present Deutsche Bank’s full-year earnings for the
last time on Feb. 2 in Frankfurt. The future strategy under the
new heads may be set mid-April in the Swiss town of Montreux,
where the annual closed-door executive meeting is taking place,
two people familiar with the matter said.  When Ackermann departs, he’ll leave behind a firm that’s
adapting to the “new commercial realities” of higher capital
requirements, simplified, client-based products and lower
profitability, which will presage a “turbulent” decade for the
industry, he said in speeches in the past three months.  Capital Gap  Deutsche Bank has boosted capital levels, cut its
dependence on borrowed money, or leverage, while increasing
liquidity reserves to more than 180 billion euros, a record.
Still, it remains the most leveraged among the 10 biggest banks
by assets in Europe -- total assets exceeded Tier 1 capital by
49 times as of Sept. 30 -- and has the sixth-highest core
capital level among the group with 10.1 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts estimate the bank’s capital
gap at 7.6 billion euros at the end of 2012 if new Basel rules
are applied fully.  The company has cut reliance on investment banking in the
last three years by acquiring German retail lender  Deutsche
Postbank AG (DPB) , wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim Group and ABN Amro
units. The long-term goal is to raise pretax earnings from
consumer lending, money management and transaction banking to 50
percent of the total from 29 percent in 2009.  ‘In the Dark’  “He kept us in the dark about what Deutsche Bank wanted to
be for a long time -- an investment bank or diversified bank,”
said Mediobanca’s Wheeler, who recalled discussing with
Ackermann in 2004 whether the bank should look like Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. or JPMorgan. “He’s positioned the bank
very well to continue to take market share in its main business
lines, but he’s left it relatively weak in terms of capital.”  The securities unit, led by Jain, shut stock and bond
trading with the bank’s own money and scaled back trading risk
at the investment bank to pre-crisis levels. In October, it
announced 500 job cuts. That month Deutsche Bank abandoned
Ackermann’s goal of reaching 10 billion euros in operating
pretax earnings for 2011. The German lender may  report  6.81
billion euros in full-year pretax profit, according to 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ackermann has had his share of public gaffes and wrong
predictions. He said in November 2007 he was “cautiously
optimistic” the effects of the U.S. subprime crisis would
remain limited. In May 2010, Ackermann unnerved markets with
remarks on television that Greece might not be able to repay its
debt in full, only to reverse his stance a month later. In
February 2011, he said the “euro crisis is behind us.”  Victory Sign  His defense of the company’s profitability goals and high
pay, as well as his campaign to soften regulation, has hurt his
reputation among the German public. In a survey conducted for
Stern magazine in December, half of those polled said they find
the Deutsche Bank CEO “unlikeable.”  Ackermann is still trying to shake an image from 2004, a
photograph of him flashing a victory sign during a trial to
determine whether it was unlawful for him and five Mannesmann AG
co-defendants to approve more than 57 million euros of bonuses
for executives at the German mobile-phone company following its
154 billion-euro takeover by Vodafone AirTouch Plc. It was the
nation’s first criminal probe into excessive executive pay.  While Ackermann apologized for the gesture, and his mea
culpa was carried on newspaper front pages, he criticized
Germany as “the only country where people who are successfully
creating value have to go to court.” The case was settled in
November 2006 for 5.8 million euros. Ackermann, who wasn’t
accused of making any personal gain, paid 3.2 million euros.  Arrest Ackermann  Deutsche Bank’s profitability goal became a symbol for
anti-capitalist sentiment in the country. Peter Sodann, the Left
Party candidate for president, told a German newspaper in
October 2008 that if he were a police commissioner he would
arrest Ackermann. Two months later, Berlin-Brandenburg Bishop
Wolfgang Huber attacked him for idolizing money.  “Deutsche Bank and its CEO are the target of all the
people who feel our social or economic system is unfair or
wrong,” said  Horst Loechel , professor of economics at the
Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. “He’s one of the
most successful, if not the most successful, managers in
Germany, but in the population Ackermann is still seen somewhat
critically and the Mannesmann case is still in people’s minds.”  Ackermann is accompanied by a bodyguard at public events.
In November, while speaking in Hamburg, protesters wearing masks
stormed the stage. He invited them to participate in the
discussion on the condition they remove their masks, according
to people in the audience.  Letter Bomb  In December, an Italian anarchist group claimed
responsibility for a letter bomb sent to Ackermann’s office.
Alfred Herrhausen, a former Deutsche Bank CEO, was killed by the
left-wing terrorist organization Red Army Faction in 1989.  The Deutsche Bank CEO’s calm, statesman-like demeanor has
earned him the respect of fellow German benchmark  DAX members ,
which are among the lender’s most important clients.  “He’s not scared by the roller coasters of public
opinion,” said  Juergen Grossmann , CEO of Germany’s second-
largest utility, RWE AG, in an interview Jan. 17. “He always
says what he stands for, and you can count on his word.”  Chairman Candidate  Ackermann hasn’t said what his next move might be after the
curtain comes down at Deutsche Bank. He is on the boards of
Siemens AG, Europe’s biggest engineering company, and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  He holds honorary positions at Johann Wolfgang
Goethe University in Frankfurt and the London Business School.
And he’s been mentioned as a candidate to be chairman of  Zurich
Financial Services AG. (ZURN)   “I presume it will be a mixture of all three,” Ackermann
said when asked whether he’ll enter the private or public sector
or academia. “I look forward to slowing down a bit.”  Wherever he lands, his last Davos cameo as head of Deutsche
Bank is scheduled for tomorrow, when he will be on a panel
titled “Trust and the Social Contract.” After that, the local
hero may be coming home for good.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  