-- Adecco’s Chief De Maeseneire Says Europe in ‘Mild Recession’
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-27T16:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/adecco-s-chief-de-maeseneire-says-europe-in-mild-recession-.html
Adecco SA (ADEN)  Chief Executive Officer
Patrick de Maeseneire comments on the outlook in the euro-region
economy, the labor market and the fiscal crisis.  He spoke in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland , today.  On the WEF sentiment:  ‘What I would say, two years ago, the forum was very
pessimistic, last year was more optimistic and this one is
becoming more realistic. What I mean is that we start to
recognize what the real problem is, we have a job crisis here. A
job crisis which is not going to be solved easily. The
underlying factors are that we don’t have enough activity if we
don’t bring the industry back, if we don’t work on education,
we’re going to have huge problem in the future. If you have 10
percent to 15 percent of people that are unemployed, that’s 15
percent of people that are not participant in the economic
development.’’  “I’m happy about the forum because jobs are put high on
the agenda.”  On the outlook for the euro region in 2012:  “We’ve been in a euro-region recession since the fourth
quarter. We have the expectation of a mild recession. It will
depend upon what lawmakers decide in the coming weeks. In the
longer term, the recovery will be very slow and bumpy. You don’t
create jobs just like that. There’s a lot to be done.”  “If you look at the euro-region economy, it can pick up
again in the second half if the right and bold measures are
taken. The U.S. is holding up better. If not the right measures
are taken, then the U.S. will suffer in the second half.”  On Spain:  “The only advice I can give young people is move out as
quickly as you can to get a job in or outside of the country.”  On  France :  “France is more about the internal market. Companies are
holding back. The companies are strong, the balance sheets are
strong but they’re not hiring permanent staff. It’s a concern in
the respect that we really benefit from a volatile environment
but we also need economic growth.”  On the full-year outlook:  “We don’t have the visibility. We depend on the economy.
The first two quarters will be tough in the economic
environment. I think people will take bold measures but it’s to
be seen. There’s a mild recession” in  Europe .  On the shift to the professional market:  “Industrial staffing is the most volatile. It’s the first
that goes down in an economic downturn. One of the things we’ve
recently done is the taking over of DBM. We’re now the biggest
outplacement firm. That’s totally anti-cyclical.”  On possible acquisitions:  “What we said is that we would continue to do
acquisitions. We’re sticking to this. We feel very comfortable
with the portfolio we have now.”  On a worst-case scenario for  Greece :  “Greece total business is not that important. Whatever
happens in Greece won’t have an impact on Adecco results. But it
has an impact on other companies. If Greece went into default,
which is not our main scenario, at least it would be clear. At a
certain moment in time, you have to go left or right you can’t
be stuck in the middle, that’s where we are. That’s creating a
lot of volatility in markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  