-- Europe Crisis Is Stifling Remittances to East Africa, Central Bankers Say
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-01-27T20:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/africa-faces-serious-threat-from-european-crisis-as-2011-growth-halves.html
East Africans are sending less money
back to their home countries as the crisis in the euro region
slows global economic growth, government officials from  Burundi ,
Tanzania and  Uganda  said.  “The European crisis has an impact on our region because
the union is an important partner for us,” Gaspard Sindayigaya,
governor of Burundi’s central bank, said in an interview today
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “There has been a
decrease in term of the remittances. We’re monitoring the
possible impact particularly in the area of budget
adjustments,” he said.  African economic growth slowed to 2.7 percent in 2011, from
5 percent in 2010, and the continent may face “serious”
threats this year because of the situation in Europe, according
to the  Economic Commission for Africa . Growth excluding North
 Africa  was 4.5 percent last year, steady from 2010, the Addis
Ababa-based United Nations agency said in a statement
distributed to reporters in the Ethiopian capital today.  “The current account transactions from  Europe  are a major
source of capital for us,” Louis Kasekende, the deputy governor
of the Bank of Uganda, said in an interview. “There’s always an
issue of capital relocated out of  emerging markets  and back to
the safe havens and that is something that we will have to
face.”  Economic growth in Africa also slowed last year after
uprisings in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, the Economic Commission
said.  Biggest Partner  Europe is Africa’s biggest economic partner and any
slowdown there may curb trade flows, remittances, investment,
tourism and donor funding, the Commission said. Efforts to
deflect some of the impact of the euro zone crisis by diverting
exports to emerging economies are being stymied by slowing
growth in economies including  Brazil ,  China ,  India  and Mexico,
according to the report.  “Africa’s prospects for 2012 would seem encouraging, but
given current global economic uncertainty, I would urge
continuous vigilance as the signs are ominous and we may face
serious threats,” Abdoulie Janneh, executive secretary of the
Commission, said in the statement.  The African Development Bank estimates that a one
percentage point decline in the gross domestic product of
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries
translates into a decline of about 0.5 percent in African GDP
and a 10 percent drop in the continent’s export earnings,
according to the bank’s website.  African heads of state will begin meeting in Addis Ababa on
Jan. 29 to discuss ways to boost trade between countries on the
continent. Intra-regional trade currently stands at an
“abysmally low” 11 percent of the total, according to the
Commission.  Increased trade within the continent would boost consumer
demand, stimulate investment and promote food security by
facilitating the movement of food from surplus countries to
those facing deficits, Janneh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  