-- Europe Pushed to Bolster Defenses to Lock in Crisis Respite
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-28T09:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/lagarde-keeps-pressure-on-greek-creditors-for-better-offer-as-talks-resume.html
European governments were warned
against complacency as U.S. and International Monetary Fund
officials told leaders at the  World Economic Forum  to strengthen
their crisis defenses.  With policy makers dominating the third day of the meeting
in the Swiss resort of Davos, U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday urged the euro area to boost its cache of
bailout cash and protect  Italy (GDBR10)  and  Spain (GDBR10)  against the threat of a
market rout. IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  pressed
Greece and its creditors to strike an agreement on cutting its
debt burden. European Union officials say an accord may be
imminent.  “The only way Europe’s going to be successful in holding
this together, making monetary union work, is to build a
stronger firewall,” Geithner told delegates in Davos.  The pressure reflects concern that  Europe  must still do
more to defeat its debt crisis even after money market lending
rates eased, Italian and Spanish bonds rebounded and stocks
jumped. With European leaders meeting in Brussels on Jan. 30 to
discuss their next steps,  Fitch Ratings  underscored the threat
facing the region by downgrading  Spain , Italy and three other
euro countries yesterday.  “The sense of despair and inevitable failure in Europe has
receded, but leaders now have only a short period to work
through reforms or the crisis will be back,” said  Barry Eichengreen , a professor of economics at the  University of
California , Berkeley.  Economists Nouriel Roubini and Robert Shiller today warned
the conference that the  euro-zone  will suffer a deeper recession
than the IMF forecasts with Roubini predicting Greece may leave
the single currency bloc within a year.  “The euro zone is a slow-motion train wreck,” Roubini
said.  Europe’s Woes  Europe’s woes topped the agenda of the Alpine meeting two
years after Greek officials first toured Davos’s conference hall
in an ultimately futile bid to rally confidence in their bonds.
Billionaire investor  George Soros  told Bloomberg Television
yesterday that Greece remains the region’s weakest link as talks
continue over reducing the nation’s debt burden.  “If Greece defaults it should not be the end of the
world,” Soros said. “But the rest of Europe needs to be
sufficiently ring-fenced, and not enough has been done.”  That was also the message of Geithner, who used his sixth
trip to the continent since September to call for more resources
to be committed. While the IMF can help, its resources can’t be
used as a “substitute for a more effective” domestic response,
he said.  Weekend Agreement?  Separately, IMF chief Lagarde said she was pleased to see
 Greece  and bondholders going “back to the drawing board” as
they try to narrow differences three months after investors
agreed to cut by 50 percent the value of more than 200 billion
euros ($264 billion) of debt.  The swap “has to be significant,” Lagarde said. “You
don’t do this every now and then, so you have to do it right.”  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said in Davos that an agreement may come over the weekend.  The size of Europe’s rescue funds will be discussed in
March when leaders reassess a planned combined aid limit of 500
billion euros which kicks in when a permanent fund runs
alongside a temporary bailout program from July. They can also
use leverage to boost that amount toward a level the IMF and
U.S. may deem more satisfactory.  “The higher the firewall, the less it will have to be
used,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said yesterday.
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, said it “has to be
big enough and flexible enough to avoid using it.”  ECB Caution  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  nevertheless
said that no amount of money would compensate for failure by
cash-strapped countries to regain control of their debts and
increase competitiveness. “It will not work if the real
problems were not solved,” he said on a panel discussion.  As Davos delegates headed out to dinners and parties on
last night, Fitch cut  Italy  two notches to A-. The rating on
Spain was downgraded two levels to A. Belgium, Slovenia and
Cyprus were also lowered.  “The gradualist approach adopted by politicians to
systemic reform will continue to be punctuated by episodes of
severe financial volatility, entailing a significant economic
and financial cost that erodes sovereign creditworthiness,”
Fitch said in an e-mailed statement.  Underlining the sense that Europe isn’t safe yet, European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he doesn’t yet have
evidence that the cash released by the bank’s long-term market
operations is reaching households and businesses.  The ECB lent euro-area banks a record 489 billion euros for
three years in December to ward off a funding squeeze. That has
won plaudits throughout the week from Davos delegates.  Draghi “deserves great respect,” former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers  told Bloomberg News. “It’s a mistake
to lose sight of the fact that substantial time has been
bought.”  Stocks Rebound  The gap between the overnight indexed swap rate and the
cost of borrowing for three months in euros has declined 22
basis points to 78 basis points after last month touching the
highest since March 2009. The euro headed for a second weekly
gain versus the dollar and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index this week
entered a  bull market  by climbing 20 percent from its September
low.  With Draghi saying the financial system will have
normalized when banks lend to each other again, some in Davos
suggested that may be starting to happen.  “There is evidence Europe is starting to turn a bit of a
corner,” John Phizackerley, Nomura’s chief executive officer
for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said in an interview. “If
we can free up European markets and access non-government money,
it’s the beginning of the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  