-- Mahler Soars to the Light, Contains World: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/mahler-soars-to-the-light-contains-world-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Every summer, Gustav Mahler shut the
door on his hut by  Austria ’s Worthersee far from the snake pit
of the Vienna opera, determined to compose symphonies that
contain the world.  His heart gave out early, in 1911 just before his 51st
birthday. But by then he’d even captured the universe beyond.  “I will soar to a light never pierced by eyes,” he wrote
-- and took us with him in the Symphony No. 2, called “The
Resurrection.”  In Los Angeles last week, I heard it conducted from memory
by the remarkable Gustavo Dudamel leading  Venezuela ’s Simon
Bolivar Symphony.  Dudamel, the 30-year-old Venezuelan music chief of the Los
Angeles Philharmonic, presides over both orchestras as part of
The Mahler Project.  The huge, unprecedented undertaking makes  Los Angeles  the
center of music as Dudamel conducts all nine symphonies with the
two orchestras in three weeks.  I spoke with Norman Lebrecht, author of “Why Mahler,” who
was in town for lectures and a public discussion with Deborah Borda, the orchestra’s dynamic president.  Hoelterhoff: I thought Mahler was rather death-obsessed.
But the symphony makes the case for optimism. That view of the
light was affecting.  Lebrecht: He isn’t death-obsessed. He is life-obsessed. His
hope is that there is something beyond death that makes sense of
it all.  Hoelterhoff: It’s astonishing to think Mahler was a part-
time composer. His main job for 10 years was director of the
Vienna opera.  Adolf Hitler  Lebrecht: Where he conducted more than 100 performances a
season. He had unbelievable energy. And as director he was in
charge of running the house, sacking and hiring people,
determining repertoire.  Hoelterhoff: I gather he actually ordered singers to act!  Lebrecht: Yes, you couldn’t just sit on a sofa and die. And
through his wife, Alma, he gets access to the world of the
visual arts, people like Moser, Klimt and a crabby academic of
no prior distinction, Alfred Roller. They start talking about
“Tristan” and he hires him.  Roller uses electricity and experiments with light changes
so that the colors onstage matched the colors in “Tristan’s”
music. That was revolutionary.  Hoelterhoff: Hitler must have heard him conduct even though
he was a Jew, albeit a convert. Hitler spent his youth rooted in
standing room at the Vienna opera.  New York  Lebrecht: Decades later, he’s chancellor and summons
Roller to Berlin and is all over him remembering every detail of
his “Tristan.” He also showers the Isolde of his youth, Anna
Mildenburg, with honors.  Hoelterhoff: In late 1907, Mahler, Alma and 40 suitcases
depart for New York. Why?  Lebrecht: He’d worked his butt off in Vienna and still
wasn’t paying his bills and his lifestyle wasn’t extravagant. He
was disgusted with the anti-Semitism and felt the need to get
away. What’s the phrase in Handel? Despised and rejected.  The  Metropolitan Opera  offers him five times the amount and
no executive responsibility.  And it worked. Initially Mahler’s mere presence made
everything seem better and sound brighter. Then he gets squeezed
out by Toscanini and the anti-Semites on the board, like J.P.
Morgan.  My Own Orchestra  Hoelterhoff: Plus ca change. So that’s when he goes to the
 New York Philharmonic ?  Lebrecht: Yes. A group of women get the money together to
basically recreate the orchestra in 1909. He is incredibly
excited about it -- for a time. I have my own orchestra!  Hoelterhoff: What do you think of Mahler’s wife, Alma. Has
your view changed over the years?  Lebrecht: It’s deepened. She was totally without a concept
of trust: To love her was to be betrayed. She had the gift of
great beauty and modest intelligence.  But Mahler was not an easy man. What drew me to him was the
passion of Alma’s ambivalence. A man who could inspire that
ambivalence in the person closest to him is a person of
fascinating complexity.  One has to keep in mind that he is nearly 20 years older.
The expectation of marriage was different and they did not
succeed in bridging it. She rejects him sexually quite early in
the marriage.  Sigmund Freud  Hoelterhoff: She betrays him with that architect Walter Gropius, who marries her after Mahler’s death, and also blights
 New York  with the Pan Am building.  Lebrecht: Mahler goes to see Freud and has what was surely
one of the most interesting conversations ever.  On August 29, 1910, they talk for four and a half hours and
it provides him with a measure of relief. Freud shows Mahler how
aspects of his childhood have affected the way he writes music.
He explains what Alma might be wanting.  My reading is: If you want to hold on to her let her carry
on with this affair. He’s a street-corner architect. Be secure
in that.  On the way home, Mahler writes a fabulous poem to her in
which he says: I don’t care what you do, I am yours forever.  Hoelterhoff: In Visconti’s “Death in  Venice ,” Aschenbach
looks like Mahler and the sad, ravishing music is the Adagietto
from his Symphony No. 5. What’s the connection between  Thomas Mann  and Mahler?  ‘Death in Venice’  Lebrecht: Mann was friendly with Bruno Walter, the great
champion of Mahler. When Mann finally meets Mahler in 1910, he
writes that this is the first person he has come across who is
filled with greatness.  Does he see Mahler as a gay man? No. But he took some
qualities and transferred them to Aschenbach, and, most
importantly, gives him the name Gustav.  Hoelterhoff: In recordings,  Leonard Bernstein  spends close
to 12 minutes on the Adagietto; Mahler apparently nine and a
half; others conduct it even faster. I find that incredible.  Lebrecht: It is pretty much without parallel. You’d think
it was impossible. How can a piece of music be extended to almost
twice its length without losing its place in the house in which
it sits?  It’s a miracle.  For more, go to
 http://www.laphil.com/tickets/mahler/index.cfm   (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 