-- Thai Central Bank Won’t Print Money to Repay Debt, Prasarn Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-01-27T10:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/thai-central-bank-won-t-print-money-to-repay-debt-prasarn-says.html
Bank of Thailand  Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul comments on the government’s decision to shift
the burden of repaying bank bailout debt to the central bank.  Under an executive decree that became effective this week,
the central bank will be responsible for paying the interest and
principal on 1.14 trillion baht ($36.5 billion) of debt incurred
during bank bailouts in the 1990s. The central bank plans to
raise fees on commercial banks to help repay the debt.  Prasarn made the comments during a speech in Bangkok today.  On debt incurred by the central bank’s Financial Institutions
Development Fund:  “We are not entirely pleased with the executive decree to
transfer the FIDF’s debt-repayment burden to the central bank.
But this is better than the earlier draft of the law, which may
have led to monetization.  ‘‘We won’t print money to repay the debt. But we will use
money in the system. This will be a burden for financial
institutions that we will need to manage.  ‘‘Our proposal is to try not to burden the commercial banks
to the extent that it affects their strength, but still be in a
position to sustain the debt repayments.  ‘‘We can cope with interest payments and will steadily pay
off the principal.  ‘‘The debt burden will not affect our decisions on key
policies.’’  On a proposal to sell a 2 percent stake in PTT Pcl to a state-
run fund to reduce public debt:  ‘‘I don’t quite agree with that. It’s against the good
governance rules that we try to promote among the private
sector, so the government shouldn’t do that ourselves.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  