-- Air France-KLM, Delta, Alitalia Probed by EU Over Alliance
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-27T14:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/air-france-klm-delta-alitalia-probed-by-eu-over-skyteam-joint-venture.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and Alitalia SpA are under investigation by European
Union antitrust regulators over concerns their pact to
coordinate trans-Atlantic flights may hurt competition.  The cooperation may remove rivalry on several routes where
they used to compete, the European Commission said in an e-
mailed statement today. Air France-KLM, Delta and Alitalia are
members of the SkyTeam Alliance global marketing group and
agreed in 2009 and 2010 to “fully coordinate” capacity,
schedules, pricing and revenue management, regulators said.  Carriers are seeking partnerships on sales and scheduling
to cut costs as rising fuel prices and a sluggish economy hurt
profits. Cooperation between airlines has triggered two recent
EU probes into ticket-sales agreements. Regulators also fined
carriers including Air France-KLM, British Airways Plc and Japan
Airlines Corp. in 2010 over colluding on air-cargo fuel and
security surcharges.  “The commission will deal with the case as a matter of
priority,” the Brussels-based antitrust authority said of the
new probe. “The goal is to ensure that this tie-up does not
harm passengers on EU-U.S. routes.”  Regulators today also closed an earlier antitrust probe
into the alliance, ending an investigation that included Czech
carrier Ceske Aerolinie AS, Grupo Aeromexico SAB de CV, Korean
Air Lines Co. and Continental Airlines, which merged with United
to form  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in 2010. Continental
quit SkyTeam in 2009 and the merged company is now a member of
the rival  Star Alliance .  ‘Logical’ Probe  Air France-KLM,  Europe ’s biggest airline, “will of course
cooperate” with regulators, said Brigitte Barrand, a
spokeswoman for the Paris-based carrier. The new investigation
is a “logical” step because regulators have approved one
trans-Atlantic joint venture and are investigating another, she
said.  A similar EU probe into an agreement by  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA)  and United to cooperate on trans-Atlantic routes as part of
the Star Alliance is “ongoing,” said Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the commission in Brussels today. The three-year
investigation also involves Continental and  Air Canada. (AC/A)   Plans for British Airways and AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines 
to jointly schedule, price and market trans-Atlantic flights won
EU antitrust approval in 2010 after they offered to give up 10
operating slots in U.K. and U.S. airports.  Trans-Atlantic Routes  Delta remains “confident we will resolve any concerns”
that regulators have on trans-Atlantic routes, said Debbie
Egerton, a spokeswoman for Delta in  London , in an e-mail.  Alitalia declined to comment. Air France-KLM owns a 25-
percent stake in the Italian carrier.  Delta’s Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson has
described the joint venture with Air France-KLM and Alitalia as
having the “economic effect of merging.”  Joint ventures are critical because some countries,
including the U.S., have laws limiting foreign ownership of
airlines. Overseas companies can hold as much as 49 percent of
stock in U.S. carriers, or 25 percent of voting stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 