-- Airbus Chief Enders Rides Flight-Jacket Swagger to Clinch Top Job at EADS
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-27T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/airbus-chief-enders-rides-flight-jacket-swagger-to-clinch-top-job-at-eads.html
Tom Enders , the German former
paratrooper who leads Airbus SAS, loves to make a splash.  To show off the qualities of a military airlifter, he dived
off the loading ramp at 10,000 feet. Disapproval of Germany’s
abstention from the Libyan liberation campaign led Enders, 53,
to quit  Angela Merkel ’s political party. Last year, he quipped
that  Boeing Co. (BA)  executives might be a bunch of dope-heads.  The take-no-prisoners approach risks putting Enders, who
was nominated yesterday to lead Airbus parent  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , on a collision course with
government shareholders. His challenge will be to harmonize
disparate aviation and defense  assets  stitched together a decade
ago, while answering to investors dominated by the industrial
interests of  Germany ,  France  and Spain.  “Enders is hard boiled, no doubt about that,” said
 Michael Fuchs , the chief economy parliamentary spokesman for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic party. “He’s a straight talker
who sometimes ruffles feathers, and he needs to be like that, to
steer a ship between politics and a very complex business.”  Gallois, who is retiring, made his mark as a trouble-
shooter for the French state, using diplomacy and often humor to
ease conflicts at  Europe ’s biggest aerospace company. Gallois
took the helm after EADS was rocked by multiple delays and cost
overruns on the A380 double-decker that forced out his
predecessor,  Noel Forgeard , and depressed the stock price.  U.S. Push  Together with Gallois, Enders stabilized the A380 program
and gradually increased output while cutting costs. The effort
paid off for shareholders. EADS stock has risen 8.6 percent in
the last five years, compared with a 25 percent drop for Boeing.  For Enders,  the U.S.  remains a frontier with major growth
potential, as EADS gets less than 3 percent of non- Airbus (EAD) 
revenues in that country. Airbus only assembles aircraft in
France, Germany and  China . A fourth line would help smooth out
currency swings and provide additional capacity needed as Airbus
seeks to further boost production of its popular A320.  “That’s one of their key challenges, setting up a
production base for Airbus in the U.S.,” said Emmanuel Soupre
who helps manage about $15.6 billion at Neuflize OBC in Paris.
“Doing that for Airbus would help them better hedge between
dollar-based sales and production costs.”  The son of a shepherd from the Westerwald rural part of
Western Germany, Enders studied history and political science at
the  University of California  in  Los Angeles . He earned a
doctorate later in Bonn, making him “Dr. Enders” in Germany,
where business life remains steeped in title etiquette.  Leather Jacket  Enders speaks English with an American accent and not
infrequently appears in public in aviator shades and a tan
leather flight jacket draped over his lean, tall frame. His
office is decorated with an image of Route 66, the iconic
stretch of U.S. highway linking  Chicago  and Los Angeles. Enders
declined to be interviewed for this story.  Enders inherits a company more dominated by  government
interest  than at any point in its 12-year existence. Germany
took on a larger role in November when it committed to
purchasing a 7.5 percent stake from carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI) , a move
Enders derided as overbearing state involvement. France owns a
15 percent direct stake in EADS, based in Paris and Munich.  Beyond the constraints of government ownership, EADS has
kept voting control largely to Daimler and publisher  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) , which also votes for the French government share. The
Spanish state has a 5.44 percent voting stake.  ‘Huge Impediment’  Both Lagardere and Daimler have made clear they want out at
some point in the future, even as Lagardere General Partner
Arnaud Lagardere prepares to take the chairman’s role. EADS
promised Lagardere the role in 2007, in a Franco-German power-
sharing arrangement that stipulated Germans report to French,
and French to Germans.  “That agreement on voting control is a huge impediment to
making EADS a true, public company,” said  Hans Weber , chief
executive of San Diego-based aviation consultant Tecop Intl.
“EADS will need more equity flowing into the company for
investment, but how do you get major shareholders to invest if
an investment doesn’t bring voting rights?”  The company was created in 2000, combining Airbus with
helicopter, satellite, combat jet, rockets, and missile assets
of France, Germany and  Spain  largely to provide protection from
the cyclicality of the airliner business. Boeing pioneered the
approach with its 1997  purchase  of McDonnell Douglas that
balanced out commercial planes and military equipment.  Government Puppet  Since its inception, EADS has suffered from the image as
the industrial puppet of government interest. A years-long spat
between the U.S. and Europe on  aircraft subsidies  that continues
today left Airbus scrambling to fight off the stigma of a
company propped up by state finances. U.S. lawmakers cried foul
when EADS sought to sell refueling aircraft to the U.S. Air
Force. The multi-billion-dollar contract went to Boeing last
year, blasting EADS’s goal to build a beachhead in the U.S.  Following the tanker defeat, Enders may seek fresh avenues
to build up EADS in the U.S., the world’s biggest military
market and still the single-largest national market for
commercial aircraft. Airbus scored a key victory last year when
 American Airlines  agreed to buy A320 single-aisle aircraft, the
first time in decades that it opted for the European company.  While Enders used his leadership skills at Airbus to get
struggling production programs back on track, his tactics have
alienated government allies. Months-long negotiations over the
A400M military airlifter so alienated then-German Defense
Minister Theodor zu Guttenberg that the politician publicly
snubbed Airbus at the aircraft’s German maiden flight in 2010.  ‘Frankly Absurd’  In the end Enders, aided by Gallois, got the additional
financing he needed to continue with the A400M, the most
expensive military program in post-war Europe. The price he paid
was a political class affronted by his gung-ho maneuvering.  “Enders really annoyed a lot of people in government and
parliament over the A400M,” said Hans-Peter Bartels, a member
of the German parliament’s defense committee. “His company is a
political construct and dependent on government orders for
important divisions of its business, yet he acted as if he was
the manager of a family company! His demands and threats were
frankly absurd and an affront.”  Enders can afford a dose of self-confidence because of his
track record at Airbus. When he took over, the A380 was running
two and half years late, mired in production difficulties
stemming from previous management’s failure to harmonize German
and French engineering teams around one design tool.  German on the Dance Floor  Under Enders, Airbus reorganized production, hiring 1,000
people in Hamburg to straighten out faulty cabling, even as
Airbus was slashing 10,000 elsewhere to cut costs. Production
rose from just one plane in 2007 to 26 in 2010, with 30 planned
for this year. By 2015, Airbus wants to  break even  on the A380.  Despite a military bearing that makes him appear stiff in
public briefings, he’s also learned to let his hair down when it
counts. Enders boogied at a bar in Paris last year with a woman
on each arm and a tie wrapped around his head when  AirAsia BHD (AIRA) 
Chief Executive  Tony Fernandes  insisted that a contract signing
for 200 planes last Valentine’s Day be preceded by festivities
on the dance floor.  “Tom is in many ways direct like me,” Fernandes said.
“If there are problems, he doesn’t run away from them he likes
to stay and sort them out. It s been fantastic working with him
over these years.”  New Engines  His biggest victory yet was the introduction of an upgraded
version of the best-selling A320 single-aisle jet at the end of
2010. Enders took his time studying possible manufacturing
bottlenecks and costs to the project before giving the go-ahead
at the end of 2010, only to watch the program turn into the
fastest-selling jet in aviation history.  The success of the A320neo, as the new variant is called,
put pressure on Boeing to follow suit with its competing 737.
When Airbus raked in hundreds of orders at the Paris Air Show
last year for the A320neo and Boeing stood on the sidelines,
Enders took the stage at the show and asked the audience “what
are they smoking at Boeing?” to be so slow in responding.  “He got into a role where there were a lot of issues
within EADS and Airbus and he took all those issues on and has
done a phenomenal job,” says Jeff Knittel, president of
CIT Transportation Finance, one of the world’s five-biggest 
aircraft leasing companies.  Delayed Program  Airbus’s open flank remains the A350 program, a composite-
plastic aircraft slated to enter service in mid-2014 as a
competitor to both the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and the popular 777
wide-body jet. Enders has described design and manufacturing of
the jet as a “hellish ride,” and Airbus has already twice
pushed back entry-into-service dates the most popular variant.  Enders has so far managed the market’s expectations on the
A350 well. When Airbus announced a delay of as much as six
months on the program in November 2010,  the stock fell  less than
5 percent. By comparison, EADS tumbled 26 percent in June 2006
under Forgeard when Airbus said the A380 would be late.  “I’ve been impressed with what happened under Enders at
Airbus,” said Neuflize OBC’s Soupre. “He got along remarkably
well with Gallois, and one got the feeling that it wasn’t an
individual at the head of EADS or Airbus, it was a management
task force. I imagine it’ll continue like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  