-- Jacques Maisonrouge, Who Steered IBM’s Global Growth, Dies at 87
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-01-27T17:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/maisonrouge-french-executive-who-steered-ibm-s-global-growth-dies-at-87.html
Jacques G. Maisonrouge, a French
native who became the first non-American on the board of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  after helping the company
expand globally, has died. He was 87.  He died at his home in Paris on Jan. 25, according to a
death notice in the New York Times.  As head of IBM’s World Trade division, which managed
international expansion, Maisonrouge helped the company become
one of the first global corporations. Thomas J. Watson, IBM’s
chief executive officer from 1914 to 1956, adopted the slogan
“World Peace Through World Trade,” as a corporate mission.  For a  company history , Maisonrouge recalled traveling in
segregated  South Africa  in the late 1970s, when black employees
at IBM’s Johannesburg plant lived in neighboring Soweto township
and were subject to a curfew. Maisonrouge said he won permission
to have the employees join him for dinner at a whites-only hotel
in Johannesburg. “It was beautiful,” he said. “We did things
that were progressive.”  Maisonrouge began his 36-year career with IBM in 1948 and
became assistant to the sales manager of IBM  France  in 1954. By
1965, at 41, he was IBM’s top executive in  Europe . “If I worked
for a European-owned company, I would not be as high as I am
now,” he told Time magazine that year. “I’m too young.”  Making France Competitive  He retired from IBM in 1984 when he was 60. Two years
later, the French government named him the nation’s director
general of industry, charged with making the nation’s companies
more competitive. He was, according to a New York Times account,
the first person to move from private industry to the top civil
servant post in the French Industry Ministry without any
previous civil-service experience.  “It’s a very interesting thing,” he told the Times.
“I’ve always noted the easy passage in the  United States  from
government to industry to the university, and I’ve tried to
convince my compatriots that it would be a good thing. Now I’m a
prisoner of my speeches.”  Jacques Gaston Maisonrouge was born on Sept. 20, 1924, in
Cachan, a suburb south of Paris, to Paul Maisonrouge and the
former Suzanne Cazas, according to Marquis Who’s Who.  He joined IBM after graduating from  Ecole Centrale Paris ,
one of France’s top engineering schools. With his wife,
Francoise, he moved to the U.S. for the first of what would be
four long stays, during which he remained a French citizen.  In 1956, he joined IBM Europe as manager of market planning
and research and in 1958 became a regional manager, responsible
for business in 10 European countries.  He was named vice president of IBM’s World Trade division
in 1962, working in  New York  until he became president of IBM
Europe in 1964. He was promoted to president of the World Trade
unit in 1967, CEO in 1973 and chairman in 1976. His election to
IBM’s board of directors came in June 1983.  His survivors include his wife and their five children,
Christine, Florence, Sylvie, Francois and Anne-Sophie, according
to the death notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  