-- Almunia Says NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Deal May Aggravate Exchange Competition
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-01-27T09:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/almunia-says-nyse-deutsche-bid-to-aggravate-competition-problems.html
NYSE Euronext (NRX)  and  Deutsche Boerse (DB1) 
AG’s planned merger of trading and post-trading operations would
cause “serious” concerns, according to the European Union’s
antitrust chief.  “Some problems of competition will not be solved by this
merger but will be aggravated,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Davos, Switzerland.  Almunia’s team at the European Commission has told the two
companies they’ll seek to veto the deal to create the world’s
largest exchange because it would monopolize derivatives trading
in the region, according to two people familiar with the matter.
Almunia has promised a ruling on Feb. 1.  NYSE and  Deutsche Boerse  appealed directly to commission
President Jose Barroso earlier this month to try and salvage
their merger, arguing that an EU ban would harm European
exchanges and drive business to other parts of the world.  “If we overlap two exchanges that are competing” and “we
linked the trading activities with the post-trading activities,
establishing a silo, serious problems of competition arise,”
Almunia said today.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse, declined
to comment. James Dunseath, a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in
Davos, declined to comment.  Merger Ban  A merger prohibition next week would be the EU’s fourth
since 2004, when it overhauled its rules for reviewing deals.
The commission, the EU’s executive arm, is led by 27
commissioners drawn from each of the bloc’s member states. They
must jointly approve EU decisions.  While people familiar with the talks have indicated that
fellow commissioners won’t oppose Almunia’s veto plan,  Michel Barnier , in charge of financial services, said yesterday he’s
still making up his mind on the case.  Barnier told Bloomberg Television in Davos that he’s been
unable to give his full attention to the dossier because of an
official trip last week to  Asia .  “It’s a very important decision,” Barnier said. “I need
a bit of personal time to work on this dossier and to make a
judgment.”  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives
exchange, while NYSE Euronext owns Liffe, the second-biggest in
 Europe . The Frankfurt-based company agreed to acquire its New
York rival in a deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was
announced in February.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of
European stock trading in the hands of one organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 