-- Altria Promotes Barrington to CEO as Szymanczyk Retires
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-01-27T21:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/altria-promotes-barrington-chief-executive-as-szymanczyk-retires.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the largest
seller of tobacco in the U.S., promoted Vice Chairman Martin J.
Barrington to chief executive officer as Michael E. Szymanczyk
retires.  Barrington, who also will become chairman, has held various
positions since 1993, including general counsel of the U.S. and
international tobacco units, Altria said in a statement today.
David Beran, 57, vice chairman for business operations, was
named president and chief operating officer.  Barrington, 58, will take over as Altria’s top-selling
Marlboro cigarettes lose smokers to less-expensive brands,
leading to a 0.7 percentage point drop in market share to 41.6
percent in the quarter. Shipment declines by Altria’s  Philip
Morris USA , which makes about half of the cigarettes sold in the
U.S., deepened after the federal government boosted taxes by 62
cents a pack in 2009.  The promotions of Barrington and Beran bring “a unique and
balanced approach to the management of the business,” Vivien
Azer, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , wrote today in a
note to clients. She rates Altria “neutral.”  Szymanczyk’s retirement will be effective after the annual
 shareholders’ meeting  in May.  Altria also forecast 2012 earnings per share of $2.17 to
$2.23, excluding some items, up as much as 9 percent from last
year. Analysts projected $2.19, the average of 13  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Altria dropped 1.8 percent to $28.14 at the close in New
York. The Richmond, Virginia-based company’s shares gained 20
percent last year.  The company announced in October plans to cut 15 percent of
its cigarette-related salaried jobs as shipments of Marlboro and
other brands tumbled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  