-- AMR’s Hiring of Bankruptcy Advisers for American Stalls in Face of Unions
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-27T19:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/american-airlines-hiring-of-advisers-put-on-hold-as-u-s-trustee-objects.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
effort to hire a group of legal and financial advisers for its
bankruptcy was put on hold amid objections from unions and the
U.S. government.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today said he
would approve retaining advisers including Rothschild Inc. and
Perella Weinberg Partners LP only on a temporary basis, pending
agreement from the U.S. Trustee.  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR
said it planned to return to court later to seek final approval
to hire the firms.  The U.S. Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy proceedings for
the U.S. Justice Department, has objected to AMR’s plans to hire
about a dozen firms to provide legal, labor, financial and other
advice as it reorganizes. The U.S. Trustee claimed that AMR
hasn’t shown it needs all the advisers, that there was a high
potential for duplicate services and that some of them had
possible conflicts of interest.  Employees at  American Airlines  and its American Eagle
regional carrier objected to some firms, including Bain & Co. as
strategic consultants for Eagle and SkyWorks Capital LLC as an
aircraft restructuring adviser.  ‘Some Issues’  The committee representing unsecured creditors also has
“some issues” with the professional applications that it hopes
to resolve with AMR, Jack Butler, an attorney for the panel said
at the hearing.  Interim approval for the firms gives them the ability to
seek court approval for monthly or hourly compensation, AMR’s
bankruptcy attorney  Harvey Miller  said. It doesn’t cover other
success and restructuring fees.  Rothschild’s compensation includes a so-called completion
fee of $15 million in addition to a $200,000 monthly fee. AMR is
scheduled to return to court next month for final approval of
the advisers, according to court papers.  “They have no protection as to compensation,” Miller said
at the hearing, referring to the advisers.  AMR, parent of the third-biggest U.S. airline, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29, saying it needed to reduce
costs and restructure debts to compete with other carriers that
used bankruptcy to shed pensions and retiree benefits and secure
new labor agreements.  The company is financing its own operations during
reorganization instead of bringing in an outside lender. AMR is
using $4.1 billion in cash and short-term investments it held
when it sought court protection.  AMR already has become the focus of possible takeover bids,
with US Airways Group Inc. saying it has hired legal and
financial advisers to assess a possible merger. Delta Air Lines
Inc. and TPG Capital also are evaluating options for AMR, people
familiar with the matter have said. Delta has Blackstone Group
LP, two people have said.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  