-- Amylin, Alkermes Long-Acting Diabetes Drug Wins FDA Approval on Third Try
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-27T22:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/amylin-alkermes-long-acting-diabetes-drug-wins-fda-approval-on-third-try.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and
 Alkermes Plc (ALKS)  succeeded in their third attempt to gain U.S.
clearance for Bydureon, a once-weekly version of Amylin’s
diabetes shot.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the drug for
adults with  Type 2 diabetes , the agency said today in a letter
 posted  on their website.  Bydureon is a long-acting form of Byetta, a twice-daily
injection that San Diego-based Amylin developed with  Eli Lilly &
Co.  in a partnership that ended last year. Amylin lost almost
half its market value on Oct. 20, 2010, after the FDA rejected
Bydureon for a second time and sought a study on cardiac
effects. The companies refiled for approval last year after the
trial didn’t tie the drug to dangerous heart-rhythm changes.  “Bydureon is now the first and only weekly diabetes
therapy approved in the  United States ,” Amylin Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Bradbury said today on a conference call. The
drug will be available in pharmacies next month, he said.  Amylin rose 15 percent to $14 in extended trading at 5:11
p.m. New York time. Alkermes, based in Dublin, gained 4.7
percent to $20. Trading on both companies was halted earlier
pending the FDA’s announcement.  Amylin must complete a post-marketing clinical trial by
2018 to determine whether the treatment increases diabetes
patients’ cardiovascular risks, the FDA said in the letter.  ‘Execution Risk’  Bydureon’s U.S. revenue may surpass $1 billion in 2015,
said Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with Deutsche Bank in New
York. Alkermes has said it will receive 8 percent of the drug’s
net sales.  “We remain positive on Bydureon but significant execution
risk remains,” Karnauskas, who has a “hold” rating on Amylin
shares, said Jan. 24 in a note to investors. “We view Amylin’s
capital structure as poor, with $2 billion of debt and $210
million in cash. However, more attractive financing options
should open up” with FDA approval of the drug.  About 25.8 million people in the U.S. have  diabetes , mostly
the Type 2 form tied to being overweight and sedentary,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. The disease costs the nation an estimated $174 billion
a year in medical expenses and lost productivity.  Diabetes is caused by an inability to use insulin to break
down blood sugar into energy and can increase risks of  heart
disease , stroke and kidney damage. Medicines are used to reduce
blood sugar.  Gila Monster  The active ingredient in Byetta and Bydureon, known as
exenatide, stimulates pancreas cells to produce insulin when
blood sugar is high. It is a synthetic version of a substance
found in the saliva of the Gila monster. Bydureon uses
technology developed by Alkermes to slowly release exenatide
into the bloodstream with one dose a week. The drug won European
Commission approval in June.  “Bydureon’s approval in the U.S. will not solve Amylin’s
current issues,” said Michael King, an analyst at Rodman &
Renshaw in  New York  who rates the shares “market
underperform.”  Amylin took on a “tremendous financial burden” when it
severed ties with Indianapolis-based Lilly and acquired the
global marketing rights to exenatide for $1.45 billion, King
said today in a note to investors. Amylin also faces competition
from “established diabetes franchise players” including
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , he said.  Novo’s Victoza  Novo Nordisk, the world’s biggest insulin maker, sells
Victoza, a once-daily shot that’s in the same medication class
as exenatide. Victoza, cleared by the FDA in 2010, earned 2.32
billion kroner ($413 million) that year for the company.  While Bydureon’s weekly dosing may be more convenient for
patients, its market potential may be hampered by data from a
trial known as Duration-6 that found it didn’t work as well as
Victoza, according to a Bloomberg Industries report.  Byetta, the twice-daily shot approved by the FDA in 2005,
earned $559 million for Amylin and $151 million for
Indianapolis-based Lilly in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The two companies ended their decade-long partnership
in November to resolve a legal dispute.  Amylin had sued in May to prevent Lilly from using the same
sales force to market exenatide and linagliptin, a drug Lilly is
developing with  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH (BING) .  Revenue-Sharing  While Lilly won’t market Bydureon or Byetta in the U.S.
under the deal that dissolved the partnership, the company will
receive future revenue-sharing payments of as much as $1.2
billion from Amylin for both drugs. Amylin also agreed to make a
one-time payment of $250 million to Lilly.  “With staggering debt, questionable execution skills, and
the pincers of competition closing in, Amylin could soon be in a
fight for its corporate life,” King said. “The only way out,
in our view, is if the company quickly re-partners the exenatide
franchise, a concept that is not entirely out of the question.”  Primary-care doctors may prefer Bydureon’s weekly dosing to
diabetes drugs injected once or twice a day, said Ian Somaiya,
an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York.  “We believe the market continues to discount Bydureon’s
approval and its billion-dollar market opportunity,” Somaiya
said Jan. 25 in a note that recommended buying Amylin shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 