-- Hana Financial Wins Approval to Buy Lone Star Stake in Korea Exchange Bank
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-01-27T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/hana-financial-wins-approval-to-buy-lone-star-stake-in-korea-exchange-bank.html
Lone Star  Funds’ sale of  Korea 
Exchange Bank won approval from regulators, clearing the final
hurdle for Hana Financial Group Inc.’s 3.9 trillion won ($3.5
billion) purchase.  The Financial Services Commission ruled yesterday that
Seoul-based Hana, South Korea’s fourth-largest financial group
by assets, has sufficient health and funding to buy the 51
percent stake, the regulator said in a statement.  The Commission’s nod allows Dallas-based Lone Star to end
an eight-year investment that has been plagued by legal disputes
and a public backlash over profits. Hana ChairmanKim Seung Yu
has been pushing to complete the purchase of Korea Exchange Bank
for more than a year to help narrow the lead of bigger rivals  KB
Financial Group Inc. (105560)  and Woori Finance Holdings Co.  “Given the amount of dividends KEB paid out to Lone Star
over the years, it was a profitable investment,” said Chang In Whan, president of KTB Asset Management Co., which manages $2
billion of assets. “But when you look at the investment horizon
and all the legal and public scrutiny, I’m not sure it was all
that worth it.”  Shares of Korea Exchange Bank rose 1.5 percent to 8,150 won
at the close of trading in Seoul yesterday before the
announcement. Hana gained 3.8 percent to 39,950 won, while the
benchmark Kospi index advanced 0.4 percent.  Make Global  “Now our job is to make Hana and KEB global banks that
represent South Korea and explore markets around the world,”
Kim told reporters in  Seoul . He said the deal will be completed
within five working days. Hana will also buy a 6.25 percent
 stake  in KEB held by  Export-Import Bank of Korea , Kim said.  Lone Star in November edged closer to ending its investment
when the regulator ruled that the fund should sell at least 41
percent of Korea Exchange Bank, without dictating how it should
offload the stake. The FSC made that ruling after Lone Star and
its former country head were found guilty of stock-price
manipulation by a Seoul court.  In December, Lone Star agreed to cut the price for KEB by
11 percent, a second reduction, and extend a deadline for the
completion of the deal to the end of February.  Two calls made outside of regular work hours to the office
of Lone Star’s spokesman in the U.S. went unanswered, as did an
e-mail seeking comment. A spokesman for Korea Exchange Bank
declined to comment.  Workers’ Opposition  The workers’ union at Korea Exchange Bank criticized the
regulator’s approval, saying it was unlawful and should be
nullified, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
union will review ways to stop the sale, it said.  Lone Star, which had invested 2.15 trillion won in  Korea
Exchange Bank (004940)  since 2003, has already recouped 2.53 trillion won
in after-tax profit through dividends and a sale of some shares,
according to data from Korea Exchange Bank.  Courts, regulators and lawmakers helped derail Lone Star’s
two earlier attempts to sell the  stake  since 2006.  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  dropped a $6 billion bid for the holding in September 2008
after authorities left the proposed transaction in limbo for
more than a year because of legal disputes.  “A major hurdle for them to exit has been lifted,” said
Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer of Midas International
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $1 billion in assets.
“It’s true that this decision is coming later than expected,
but the market will accept the approval favorably.”  Standard Chartered Plc’s purchase of Korea First Bank in
2005 for $3.2 billion and Citigroup Inc.’s acquisition of KorAm
Bank for $2.7 billion in 2004 are among the biggest banking
takeovers so far in  South Korea .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  