-- Apple’s Cook Won’t Turn ‘Blind Eye’ to Problems With Suppliers’ Conditions
-- B y   A n a n d   K r i s h n a m o o r t h y
-- 2012-01-27T09:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/apple-won-t-turn-blind-eye-to-supply-chain-problems-cook-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is “attacking problems”
with conditions at its  supply factories  and is committed to
educating workers about their rights, Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  said in an e-mail to his employees.  The letter, carried on the website  9to5mac.com , comes amid
criticism of conditions at plants in China that help make Apple
devices such as iPhones and iPads. Employees work excessive
overtime, have died in factory explosions and live in crowded
dormitories, the New York Times reported on its website Jan. 25.  “We will continue to dig deeper, and we will undoubtedly
find more issues,” Cook said in the e-mail, which the website
said was sent to all employees. “What we will not do -- and
never have done -- is stand still or turn a blind eye to
problems in our supply chain. On this you have my word.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  More than half of the suppliers audited by Apple have
violated at least one aspect of the company’s code of conduct
every year since 2007, the newspaper reported, citing Apple’s
public reports. In some instances, suppliers improperly disposed
of hazardous materials and falsified records, the newspaper
reported, citing company reports and advocacy groups.  Shares of Apple, the world’s most valuable technology
company, rose to a record Jan. 25 after the Cupertino,
California-based company said first-quarter profit more than
doubled to $13.1 billion because of holiday-season demand for
iPhones and iPads.  Foxconn Suicides  Apple’s  profit margins  have widened at the expense of main
supplier Foxconn Technology Group, which cut prices to retain
orders for iPhones and iPads. At least 10 Foxconn workers
committed suicide in 2010, prompting the Taipei-based company to
increase wages, put up safety nets and improve worker welfare.  Foxconn, the world’s largest contract manufacturer of
electronics, said some members of its 1 million-person workforce
threatened to jump from a plant building earlier this month to
protest an internal transfer of employees.  “We care about every worker in our worldwide supply
chain,” Cook wrote. “Any accident is deeply troubling, and any
issue with working conditions is cause for concern. Any
suggestion that we don’t care is patently false and offensive to
us. As you know better than anyone, accusations like these are
contrary to our values. It’s not who we are.”  Pollution caused by suppliers making Apple products in
 China  “greatly endangers” public health and safety, according
to an August report by the Institute of Public and Environmental
Affairs. A blast at a Shanghai supplier to Apple injured 61
workers after aluminum dust produced by polishing cases for
iPads ignited, China Labor Watch said last month.  Earlier this month, Apple said it agreed to let outside
monitors into its supply factories to monitor conditions.  “We are attacking problems aggressively with the help of
the world’s foremost authorities on safety, the environment, and
fair labor,” Cook wrote in the e-mail. “It would be easy to
look for problems in fewer places and report prettier results,
but those wouldn’t be the actions of a leader.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  