-- Apple Regains Lead in Smartphones From Samsung, Researcher Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-01-27T04:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/apple-regains-lead-in-smartphones-from-samsung-strategy-analytics-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  regained the lead in
global smartphone shipments from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  last
quarter after starting sales of the latest version of the
iPhone, according to data from Strategy Analytics.  The U.S. company shipped 37 million smartphones in the
three months ended Dec. 31, giving it a worldwide market share
of 23.9 percent, Strategy Analytics said in an e-mailed
statement today. Samsung’s shipments rose to 36.5 million, while
those at third-ranked  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  dropped to 19.6 million.  The introduction of the iPhone 4S in October is helping
Apple fend off competition from smartphones based on Google
Inc.’s Android software, including Samsung’s Galaxy S II.
Cupertino, California-based Apple this week posted fiscal first-
quarter net income of $13.1 billion, one of the highest
quarterly profits in U.S. corporate history.  “Whenever Apple launches a new product, there is a spike
in demand,” Neil Mawston, a Milton Keynes, England-based
executive director at  Strategy Analytics , said by telephone
today. The impact from the new product is expected to dissipate
in the coming quarters, he said.  Global shipments of smartphones, which allow users to
browse the Internet and edit documents, rose 54 percent to 155
million units last quarter, according to Strategy Analytics.  Samsung today posted fourth-quarter net income of 4
trillion won ($3.6 billion), helped by rising smartphone sales.  Apple last held the No. 1 position in the smartphone market
in the second quarter, according to Strategy Analytics.
Samsung’s fourth-quarter global market share was 23.5 percent
and Nokia’s was 12.6 percent, the researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  