-- Argentina’s Frances Leads Banks Lower on Capital Rules
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-27T17:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/argentina-s-frances-leads-banks-lower-on-capital-rules-correct-.html
(Corrects that the regulation is related to capital
requirements in headline and third paragraph. Corrects fourth
paragraph to show the requirements apply before dividend
payments.)  BBVA Banco Frances SA (FRAN) , the Argentine
unit of Spain’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, led losses
among members of Argentina’s benchmark Merval index after the
central bank increased capital requirements.  Frances fell 5.4 percent to 9.6 pesos at 1:05 p.m. in
 Buenos Aires , the steepest fall in more than two months. The
Merval index retreated 1.6 percent.  The new capital requirement “is making the stocks fall as
it will cap the amount they can pay in dividends,” Marcelo Olguin, chief economist at SBS Soc. de Bolsa SA, said in a phone
interview.  Argentine banks will be required to hold an extra 75
percent of their minimum capital requirements before dividend
payments, up from the current 30 percent, the bank said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The central bank said that
the measure, which will be applied gradually starting Feb. 1
through December, seeks to comply with the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  “It has the double purpose of giving more security to
savers, as well as increasing the system’s resources to expand
credit,” the central bank said in the statement.  Banco Frances paid 804 million pesos ($185 million) in
dividends last year, SBS said in an e-mailed note today.  Banco
Macro SA (BMA)  followed with 505 million pesos and  Grupo Financiero
Galicia SA (GGAL)  paid 24.8 million pesos.  Banco Macro retreated 2.5 percent to 11.8 pesos, Grupo
Galicia dropped 2.9 percent to 3.65 pesos.  Banco Hipotecario SA (BHIP) 
fell 2.8 percent to 1.72 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  