-- U.S. Stocks Retreat After GDP Trails Estimates as Treasuries, Euro Advance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-27T21:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/asian-stocks-end-two-day-rally-on-slowing-economy-earnings-won-weakens.html
Stocks fell, trimming a fourth
straight  weekly gain  for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and
Treasuries gained after the  U.S. economy  grew less than
forecast. The euro increased amid optimism  Greece  was making
progress in debt-restructuring talks with bondholders.  The  S&P 500  slipped 0.2 percent to close at 1,316.33 at 4
p.m. in New York, leaving it up less than 0.1 percent for the
week. Ten-year Treasury yields fell four basis points. The S&P
GSCI Index of commodities added 0.3 percent as gasoline and
natural gas increased at least 2.7 percent. The euro increased
0.9 percent to $1.3229, a six-week high, while the  Italian 10-
year note yield  lost 15 basis points to 5.90 percent after
borrowing costs declined at a bill auction.  Losses in stocks were triggered by government data showing
the U.S. economy grew 2.8 percent last quarter, compared with
the 3 percent predicted in a Bloomberg survey of economists and
underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to keep  interest
rates  low for a longer period.  “Having the world’s economic locomotive showing signs of
strain is adding to investors concern worldwide,”  Jack Ablin ,
who helps oversee $55 billion as chief investment officer for
Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, said in a telephone
interview. “The GDP report creates doubt about how solid the
recovery is. It’s a very difficult environment to assess.”  U.S. equities retreated for a second day after the S&P 500
reached the highest level since July and the Dow closed at the
highest since May following the Fed’s statement. The S&P 500 is
up 4.7 percent in 2012 and has rebounded almost 20 percent from
its 2011 low in October amid improving economic data and better-
than-forecast  earnings. (SPX)   Earnings Season  Earnings have topped estimates at about two-thirds of the
169 companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since Jan. 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge is trading at
12.5 times  estimated  earnings, compared with last year’s low of
11.2 on Aug. 19.   Ford Motor Co. slipped 4.2 percent today after fourth-
quarter profit fell short of analysts’ estimates as overseas
operations dragged down results, while a one-time tax gain
resulted in the company’s biggest annual profit since 1998.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  dropped 1 percent after the world’s largest
coffee-shop chain narrowed its forecast for profit excluding
certain items to a range of $1.78 to $1.82 a share for fiscal
2012, compared with analysts’ average estimate of $1.83.  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  sank 3 percent as the second-biggest
maker of computer-networking equipment forecast sales and profit
that missed estimates.  Banks Advance  Banks led a  rebound  in stocks that briefly turned the S&P
500 higher in the final hour of trading as the White House said
it will relax the rules under the Home Affordable Modification
Program and triple incentives paid to lenders that reduce
mortgage principal. The revised HAMP program would pay  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to forgive debt on homes that have lost
value.  Wells Fargo & Co . and Citigroup Inc. rose at least 1.6
percent to pace an advance in  financial  shares, which trimmed
gains as S&P lowered the credit-rating outlooks for Jefferies
Group Inc. and Cantor Fitzgerald LP to “negative” on  Europe ’s
debt crisis will weigh on trading and investment banking.
Jefferies fell 2.4 percent, reversing an earlier 1 percent gain.  European Shares  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index decreased 1 percent, wiping out
most of yesterday’s rally that sent the regional benchmark into
a  bull market  with a gain of 20 percent from last year’s low.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest bank, retreated 3.3
percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded the shares to
“neutral” from “buy.”  BP Plc (BP/LN)  lost 2.6 percent as a U.S.
judge ruled that the U.K. oil company can’t collect losses
caused by the 2010 Gulf of Mexico spill from Transocean Ltd.  The Italian two-year note yield declined three basis points
to 3.56 percent. Yields fell to 1.969 percent as Italy sold 8
billion euros of 182-day bills, the lowest level since May and
down from 3.251 percent at the previous auction on Dec. 28.  “The auction was quite positive,” said You-Na Park, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“The market is waiting for the summit next week and comments
from Germany and France.”  The Spanish 10-year bond climbed for the sixth consecutive
day, with the yield 24 basis points lower at 4.97 percent.  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond rose 49 basis points to
33.97 percent. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said
the government was “one step away” from completing talks on a
voluntary debt swap and was negotiating with international
creditors on the terms for a second financing package at the
same time.  ’Tough, Open Issues’  “We are a step away from completing the processes for the
PSI and we have to deal with a series of tough, open issues for
the new financing program,” Venizelos said in an e-mailed
statement from the Athens-based ministry. “All these have to be
concluded within the next few days so that the public offer for
the PSI occurs before Feb. 15.”  The Institute of International Finance said progress was
made in talks in  Athens  today on the Greek debt swap and that
negotiations will continue tomorrow.  After European markets closed,  Fitch Ratings  cut the credit
ratings of Italy,  Spain  and three other euro-area countries,
saying they lack financing flexibility in the face of the
regional debt crisis.  Italy, the euro area’s third-largest economy, was cut two
levels to A- from A+. The rating on Spain was also lowered two
notches, to A from AA-. Ratings on Belgium, Slovenia and Cyprus
were also reduced, while Ireland’s rating was maintained.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks rose 0.4 percent,
capping a 4.4 percent weekly rally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  