-- Atomic-Free Japan by April Roils Debate on Economic Risks
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-01-27T04:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/atomic-free-japan-by-april-roils-debate-on-reactor-restarts-blackout-risk.html
Japan  will lose its last nuclear-
generated power in April at the current rate of shutting down
reactors for safety checks, cheering opponents of the industry
after the Fukushima disaster while adding to concern about
potential blackouts and factory shutdowns.  The country has just three of its 54 nuclear reactors
producing electricity after one more unit was idled for
maintenance today. Another  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  unit was
shut earlier this week for scheduled checks.  With one exception, no reactors taken off-line since the
March 11 disaster have been allowed to restart as they await
results of so-called stress tests. The checks began after an
earthquake and tsunami caused reactor meltdowns at  Tokyo 
Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi station that led to radiation
fallout over an area about half the size of  New York City  and
the evacuation of about 160,000 people.  With public opinion running against restarting reactors,
Japan’s becoming free of nuclear power within three months would
have a “psychological” effect, according to Yuji Nishiyama, an
analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG.  “If we experience a zero-nuclear situation the argument
that we don’t need nuclear power anymore will be stronger,”
Nishiyama said by telephone in Tokyo. “But, at the moment we
cannot live without nuclear power. We may not need 50 reactors,
but we do need about 10 or 20.”  Fossil Fuel Costs  With atomic stations providing about 30 percent of Japan’s
electricity before the Fukushima disaster, utilities have been
forced to rely more on oil- and gas-fired  power plants  to make
up the difference.  A switch from nuclear to fossil fuels based on average
operating rates at atomic plants would require the equivalent of
323 million barrels of oil a year, adding about $34 billion to
the country’s import bill, according to Osamu Fujisawa, an ex-
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. manager and now an independent energy
economist in Tokyo.  Japan relied on imports to meet 81 percent of its net
energy needs in 2010, according to the latest data on the  World
Bank ’s website. That compares with 22 percent for the U.S. in
the same year and 8 percent for  China  in 2009, the latest data
the bank has.  Japan’s consumption of liquefied natural gas jumped 32
percent in December, while crude oil use increased more than
fivefold, according to the Federation of Electric Power
Companies data.  Mothballed Plants  “We do have a number of mothballed power plants, but it
takes time to restore those generators, sometimes years,”
Nishiyama said. “And these plants often have low-utilization
rates. Some cannot be used at night.”  The cost of burning oil to generate power is almost twice
that of gas, he said.  Companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
escaped power cuts after they were ordered to cut consumption by
15 percent in some areas during last year’s summer when demand
peaked. Households were asked to regulate use of air
conditioners. The restrictions were lifted as temperatures
cooled.  Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  said Japan may have
no nuclear plants operating this summer and the government is
preparing measures to avoid power shortages, the Asahi newspaper 
reported , citing his comments in an interview. The safety issue
is more important than power supply concerns, Edano told the
Asahi.  Reactor Closures  Chugoku Electric Power Co. (9504)  shut the No. 2 reactor at its
Shimane nuclear station today, leaving 6.4 percent of Japan’s
48,960 megawatts of nuclear capacity on-line.  Tokyo Electric ’s
No. 5 unit at its Kashiwazaki Kariwa station was idled on Jan.
25. The remaining three reactors are due to go off-line for
regular checks during the next three months.  Whatever the cost to the utilities, local governments that
usually approve a restart of a nuclear reactor have balked.
Yuhei Sato, governor of Fukushima, where Tokyo Electric has two
nuclear stations including the wrecked Dai-Ichi plant, has vowed
to make the region a nuclear-free zone.  Hirohiko Izumida, the governor of Niigata, where Tokyo
Electric’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant is located, will “never”
negotiate with the power utility on restarts until all of the
deficiencies exposed by the Fukushima accident are explained and
corrected, the governor’s spokesman Takeshi Kumakura said by
phone on Jan. 24.  Stress Tests  Tepco, as Tokyo Electric is known, has submitted to the
government results of so-called stress tests on the Nos. 1 and 7
reactors at the Kashiwazaki plant, the company said Jan. 16. The
tests set up by the Trade and Industry Ministry aim to show how
prepared a nuclear plant is to withstand disasters.  Kashiwazaki, the world’s largest nuclear station, has yet
to restart three of its seven units since a 2007 quake that led
to a radioactive water spill. The work to upgrade Kashiwazaki’s
earthquake defenses since 2007 would make it one of the better
stations to restart, said Penn Bowers, a utilities analyst with
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  “If it didn’t have the Tepco name out there it would
probably be on the top of the list for restarts,” Bowers said.
Kashiwazaki’s units have “been retrofitted to a quake
prevention standard that’s probably the best out there.”  Reactor Wrangles  Reactor restarts is one of three conditions set by lenders
as Tepco negotiates to borrow as much as 2 trillion yen to stay
solvent, covering rising fuel costs and compensation claims, two
people familiar with the matter said this month. Higher power
rates and Tepco accepting a capital injection from a state-run
fund are the other two conditions, the people said.  Tepco’s management is resisting giving up control to the
state fund even as it faces collapse under the weight of
compensation claims and cleanup costs for the disaster. Tepco
 shares  fell 1.4 percent to 210 yen at 12:28 p.m. in Tokyo today.
The stock is down about 90 percent since the day before the
disaster.  The company owns three nuclear stations. The Fukushima Dai-
Ni station, situated close to the Dai-Ichi site, temporarily
lost control of its cooling system following the March 11 record
earthquake and tsunami. It remains shut down.  Without nuclear reactors,  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) , the
main supplier to Japan’s second-largest industrial region, may
see demand exceed generation capacity by 9.5 percent in
February, the biggest shortfall among suppliers, according to a
November assessment released by the government.  Kansai Nightmare  “In Kansai it’s a nightmare,” Nishiyama said. “Saving
energy is not enough to save the region. We need to think about
restarting nuclear power plants more seriously.”  Kansai Electric , which serves a region with an economy the
size of  Mexico ’s and has Sharp Corp. and Panasonic factories, is
asking customers to voluntarily reduce consumption by more than
10 percent this winter.  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  will also be
short of capacity after it shutters its last reactor on-line for
maintenance, Nishiyama said.  “I think we go to zero before we get restarts,” CLSA’s
Bowers said, forecasting the first nuclear units to come on-line
before summer when power consumption reaches its peak. By summer
Kansai may have supplies falling more than 19 percent short of
demand, the government has forecast.  “It’s not going to be one switch is flipped and all of
them come back on,” Bowers said. “Still, if you get a certain
amount back on-line you’re not going to have a horrible problem.
If you have zero, that leads to a significant economic impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  