-- Avatar Backer Ingenious Expands in ‘Untapped’ U.K. Clean Energy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-27T08:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/avatar-backer-ingenious-expands-in-untapped-u-k-clean-energy.html
Ingenious Media Holdings Plc , an
investor whose sci-fi movie “Avatar” showed humans plundering
a distant moon, is putting funds into resource protection at
home as it studies a 40 million-pound ($63 million) energy fund.  Ingenious may open a “generic” clean-energy fund, James
Axtell, an investment director at the London-based company, said
in an interview. It also plans to start a second energy-
efficiency fund in 2013, after closing its first this March.  Both new funds would qualify under the  Enterprise
Investment Schemes , a U.K. government-backed system that offers
tax breaks to investors in “higher-risk” companies. Ingenious
follows  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., previous
owner of record label EMI Group Ltd. and now a backer of wind
and solar power, in adding clean energy to media holdings.  Ingenious’s first energy-efficiency fund is targeting about
10 million pounds and a second fund would seek as much as 20
million pounds, Axtell said. Initial proceeds will finance the
installation of energy-saving equipment at U.K. properties such
as shopping malls, schools, prisons and parking lots, he said.  The U.K. is promoting efficiency measures as it seeks to 
curb dependence on fossil fuels and reduce polluting emissions. 
Its Green Deal program allows households to pay for home 
improvements through savings on energy bills, while the planned
Green Investment Bank will also fund energy savings in business.  ‘Untapped Market’  “One of the key attractions of this area is that it is a
relatively untapped market in the U.K.,” Axtell said in  London .
“It isn’t correlated with the equity markets, and for some of
our potential investors at the moment that is quite important.”  Ingenious is expanding in clean energy after making its
name backing such films as “Avatar” in 2009 and “X-Men: First
Class” in 2011. It has added sports, festivals and leisure
investments such as fine wines, as well as clean energy.  Britain is working toward a European Union goal of getting
15 percent of its energy from clean sources by 2020. It’s also
aiming to  cut emissions  34 percent from 1990 levels by that
time, through renewables projects and efficiency improvements.  Returns on investment in Ingenious’s energy-efficiency
funds will be generated by the energy savings made, Axtell said.
The investor will take as much as a 90 percent share of the
savings over the contract period, which is usually about seven
years, and expects annual returns of about 19.6 percent over 3
1/2 years, he said.  Next year, the cap on funds that can be raised by companies
under the Enterprise Investment Scheme will increase to 10
million pounds from 2 million pounds, Axtell said. That may open
up other industries for Ingenious to invest in through a generic
clean-energy fund, he said, citing biomass as a potential
candidate. The company already has a U.K. solar fund.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  