-- Lawmakers Press FTC on Whether Google Violated Privacy Accord
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-01-27T22:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/lawmakers-press-ftc-on-whether-google-violated-privacy-accord.html
U.S. lawmakers asked the Federal
Trade Commission whether changes announced this week by  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  to its privacy policy violate terms of a 20-year settlement
the company reached with the agency last year.  Congressmen  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, and
 Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, called on the agency “to
investigate whether Google’s proposed changes violate” a March
consent decree to settle FTC claims that the search-engine
operator used deceptive practices and violated its own privacy
guidelines when it introduced the Buzz social networking service
in 2010.  Google announced in a blog post Jan. 24 that it will create
a uniform set of privacy guidelines for more than 60 products.
The move rankled regulators, including data protection agencies
in Ireland and  France , along with consumer groups such as San
Francisco-based Common Sense Media, who said the change might
limit users’ control over what the company can do with their
information.  “This new policy would allow Google to follow the
activities of users across nearly all its services, including
Gmail,  Google Search , Google+ and YouTube,” Markey and Barton
said in a letter today to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz. “This new
policy and omission of a consumer opt-out option on a product-
by-product basis raises a number of important privacy
concerns.”  Consumer Data  The FTC settlement, which was signed in March, bars Google
from misrepresenting how it handles information, obliges the
company to follow policies that protect consumer data in new
products and requires the search engine to submit to periodic
reviews by an external auditor to ensure the policies are
followed.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is expanding its
antitrust probe of Google, operator of the world’s most popular
search engine, to include scrutiny of its new Google+ social
networking service, two people familiar with the situation told
Bloomberg Jan. 13.  FTC spokeswoman Cecelia Prewett said the agency had
received the letter, declining to comment further. On Dec. 7,
Leibowitz confirmed in a Senate oversight hearing that the
agency is investigating Google, using both its consumer
protection and competition arms.  “We’re moving forward on that, mostly collecting documents
and asking questions at this point,” he told the House
Judiciary Subcommitte on Intellectual Property and Competition,
which has oversight over the FTC.  -- Editors: Fred Strasser,  Andrew Dunn   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 