-- Bald Cynthia Nixon Fights Cancer in Lithe ‘Wit’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/bald-cynthia-nixon-faces-cancer-with-grammar-in-lithe-wit-jeremy-gerard.html
The sight of  Cynthia Nixon , sheet-
white and hooked up to a rolling I.V stand, red baseball cap
covering her bald head, is so startling that it takes a few
minutes to settle in and savor the rush of words tumbling from
the stage.  Millions know her as the carrot-topped lawyer Miranda
Hobbes from “Sex and the City.” Theatergoers have watched her
grow from late childhood -- when she juggled two Broadway roles
simultaneously -- into an actress for whom nuance came easily in
shows as disparate as David Lindsay-Abaire’s “Rabbit Hole” and
Tony Kushner’s adaptation of Corneille’s “L’Illusion Comique.”  None of these prepared us for her ferociously crunchy
portrayal of Vivian Bearing, Ph.D., in the revival of “Wit” on
Broadway.  Dr. Bearing is dying. The outcome of Margaret Edson’s 1998
Pulitzer Prize-winning play, about one fierce academic’s
showdown with Stage IV ovarian cancer, never is in doubt.  For her last battle Vivian is heavily armed with words. She
is a literature professor and specialist in the sonnets of John
Donne. She may wax angry about the disease sapping away her
life. But that anger is piddling compared to the wrath she can
summon against anyone who messes with the author of “Death Be
Not Proud” (Sonnet 72).  Acid Humor  And so we have a drama laced with humor, most of it acid
and utterly devoted to the power of metaphor, simile, paradox --
and wit. Not the debased, bilious language the spills from most
stages these day, but words that matter, that touch the soul.  What really gets Vivian’s ravaged blood boiling concerns
the last line of Sonnet 72: “And death shall be no more, Death
thou shalt die.” Vulgarians, she tells us, have replaced the
comma with a semicolon and the period with an exclamation point.  “If you go in for this sort of thing,” she says, her
voice curdled with derision, “I suggest you take up
Shakespeare.”  It’s not just a throwaway line but part of a lucid and, for
her, crucial argument about the difference between fashion and
wit (some versions of the play give the title as “W;T”). It is
literally what keeps Dr. Bearing alive through the gruesome and
grueling trial of an experimental drug she undergoes.  She’s confined in a teaching hospital (Santo Loquasto’s
germ-free set and Peter Kaczorowski’s sterile lighting are
perfect).  Experimental Drug  One of the grimly clueless young interns attending her was
a student in her notoriously rigorous class. “Wit,” Edson’s
only play, bristles with black humor as Vivian deals not only
with the debilitating drug, but with blockheaded doctors who are
shocked when their subjects show human tendencies, gumming up
their research protocols.  Nixon gives us a woman whose mind demands attention even as
her body is inexorably failing. You hear urgency in the
crackling tone of her voice and see it in the undimmed sparkle
in her eyes. She never stops wrestling.  Though we know how this story will end, that’s not the same
as how “Wit” ends. Director Lynne Meadow (who, like Nixon, is
a cancer survivor) lets the final quiet moments and incandescent
images play out with the grace and sensitivity that have
accompanied each of the previous 100 minutes. They make Vivian
Bearing memorably alive.  Through March 4 at the  Manhattan Theatre Club /Friedman
Theatre, 261 W. 47th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com .  Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 