-- Banking Industry Will Contract, Lazard’s Parr Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-27T17:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/banking-industry-will-contract-lazard-s-parr-says-tom-keene.html
The global banking industry will
contract during the next few years as firms sell businesses,
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  Vice Chairman  Gary Parr  said.  “There will be less companies competing in the global
wholesale business, but it won’t be by mergers,” Parr said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene  from Davos, Switzerland, where he’s
attending the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting. “It will
be by a number of firms just departing the business. They’ll be
shutting down, they may exit some lines or sell them.”  U.S. and European banks are selling businesses and cutting
back amid  capital requirements , regulation and investor concern
of a global recession. Financial firms globally announced more
than 200,000 job losses in 2011, up from about 58,000 in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Parr said the world’s
largest banks won’t get bigger than they are now.  “When you look at the capital charge and the regulatory
things that get layered on when you get to a certain size, it is
better to be smaller,” Parr said.  Parr, 54, has been a director of Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Lazard, the world’s largest independent merger adviser, since
2010 and joined the firm in 2003. His strategic advice has
focused on financial institutions, and he has guided the sale of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American investment-
banking business to Barclays Plc and Bear Stearns Cos.’s sale to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.   “The world needs global providers of capital, truly global
providers, but it doesn’t need as many as it used to have,”
Parr said. “So in the next few years, I think it will continue
to concentrate, not consolidate by mergers, but basically
concentrate to five to eight institutions that will be global.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 