-- Being Prudish About Politicians’ Private Lives: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-01-27T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/being-prudish-about-politicians-private-lives-michael-kinsley.html
Many years ago, when Senator  Ted Kennedy  was challenging President  Jimmy Carter  for the
Democratic presidential nomination, I quit my job at a national
magazine in protest over the owner’s refusal to publish an
article I had edited about the senator’s extramarital
activities.  At that time, there was a general consensus among
Washington journalists that one didn’t do that sort of thing.
(“That sort of thing” being reporting on politicians’
extramarital affairs. Having the affairs was OK.)  The article, which was eventually published in another
magazine, didn’t discuss any actual affairs or name any names.
It was an essay-argument that this kind of behavior was relevant
to the citizens’ job of assessing the candidates, and that
messing around by a married male politician reflected badly on
that politician’s attitude toward women and, by extension,
people in general. It suggested that he was willing to use
people in a cavalier way.  The general rule at that time was that you shouldn’t write
about a person’s private life. (The question whether the rule
applied if the person volunteered information didn’t arise.
Public confessions by celebrities and politicians didn’t become
fashionable -- and then routine -- until later.) This was
because marital infidelity was held to have nothing to do with
how a politician did his job. The truth, though, was nearly the
opposite: Yes, journalists thought that marital infidelity
shouldn’t affect your assessment of a politician, but their
motivation for not writing about it was concern that the voters
might not be as enlightened. Voters could not be trusted with
the information that their elected representative was sleeping
around -- they might wrongly hold it against him -- so
journalists kept it from them for their own good.  Elitism and Bias  This is just the kind of Washington elitism and bias that
 Newt Gingrich  complains about so eloquently. And thank goodness
someone is speaking out about … oh, wait. Never mind.  Anyway, my belief was that what passed for high ethical
standards -- not reporting on politicians’ private lives --
looked like a conspiracy to suppress useful information. I also
thought that politicians didn’t really try to keep their private
lives private. (Our current president and his predecessor,
 Barack Obama  and  George W. Bush , have tried a lot harder.)
Politicians didn’t mind posing for the cameras with their
families coming out of church. They just didn’t want to be
photographed with their mistresses coming out of a bar.  Then there was the fact that only rarely did journalists
actually keep this private information about politicians
private. They didn’t report it to their readers or viewers, but
they generally couldn’t resist retailing these stories to
colleagues until the tales gradually but inevitably became
common knowledge among journalists, though still unknown by most
of the public.  My bottom line: A politician’s so-called private life was
fair game to the extent that your readers or your audience found
it politically relevant. Not just interesting. Of course gossip
is interesting. You had to believe that this information could
affect how a significant fraction of the public would vote.
You’d have to guess, naturally, but an honest guess would be
that most people would hold adultery against a candidate.
Therefore they had a right to know if the candidate was an
adulterer, or a heavy drinker, or had similar private failings.  A lot of water over the dam since then. Kennedy divorced,
settled down, remarried and eventually passed away. We’ve been
through  Gary Hart  and Monkey Business, Monica Lewinsky, any
number of obscure congressmen hustled quickly offstage by their
party leadership, Senator Larry Craig (he of the “wide stance”
at Minneapolis airport), and rococo variations like
Representative Anthony Weiner, the Twitter flasher.  Race to Bottom  So what’s the standard today? And what should it be? The
Internet virtually guarantees that any gamey information about a
politician will probably come out. It has accelerated the so-
called race to the bottom: Even if a news outlet makes a
decision to suppress some information, less scrupulous
competitors make that impossible. (The Washington Post once
declared in an editorial that, while it didn’t report news based
on rumors, sometimes the existence of a rumor, true or not, was
itself news. This got the Post in tremendous trouble, but it’s
actually quite true.)  What has changed since 1980 is my basic premise: that many
voters -- enough to matter -- would find information about a
politician’s private (i.e., sex) life politically relevant.
Many, probably most, don’t. It turns out that the real
sophisticates here are the voters. It’s the journalists who are
prudes. I’m not saying this is a good thing. But it does change
the equation.  When even evangelical Christians are willing to overlook a
politician’s three marriages spiced with open adultery as long
as he’s good on school prayer, we clearly have moved to a new
point in this ongoing discussion.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 