-- Polish Economic Growth Will Exceed 3% This Year, Belka Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-01-27T13:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/belka-says-expects-polish-2012-gdp-growth-of-more-than-3-percent.html
Poland’s economy, which last year
expanded at the fastest pace since 2008, will grow more than 3
percent this year, central bank Governor Marek Belka said.  “I’m more optimistic than most” analysts about the
country’s economic growth prospects for this year, Belka said in
an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” at the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos,
 Switzerland  today.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.3 percent in 2011 from the
year-earlier period, compared with a revised 3.9 percent in
2010, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. The
medium estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.2
percent. The government forecasts 2.5 percent growth this year,
the central bank’s projection is 3.1 percent.  Poland’s economy, the largest of the European Union’s
eastern states, was the only one in the 27-nation bloc to avoid
a recession in 2009. EU funds improved infrastructure and
modernized production, while a weaker zloty kept exports growing
even as the euro area’s debt crisis damped demand in the
country’s most important markets, including  Germany .  The yield on the 10-year Italian bond was 35 basis points
above Polish notes with the same maturity. In mid-October,
Polish yields were higher than  Italy ’s.  ‘Bumpy Road’  Belka doesn’t expect the euro area to break up, “but we’re
up for a bumpy road for the next few years,” Belka said.  EU leaders will next week discuss tighter budget rules to
ensure public debt in euro members doesn’t reach dangerous
levels in the future. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in Davos today the authorities were
“very close” to reaching a solution to  Greece ’s debt woes.  Investors are gaining confidence in the zloty, Belka said.
The currency has appreciated 7 percent this month after slumping
14 percent against the euro last year. The strengthening may
help combat inflation, Belka said. Consumer prices rose 4.6
percent in December from a year earlier, faster than the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target for a 15th month.  “We’re seeing improving sentiment on the zloty,” Belka
said. That trend “should alleviate our inflation worries a
bit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  