-- Biden Says He’ll Campaign for Democrats in Competitive Races
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-01-27T17:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/biden-says-he-ll-campaign-for-democrats-in-competitive-races.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  told
House Democrats they have a chance to win control of the  House
of Representatives  in this fall’s election.  “I really do think we’re going to win back the House,”
Biden said today, speaking to an annual retreat by Democratic
members of Congress at a resort on Maryland’s Eastern shore.  President Barack Obama is scheduled to speak to the group
this afternoon. He will urge the Democrats “to work with him”
to “get the economy going,” and will talk about proposals from
his Jan. 24 State of the Union address on boosting manufacturing
and making college more affordable, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said.  Biden’s remarks capped a three-day strategy session at
which Democrats honed plans for trying to win a net 25 seats to
regain the House majority they lost in 2010. Democrats now hold
191 House seats, while Republicans have 242. There are two
vacancies.  Biden, a former Delaware senator, said he will campaign for
Democrats in what are predicted to be tough races in
 Pennsylvania , Ohio, Michigan, Iowa,  New Hampshire  and  Florida .  “We cannot succeed unless you all come back,” he told the
lawmakers.  In a NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll conducted Jan.
22-24, Democrats had a six percentage point edge over
Republicans among registered voters who were asked which party
they preferred to lead Congress after the next election. The
survey, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.7
percentage points, indicated that public sentiment had shifted
in Democrats’ favor. In June, the survey showed that registered
voters were evenly split between the parties.  Republicans Helping  “These guys are helping us,” Biden said of Republicans.
“They’re helping us by saying what they believe.”  Echoing a theme of Obama’s re-election campaign, Biden said
the November election will turn on Democrats painting a “stark
contrast” between their policies and those advocated by
Republicans. Democrats say that last year’s debate in Congress
over federal spending, raising the  debt limit  and extending a
 payroll tax  cut for workers has helped swing public sentiment in
their direction. House Democrats are hoping to rebound from a
63-seat loss in the 2010 midterm election.  Saying House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  is “a good guy”
personally, as is House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia ,
Biden said both have been unwilling to compromise.  “The truth is, who can you make a deal with?” Biden said.
“Who can you reach out and shake hands with and say that we
have a bargain?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  and
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  