-- Bing Races to Beat Michigan’s Deadline for Treaty With Detroit’s Unions
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-01-27T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/bing-races-to-beat-michigan-s-deadline-for-detroit-union-deal.html
Joe Duncan said he’s never seen
things this bad.  The president of the  Detroit  Police Officers  Association 
said a proposed 10 percent pay cut for his 2,200 members -- who
are paid a maximum $53,253 -- shows the city’s desperation to
avoid a state takeover.  “We haven’t had a raise since 2008,” said Duncan, a 56-
year-old officer who joined the force 35 years ago. He has
proposed savings in the department to preserve wages.  “Nobody wants to take it, but as a practical matter, if
you don’t, an emergency manager comes in and does it anyway,”
he said. “You can only give so much.”  The fiscal crisis in the city that has lost a quarter of
its population since 2000 is coming to a head. The state is
combing Detroit’s books for evidence of financial emergency.
Meanwhile, Democratic Mayor Dave Bing is racing to wrest
concessions from 48 bargaining units to erase a $200 million
deficit in the home of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and the cradle of the
U.S. auto industry.  Otherwise, the city of 714,000 dominated by Democrats may
face a Republican-appointed manager with authority to sell
assets and nullify contracts. State Treasurer Andy Dillon has
said Detroit will run out of cash by May, and  called for 
concessions by early February.  Talking Daily  This week, Bing began firing 1,000 of Detroit’s 11,300
employees. The mayor also proposes a 10 percent cut in payments
to vendors and doubling the 1 percent tax on corporations.  Bing, 68, has said the city must trim annual employee
benefit and pension costs, which have risen since 2001 to
$35,000 per employee from $18,000.  “We are meeting, not daily but more than weekly, and there
are sidebar conversations every day,” said Al Garrett,
president of  AFSCME Council 25 , which represents about 3,000
employees. “I’m not sure an emergency manager would be any more
Draconian than what the city itself is asking, but it’s a real
possibility.”  Negotiations are “very solid at this point,”  Naomi
Patton, Bing’s spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview this
week.  Still, talks Jan. 23 with bus drivers went poorly, said
Brian Miller, vice president of Amalgamated Transit Union Local
26.  “My president asked 20 questions and got no real
answers,” Miller said. “Until we get answers, we can’t say
we’re negotiating.”  Doing the Necessary  Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , 53, appointed a 10-member
review team Dec. 27 after a preliminary survey found “probable
financial stress.” Dillon heads the team, which must report by
March.  Depending on the severity of the situation, the state might
appoint an emergency manager or impose a consent agreement
giving the mayor and City Council more power to rein in costs.  Bing and Snyder have said they don’t want an emergency
manager, although the governor has said he’ll do what is
necessary to avoid bankruptcy.  Besides its deficit, Detroit carries at least $12 billion
in long-term debt and has trouble filling its pension funds,
according to the preliminary review.  The city faces a potential $400 million payment to
terminate interest-swap agreements negotiated as part of a 2006
debt sale to fund pensions. The payments would be triggered by
an emergency manager’s appointment.  Those swaps cost the city $1.1 billion in hedging
derivatives it must pay over the life of the debt because of an
unanticipated drop in  interest rates , according to the
preliminary report.  Spiraling Down  In August 2009, Moody’s Investors Service reduced Detroit’s
general-obligation bonds one step to Ba3, three levels below
investment grade. The ratings company warned of another possible
downgrade on Dec. 7.  The finances of the nation’s 19th-largest city have been in
a downward spiral with deficits of at least $155 million since
2005, according to the preliminary review.  Last year, the state gave emergency managers appointed by
the governor broader authority to manage finances of distressed
cities and school districts.  Four other cities are under emergency managers -- Flint,
Pontiac,  Benton Harbor  and Ecorse. Detroit public schools also
have a state-appointed manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  