-- BioMarin CEO Seeking Deals to Expand Push for Treatments of Rare Diseases
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2012-01-27T21:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/biomarin-seeks-to-buttress-rare-disease-push-with-deals.html
BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc., (BMRN)  with
five drugs in clinical trials, is seeking to buy smaller
companies to expand its pipeline for treatment of rare diseases,
not be acquired itself, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Jacques Bienaime said in an interview.  The number of trials is the most ever at one time for
BioMarin, a maker of drugs for rare diseases, Bienaime said. The
Novato, California-based company will follow a similar
acquisition strategy to one used for purchases such as Zystor
Therapeutics Inc., which BioMarin bought in 2010 for $22 million
in upfront cash. That acquisition gained the company a medicine
now being tested for Pompe disease, a muscle-disabling disorder.  “These were acquisitions around $20 million or less
upfront,” Bienaime said. The company had about $224.4 million
in cash and short-term investments as of Sept. 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BioMarin has a market value of $4 billion and four approved
products. The company isn’t being managed to be sold, Bienaime
said. If an acquirer came after the company “aggressively, it
would have to be an exciting premium,” he said.  BioMarin rose 2.7 percent to $35.85 in New York trading.
The shares have gained 40 percent in the past 12 months.  In any case, Bienaime said he doesn’t anticipate interest
from an acquirer until BioMarin reports later this year on final
testing on GALNS, a treatment for the rare genetic bone disease
Morquio A syndrome.  Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco , described GALNS as the biggest driver and most
important data set of the year for BioMarin.  $500 Million in Sales  The drug has the potential for about $500 million in peak
sales in 2020, potentially doubling the company’s revenues over
the long term, Yee said in a telephone interview. Suitors, he
said, would probably prefer to wait for definitive data on GALNS
and the Pompe disease drug BMN-701 before considering a bid.  BioMarin has said it anticipates BMN-701 will start the
last phase of testing usually needed for U.S. marketing approval
in 2013. It is being groomed to compete with Lumizyme and
Myozyme, from Sanofi’s Genzyme unit, which generated $412
million in revenue in 2010.  BioMarin is one in a growing field of drugmakers looking to
profit by treating rare diseases.  Costly Medicines  These companies develop medicines for as few as 5,000 to
10,000 patients worldwide and make returns by charging as much
as $400,000 a year per patient for drugs. The U.S. and  Europe 
give drugmakers exclusive marketing rights to focus on these so-
called orphan diseases with no other treatment options, and
smaller patient populations mean fewer participants are needed
for clinical trials.  As an acquirer, BioMarin will probably focus on making
small in-licensing deals, Yee said, as the company already has a
large pipeline of drugs at various stages of testing.  At the same time, nearly all large global pharmaceutical
companies and specialty-drug makers, including Shire Plc and
Pfizer Inc. have expressed interest in the orphan disease
market, Yee said.  BioMarin remains a “top mid-cap takeout candidate over the
longer-term given its proprietary orphan drug pipeline, global
commercial infrastructure and biologics expertise,” Yee wrote
in an earlier Jan. 9 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  