-- JPMorgan Lawyer Says Blavatnik Refuses to Postpone Case for Heart Surgery
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-27T20:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/blavatnik-refuses-bid-to-delay-jpmorgan-case-for-lawyer-s-heart-surgery.html
Billionaire Len Blavatnik, who is
suing  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  over claims it lost 10 percent of the
$1 billion it managed for him, refused to extend the pre-trial
fact-gathering period as requested by a bank lawyer about to
have open-heart surgery, the lawyer said.  Bruce Birenboim, an attorney for JPMorgan, explained
Blavatnik’s refusal in a letter to a  Manhattan  judge yesterday.
Birenboim said Blavatnik wouldn’t extend the schedule two months
to June 29, a request Birenboim made because he will be
unavailable for six to eight weeks.  “I have never in my 30 years of practice found an
adversary’s position to be so unprincipled and unprofessional,”
Birenboim, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
LLP, wrote to New York State Supreme Court Justice Melvin L. Schweitzer. He said Blavatnik and his lawyers “have chosen to
litigate this matter without regard” for “common civilities”
and “professional courtesies.”  Blavatnik, 54, sued in 2009, claiming that New York-based
JPMorgan, the  biggest U.S. bank  by assets, put twice as much
money into risky mortgages as his investment guidelines allowed
while Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  was unloading such
securities from the bank’s books. Blavatnik says the bank lost
$98 million of his funds.  ‘Foot-Dragging’  “They’re attempting to portray Mr. Blavatnik as
insensitive to the plight of an ailing lawyer,” Thomas
Mulligan, a spokesman for Blavatnik, said in an e-mailed
statement. “JPMorgan already has been sanctioned by the judge
for foot-dragging, and -- contrary to their assertion -- Mr.
Blavatnik’s legal team did offer in writing to accommodate
‘specific agreements on discrete interim aspects of the
schedule’ as a courtesy to the ill lawyer. The Blavatnik team
simply declined to sign off on an unreasonable, open-ended
delay.”  In July, Schweitzer ordered the Paul Weiss law firm to pay
Blavatnik $7,500 for failing to observe a discovery deadline
without seeking an extension.  “JPMorgan is represented by two international law firms
with 1,500 attorneys at their disposal,” Mulligan said. “As
talented as this particular attorney may be, the trial isn’t
scheduled until September, and it beggars belief that the bank’s
defense could be hobbled by his temporary absence.”  Blavatnik, born in  Ukraine , runs New York-based Access
Industries Group, which owns energy, media and real-estate
companies. Blavatnik is worth $9.5 billion, according to  Forbes .
He bought Warner Music Group Corp. from  Edgar Bronfman  last
year.  Different Instruments  JPMorgan said in court papers that the instruments it sold
were different from those in the Access Industries account.  Birenboim asked the judge to grant the fact-discovery
extension, which would push back the rest of the case schedule,
including a trial date. He said a trial would still take place
this year, and that JPMorgan shouldn’t be put at a disadvantage
because of his medical condition.  In an e-mail attached to the letter, a lawyer for Blavatnik
told Birenboim that “the client” was “not inclined to agree”
with the delay, which he said would push the trial date past
this year. Blavatnik is scheduled to undergo a sworn, pretrial
interview on March 2, according to the e-mail by the lawyer,
Richard I. Werder Jr. of  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP 
in  New York .  Darin Oduyoye, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
Mulligan’s statement. The bank has denied Blavatnik’s
accusations in the suit.  Birenboim said in the letter that he will be lead trial
counsel for JPMorgan along with Paul Weiss partner  Ted Wells ,
who in 2010 prevailed at trial for Citigroup Inc. in a lawsuit
by Terra Firma Capital Partners. The firm claimed the bank
tricked it into overpaying for  EMI Group Ltd (PEF1790) .  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 