-- BNP Paribas’s Offer for Fortis Bank Notes Faces Opposition
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-01-27T16:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/bnp-paribas-s-offer-for-fortis-bank-notes-faces-opposition-1-.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , the majority owner
of  Fortis Bank SA/NV (FBAVP) , faces opposition from a group of
bondholders who say the price offered for subordinated notes
sold by Fortis Bank doesn’t reflect BNP’s credit quality.  BNP Paribas, based in Paris, is offering 45 percent to 47.5
percent of face value for the 3 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of
floating-rate, undated notes that can be handed over for Ageas
shares. The offer, which began yesterday and ends on Jan. 30, is
conditional upon BNP Paribas getting acceptances for at least 50
percent of the notes.  The offer price represents a discount of 40 percent to the
average price of similar so-called Tier 1 bonds issued by BNP
Paribas and values the notes at little more than what  National
Bank of Greece SA  offered earlier this month to repurchase
hybrid securities, a group of bondholders who say they own about
43 percent of the notes issued by Fortis Bank in 2007, said in a
letter addressed to the board of BNP Paribas and dated Jan. 26.  BNP Paribas can waive the 50 percent acceptance condition
“at any time, as specified in the tender offer memorandum,”
the bank said in a document posted on its website today. A
Paris-based spokesman declined to comment on the letter sent by
the group of bondholders.  Quarterly Coupons  The offer, if fully successful, allows BNP Paribas’s
Belgian bank unit to stop paying quarterly coupons of 200 basis
points above the three-month euro interbank offered rate on 3
billion euros of bonds that will no longer count as bank capital
under Basel III rules. The notes added 650 million euros to
 Fortis Bank (FBAVP) ’s Tier 1 capital totaling 19.7 billion euros at the
end of 2010, Hilde Junius, a spokeswoman for Fortis Bank, said
by phone from Brussels.  Should all of the bondholders accept the offer, BNP Paribas
will convert the 3 billion euros of notes into 125.3 million
 Ageas (AGS)  shares, which are valued at 201.8 million euros based on
yesterday’s closing price.  France ’s largest bank will also
receive a compensation payment of as much as 475 million euros,
Ageas said yesterday in a statement.  The transaction may cut Fortis Bank’s profit by as much as
120 million euros, the Brussels-based bank said in a statement
published on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  