-- Bollard Sees Slower New Zealand Growth on Delayed Quake Reconstruction
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-01-27T03:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/bollard-sees-slower-new-zealand-growth-on-delayed-quake-reconstruction.html
New Zealand ’s economy may expand
slower than forecast in 2012 due to earthquake reconstruction
delays, central bank Governor Alan Bollard said, reinforcing
investors’ views that  interest rates  will be on hold until 2013.  The increase in  gross domestic product  this year will be
less than the 3 percent forecast in December, Bollard told
reporters after a speech in Christchurch today. He said fallout
in the Asia-Pacific region from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
would also curb growth.  “The market thinks rates are going to be unchanged right
through this year,” Bollard said. “We’re not uncomfortable
with that. As we see the numbers at the minute, it seems to be a
reasonable deduction to take from that.”  New Zealand’s currency declined as investors reduced bets
on an increase in  borrowing costs , which Bollard yesterday left
at a record-low 2.5 percent for a 10th month. The central bank
will need to keep monitoring quake reconstruction “to judge
whether the level of the cash rate continues to be
appropriate,” Bollard said in the speech.  The local dollar fell to 82.02 U.S. cents at 3:15 p.m. in
Wellington from 82.19 cents in late New York trading yesterday.
Investors see no chance the central bank will raise rates in the
next year, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps trading.  ‘Gradual Lift’  The central bank “pushed out our assumption of the rebuild
by a few months,” Bollard told the business audience in
Christchurch today. The  Reserve Bank  expects a “gradual lift in
activity over 2012, consistent with demolition and repairs to
housing and infrastructure getting under way, with
reconstruction getting under way in earnest in 2013,” he said.  Bollard had previously said he expected rebuilding to pick
up in the second half of 2012, and the delay adds to the case
for slower-than-projected economic growth and an extended rate
pause.  Bollard’s speech covered two main forces affecting the
outlook for the nation’s economy -- seismic shocks of the past
16 months and the euro area’s fiscal troubles.  “Europe accounts for a significant share of global
economic activity, and is an important trading partner for many
Asia-Pacific economies,” Bollard said.  “Spillovers from a
recession in  Europe  could spark a slowdown in  Asia , pushing down
commodity prices and having a marked impact on  Australia  and New
Zealand.”  Exports (NZMTEXP)  make up 30 percent of the New Zealand economy.
About two-thirds of the nation’s overseas sales go to Asia and
Australia.  Rocked by Quakes  Christchurch, the nation’s second-biggest city, has been
rocked by quakes since September 2010, including a temblor in
February that killed 181 people and closed the central business
district. Most recently, an aftershock on Dec. 23 forced malls
to close and delayed demolition work.  “We took account of the latest aftershocks” in
yesterday’s rate decision, Bollard said. The governor changed
the wording in his post-meeting statement yesterday, leading
economists to suggest he is likely to leave borrowing costs
lower for longer than he intended a month ago.  The outlook for rebuilding “remains subject to a high
degree of uncertainty,” Bollard said today. “Reconstruction is
projected to eventually provide a boost to demand. Spare
capacity and labor will be absorbed rapidly and inflation
pressures will pick up from current low levels.”  Before last month’s aftershocks, the central bank assumed
that about NZ$20 billion of damaged property would be rebuilt,
equivalent to 10 percent of GDP, Bollard said. The sum could
rise as material and construction costs increase, he said.  The central bank estimates the total cost of claims from
the earthquakes may be as much as NZ$30 billion which includes
temporary accommodation, business interruption and non-build
related costs, he said.  Bollard in December forecast annual economic growth will
improve to 3 percent this year and 3.3 percent in 2013.
Excluding the contribution from Christchurch reconstruction,
growth would be 2.2 percent in 2012, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  