-- BP Seeks More Time to Sign Supply Accords for Australian Solar
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-01-27T04:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/bp-seeks-more-time-to-sign-accords-for-australian-solar-project.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners in a A$923
million ($981 million) solar-power project in Australia have
asked the federal government for more time to reach supply
agreements with utilities needed to obtain financing.  BP,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company, is seeking until
“mid-year” to complete the accords after missing a Dec. 15
deadline, Jamie Jardine, its Melbourne-based spokesman, said by
phone today. BP, Fotowatio Renewable Ventures and Pacific Hydro
Pty won A$306.5 million in Australian funding last year to build
the 150-megawatt solar plant in New South Wales state.  “The work is continuing on progressing the commercial and
technical issues that need to be resolved before we can move to
financial close,” Jardine said. “The consortium remains
hopeful the government will consider the request positively.”  Australia , which has set a target of generating 20 percent
of its power from renewable energy sources by 2020, also said in
June it would provide A$464 million to a proposed solar project
in Queensland led by a unit of Paris-based Areva SA. London-
based BP and its partners expect to start construction of their
solar farm in the second half of 2012, later than previously
estimated, the company said in December.  Jardine said it’s taking longer than expected to complete
power-purchase agreements partly because it’s the first time
Australia has developed solar projects on this scale.  BP is sticking with the project after deciding to exit the
solar business globally, the company’s Australian business said
last month. The solar industry faces oversupply and price
pressures after Chinese competitors increased production and
European governments cut subsidies to contain spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  