-- Brazil Juice Exporters Seek to Raise U.S. Fungicide Limit
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-01-27T19:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/brazil-juice-exporters-seek-to-raise-u-s-fungicide-limit-1-.html
Orange juice producers from Brazil,
the world’s largest exporter, are in talks with the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  to raise accepted levels of a banned
fungicide after shipments from the country were detained.  The exporters are asking the FDA to raise the limit for the
carbendazim fungicide in juice concentrate to 60 parts per
billion, Christian Lohbauer, head of Brazil’s orange juice
exporter association  CitrusBr , said on a conference call with
reporters today. The current limit for any form of orange juice
shipment is 10 parts per billion.  “The process to make orange juice concentrate indirectly
ends up concentrating carbendazim too,” Lohbauer said. “It
makes more sense to establish different levels of the fungicide
for concentrate and non-concentrate.”  The FDA found higher-than-permitted traits of carbendazim,
which has been linked to liver tumors in animals, in five
shipments from  Brazil . Most orange juice from the South American
country, which produces almost one in every six glasses drank in
the U.S., is shipped in the form of concentrate, Lohbauer said.  A total of 80 shipments were sampled, the FDA said today.
Six shipments from  Canada  were also found to surpass the limit
for traits of the fungicide, the agency said.  The rejected cargoes may be redirected to other countries
that accept higher levels of carbendazim or may be destroyed,
Lohbauer said. Brazilian companies that had shipments rejected
won’t appeal the tests, he said.  Coca-Cola Report  Brazilian orange juice exporters are studying substitutes
for carbendazim and said they would need 18 months to phase out
the use of the fungicide. Carbendazim is used to fight black
spot, a fungus that doesn’t affect taste or crop yields.  The U.S. started sampling imported orange juice after  The
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which owns the Minute Maid brand, said last month
it found traces of the banned fungicide in products from Brazil.
 PepsiCo. Inc. (PEP) , the owner of the Tropicana brand, also found
traces of carbendazim in its juice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  