-- Buy European Financial Stocks as Systemic Risk Recedes, ING Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-27T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/buy-european-financial-stocks-as-systemic-risk-recedes-ing-says.html
ING Investment Management says the
time to buy European  financial stocks  has come as the
possibility of a banking crisis recedes after the  European
Central Bank  moved to boost lending.  The asset manager upgraded its stance on the region’s
financial shares to “overweight” Jan. 25, according to Patrick Moonen, the Hague-based senior strategist at ING which manages
$163 billion. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Banks Index has surged 13
percent this year, paring last year’s 33 percent slump. The
gauge trades at a  price-earnings ratio  of 8.4 based on forecast
profits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The removal of the systemic risk is a very important
catalyst,” Moonen said in a phone interview from The Hague
yesterday. “Macro-economic data is coming in above
expectations, not just in the U.S., but also in Europe. The
cyclical outlook for the economy has improved notably in the
past few weeks.”  The Stoxx 600 has risen 5.1 percent this year amid signs
that the  U.S. economy  is recovering and after the ECB lent money
to banks for three years at the average of its benchmark rate,
currently 1 percent.  European services and factory output strengthened this
month, a report showed Jan. 24. The euro-area  composite index 
based on a survey of purchasing managers in both industries rose
to 50.4, a five-month high, from 48.3 in December, London-based
Markit Economics said in the report. Economists forecast that
the composite PMI would rise to 48.5, according to the median of
17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  U.S. Economy  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in December for a
third month, indicating the world’s largest economy will keep
growing in early 2012. The Conference Board’s gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months increased 0.4 percent
after climbing 0.2 percent in November, the New York-based group
said yesterday.  A separate Commerce Department report yesterday showed
orders for U.S.  durable goods  increased more than forecast in
December, led by demand for aircraft, autos and business
equipment that signals further manufacturing gains.  The rally in European equities this year may continue,
Moonen said.  “The recent rise in the market has still some room to
run,” he said. “But let’s not get euphoric. There are still
some big hurdles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  