-- CaixaBank Quarterly Profit Advances on Lending Income, Fees
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-01-27T13:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/caixabank-quarterly-profit-advances-5-1-on-lending-income-fees.html
CaixaBank (CABK)  SA,  Spain ’s fourth-biggest
lender, said fourth-quarter profit rose 5.1 percent as revenue
from lending and fees increased, offsetting higher provisions
for bad loans.  Net income advanced to 208 million euros ($273 million)
from 198 million euros a year earlier, the Barcelona-based bank
said in a filing to regulators today. That beat the 189.4
million-euro average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Spanish banks such as CaixaBank are bracing for a drive by
the government to make lenders recognize greater losses on real
estate piled up on their books during the country’s property
crash. CaixaBank, which said it took impairment costs of more
than 1 billion euros last year, increased its yield on loans in
the quarter and paid less for deposits to strengthen net
interest income, while growing pension and mutual funds added to
revenue from commissions.  “We are in good health in our main business, which is
commercial banking with individuals,” Chief Executive Officer
Juan Maria Nin said in a news conference today in Barcelona.
“We have made a gigantic effort in provisions, especially for
the big problem presented by the real-estate sector.”  Net interest income climbed 8.1 percent from a year ago to
850 million euros as revenue from fees and commissions rose 21
percent to 425 million euros, the lender said.  Bad Loans Rise  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending rose to 4.90
percent from 3.65 percent a year earlier, CaixaBank said.
Charges for asset impairments jumped to 361 million euros from
232 million euros a year earlier.  CaixaBank closed 2011 with 22.4 billion euros of loans to
real-estate developers, down from 26.3 billion euros a year
earlier, the bank said.  Of that, 5.8 billion euros was in default, CaixaBank said.
The lender said it had 1.14 billion euros of foreclosed assets
or assets acquired from developers of which 83 percent was
finished property and 14 percent land for building.  CaixaBank booked 907 million euros in one-time gains from
the sale of assets, including the sale of hospitals linked to
its health-insurance business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  