-- California Orders Automakers to Sell More Non-Polluting Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-27T21:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/california-orders-automakers-to-sell-more-non-polluting-vehicles-in-state.html
California  will require automakers
to sell millions of “zero-emission” vehicles -- battery-
electric, plug-in hybrid and hydrogen-powered -- setting new
standards followed by states from  New York  to Oregon.  The rules adopted today by the California  Air Resources
Board  mean manufacturers will have to produce about 1.4 million
advanced vehicles for sale in that state alone by 2025, more
than 40 times the number put on the road from 1996 through 2010,
according to a state analysis.  The regulations have implications for the broader
automotive market because 10 other states, including New York
and  New Jersey , plan to adopt the standards. Earlier rulings by
the  California (STOCA1)  board led to the addition of catalytic converters
and exhaust-treatment systems as standard equipment on all cars
sold in the U.S.  “Today’s vote to adopt the package of clean-cars standards
represents a new chapter in California and the nation,” said
 Mary Nichols , the chairwoman of the board, which has pushed
carmakers since the 1970s to sell cleaner vehicles to reduce air
pollution. The board’s vote came after two days of hearings in
Los Angeles.  Starting in 2018, the requirements that now apply to the
six largest carmakers, all from the U.S. and  Japan , will widen
to the top 12, to include German and Korean companies. Failure
to meet the standards could bring fines and, at the extreme,
limits on sales in the state.  Other States  Others that will adopt the requirements are Connecticut,
Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico, Rhode Island and
Vermont, said Roland Hwang, transportation program director for
the Natural Resources Defense Council. That will at least double
the impact of California’s program, to sales of more than 3
million advanced vehicles nationwide, he said.  “We believe that’s a very reasonable total by 2025,”
Hwang said.  California accounted for 9.7 percent of U.S. new-vehicle
registrations in 2010,  according  to the National Association of
Automotive Dealers. Collectively, the 11 states accounted for
28.5 percent of the 11.4 million new registrations that year,
association data show.  Automakers that reduce their overall greenhouse-gas
emissions in the U.S. will receive credits for four years,
beginning in 2017, exempting them from some of the zero-emission
vehicle requirements. They must beat their greenhouse-gas
targets by a “significant” amount to qualify, Nichols said in
a conference call with reporters.  Oil Companies  The new rules also require  oil companies  to install
hydrogen supply pumps at existing gasoline stations to power
fuel-cell cars.  Each hydrogen pump may cost between $1 million and $2
million, according to the air board. Companies affected by the
new rule include BP Plc, Chevron Corp., Tesoro Corp.,
ConocoPhillips, Valero Energy Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
Exxon Mobil Corp.  The requirement may lead to a court fight with the oil
companies, said Cathy Reheis-Boyd, president of the Western
States Petroleum Association, a trade group whose members
include those that would have to comply with the new rules.  “We strongly oppose the clean fuels outlet requirement,”
Reheis-Boyd told the regulatory board yesterday.  Adoption of California’s new rules comes as the state and
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency match regulations for
carbon exhaust and other pollutants. The Obama administration
last year announced plans to double so-called Corporate Average
Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standards to 54.5 miles per gallon by
2025, the biggest increase in U.S. history.  Fuel Economy  California’s program and efforts to regulate carbon exhaust
triggered lawsuits by automakers and dealers in the last decade.
To meet the new fuel-efficiency standard, automakers were
already planning to boost sales of advanced vehicles, said
 Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers, the industry’s biggest trade group.  “Automakers have invested massive sums in new types of
powertrains now on sale,” Bergquist said in an interview before
today’s vote. “We still do not support mandates, because
mandates create a disconnect in the marketplace.”  California’s rules force companies only to offer certain
types of vehicles, not for people to buy them, she said.
Electric cars may not sell in large numbers if there aren’t
enough public charging stations, Bergquist said.  “Once government determines that society should move to
diversify powertrains, that triggers a legitimate role, and even
an obligation, for government to invest in supporting
infrastructure, like making charging stations widely
available,” she said.  Combined Sales  Currently,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Chrysler
Group LLC,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor
Co. must sell a combined 60,000 plug-in, battery-electric and
fuel-cell cars in the state from this model year through 2014.  Ford is introducing a line of electric vehicles such as the
2012 Focus Electric, said Sara Rudy, the Dearborn, Michigan-
based automaker’s emissions regulatory manager.  “However, the market acceptance of these vehicles is very
uncertain,” she told the Air Resources Board yesterday.  By 2018, the state’s rules will extend to Korea’s  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , Germany’s  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , and Japan’s  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  