-- Cameron Said to Be Concerned Hester Would Quit RBS If He Was Refused Bonus
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-01-27T15:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/cameron-said-to-be-concerned-hester-would-quit-rbs-if-he-was-refused-bonus.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  was
concerned that  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Hester might leave Britain’s biggest state-owned
lender if he was refused a bonus, a person familiar with the
government’s thinking said.  “The alternatives would have been worse for the
taxpayer,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told
reporters today in Davos, Switzerland. “Either there would have
been a much larger bonus of the kind that he would have got a
few years ago, or the British government would have had to take
over complete ownership of RBS and overruled the board, and I
think that would have cost the taxpayer more as well.”  Cameron was criticized by the opposition  Labour Party , as
well as by coalition allies in the Liberal Democrats and members
of his own  Conservative Party , for approving the 963,000-pound
($1.5 million) bonus days after urging shareholders to hold down
executive pay. Business Secretary Vince Cable said this week
ministers were in “an uncomfortable halfway house position
between meddling and being hands-off” when dealing with RBS.  “Stephen Hester has done a good job, but that’s what most
of us are paid to do in our usual jobs -- when we receive a
salary, we are paid to do a good job,” Chuka Umunna, the
opposition Labour Party’s business spokesman, told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “You receive a bonus if you’ve done
something out of the ordinary, you’ve done something that bit
extra. And let’s not forget, he’s receiving a base salary of 1.2
million pounds.”  Payment Deferred  Payment of the all-stock award of 3.6 million shares, whose
value was based on the closing price on Jan. 25, will be
deferred until 2014, Edinburgh-based RBS said in a statement
yesterday. Hester, 51, took a 2 million-pound bonus for 2010,
his first since replacing  Fred Goodwin  in 2008. This year’s just
meets a Cameron pledge last week that it would be below 1
million pounds.  RBS  shares  fell by 48 percent last year as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis eroded revenue from its securities unit.
The bank fell 0.5 percent to 27.54 pence at 2:53 p.m. in  London .  The lender announced about 4,800 job cuts earlier this
month and said it plans to sell or close its cash equities,
mergers advisory, corporate broking and equity capital markets
operations. John Hourican, who leads RBS’s securities unit, is
in line for a payout of as much as 5.8 million pounds this year
as part of his deferred 2009 share award that pays out in April.  ‘Less than Half’  “There was a process and the process has resulted in a
bonus that’s less than half the bonus that  Stephen Hester 
received last year,” Steve Field, Cameron’s spokesman, told
journalists today. Asked whether the RBS chief should accept the
award, Field said: “That’s ultimately up to Mr. Hester.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  called the bonus “a disgraceful
failure of leadership” by the premier. “He’s spent weeks
saying that shareholders should play a more active role in
reining in excess where they see it, but at the first chance to
act for a bank the public own the prime minister has just nodded
it through.”  The bonus decision came a week after a speech in which the
prime minister said “reward and success have become
disconnected” for senior executives. Cable said on Jan. 23 that
greater transparency over pay and more shareholder power would
hold down remuneration. An RBS spokesman declined to comment on
what Hester’s response would have been if the bonus was refused.
The story was reported earlier by the  BBC .  ‘Whacking Great Bonus’  “People will not understand how someone can get a whacking
great bonus like that when they’re running a state-owned bank,”
London’s Conservative Mayor  Boris Johnson , a former schoolmate
of Cameron’s, told  BBC television  from the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos,  Switzerland .  “I think a state-owned bank should be run on public-
service lines,” the mayor said when asked what he would have
done as prime minister. Johnson has made promoting London’s
financial industry a central theme of his mayoral term.  The bonus drew criticism in newspapers this morning, with
the Conservative-supporting  Daily Mail  headlining its front-page
story “1 Million-Pound Reward for Failure.” The  Daily Mirror ,
which backs Labour, said the award underlined “the gulf between
a rich few and the increasingly impoverished many.”  ‘Missed Lending Targets’  Labor unions also attacked the award, with Karen Jennings,
assistant general secretary of Unison, saying that it
contradicted the prime minister’s appeal for moral capitalism.
“A 1-million pound reward -- on top of a salary of more than a
million -- is unjustifiable given the job cuts at RBS, the
missed lending targets and the dip in the company’s share
price,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Foreign Office minister Jeremy Browne, a Liberal Democrat,
said last night that Hester should refuse the award. “He gets
paid in three days what a soldier in  Afghanistan  gets paid in a
whole year,” he told the BBC’s “Question Time” show. “He is
effectively a public servant. I think he needs to think like a
public servant.”  “The Chancellor and the Treasury have explained the
frustrating reality of this, if we ripped up the contract the
last government signed, taxpayers would probably end up paying
even more money,” the Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg  told  Sky News . “I understand people’s sense of
dismay when they see these figures from another planet.”  Bank executives have been urged by the government to show
restraint on pay at a time when British real household incomes
are falling and public spending is being squeezed the most since
World War II.  Knighthood Reviewed  Cameron said Jan. 25 the Honours Forfeiture Committee,
which protects the reputation of the U.K. honors system, would
meet this week to discuss whether to revoke the knighthood
awarded to Goodwin. The Cabinet Office refused to comment on the
timing or the result of the meeting.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio said on
Jan. 13 he won’t take a 2011 bonus following his nine-week
absence for exhaustion at the 41 percent government-owned
lender. The payment could have been as much as 2.39 million
pounds, according to company filings.  Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman’s 2011 pay was cut by 25
percent to $10.5 million from the previous year while JPMorgan
Chase & Co. held CEO Jamie Dimon’s pay steady at $23 million,
two people familiar with the plans said earlier this month.  Britain has an 82 percent stake in RBS after bailing out
the bank with 45.5 billion pounds of capital during the banking
crisis in 2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  