-- Canadian Currency Strengthens for a Third Week as Commodities Climb on Fed
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-28T05:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/canada-s-dollar-rises-through-parity-as-greek-deal-bets-spur-risk-appetite.html
Canada’s dollar strengthened for a
third week against its U.S. counterpart, its longest winning
streak in three months, as commodities gained after the  Federal
Reserve  pledged to extend its freeze on U.S. interest rates.  The currency appreciated past parity with the greenback on
Jan. 26 for the first time since November after Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the option for further debt purchases by the
central bank, a tactic called quantitative easing, is still “on
the table.” Investors also sought higher-yielding assets amid
bets Europe’s debt crisis may ease. Canadian payrolls rose this
month, data may show next week.  “The Fed was probably the biggest driver this week,” said
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York . “People see a potential further round
of quantitative easing as leading to higher asset prices, and
commodity currencies will benefit.”  Canada ’s dollar advanced 1.1 percent to C$1.0018 per U.S.
dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0132 on Jan. 20, in its
longest winning stretch since the four weeks ended Oct. 28. It
touched 99.82 Canadian cents on Jan. 26, reaching a one-for-one
level with the greenback for the first time since Nov. 1. One
Canadian dollar purchased 99.82 U.S. cents yesterday.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark  10-year note 
yield down eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, the
most since Dec. 16, to 1.98 percent. It touched 2.11 percent
Jan. 23, the highest since Dec. 7. The price of the 3.25 percent
securities due in June 2021 increased 66 cents to C$110.73.  ‘Highly Accommodative’  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, climbed Jan. 25 as the Fed
said it anticipated keeping the key U.S. interest rate at almost
zero through 2014. The  Federal Open Market Committee , in a
statement after a two-day meeting, cited a high  unemployment
rate  and a depressed housing sector and said it “expects to
maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, speaking at a news
conference, said the option of further large-scale bond
purchases is still “on the table.” The Fed previously bought
$2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing.  The central bank’s low-rate pledge boosted the attraction
of Canada’s main  interest rate . The  U.S. benchmark  has been at a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The Bank of
Canada, citing a deteriorating global economy, kept its
overnight rate at 1 percent at a meeting on Jan. 17. It was
raised in 2010 from a 0.25 percent rate that policy makers
adopted to support the economy in the financial crisis.  ‘Don’t Think So’  “The  Bank of Canada  has also been highly accommodative, and
has a commitment to hold rates lower,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto, said on Jan. 25. “Does that mean they are going to hold
steady until 2014? I don’t think so.”  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained for the first
time in three weeks. Crude for March delivery rose 1.3 percent
to $99.76 a barrel in New York. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
 CRB Index (CRY)  of  raw materials  increased 2.5 percent, the biggest
weekly jump since December. Raw materials including oil generate
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The Canadian currency also gained on speculation  Greece ,
the country where  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis began two years
ago, will reach an agreement with its creditors.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday
the nation’s government was “one step away” from completing
talks on a voluntary debt swap and was negotiating with
international creditors on the terms for a second financing
package at the same time.  EU Summit  European Union leaders meet Jan. 30 in a summit to complete
a deficit-reduction treaty and discuss how to spur growth in an
effort to resolve the debt crisis.  The Canadian dollar fluctuated yesterday after reversing
gains when data showed the economy of the U.S., Canada’s biggest
trade partner, grew less than forecast.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.8 percent
annual pace in the fourth quarter, following a 1.8 percent gain
in the third. The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 3 percent increase. Excluding a jump
in inventories, growth was 0.8 percent.  “The market was expecting a stronger U.S. gross domestic
product number, and it obviously didn’t fulfill those
expectations,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer.  Canadian GDP  Canada’s GDP rose 0.2 percent in November after stagnating
the previous month, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast
before the government’s statistics bureau reports the data on
Jan. 31.  The nation added a net 22,000 jobs this month,  data due  on
Feb. 3 is projected to show.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback was almost at a nine-month low
yesterday after falling for a third day and touching 8.2
percent. It reached 8.1 percent on Jan. 20, the least since
April 21. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency. The measure averaged 10 percent over the
past year.  The loonie declined 0.5 percent over the past month against
nine other developed-nation currencies monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  dropped
2.3 percent, and the euro fell 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  