-- Cancer Chief Varmus Seeks to Solve 24 Mysteries to Reduce Toll of Disease
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/cancer-chief-varmus-seeks-to-solve-24-mysteries-to-cut-toll.html
Why do obese people get cancer more
often? How can some turtles live more than a century without
ever developing tumors while mice can develop them in a year?
Could treatments that hold tumor cells in check without
destroying them keep people alive longer?  Answering questions like these may lead to the next big
cancer breakthroughs, said  Harold Varmus , director of the U.S.
National Cancer Institute, in an interview. The  Nobel Prize 
winner said the NCI would spend at least $15 million this year
in a new initiative to answer 24 “ provocative questions ” that
researchers have often neglected.  “In an effort to stop people from obsessing over the fact
that the budget is not growing, I’ve been trying to engage them
in workshops to define the great unanswered questions in cancer
research,” Varmus, 72, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. “We’re trying to drive science in a
novel way.”  Spending for the Bethesda, Maryland-based institute Varmus
has led since July 2010 will decline to $5.07 billion in the
2012 fiscal year from $5.1 billion in 2010. The provocative
question project will try to create a middle ground between top-
down big science projects, and relying on scientists to come up
with their own ideas, according to a commentary published in
 Nature  magazine this week by Varmus and Ed Harlow, a cancer
researcher at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston  and senior
adviser to Varmus.  Nobel Research  Varmus and his colleague J. Michael Bishop shook up cancer
research in the 1970s with pioneering studies suggesting that
cancer genes can arise from the normal genes in our cells. The
finding, for which Varmus and Bishop shared the  1989 Nobel Prize
in medicine , led to the discovery of numerous mutated genes that
cause cancer. It paved the way for the current wave of cancer
drugs targeting proteins made by these bad genes, including
medicines from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Roche Holding AG , and Novartis AG.  Now Varmus, in his latest role, is shaking things up again.  “In a time of financial difficulties where budgets are
under pressure, this is a method of trying to make sure smart
people are working on projects other than the most obvious
ones,” Harlow said in a telephone interview.  Varmus started the provocative questions effort after
taking over as NCI director, following a decade as president of
the  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York. Before
that, Varmus served as director of the U.S. National Institutes
of Health.  Science Workshops  In October 2010, Varmus and Harlow held the first of 16
workshops bringing together disparate groups of scientists to
come up with important questions not being raised by existing
research. That generated the current list of 24 questions. About
750 research teams have submitted proposals to address them that
are now being evaluated for funding. The winners will be chosen
this summer, Harlow said.  One mystery is explaining the relation between obesity and
cancer risk, Varmus said. Obesity is linked to higher chances of
incurring cancers of the breast, colon, kidney, pancreas,
thyroid, gallbladder, esophagus, and uterine lining, according
to the NCI website.  “If we didn’t have any obesity in this country we would
probably have 20 percent fewer deaths” from cancer, Varmus
said. Yet scientists know little about how obesity causes deadly
cancers, he said.  Another puzzle is the relationship between aging and
cancer, Varmus said. While cancer is often called a disease of
aging, turtles can live more than a century without getting
cancer, Varmus said, while many mice die from cancer within a
couple of years. What accounts for the differences?  Evolutionary Biologist  A third question came from an evolutionary biologist who
attended one of the brainstorming sessions, said Harlow. While
cancer doctors have traditionally used high drug doses to kill
tumors, the evolution researcher pointed out that rapid cell-
killing may clear the way for drug-resistant cancer cells to
emerge and grow, Harlow said.  “It was clear that what he was describing is exactly what
we are experiencing” with many new cancer drugs, said Harlow.
“You select for resistant cells very quickly.”  This led to
the question of whether therapy that holds tumors in check
without killing them might work better, Harlow said.  Harlow said that Varmus “has dramatically raised the
expected level of scientific rigor” at the cancer institute.  “We are so fortunate to have him in the NCI position,”
said  Ronald DePinho , president of the University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Varmus has “significant
bandwidth” for understanding how to advance toward a cure.  Transforming Diagnosis  In the interview, Varmus said that the explosion in gene
sequencing technology is transforming how cancer is diagnosed
and treated. In five to 10 years, all patients with worrisome
tumors will have the genes inside their tumors sequenced to find
out what genetic alterations are driving their cancers -- and
what therapies may benefit them, he said.  “It may be the biggest change we have ever seen in
oncology,” he said. Some patients are already getting matched
to new drugs as a result of having their tumor genome sequenced,
he said.  The genome will allow researchers to precisely target drugs
to subsets of patients, and will also allow researchers to find
out how tumors develop resistance and how to combat it with
second-generation drugs or drug combinations, he said.  “You are going to hear about a lot of cancers in which a
certain gene is mutated 5 percent of the time or 2 percent of
the time, and we have a drug that works for it,” he said. “You
are going to hear that over and over again.”  Pfizer’s new  lung cancer  drug Xalkori, approved in the U.S.
last August, targets a genetic change found in 3 to 5 percent of
lung cancer.  ‘Very Small’ Market  This trend won’t always be good for drug companies, he
said. The market may “get very small” when doctors target
drugs to narrow slices of the population, he said.  Varmus also has created a Center for Global Health at the
NCI to stimulate research into how to control cancer in
 developing countries  in  South America ,  Asia , and  Africa . This is
a complex problem, as the incidence of different cancer types
varies widely among countries, he said.  Infections are big contributors to cancer in poor
countries, he said. In some countries such as  Uganda , infectious
diseases may be involved in causing as much as 60 percent of
cancers, versus 10 percent to 15 percent of cancers in the
developed world. Increased use of vaccines for the human
papillomavirus and hepatitis B can prevent some of the cancers,
Varmus said.  “We have 100 million people who will lose their lives to
cancer worldwide this decade,” said DePinho of MD Anderson.
“Harold is putting his laser focus on that. He is brilliant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  