-- Carnival Sued in U.S. by Crew Member for Negligence Over Costa Concordia
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-27T13:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/carnival-sued-in-u-s-by-crew-member-for-negligence-over-costa-concordia.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest
cruise-line owner, was sued for at least $100 million over the
wreck of the Costa Concordia near Italy’s coast, which killed at
least 16 people and left the vessel half submerged on its side.  The complaint, alleging negligence and breach of contract,
was filed yesterday in federal court in Chicago by Gary Lobaton,
a member of the Costa Concordia crew who seeks class-action
status to represent all victims of the Jan. 13 disaster off
Giglio Island. Captain Francesco Schettino has been accused of
causing the accident by steering too close to shore and then
abandoning ship as it sank.  “The defendants failed to properly and timely notify all
plaintiffs on board of the deadly and dangerous condition of the
cruise ship as to avoid injury and death,” Lobaton said in the
complaint. The passengers and crew “were abandoned by the
captain.”  The Costa Concordia, carrying about 3,200 passengers and
1,000 crew for a Mediterranean cruise, ran aground after it
struck submerged rocks near the island in the Tyrrhenian Sea.
Survivors, some of whom had to swim to shore, spoke of panic as
the six-year-old ship began listing. There are still 16 people
missing, according to the complaint.  The lawsuit, which also names Miami-based Carnival’s Costa
Crociere unit in  Italy , seeks damages for alleged violation of
the Athens Convention for safely carrying passengers at sea,
breach of contract, negligence and unjust enrichment.  Punitive Damages  Extra punitive damages being sought in the case “will
dramatically increase the recovery on behalf of our clients,”
Lobaton’s lawyer, Monica Kelly, said in an e-mail. Such damages
usually triple the amount awarded in court, she said. She said
she will seek at least $100 million in damages.  A message left with Carnival’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned before office hours. A Costa spokesman
declined to immediately comment.  Costa said today that it reached agreements with consumer
groups in several countries to pay damages to passengers. One
group preparing a class action advised its clients not to accept
the offer of about 11,000 euros ($14,452) each, while another
group said most passengers would agree to it.  The amounts being offered are “a joke,” said Kelly, of
 Ribbeck Law Chartered  in  Chicago . “If you are running for your
life and you see people left behind in the ship, how do you
think you would feel? They have been damaged for life.”  Hours after the vessel left a port near  Rome , Schettino
deviated from the planned route and steered close to the island,
according to Italian investigators. Carnival has suspended
advertising the cruise line.  ‘Present a Spectacle’  Schettino claims the company pressured him to sail close to
the island “to present a spectacle” to passengers and generate
good publicity “in the increasingly competitive cruise ship
business,” according to the complaint.  Costa suspended Schettino, who was placed under house
arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the shipwreck.  Schettino “breached his duty as the master of his vessel
and abandoned his ship in the first available opportunity he
had,” Lobaton said in the complaint. Based on a recording of a
phone conversation between the captain and the port authority,
Schettino was ordered by the coast guard to return to the
stricken ship after claiming the evacuation was almost complete,
“when it had scarcely begun,” Lobaton said.  The cruise company failed to carry out safety drills to
prepare passengers for an accident and didn’t notify them of the
danger to the ship after water began flooding the engine room,
according to the complaint.  The defendants “were on notice of the existent danger and
failed to evacuate plaintiffs upon impact,” the crewman said.
The ship’s staff “had a duty to provide true and accurate
information to the plaintiffs to prevent undue risks.”  The case is Lobaton v. Carnival Corp., 12-cv-598, United
States District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  