-- Carnival Reaches Consumer Settlement as Cruise Ship Wreck Sparks Lawsuits
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-27T14:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/carnival-reaches-consumer-settlement-as-cruise-ship-wreck-sparks-lawsuits.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Italian unit said
it reached a damage-settlement agreement with consumer groups,
as the company was sued for the first time in the U.S. over the
wreck of the Costa Concordia cruise ship.  Costa Crociere SpA agreed to pay 11,000 euros ($14,500) to
every passenger of the cruise ship that ran aground off the
Italian coast on Jan. 13, killing at least 16, plus reimburse
expenses including the cost of the cruise, according to a
statement from the Genoa-based company today. The agreement was
reached with consumer groups in countries including Italy,
 Germany ,  France  and  Spain , a company spokesman said.  The U.S. complaint, alleging negligence and breach of
contract, was filed yesterday in federal court in  Chicago  by
crew member Gary Lobaton, who seeks class-action status to
represent all victims of the disaster off Giglio Island. A 
spokesman for Costa, a unit of Miami-based Carnival, declined
to comment on the U.S. lawsuit.  Italian criminal lawyer Giulia Bongiorno next week will
file a complaint on behalf of clients with Italian prosecutors
investigating the wreck. Concordia’s Captain Francesco Schettino
was placed under house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing
the wreck and abandoning the ship.  “My clients aren’t happy with just a financial
compensation,” Bongiorno, who helped overturn the murder
conviction of Amanda Knox’s former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito
in October, said in a phone interview today. The aim is to
request that prosecutors investigate all responsibilities and
not just the captain’s, she said. Bongiorno, 45, who’s also a
member of Italy’s Parliament, will represent more than 50
passengers,  Corriere della Sera  said.  Eighteen Missing  The Concordia struck rocks near Giglio after Schettino
deviated from the planned route and steered close to the island,
court documents show. The accident happened hours after the
vessel left a port near  Rome  on a Mediterranean cruise carrying
about 4,200 passengers and crew. Eighteen are still missing,
though that number probably includes two of the dead who have
not yet been identified.  The compensation proposal “is higher than the current
indemnification limits that are provided for in international
conventions and the laws currently in force,” Costa Crociere
said. Families of victims and injured will be offered a separate
compensation, Costa said. A Costa spokesman declined to
immediately comment on the U.S. lawsuit.  Total Costs  Italian consumer group ADOC estimated that about 3,000
passengers would get about 14,000 euros each if they accept the
offer, including expenses, according to an e-mailed statement.
ADOC forecast 85 percent of passengers will accept the offer.
That would bring the total cost to about 42 million euros.
Carnival has liability cover of as much as $3 billion with the
Standard Club, a mutual insurance association owned by ship
owners, and the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association Ltd.,
according to spokesmen for the two firms.  Italian consumer group Codacons advised clients not to
accept the offer, according to a statement on its website today.
The association is putting together a class-action lawsuit with
U.S. law firms Napoli Bern Ripka Shkolnik and Proner Proner LLP
to be filed in Miami, it said. The group is seeking “at least”
125,000 euros per passenger and more than 1 million euros for
“most serious cases,” according to the statement.  Bruno Leporatti, Schettino’s lawyer, has said the captain
didn’t abandon the ship and wrote in a Jan. 16 statement that
his actions saved many lives. Schettino said he made an
emergency maneuver after hitting the rocks to prevent the vessel
from heading out to sea and sinking, according to the judge’s
written decision. Magistrates are also investigating another
crew member while Costa Crociere is not under probe.  Unauthorized ‘Salute’  Schettino also said that Costa Crociere asked him to
navigate close to Giglio to salute the island, newspapers
including la Repubblica have said. The salute wasn’t authorized,
Costa Crociere Chairman Pier Luigi Foschi has said.  Search operations resumed this morning as Royal Boskalis
Westminster NV’s Smit Salvage unit prepares to start pumping
500,000 gallons of fuel out of the ship tomorrow,  Italy ’s civil
protection agency said.  The insurance costs related to the sinking may reach $1
billion once environmental damage and injuries are added to the
count, Moody’s Investors Service said. Reinsurers will likely
take on most of the burden, Moody’s said.  In a separate report, Jefferies International Ltd.
estimated the liability cost at 250 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  