-- Carstens Says Mexican Inflation Performance Has Been ’Adequate’
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-27T17:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/carstens-says-mexican-inflation-performance-has-been-adequate-.html
Mexican central bank governor
Agustin Carstens comments on domestic monetary policy and the
euro-region debt crisis.  He made the remarks at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland  today.  On the Mexican economy:  “We have strong domestic spending, consumption has been
behaving well and investment is also in the process of
improving. Where our risks are is mostly in our export sector as
we have a very close link to the U.S. But we expect growth of at
least 3.5 percent this year. Another sector that is supporting
growth, especially domestic spending, is the strength of our
banking system. The credit extension process is going quite well
and that is giving some support to our economy.”  On Mexican inflation:  “We’ve had in the last two years a very good performance
on inflation, in particular in 2011. During this month we have
seen a little bit of volatility but that has been associated
mostly with the behavior of some agricultural products.  Core
inflation  is very near our objective of 3 percent. In general,
the performance of inflation has been adequate. The recent
appreciation of the peso will also help the inflationary
process. I feel quite confident that inflation will be kept
under control in the 3 to 4 percent range that the bank
established and slowly converge to 3 percent in the medium
term.”  On Mexican monetary policy:  “We will watch very carefully the performance of some
agricultural products. We will also be watching very carefully
the developments in international financial markets. And also we
will continue to evaluate the relative monetary policy stance of
Mexico versus other countries. At this stage we feel comfortable
with the stance we have. We will evaluate it in the future in
light of developments in these fields.”  On global economy:  “What we’re seeing is an environment where key advanced
economies are still in the process of stabilization and that
will be in the short term a drag for the world economy. I think
that there is no way around it. But what is important at this
stage is that the pillars for sustainable growth are
established. We need to work on that more than anything to get
stability as soon as possible and in a parallel fashion engage
in some structural reforms and generate more competitiveness and
in that way we should be able to generate more world growth.”  On U.S. 2012 growth:  “In the U.S. there will be positive growth, but it’s a
rate of growth that will be below potential. It has to do with
the fact that some structural issues still need to be taken care
of, like the situation in the housing sector and also generating
more employment. In the U.S., which is very important to  Mexico ,
growth will be positive but will only pick up speed in the years
to come.”  On  Europe :  “In Europe, the consensus is that growth will probably be
negative for the region as a whole. What is more important than
anything is to get stability as soon as possible and improve
confidence so that we can get again an investment process going
on. Some more work needs to be done at the advanced economy
level.”  On European debt crisis:  “The measures taken by the ECB recently have helped the
mood in the markets a lot. These actions provide a window of
opportunity for other more substantial long-term measures, more
in the line of getting fiscal sustainability, trying to achieve
a strengthening of the banking system, also providing room for
additional structural reforms that could enhance growth. So the
essence is precisely that this window of opportunity opened by
the ECB is being taken advantage of. The diagnosis is there that
countries understand now very clearly what they need to do. So I
hope that they can get the political support in their own
countries to implement these measures as soon as possible.”  On Greece:  “Further efforts should be done to have an orderly
restructuring in the context of maintaining the  euro zone 
intact. That would be the most sensible. And I hope that in the
negotiations progress can be made in that line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Davos, Switzerland at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  