-- Cattle Herd Drop to 1958 Low Boosting Cost for McDonald’s, Tyson
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-27T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/cattle-herd-drop-to-1958-low-boosting-cost-for-mcdonald-s-tyson.html
The cattle herd in the U.S. may be
the smallest since 1958, when McDonald’s Corp. had just 79
hamburger restaurants, signaling tighter beef supplies and
higher costs for companies including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)   Ranchers held 91.24 million head of cattle as of Jan. 1,
down 1.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would
be the smallest since Dwight Eisenhower was president. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  is set to release its herd report at 3
p.m. in  Washington .  A record drought in  Texas  last year and rising feed costs
prompted ranchers to cull herds, even as beef exports surged
from the U.S., the world’s largest producer. Cattle futures are
up 15 percent since the end of June, reaching a record seven
times this month, and the Livestock Marketing Information Center
says retail-beef prices that reached an all-time high on an
annual basis in 2011 will keep rising through next year.  “The drought certainly was the game changer of 2011,”  Jim Robb , the director of the Livestock Marketing Information
Center, a Denver-based researcher, said in a telephone
interview. “Feedstuffs were record-high costs. The herd on a
national basis declined.”  Cattle futures rallied to $1.29675 a pound on Jan. 25 on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the highest for a most-active
contract since the commodity began trading on the CME in 1964.
Prices may reach $1.399, said David Kruse, the president
CommStock Investments Inc., a commodity broker in Royal,  Iowa .  Beef Rally  Wholesale  beef  rose 6.4 percent in the past year and
reached $1.9707 a pound on Nov. 23, the highest since at least
2004, according to the USDA. Ground beef averaged $2.921 last
month, the highest since at least 1984, and boneless round steak
jumped to $4.723 in December, the highest since at least 1980,
Bureau of Labor Statistics data show.  McDonald’s (MCD) , the world’s biggest restaurant chain by revenue
with more than 33,000 outlets worldwide, is forecasting higher
beef costs. The  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company is the largest
user of beef among U.S. restaurants, according to CattleFax, an
industry researcher in Centennial,  Colorado .  McDonald’s will see “another midteens increase” in beef
costs this year, Chief Financial Officer Peter J. Bensen said on
an earnings conference call with analysts on Jan. 24.  Texas, the biggest cattle-producing state, had its driest
 year  on record in 2011, according to the  National Weather
Service . The drought destroyed pastures, forcing ranchers to
unload animals rather than incur costs for grain such as corn,
which reached an all-time high price last year.  Fewer Cattle  The herd of beef cows held for breeding probably shrank to
30.05 million head as of Jan. 1, the lowest since 1962,
according to the average of 10 estimates in the Bloomberg
survey. The calf crop should be smaller than last year, marking
the 17th consecutive year of declines, said  Ron Plain , a
livestock economist at the  University of Missouri  at Columbia.  “Fewer calves being born means ultimately fewer cattle
will be slaughtered,” Plain, who has studied the industry for
three decades, said in a telephone interview. “That means the
tight beef supply is going to get tighter as we go through 2012
and 2013 and 2014.”  Once the herd starts to expand, it will take more than two
years before beef supplies increase, Plain said. Calves have
nine-month gestation periods and take about 20 months to reach
slaughter weight, he said.  Prefer to Sell  Some herds grew in states unaffected by drought and in
areas where there was less pressure to switch to growing crops,
Robb of the Livestock Marketing Information Center said.
Ranchers would prefer to sell heifers for slaughter at current
high prices than hold them for breeding, said  Lane Broadbent , a
KIS Futures Inc. vice president in  Oklahoma City .  Ranchers earned an estimated $93.50 per cow last year,
compared with $46.50 in 2010, Robb said. Even as rising profit
provided an incentive to expand, that was overwhelmed by the
impact of the drought, high grain prices and the potential for
better profits in crop production, he said.  Tyson Foods, the biggest U.S. meat processor, projects a
“gradual reduction” of 1 percent to 2 percent in supplies of
cattle available for slaughter during the fiscal year that began
Oct. 2, according to a Nov. 21 statement. Supplies will be
“adequate” in regions where the Springdale, Arkansas-based
company operates beef plants, it said. Most of those are in the
Midwest, according to Gary Mickelson, a company spokesman.  Tyson Foods forecast profitability in its beef unit in the
first fiscal quarter, though at a “lower level” than in the
preceding quarter, James Lochner, the chief operating officer,
said on a conference call with analysts on Nov. 21.  ‘In the Red’  “Cattle costs continue to go up, but so do beef prices,”
said Akshay Jagdale, a New York-based analyst at KeyBanc Capital
Markets who has a “buy” rating on Tyson. Profit margins for
meatpackers now “are actually in the red, but we expect that to
improve as the year goes along,” he said. “For the full year,
we expect them to still be profitable.”  Beef processors may have to adjust plant capacity as cattle
supplies shrink, Jagdale said in a telephone interview. Higher
beef prices will boost revenue enough to make up for the rise in
costs from shrinking supplies, he said.  The USDA forecast total beef  output  at 25.075 billion
pounds (11.4 million metric tons) this year, down 4.6 percent
from an estimated 26.297 billion in 2011.  Export Surge  As supply tightens, exports are surging. The U.S. may ship
a record 974,000 metric tons (2.15 billion pounds) of beef,
excluding variety meats, in 2012 valued at $5.13 billion, the
U.S. Meat Export Federation said. That’s up 6.5 percent from an
estimated 914,500 tons in 2011, the group said.  Consumers may pay as much as 5 percent more for beef this
year, the biggest increase among all the food groups except for
seafood, the USDA said in a Jan. 25  report . That follows an
estimated 10.2 percent rise in the cost of the meat last year,
and is projected to be higher than the 3.5 percent jump in
overall food costs in 2012, the government said.  Cattle futures for April delivery closed yesterday at
$1.2805 a pound on the CME, up 5.4 percent this month, heading
for the biggest January gain since 2002.  “Inventory reports are kind of like the state of the union
for the cattle,” said Broadbent, who has been a commodity
broker for more than two decades. “Our cow-herd numbers and our
cattle numbers are going to stay tight for the next year and
half or two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  