-- Chevron Posts Biggest Profit Drop in Two Years on Refining
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-01-27T22:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/chevron-posts-biggest-earnings-decline-in-two-years-correct-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, posted its biggest quarterly earnings
decline in two years after refining losses undercut gains from
record crude prices. The shares fell more than 3 percent.  The company’s U.S. refineries lost an average $2.2 million
a day during the final three months of 2011 as crude-processing
margins shrank and maintenance work at a California plant curbed
fuel output, the company said in a statement today.  “They were hit by a huge drop-off in refining margins at
the same time they had a very large maintenance project at a
California refinery,”  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire
Advisory & Research in Chicago, said today in a telephone
interview. “We’re going to see a lot more of this to come as
refining margins come under continued pressure all over the
globe.”  Chief Executive Officer John Watson has been selling oil
refineries and filling stations in  Europe  and Africa to focus on
higher-profit crude production and natural-gas liquefaction
projects.  Net income declined to $5.1 billion, or $2.58 a share, from
$5.3 billion, or $2.64, a year earlier,  San Ramon , California-
based Chevron said in its statement. Per-share profit was 32
cents below the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Production Decline  Chevron fell 2.5 percent to $103.96 at the close in New
York, after earlier falling to $103.12 for the biggest intraday
drop since Dec. 14. Oil and gas production from Chevron’s wells
declined 5.2 percent to the equivalent of 2.64 million barrels
of crude a day.  Sales rose 11 percent to $60 billion during the quarter.
For the full year, net income climbed 41 percent to a company
record of $26.9 billion.  Chevron added the equivalent of 1.67 billion barrels in
reserves last year, enough to replace 171 percent of the oil and
gas the company pumped last year, according to today’s
statement. That was the best reserves performance since 2005.  The company plans to drill exploratory wells this year in
shale formations in  Poland ,  Canada  and the Utica deposit in the
U.S. Northeast, Watson told analysts and investors during a
conference call today. Even as other international energy
companies have driven up the price of U.S. shale assets, Chevron
remains “very positive” on that facet of the business, he
said.  Brazil, Nigeria Problems  Chevron’s 2011 performance was marred by controversy over
oil seeps off the coast of  Brazil  and a rig fire in  Nigeria  that
killed two workers, Watson said.  Chevron didn’t put its “best foot forward” in the days
immediately following the Brazilian seeps triggered by drilling
at the company’s Frade project, Watson said today. Since then,
the company has sought to improve communications with Brazilian
regulators incensed by the incident, he said.  In Nigeria, two rigs have been mobilized to drill a relief
well at the site of an offshore gas well that has been burning
since it erupted on Jan. 16, Watson said today. The size of the
flame has been reduced and an investigation is underway to
determine the cause, he said.  Commodity Prices  Brent oil futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s crude, climbed 25 percent to a record fourth-quarter
average of $109.02 a barrel. Chevron gets 74 percent of its oil
outside the U.S.  Gas futures traded in  New York  dropped 13 percent from a
year earlier to average $3.48 per million British thermal units,
the lowest fourth-quarter average since 2001. Intensive drilling
techniques that enabled explorers to tap shale formations helped
boost total U.S. gas production by 7.4 percent in 2011, swelling
supplies and depressing prices, according to Energy Department
figures.  Rising labor and raw-material costs eroded some of
Chevron’s gains from higher crude prices during the fourth
quarter, Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis , said today in an interview. Chevron’s oil and gas
business earned $23.62 per barrel of output, down from $25.94
during the July-to-October period, he said.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest
U.S. energy company. Exxon Mobil will report its fourth-quarter
results Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  