-- Chinese Developer Wins Approval to Buy 16 NZ Farms
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-01-27T01:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/chinese-developer-wins-approval-to-buy-16-new-zealand-farms.html
Shanghai Pengxin Group  Co., a
Chinese property developer seeking to export dairy products to
 Asia , won approval to buy 16 New Zealand dairy farms amid local
objections to rising foreign ownership of assets.  Land Information Minister Maurice Williamson and Associate
Finance Minister Jonathan Coleman approved the deal on
recommendation of the Overseas Investment Office, which assesses
foreign bids for sensitive New Zealand assets, according to a
statement. KordaMentha, which is administering the farms after
they were put into receivership, accepted the offer a year ago,
conditional on regulatory clearance.  New Zealand (NZNTGDPC)  farmer groups and opposition politicians have
objected to selling farmland to overseas buyers amid concern
that key industries were being bought by foreigners. Four months
ago, KordaMentha rejected a NZ$171.5 million ($141 million)
rival bid from a group of  New Zealand  dairy farmers led by local
businessman Michael Fay, saying the price was unacceptable. The
Shanghai Pengxin bid wasn’t disclosed.  “Approving the sale of these 16 farms and selling our
other valuable assets will leave New Zealand poorer. Kiwis
understand that -- it is why they are so overwhelmingly against
it,” David Shearer, leader of the main opposition  Labour Party ,
said in a statement shortly after the decision was announced.  Fay’s group, the Crafar Farms Purchase Group, said it will
proceed with a judicial review of the government decision to try
to stop the land from being sold to overseas interests,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  Crafar Receivership  The properties are a total of 8,000 hectares (19,800 acres)
and are capable of supporting 25,000 dairy cattle. They were
owned by Crafar family interests before their company was placed
in receivership in 2009. Shanghai Pengxin lodged its application
in April, indicating it may spend as much as NZ$200 million on
the properties in the first two years.  “We accept the recommendation of the OIO to grant
consent” to Milk New Zealand Holding Ltd., a unit of Shanghai
Pengxin, Williamson said in his statement. The purchase will
support the supply of high quality dairy products into the
Chinese market and help set the foundations for further economic
and export opportunities with  China (CMIKIQAU) , according to the statement.  Landcorp Farming , a New Zealand government-owned company,
was in talks about operating the farms on Shanghai Pengxin’s
behalf, the New Zealand Herald reported in January, citing
Landcorp Chief Executive Officer  Chris Kelly .  Shanghai Pengxin’s offer followed government rejection of
an earlier bid by China’s Natural Dairy (NZ) Holdings Ltd. and
UBNZ Funds Management Ltd. The Overseas Investment Office said
Natural Dairy failed to meet “good character” criteria.  Sensitive Land  The government gave ministers greater power to quash sales
of large farm blocks and other sensitive land to foreign buyers
in 2010. The  tightened rules  require buyers to show how
acquisitions benefit the economy.  Shanghai Pengxin owns a 930 hectare sheep breeding farm in
 China ’s Shandong province and purchased a majority interest in a
soybean and corn farm in  Bolivia  for $20 million in 2005.  China’s dairy imports have surged after milk powder in the
country was found in 2008 to be tainted with melamine, an
industrial chemical. At least six infants died, and more than
54,000 people were hospitalized, after 22 companies including
Sanlu Group sold formula made from contaminated milk.  The nation’s dairy market will rise by more than 10 percent
a year in value in the next few years, according to Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter. New
Zealand is the world’s biggest dairy shipper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  