-- China’s South to Face Snow, Rain as Millions Return From New Year Holidays
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-27T08:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/china-s-south-to-face-snow-rain-as-millions-return-from-new-year-holidays.html
Many parts of southern  China  will
face snow and rain in the coming days as the week-long Lunar New
Year holiday nears its end and millions of people return to work
in the cities, according to the Chinese weather agency.  Rain will fall in the eastern parts of the southwestern
provinces till Jan. 30, the China Meteorological Administration
said in a  statement  on its website today. Light snow or sleet
will hit the middle and lower reaches of the  Yangtze River ,
according to the statement.  A “weak” cold front will descend on central and eastern
China from tomorrow to Jan. 30, lowering temperatures by about 4
degrees Celsius to 6 degrees Celsius, according to the weather
agency. Weather conditions may affect traffic as the post-
festival travel peak nears, it said.  Major highways were operating normally as of 9 a.m. today,
according to the China Highway  Information Service , while most
flights were departing as scheduled from airports in Beijing and
Shanghai, their websites showed.  The Ministry of Railways added 514 trains into service
yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing the
ministry. The number of rail passengers rose to 4.5 million on
Jan. 25 from 3.7 million the day before and travel is projected
to peak today. On Chinese highways, a total of 40.91 million
trips were made yesterday, 9.8 percent more than the same period
last year, Xinhua said, citing Ministry of Transport data.  Weather Delays  Weather conditions had disrupted travel prior to the start
of the Lunar New Year. Passengers will make 3.16 billion trips
over the festive holiday rush period, which began Jan. 8 and
will end in the middle of February, a 9.1 percent increase from
2011, according to Xinhua.  Rain and fog delayed operations on the high-speed line
between Beijing and  Shanghai  on Jan. 14, Xinhua reported this
month. A bus collided with a car in Shanxi on Jan. 21, killing
seven people on board, after snowfalls on Jan. 20 blanketed most
of the province and forced the closure of a dozen highways,
while 448 people and 80 vehicles were stranded on a highway in
Xinjiang late on Jan. 21 in a sudden blizzard, Xinhua reported.  Over the next few days, snow and rainfall is unlikely to
affect road travel, Ministry of Transport spokesman He Jianzhong
said, according to Xinhua.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  