-- China Home Prices Must Fall 30% to Reach ‘Reasonable’ Level, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-27T04:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/china-home-prices-must-fall-30-to-reach-reasonable-level-lawmaker-says.html
China ’s property prices need to
decline 30 percent to reach a “reasonable” level, according to
He Keng, a deputy director of the Financial and Economic Affairs
Committee of the National People’s Congress.  Housing prices will be at a “reasonable” level when they
are equivalent to about six years of salary for a family, the
senior lawmaker said, according to the transcript of an
interview with China National Radio.  “Based on this, property prices may need to fall 30
percent,” He said, according to the transcript on the
broadcaster’s website. “But it doesn’t mean prices will go down
in every region, every city. The exact extent of the decline
will depend on demand.”  China reiterated this year it won’t back away from housing
curbs including tighter mortgage requirements, while Beijing and
the financial center of  Shanghai  are among Chinese cities that
have said they will continue imposing home purchase restrictions
this year. The nation’s home prices had their worst performance
in 2011 in December, with only two of the 70 cities tracked by
the government posting gains, according to data from the
National Statistics Bureau this month.  Home transactions will drop 10 percent in China this year,
according to Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, while UBS AG said
the curbs may boost supply to the highest in a decade.  Developers may be facing one of their toughest years in
2012, Chen Li, head of China equity strategy at UBS, said
earlier this month. Their  cash flow  may be “exhausted to zero”
by the end of the year as some companies struggle to get
financing for projects, Chen said.  Price Slide  Prices are starting to slide as government curbs begin to
take effect in less-affluent cities. In the eastern city of
Wenzhou, where a credit squeeze on smaller businesses prompted a
visit and pledge of financial aid from Premier  Wen Jiabao  in
October, prices slid 1.9 percent in December from the previous
month and 6.9 percent from a year earlier, according to the data.  Home sales last year rose 10 percent, the slowest pace
since 2008, according to data released on Jan. 17. In 2008,
China’s home sales retreated for the first time since the 1998
privatization of the housing market, dropping 17 percent.  The government may ease property curbs as early as the
middle of the year as an oversupply may be a “disaster” for
developers, said UBS’s Chen. Supply will peak at 1.5 times to
1.6 times demand, Chen said.  A  measure  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has climbed 6.7 percent since the start of the
year, the most among the five industry groups making up the
benchmark stock gauge.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Linus Chua, Shiyin Chen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  