-- Christie Pushes Income-Tax Cut as Democrats Take Aim at Property Levies
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-27T17:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/christie-pitches-income-tax-cut-as-democrats-take-aim-at-property-levies.html
Governor  Chris Christie  told a group
of business leaders that Democrats in the Legislature may
jeopardize New Jersey’s economic recovery by putting social
issues ahead of job creation and tax cuts.  Debating same-sex marriage and other concerns may hinder
progress on improving  New Jersey (BEESNJ) ’s economy, the first-term
Republican said last night in a 25-minute speech to the state
Chamber of Commerce during its annual trip to  Washington .  Making gay marriage legal in New Jersey dominated
legislative debate in Trenton in the past week. While Christie
proposed a ballot question on the issue, and said he would abide
by the results if it went to voters in November, he threatened
to veto Democrats’ bill to permit the practice.  “They want to play around with social issues to try and
make people look bad,” said Christie, 49. “Here’s what the
public is going to care about: Are they working? Are they
working in a job that pays well and provides their family with
health insurance?”  Christie’s remarks echoed his Jan. 17 State of the State
speech to the Legislature and a subsequent series of public
meetings in which he pressed his case for hastening what he
calls “the Jersey comeback” by cutting taxes. The Washington-
based  Tax Foundation  this week ranked  New Jersey  last among U.S.
states in terms of business climate.  Counterproposal Reported  Assembly Majority Leader  Louis Greenwald , a Cherry Hill
Democrat, said his party is weighing “a couple of ideas” to
lower pressure from New Jersey’s highest-in-the-nation property
taxes. He declined to give specifics after Christie’s speech,
while saying any relief would be both immediate and long-term.  “These were very defensive comments by the governor,” he
said in an interview. “He’s talking about philosophical debates
because quite honestly his eye is on a different prize than just
governing New Jersey.”  New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s homeowners paid an average property-tax bill
of $7,576 in 2010, according to the most recent information
released by the state Community Affairs Department.  Greenwald and Democrats have said property taxes are the
most serious tax-related issue for the middle class. He said
Christie is “dead wrong” to say people don’t care about same-
sex marriage. Democrats control both legislative chambers.  Spurring Economy  Christie took office in 2010 pledging to cut taxes as the
state’s economic conditions improved. He said his proposed
reduction would spur the state’s economy, which he added should
be the top issue in Trenton.  “Do they care about the stuff we’ve been talking about for
the past week?” Christie said, referring to state residents.
“What they care about is whether their husband or wife will
have a  job , will they have money to put food on the table?”  New Jersey’s unemployment  rate  fell to 9 percent in
December, the lowest since May 2009, according to the state
Labor Department. It is above the  national  rate of 8.5 percent,
and double the state level of December 2007.  The governor has declined to say how he’d make up for the
revenue if taxes are cut. Democrats have said a 10 percent
rollback may mean as much as a $1.1 billion decline in state
receipts.  “People care about civil rights, and they also care about
the middle-class property tax relief and  job creation  plans this
governor vetoed as he zealously protects and advocates for tax
cuts for the rich,”  Tom Hester , a spokesman for Assembly
Speaker Sheila Oliver, said last night. “His priorities are so
out of step with working class New Jersey.”  Oliver, a Democrat from  East Orange , has said that an
analysis by her office showed a family with a $50,000 annual
income would pay $80 less in taxes under Christie’s plan, while
someone earning $1 million would save $7,200.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  