-- Citigroup Said to Cut Bonuses in Investment Bank By About 30%
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-28T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/citi-to-cut-bonuses-in-investment-bank-about-30-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender by assets, cut 2011 bonuses in its investment
banking division by about 30 percent on average amid slumping
revenue, according to a person briefed on the matter.  Some businesses within the securities and banking unit had
bonuses reduced by as much as 70 percent compared with the
previous year, said the person, who asked to remain anonymous
because the decisions aren’t public. The unit, led by James “Jamie” Forese, includes bond and stock trading as well as
debt and equity underwriting.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, is firing
workers and shrinking costs in the unit as he grapples with
declining revenue. The bank said this month that it will cut
about 1,200 workers from the division to save $600 million this
year and more reductions may follow. The unit’s revenue slipped
21 percent since 2009, while compensation and other operating
costs climbed 15 percent.  “Our 2011 revenues in certain businesses in securities and
banking were disappointing and unacceptable,” Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach , 58, told analysts this week. “If we do
not see meaningful revenue recovery over the course of 2012, we
will further restructure securities and banking.”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said she couldn’t comment on the firm’s pay plans.  Wall Street firms are reining in compensation. New York-
based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Pandit’s former employer, is cutting pay
for senior bankers and traders by 20 percent to 30 percent and
is capping immediate cash bonuses at $125,000, people briefed on
those plans have said.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , based in Zurich, cut senior-banker
pay by 30 percent and may give some bonuses in the form of bonds
backed by derivatives, people briefed on the plan said.  Bank of America Corp.  plans compensation cuts averaging 25
percent, with cash bonuses capped at $150,000 and base salaries
frozen for some bankers at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
firm, people have said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reduced
discretionary compensation “significantly more” than the New
York-based firm’s 26 percent drop in revenue, Chief Financial
Officer David Viniar said Jan. 19.  Citigroup’s fourth-quarter profit fell 11 percent from a
year earlier to $1.17 billion. Total revenue fell 7 percent to
$17.2 billion, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2009.  Bank executives have singled out particular units for blame
since posting results Jan. 17, including the London-based
equities-trading business run by Derek Bandeen. Annual equities-
trading revenue plunged by $1.3 billion to $2.4 billion in 2011,
Gerspach said on a conference call with reporters that day.  Equity-Derivatives Unit  About half of the decline was tied to the equity-
derivatives unit, Gerspach said. This trades in financial
instruments whose values are derived from underlying equities,
such as shares.  The other half came from the equity principal strategies
unit, which traded shareholders’ money, a practice that
regulators want to restrict. Citigroup is shutting this
operation and most of the staff will leave after Feb. 6, the
bank said this week.  “Sometimes when you underperformed, it’s just because you
underperformed,” Gerspach said. “The decline year over year in
equity derivatives is partly from the markets but it also
reflects a certain amount of underperformance on our part.”  On the conference call this week, Gerspach said that
results at the investment-banking operation were also
“disappointing.”  Declining Revenue  Revenue at the unit, which comes from underwriting debt and
equity sales for clients as well as providing merger and
acquisition advice, fell 14 percent to $3.31 billion last year.
Raymond McGuire and Tyler Dickson run that department.  Securities and banking head Forese reports to Chief
Operating Officer  John Havens . Citigroup awarded Havens a stock
bonus for 2011 worth about $3.47 million on Jan. 17, based on
the closing price of Citigroup shares that day, filings show.  Pandit, a former head of equities at Morgan Stanley,
received a stock bonus for 2011 worth about $3.7 million. Last
year, when Citigroup shares slid 44 percent, he received a base
salary of $1.75 million and a retention plan that could be
valued at more than $40 million.  Citigroup advanced 1.6 percent to $30.87 yesterday in New
York trading and has gained  17 percent  this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 