-- Citigroup Exits Proprietary Trading, Says Most of Unit’s Workers to Leave
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-27T18:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/citigroup-says-most-proprietary-trading-employees-to-leave-as-desk-closed.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, will close a proprietary-trading desk that makes
bets with the firm’s own money and most of the unit’s staff will
leave before rules banning the practice take effect.  Citigroup is shutting the Equity Principal Strategies
business and most staff will leave the bank after Feb. 6,
according to a memo by Derek Bandeen, head of equities for the
New York-based bank, and obtained by Bloomberg News. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup, confirmed the
memo’s contents.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is closing
the unit as regulators draft the so-called Volcker rule, which
seeks to restrict banks that accept deposits from trading with
shareholders’ money. The Citigroup team, led by former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  executive Sutesh Sharma, was partly responsible for
equities-trading revenue plunging by $1.3 billion in 2011
compared with the prior year, the bank said last week.  “Pursuant to various regulatory initiatives and changes,
we have made the strategic decision to exit the Principal
Strategies business,” Bandeen said in the memo. “The team, led
by Sutesh Sharma, have been aware of this for some time and have
worked diligently to wind down the positions over the last few
months.”  Sharma intends to form a hedge fund, two people familiar
with the matter said in August. His Citigroup team managed about
$2 billion, one of the people said.  Shareholders’ Funds  Citigroup holds about $5 billion of shareholders’ funds in
internal private-equity and hedge funds, a person familiar with
the matter said in May. The funds may also be subject to the
proposed rule, named for former Federal Reserve chairman  Paul Volcker , which would prohibit banks from owning more than 3
percent of such funds and from investing more than 3 percent of
 Tier 1 capital  in the funds.  Citigroup  fell  less than 1 percent, to $30.30, at 12:59
p.m. in New York trading. The shares gained 15 percent this year
through yesterday.  Sharma, who is based in  London , worked with Pandit
at Morgan Stanley. Sharma became head of global proprietary 
trading while Pandit rose to lead sales, trading and
 investment banking .  The pair also worked together at Old Lane Partners LP, the
hedge fund Pandit founded after he left Morgan Stanley.
Citigroup bought the fund in 2007 for $800 million in a deal
that eventually led to Pandit becoming CEO of the bank in
December 2007. Some of Sharma and Pandit’s other ex-Morgan
Stanley and Old Lane colleagues have also worked in the Equity
Principal Strategies unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 