-- Colombian Stock Movers: Pacific Rubiales, Canacol Energy Advance
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-01-27T15:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/colombian-stock-movers-pacific-rubiales-canacol-energy-advance.html
The following companies are having
unusual price changes in Bogota trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 10:08 a.m. local time.  The  IGBC Index (IGBC)  gained 0.5 percent to 13,647.97, while the
Colcap Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,606.84.  Canacol Energy Ltd. (CNEC)  , the Calgary-based  oil
company  that operates fields in  Colombia , advanced 3.8 percent,
the biggest intraday gain in two weeks, to 1,640 pesos.  Canacol said it completed drilling and casing of the Rancho
Hermoso 14 development well and it has been placed in permanent
production at a gross rate of 7,666 barrels of oil per day,
according to a statement on the company’s website today. Canacol
shares have gained 38 percent in the past month.  “The company continues obtaining positive results in its
development drilling program in Rancho Hermoso, which will allow
it to get cash needed to execute this year’s exploration
program,” analysts from Medellin-based brokerage Bolsa y Renta,
including Juliana Aguilar, said in an e-mailed report.  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  , the Toronto-based
oil producer that operates fields in Colombia, rose 0.7 percent
to 44,420 pesos.  The company was rated new “outperform” at Credit Suisse
by equity analyst Brian Dutton. The shares have gained 26
percent in the past month.  Rubiales said it will receive stock in PetroMagdalena
Energy Corp. as payment for about $6 million in debt owed from
the Topoyaco block exploration venture, according to a statement
yesterday published on the website of Colombia’s securities
regulator. Rubiales will become owner of about 4.4 percent of
PetroMagdalena stock based on the accord, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  