-- Congo Business Group Wants 1-Year Delay of Value-Added Tax
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-01-27T14:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/congo-business-group-wants-1-year-delay-of-value-added-tax-1-.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
business federation called for a one-year delay in the
implementation of a 16 percent value-added tax because the
country isn’t prepared for it.  “The VAT, although it is a modern tax with many advantages
for both the state and for economic operators, nevertheless is
raising many concerns that are undermining its application,”
Albert Yuma, president of the Business Federation of Congo, said
in a speech yesterday in Kinshasa, the capital.  The levy was introduced by the government on Jan. 1 and
replaced a  sales tax . It is meant to increase state revenue and
attract investment, according to the  Finance Ministry . The
federation said it has instead resulted in confusion that
threatens the interests of the country and the business
community.  Yuma criticized the “lack of preparation for its unveiling
and the trial and error of its implementation,” according to an
e-mailed copy of his speech.  The banking, mining and oil industries are all facing
higher prices on imports and investments as a result of the tax,
Yuma said. Congo provides nearly half the world’s cobalt, 4
percent of its copper and is exploring for oil.  The country’s inflation rate has jumped more than 4 percent
since the beginning of the year, according to the central bank.
Finance Minister Matata Ponyo was in a meeting and unavailable
to comment, according to an assistant who answered his phone.  The federation called for consultations to find an
alternative means of increasing state revenue while the new tax
regime is introduced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 