-- Cornerback Revis Says Coach Ryan Was Unaware of Jets’ Locker-Room Strife
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-27T15:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/cornerback-revis-says-coach-ryan-was-unaware-of-jets-locker-room-strife.html
Coach Rex Ryan was unaware of the
issues that split the  New York Jets ’ locker room as the team
tumbled from a conference-championship appearance to a .500
record, All Pro cornerback  Darrelle Revis  said.  “After the season, we talked and basically, he didn’t know
a lot of things that were going on behind the scenes,” Revis
told the NFL Network in an interview. “I’m really not going to
get into it, because some of the stuff is real deep.”  Revis, in his first public comments since reports of team
turmoil surfaced at the end of the National Football League
season, also said the team could have worked its way through the
issues by addressing them early in the season. The Jets finished
at 8-8, losing their final three games to miss the postseason
for the first time with Ryan as coach.  “I think if we had addressed it when the time being, then
everything would have been cool,” said Revis, who had four
interceptions this season. “But obviously we didn’t and it the
season kind of spiraled late.”  Revis, 26, was interviewed in Honolulu, where he is
preparing for the Pro Bowl all-star game on Jan. 29.  Jets running back LaDainian Tomlinson, an 11-year NFL
veteran, said in a Jan. 18 interview with Showtime’s “Inside
the NFL” program that the drama in the team’s locker room was
as bad as he’s seen in his career.  “I’ve been around some locker rooms and quarterback-
receiver situations and what not,” said Tomlinson. “But it was
as bad as I’ve been around. It was at the point where I think
the players could no longer do anything about it. So, when it
gets to that point, there are certain changes that need to
happen.”  Sanchez Support  While Tomlinson said quarterback  Mark Sanchez  was pampered
by the coaching staff because he had no competition, Revis
supported Sanchez and said the team needs to continue to build
around him.  He also said the team is still behind Ryan, who said
publicly before the season that he expected the Jets to reach
the  Super Bowl . Instead, it’s the  New York Giants , who share
MetLife Stadium with the Jets, who reached the championship
game.  “If he says ‘Super Bowl,’ that’s cool,” Revis said.
“That’s why we play this game, but if we’re not winning games
then we need to figure out how to win games instead of just
talking and saying whatever you want to say.”  Ryan said at a Jan. 2 news conference that the players
weren’t as close as a team as they were the two previous
seasons, which both ended with trips to the American Football
Conference title game.  Player Meeting  Revis said there should be a player meeting to clear the
air as soon as the team gets together again for offseason
workouts.  “The leaders need to step up, talk to everybody in the
building and just say, ‘Hey man, look, this is our goal this
year,’” he said. “‘This is what we need to accomplish. Let’s
not get into the bickering or the frustration because it brings
the team down.’ We failed. We failed. We were here. Expectations
were high and it trickled down to us not making the playoffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 