-- Costly London Loses Allure for Commercial Property Investors
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-01-27T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/costly-london-loses-allure-for-commercial-property-investors.html
London, Europe’s most active
commercial  property market  since the start of the global
financial crisis, is losing some of its allure as high prices
and prospects of a U.K. recession deter investors.  The British capital slipped to 10th place in a ranking of
27 European cities, according to an annual survey of more than
600 brokers, investors and money managers compiled by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. It came first in last year’s survey
for new investment and fourth for the performance of existing
properties.  Respondents “complain about the difficulty of getting hold
of assets, strong competition and bubble-like pricing,” PwC
said in the report, which it compiled in London for the  Urban
Land Institute .  The U.K. fell out of the top five countries for investment
in a Jan. 25 survey by the European Association for Investors in
Non-Listed Real Estate Vehicles, or  Inrev . Investors and money
managers favored Germany and Scandinavia, which they saw as the
most likely to weather the recession threatening  Europe .  The  British economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter as manufacturers cut output and services stagnated,
leaving Britain on the brink of another recession. The median
forecast of 33 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey was for a drop of
0.1 percent.  Istanbul was the most-favored city in this year’s PwC study
because of its longer-term economic prospects, and Warsaw
advanced into the top six. Munich, Berlin, Hamburg and Stockholm
also featured in the top six investment locations in the study.  Few Sure Bets  “Few places are considered a sure bet,” PwC said, citing
difficulties in obtaining bank finance, prospects of more
distressed sales and depressed tenant demand that will come with
an economic slowdown or recession.  The perception of  London  as a haven for real estate
investors allowed the city to attract the most investment in the
world in 2009 and 2010, while last year it vied with New York
for the top spot, according to the latest data compiled by Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  London was one of the first property markets to start
recovering from the global financial crisis, rising in the
second half of 2009 after two years of declines erased 50
percent from city-center office values.  The pound’s 22 percent
drop  since September 2007 also made property more attractive to
international investors.  Foreign Ownership  The flow of money from overseas means that for the first
time more than half the office buildings in the  City of London 
financial district are foreign-owned, according to a study
commissioned by U.K.-based property company Development
Securities Plc.  South African billionaire Nathan Kirsh acquired Tower 42
and neighboring buildings for 283 million pounds in December,
while  palm oil  billionaires Kuok Khoon Hong and Martua Sitorus
bought Aviva Plc’s base in the financial district for 288
million pounds in June.  Competition among international investors for prime
properties powered a  35 percent rise in prices  for offices in
the City of London financial district in the 27 months through
November 2011, data compiled by researcher Investment Property
Databank Ltd. show.  Purchases of offices in central London totaled 10.2 billion
pounds, or 30 percent of commercial real estate investment in
the U.K. last year, according to data compiled by Staffordshire,
England-based Property Data.  Capitalization rates, or rental income as a proportion of a
building’s purchase price, rose to 5.73 percent in the final
quarter from 5.6 percent a year earlier, reflecting weaker
prices,  Property Data  said.  Slowing Economy  Britain’s slowing economy is likely to sap companies’
demand to lease more space, slowing rental growth and the
appreciation of property values in the capital.  The survey’s reflect respondents’ view that “the city is
overpriced and their anticipation that very little  capital
appreciation  will occur” for prime properties leased to good
tenants over the short and medium term, PwC said.  Paris, Europe’s second-biggest investment market, also sank
in the survey’s rankings, although the decline was less
pronounced than London’ slide because the French capital is less
reliant on banking and financial services, PwC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  