-- Credit Suisse’s CEO Dougan Said to Not Receive Derivative Bonds in Bonus
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-01-27T09:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/credit-suisse-s-ceo-dougan-said-to-not-receive-derivative-bonds-in-bonus.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  won’t take part in a plan to pay
employees a portion of year-end bonuses in bonds made from
derivatives to avoid a conflict of interest, people briefed on
the plan said.  Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  and personnel chief
Pamela Thomas-Graham also won’t get the bonds, the people said.
The bonds, or Partner Asset Facility 2, were created to help cut
risks and improve the bank’s capital position under stricter
requirements. Employees including  executive board  members who
helped design and approve PAF2 are excluded to avoid actual or
perceived conflicts of interest, said  Marc Dosch , a bank
spokesman, without elaborating.  Executives at the Zurich-based bank may have decided
“we’re not going to participate in it because if it did
increase in value it might look like we’re self-dealing,” said
W. Michael Hoffman, who heads the Center for Business Ethics at
Bentley University in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Credit Suisse has called the new bonds a way of
transferring risk from the firm to employees, and the
possibility of a conflict shows the challenge Dougan faced when
trying to balance their interests. The news that senior
executives wouldn’t take part has angered some investment
bankers who say the risks of the new bonus bonds should be borne
equally by those at the top, one employee said.  Dougan, 52, told employees in an internal memo that the new
bonds were “a good instrument, the right instrument to
compensate our senior leaders.” The bank is in the process of
cutting its Basel 3 risk-weighted assets by 85 billion Swiss
francs ($92.2 billion) to 285 billion francs by the end of 2014
to boost  capital ratios . The bonds help accelerate delivery on
these targets, Dougan said in the memo, obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Goldman Sachs  Credit Suisse investment bankers were digesting the PAF2
details as they were told that overall 2011 pay packages for
senior staff -- including the new bonds -- were down about 30
percent on average from a year earlier, said people briefed on
the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because
compensation discussions are private.  Wall Street firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  have slashed pay for a year in which the European
sovereign-debt crisis led to a slowdown in trading and deal-
making.  The new PAF2 bonds reduce the amount of cash and restricted
stock given to bankers and traders as part of annual bonuses,
the people said.  The PAF2 bonds, in contrast to cash and stock, are
“inherently hard to value,” and they have a stated maturity of
nine years, Dougan wrote in the memo.  Financial Crisis  While the PAF2 bonds are expected to pay “interest and
principal in full,” their current market value is estimated at
a discount to face value, Dougan wrote.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, will
absorb the first $500 million of losses on the portfolio,
reducing the risk for employees, according to the memo. The
bonds will pay a coupon of 5 percent for Swiss franc holders and
6.5 percent in U.S. dollars “for holders elsewhere,” Dougan
wrote in the memo.  PAF2 was hatched as a sequel to the original Partner Asset
Facility, an investment fund set up for staff in 2008 during the
depths of the U.S. financial crisis, where employees got shares
in a $5.05 billion pool of junk-grade loans and bonds backed by
 commercial mortgages . Dougan didn’t participate in the original
PAF because he received no bonus for 2008.  Those investments have turned out to be almost as good as
gold, with a 75 percent return from the end of that year through
Nov. 30, people with knowledge of the results said. Gold futures
returned 98 percent during the period, while Credit Suisse’s
stock fell by 23 percent.  ‘Bad Food’  “We are trying to strike the right balance and align
employees with shareholders,” Dougan wrote in the memo. “This
is an important leadership moment. As senior leaders of the
firm, we are counting on you to understand the changes in our
compensation plan.”  The firm hasn’t specified the amount of the bonds to be
awarded to employees or the total amount of assets included.  While refraining from buying the bonds might eliminate one
perceived conflict of interest, Dougan and the other executives
still may risk backlash from the employees, Hoffman said.  “You have an obligation to your employees to treat them
fairly,” he said. “If you have a bunch of bad food, and nobody
wants to buy it out in the market and you say, ‘Well then, let’s
go ahead and give it to our employees,’” it doesn’t sound
particularly generous, especially if the employees had no say in
this matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  