-- Credibolsa Counting on Bond Sale Zeal to Revive Peru’s First IPO in a Year
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-01-27T18:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/credibolsa-counting-on-bond-sale-zeal-to-revive-peru-s-first-ipo-in-a-year.html
     Jan. 27 (Bloomberg) --  Andino Investment Holding SA (AIHC1)  is
counting on improved investor sentiment generated by  Peru ’s
first overseas bond issuance since 2010 to help push through a
share sale next week, according to the firm managing the deal.  “There’s a tailwind blowing in our favor,” Jorge Monsante, chief executive officer of Credibolsa SAB, the
country’s largest brokerage, said by telephone from Lima today.
“There’s a lot of interest from local insurance companies and
mutual funds in Chile and  Colombia .”  Peruvian dollar bond yields fell the most in three weeks
yesterday and the country’s benchmark stock index reached a
five-month high after Peru sold $1.1 billion in sovereign bonds
and companies  Volcan Cia. Minera SAA (VOLCABC1)  and  Camposol Holding Plc (CSOL) 
raised a combined $725 million in debt markets. Andino last
night rescheduled its initial public offering to Feb. 2 after
postponing the transaction twice earlier this month.  The port operator will take orders for the shares through 2
p.m. on Feb. 2, according to a  statement  posted on the website
of the  Lima  securities exchange that didn’t give a new reference
price. Andino originally planned to raise $60 million from the
sale of as many as 35 million shares for 4.70 soles each.  The IPO would be Peru’s first since fishmeal producer
 Pesquera Exalmar SAA (EXALMAC1)  sold $100 million of stock in November
2010.  IPO Outlook  At least four more companies will sell shares for the first
time in Lima this year, Monsante said. Credibolsa will manage a
$63 million new share offering by Caterpillar Inc. distributor
 Ferreyros SA (FERREYC1)  in the first quarter.  The yield on Peru’s 5.625 percent dollar bond due in 2050,
little changed today, slid five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 5.28 percent yesterday after the issuance and as
emerging-market assets gained on a pledge by the U.S. Federal
Reserve to keep borrowing costs low through 2014.  Peru’s  IGBVL (IGBVL)  equity index climbed 1.1 percent yesterday to
the highest level since Aug. 2. The gauge advanced 0.6 percent
at 12:28 p.m. local time today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  