-- Default Swaps in U.S. Fall for Third Week to Lowest Since August
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-27T22:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/default-swaps-in-u-s-hold-at-almost-lowest-level-since-august.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk declined for a third week, reaching the lowest level
since August, amid optimism  Greece  was making progress in debt-
restructuring talks with bondholders.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 100.5 basis points as of 4:31 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Markit Group Ltd. For the week, the measure is down
5.6 basis points. Credit-default swaps tied to  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) 
fell to the lowest level in almost three months.  The gauge declined after Greek Finance Minister Evangelos
Venizelos said the government was “one step away” from
completing talks on a voluntary debt swap and was negotiating
with international creditors on the terms for a second financing
package at the same time. The index, which has decreased from
120 on Jan. 6, typically declines as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, climbed 0.64 basis point to 32.45
basis points. The measure falls when investors favor assets such
as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  Default swaps on Transocean, owner of the  Gulf of Mexico 
drilling rig that exploded and sank in 2010, dropped to the
lowest since Nov. 3 after a judge ruled that BP Plc can’t
collect from Transocean part of the $40 billion in cleanup costs
and economic losses related to the Macondo oil spill.  Transocean Contracts  The contracts declined 32.1 basis points to 251.1 basis
points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits against BP, its partners
and contractors. BP sued Transocean in April to recover a share
of its damages and cost from the spill.  Contracts tied to  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  rose, adding 18.8
basis points to 98.5 after the biggest U.S. producer of
chemicals from coal agreed to buy Solutia Inc. for about $3.38
billion to expand in materials for tires and add films used to
make iPads and skyscraper windows. The contracts earlier reached
108, the highest this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  