-- Djokovic Beats Murray in Five Sets to Face Nadal in Australian Open Final
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-01-27T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/djokovic-defeats-murray-in-five-sets-to-advance-to-australian-open-final.html
Defending champion Novak Djokovic
stifled a fifth-set comeback by  Andy Murray  to reach the final
of the Australian Open against  Rafael Nadal .  The top-ranked Serb defeated the fourth-seeded Briton, 6-3,
3-6, 6-7 (4-7), 6-1, 7-5 at Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne. The
match, which had 18 breaks of serve, lasted 4 hours, 50 minutes.  Murray had two breakpoints in the 11th game of the final set
that would have given him the chance to serve for a spot in the
championship match. Djokovic saved them with two winners and
held serve on a Murray error, then broke for the victory. He
fell flat on his back when the final point ended.  “It was a physical match,” Djokovic said in a courtside
televised interview. “It was almost five hours. It was also
difficult mentally.”  Djokovic is trying to win his third consecutive Grand Slam
title, after defeating Nadal in the championship matches at
Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open  last year.  The 24-year-old Djokovic won 10 titles last season,
including three of the four majors. He started 2011 on a 41-
match win streak, the best start to a season since  John McEnroe 
in 1984. Djokovic knocked Nadal off the top spot of the rankings
of the ATP World Tour in July, and won a men’s season-record
$12.6 million in prize money.  Although Djokovic trails Nadal 16-13 in career meetings, he
was 6-0 against the second-ranked Spaniard in tournament finals
in 2011.  Nadal, the 2009 champion in Melbourne, overcame men’s Grand
Slam record holder  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  in four sets two
days ago to move to the finals two days ago.  Murray’s Coach  Murray, the runner-up the past two years in  Melbourne , has
yet to win a Grand Slam title. The Scot, also a finalist at the
2008 U.S. Open, hired eight-time major winner  Ivan Lendl  as his
coach at the start of the year and promptly won a tune-up event
for the Australian Open in Brisbane.  “He told me it was going to be painful,” Murray said in a
news conference, when asked what advice Lendl had given him
before the match. “He said, ‘you’ll win, but you’re going to
have to go through a lot of pain to get there, so be ready for
that.’”  ‘Brutal’ Rallies  Winning only 43 percent of the points on his first serve
and committing 20 unforced errors, Murray was broken twice in
the first set while Djokovic dropped serve once. Watched by
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , Djokovic produced two
aces to race to a 5-2 lead and served out the set with a
forehand volley.  With Djokovic serving at 3-4 after two service breaks each
-- including a 12-minute long game -- in the second set, Murray
broke the third straight time. One rally lasted 28 shots,
another 41. Serving at 5-3, Murray saved two breakpoints and
took the second set with a service winner. Djokovic, who at
times struggled with his breathing during the quarterfinals,
rested his hands on his knees to recover.  “Some of the points in the second and third set, they were
brutal,” Murray said. “They were so long.”  The defending champion finally managed to hold serve in the
opening game of the third set, needing more than 13 minutes and
saving five breakpoints. Serving at 5-4 down, Murray saved three
set points, the first with an ace and the second with a forehand 
winner that landed on the line.  Murray Fights Back  Two more service breaks followed, and play went into a
tiebreak. Murray took a 5-3 lead as Djokovic made unforced
errors on his own serve. A forehand winner set up three set
points for Murray, who took a 2-1 lead in the match when
Djokovic hit a forehand return out.  The momentum swung back into Djokovic’s favor in the 25-
minute fourth set, when he broke Murray’s serve three times and
tied it 2-2 with a backhand return winner down the line.  Djokovic then built a 5-2 lead in the fifth set before
Murray won three straight games and went up 15-40 on Djokovic’s
serve, bringing roars from the crowd. Djokovic responded with a
pair of winners and held when Murray netted a backhand.  “I had the chance at 5-all, one of the points,” Murray
said. “I missed a backhand into the net. It was tough at the
end because obviously you come back, then you get close to
breaking. To lose, it’s tough.”  With Murray serving to stay in the tournament at 6-5 down,
Djokovic won the match with a forehand volley that his opponent
couldn’t return.  “Andy was fighting, I was fighting, Djokovic said. “It’s
one of the hardest matches I’ve played.”  Djokovic had 69 unforced errors and 49 winners. Murray had
86 unforced errors and 47 winners.  In today’s women’s final, 2008 champion  Maria Sharapova  of
 Russia  plays first-time finalist  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus.
The winner will assume the No. 1 ranking on the WTA tour next
week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  