-- Yen Strengthens Amid Wrangle Over Greek Debt Accord; N.Z. Dollar Advances
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-01-27T10:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/dollar-heads-for-weekly-drop-versus-most-peers-before-u-s-growth-report.html
The yen rose for a second day versus
the euro as  Greece  and its private creditors struggle to reach
agreement over a debt-swap accord, spurring demand for the
safety of Japan’s currency.  The yen strengthened the most in almost four weeks versus
the dollar on speculation the  Federal Reserve  is moving toward
another round of bond purchases, further debasing the greenback.
The euro fell against the yen before European leaders meet next
week in an attempt to help resolve the two-year old debt crisis.
New Zealand’s dollar rose after the nation unexpectedly posted
its first  trade surplus  in five months.  “There’s a little bit of poorer sentiment going into this
meeting, the politicians keep on telling us they are close to a
deal but we all know it not going to be an end to Greece’s
problems,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “U.S. interest rates have
been a significant driver and, in another risk off mood, the yen
will be well bid.”  The yen climbed 0.5 percent to 101.02 per euro at 9:48 a.m.
in London after rising 0.4 percent yesterday. Japan’s currency
advanced 0.7 percent to 76.94 per dollar, the biggest gain since
Jan. 2. The greenback was little changed at $1.3128 per euro,
having dropped 1.5 percent this week.  Discussions on a proposed Greek debt swap made “some
progress” yesterday, according to the Institute of
International Finance, which is representing creditors in talks
with the government. IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara  met
with Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  in Athens yesterday,
and work on a possible deal will resume today, the Washington-
based group said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Open Question’  A solution in Greece is “still a very open question,”
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , who
chairs the IIF, said yesterday in a Bloomberg News interview at
the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  The cost of allowing Greece to fail would stretch beyond
sovereign debt to investments in the country and the collapse of
its economy, Ackermann said.  The dollar headed for its first two-week decline against
the euro since October amid speculation the Fed is moving toward
another round of bond purchases to cap borrowing costs and
create jobs.  After a two-day policy meeting ended on Jan. 25, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank “recognizes the
hardships imposed by high and persistent unemployment in an
underperforming economy, and it is prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation.”  The Fed has already bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2.  ‘More Dovish’  “The more dovish Fed statement has served to reinforce the
downward trend in the dollar” versus the yen, said Lee Hardman,
a currency strategist in London at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. “Ongoing monetary easing outside of  Japan  remains
supportive for then yen dampening the attractiveness of overseas
assets for Japanese investors.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3 percent annual rate last
quarter after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
Commerce Department report.  The dollar has weakened 2.2 this month, according to
Bloomberg correlation-Weight Indexes, which track 10 developed-
nation currencies. The euro fell 0.8 percent, and the yen
dropped 2.3 percent.  Kiwi Gains  New Zealand’s dollar headed for a sixth-weekly gain
as Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard said the economy can
weather a global slowdown.  Exports exceeded imports by NZ$338 million ($278 million)
in December, the statistics bureau said. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predicted a NZ$50 million shortfall.  “We are seeing ongoing offshore demand for kiwi dollars,”
said  Tim Kelleher , head of institutional foreign-exchange sales
in Auckland at ASB Institutional.  New Zealand ’s economy is
“going OK, and certainly some of the individual sectors of the
country are doing quite well,” he said.  The kiwi gained 0.3 percent to 82.42 U.S. cents, extending
this week’s advance to 2.2 percent.  South Korea’s won fell from a two-month high against the
dollar after central bank data showed manufacturers’ confidence
held near a 30-month low.  The won slid 0.1 percent to 1,123.20 per dollar after
rising to 1,120.43 yesterday, the highest since Nov. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  