-- Draghi Says ECB Action Helped Prevent ‘Major Credit Crunch’
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-27T14:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/draghi-says-ecb-action-helped-prevent-major-credit-crunch-.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on fiscal consolidation, the central
bank’s three-year loans, and bank capital.  He spoke at the World Economy Forum today in Davos,
 Switzerland .  On austerity and a fiscal union:  “Countries themselves have to undertake the necessary
fiscal consolidation, fiscal consolidation is unavoidable. There
will be a short term contraction; the question is how we
mitigate this. Many of these countries don’t grow.  ‘‘The fiscal compact -- this set or rules at treaty level
are very important. It will subtract from the national sovereign
the fiscal discretion. This is necessary for the countries of
the euro zone to go back to trusting each other. This is
important, although hesitant, the first step to a fiscal union.  ‘‘The amount of progress is outstanding. The progress of
countries in the euro area of fiscal retrenchment and structural
reforms is amazing. There is more determination to do more
things that will have to be delivered.’’  On banks:  ‘‘Banks today have more capital, less debt, are somewhat
more immune to the perverse incentives that had characterized
the crisis, have put in place risk management practices which
are seriously more effective than they were in place before and
we see this result now in a sense. We can say that the last two
years have been from a financial perspective anything but
tranquil, anything but stable, and still the financial system
proved to be resilient.’’  On the ECB’s action in December to lend banks an 489 billion
euros ($641 billion) for three years:  ‘‘If you take 0.5 trillion euros and then you take off the
reimbursement of other short-term facilities by the banking
system in December, you get a figure of roughly 220 billion
euros which is exactly the amount of bank bonds that were to
come due in this period of time. So we know for sure we have
avoided a major, major credit crunch, a major funding crisis.  ‘‘We looked at deposit-facility actually going up, meaning
that this money comes back with the central bank. Let me say
this couldn’t be otherwise.  ‘‘The identity of the banks that borrow is different from
the identity of the banks that deposit. So it means that the
borrowers have actually used this money that in the end that
goes in the hands of the banks that would depo’’sit this money
because they don’t need to use it immediately.  Also, ‘‘we went bank by bank and we saw that their bidding
behavior reflected their situation with respect to the bank
bonds that were coming due.  ‘‘The unsecured  bond market  seems to have reopened to some
extent and there has been bond issuance in the past two or three
weeks equal to the previous six months.  ‘‘Do we know that actually this money is either going to
finance the real economy? We don’t have evidence of this kind
yet. We will have to wait. There is a lag. We will have to see.  ‘‘You have parts of the euro area where credit is more or
less normal, but you have other parts where credit is seriously
contracting.’’  ‘‘We have to see a reactivation of the  interbank market . We
have to see that banks trust each other to the point they go
back to lending to each other and don’t have to go through the
central bank in order to lend to each other. That is when we’ll
say the system now is back into functioning.’’  On the financial crisis:  ‘‘If we go back four years ago, we see the start of the
financial crisis. The key root cause of the financial crisis
were serious, serious flaws in regulation policies. That
coincided with expansionary policy’’ and ‘‘a savings glut in
 Asia .’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  