-- Draghi Sees No Evidence ECB Loans Are Financing Economy Yet
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-27T14:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/draghi-sees-no-evidence-ecb-loans-are-financing-real-economy-yet.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said it’s not yet clear whether the ECB’s record
injection of cash into the banking system is finding its way to
households and businesses.  “Do we know that actually this money is going to finance
the real economy? We don’t have evidence of this kind yet,”
Draghi told an audience at the World Economic Forum today in
Davos,  Switzerland . “There is a lag. We will have to see.”  The ECB lent euro-area banks a record 489 billion euros
($640 billion) for three years in December to ward off a funding
squeeze caused by a worsening in the two-year-old sovereign debt
crisis. Since then, bond yields across the region have dropped
and the unsecured  bond market  has shown signs of reopening,
prompting Draghi to say on Jan. 19 that 2012 will be a “much
better” year for  Europe .  “We know for sure we have avoided a major, major credit
crunch, a major funding crisis,” he said today. “You have
parts of the euro area where credit is more or less normal, but
you have other parts where credit is seriously contracting.”  Lending Shrinks  Loans to households and companies contracted 0.7 percent in
December from November, the most since records began in 1991, an
ECB report showed today. Loans grew 1 percent from a year
earlier, the lowest rate since July 2010 and down from the 1.7
percent annual gain in November.  The ECB, which has cut  interest rates  to a record low and
widened the pool of collateral banks can use to obtain cheap
cash, will offer a second batch of three-year loans on Feb. 28.  Draghi said banks appear to be using the funds to roll over
maturing bonds.  “If you take 0.5 trillion euros and then you take off the
reimbursement of other short-term facilities by the banking
system in December, you get a figure of roughly 220 billion
euros, which is exactly the amount of bank bonds that were to
come due in this period of time,” he said.  The widening in bond yield spreads has been a “potent
engine” for government reforms in the 17-nation currency bloc,
and “outstanding” progress has been made on fiscal
retrenchment and structural changes.  “There is more determination to do more things that will
have to be delivered,” Draghi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Davos at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Davos at  smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  