-- Dustin Hoffman Bets Ponies, Settles Score in ‘Luck’: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/dustin-hoffman-bets-ponies-settles-score-in-luck-greg-evans.html
Bug boys and railbirds should have
no trouble keeping pace with the racetrack lingo that comes fast
as horses on David Milch’s eccentric, often exciting “Luck.”  The rest of us need to hang on tight. Watching HBO’s latest
prestige drama series can feel like being plopped onto a
thoroughbred at full run.  Created by Milch (with a gorgeous, style-setting pilot
directed by  Michael Mann ), “Luck” is loaded with the teasing,
tension-filled plots and weirdly convoluted dialogue that’s
marked every Milch program since “N.Y.P.D. Blue.”  And if “Luck” is not as addictive as “Deadwood,” it’s a
high jump over the too-quirky pleasures of Milch’s “John From
Cincinnati.”  Dustin Hoffman , in his first starring role on a TV series,
heads an exceptional (and large) cast that includes  Nick Nolte ,
Dennis Farina, Joan Allen and Jason Gedrick, for starters.  Hoffman plays Chester “Ace” Bernstein, a wealthy
businessman just released from prison. He has elaborate, big-
money plans to take over a Santa Anita racetrack and add casino
gambling to the mix. If he can get revenge on the nefarious
partner who sent him up the river, all the better.  Bug Boy  The show’s railbirds (or horse enthusiasts, per an  HBO (TWX) 
glossary) include Ace’s trusted bodyguard (Farina); a wary love
interest (Allen); the track veterinarian (Jill Hennessey); a
Peruvian trainer with dubious ethics (John Ortiz); and the
novice jockey (“bug boy”) starving himself to make weight (Tom
Payne).  Peering from the cheap seats are Jerry (Gedrick), an odds-
figuring genius with a poker addiction; Marcus (Kevin Dunn), a
wheezing, foul-tempered paraplegic; and Renzo (Ritchie Coster)
and Lonnie (Ian Hart), good-natured mugs devoted to the trouble-
prone Jerry.  Finally, there’s  Walter Smith  (Nolte), the muttering horse
owner haunted by a long-ago scandal.  “They murdered your daddy,” Smith horse-whispers to his
pony, Nolte’s growl of a voice all but demanding subtitles.  “Luck” sketches these high-flyers and lowlifes with
detail and, in unexpected moments, compassion. Even the
wheelchair-bound Marcus has a heart as big as his temper.  “Luck” doesn’t come easy. Backstories are parceled out
too slowly, and the show seems awfully enamored of its own
stylistic bravura. Milch and his cast are as close to a sure bet
as TV gets, but they take their time paying off.  “Luck” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 