-- Eastman Buys Solutia for $4.7 Billion to Expand in Polymers
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-01-27T13:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/eastman-chemical-agrees-to-acquire-solutia-for-4-7-billion-including-debt.html
Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  agreed to buy
 Solutia Inc. (SOA)  for about $4.7 billion, including debt, to drive
expansion into higher-margin specialty plastics and chemicals.  Solutia investors will receive $22 in cash and 0.12 of an
Eastman share for each of their shares, the companies said in a
statement today. The cash and stock offer, valuing Solutia
shares at $27.65 apiece, is 42 percent higher than Solutia’s
 closing price  yesterday.  The transaction follows a hunt for assets that have less-
cyclical demand and increased exposure to emerging markets such
as the pending acquisition of Taminco Group NV, which is being
bought by Apollo Global Management LLC. With the addition of
Solutia’s plastics and materials used in cars, solar panels and
glass, Kingsport, Tennessee-based Eastman is targeting a
compound annual growth rate in the Asia-Pacific region
approaching 10 percent in the coming years.  “The acquisition of Solutia is a significant step in our
growth strategy,” Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  said in
the statement.  Solutia rose 42 percent to $27.76 at 8:04 a.m. before the
start of regular trading in New York.  Eastman is paying 8.62 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to acquire St. Louis-based
Solutia, compared with an average 7.73 for specialty chemical
transactions over the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Solutia’s debt stood at $1.22 billion at the end of
last year.  Earnings Boost  Rogers is now responsible for merging the businesses to
capture an expected $100 million in cost savings by the end of
2013.  Spun off from  Monsanto Co. (MON) , Solutia emerged from  Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection  in 2008, with Chief Executive Officer
Jeffry Quinn undertaking a broad-reaching overhaul of the
business to boost margins. The company reported a 7.5 percent
increase in annual sales to $2.1 billion in 2011. Adjusted
earnings per share rose 27 percent to $2.  The Solutia deal should be immediately accretive to
earnings, excluding costs, lifting earnings per share to about
$5 for 2012, and to more than $6 the following year. It will
bring tax benefits to free  cash flow  equal to about $1 billion
through 2013, the company said.  Eastman plans to fund the cash portion of the deal with
cash on hand and debt. Debt financing was committed by Citigroup
Inc. and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which served as advisers to Eastman.
 Jones Day  provided legal counsel.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Moelis & Co. provided financial advice
to Solutia, while Kirkland & Ellis LLP acted as legal counsel.
Perella Weinberg Partners LP advised Solutia’s board, which also
received an independent evaluation of the company’s long-term
plan from Valence Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  