-- U.S. Economy Grows 2.8%, Less Than Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-01-27T21:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/economy-in-u-s-grows-less-than-economists-forecast-as-consumers-hold-back.html
Restrained spending by consumers
held growth in the  U.S. economy  to a 2.8% annual pace in the
fourth quarter, slower than economists forecast while still the
fastest pace in more than a year.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, climbed at a 2.8 percent annual pace following a 1.8
percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 3 percent increase.
Growth excluding a jump in inventories was 0.8 percent.  Federal Reserve officials this week said they were
concerned about the economy’s lack of vigor two years after the
recession ended, prompting a pledge to keep interest rates low
at least until late 2014. The biggest gain in GDP since the
second quarter of 2010 shows that the world’s largest economy
has so far withstood the effects of the debt crisis in Europe.  “We’re recovering, but it’s a very long, slow, drawn-out
process,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts , who correctly forecast the
fourth-quarter figure. “Relatively speaking, the U.S. is one of
the few areas where we would expect to see growth in 2012 better
than 2011.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,316.33 at the close of trading in  New York . The yield on the
five-year Treasury note fell two basis points to 0.75 percent
after earlier dipping below 0.74 percent to a record low.  Survey of Economists  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 2.4 percent
to 4.5 percent. For all of 2011, the world’s largest economy
grew 1.7 percent, less than 3 percent a year earlier.  “Recovery is reasonably well established,” Larry Summers,
a former director of the National Economic Council under
President Barack Obama, said in an interview at the World
Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .  “Is escape velocity -- at a sufficient rate to get us back
to full employment in a reasonable interval -- yet
established?” he said. “I think one would have to say the
answer to that question is ‘No.’”  A gain in  consumer confidence  reported today may help fuel
further spending. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final index of consumer sentiment climbed to 75 in January, the
highest level in almost a year, from 69.9 at the end of
December.  The U.S. is likely to outperform  Europe  and  Japan  this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The IMF this
week kept its U.S. forecast for 2012 unchanged at 1.8 percent.
It predicted a 0.5 percent contraction in the 17-nation euro
area and a 1.7 percent expansion in Japan.  Spain, Japan  Reports today from  Spain  and Japan underscored those
forecasts. Spain’s unemployment rate rose to 22.9 percent, the
highest in 15 years. Japan’s retail sales grew at the fastest
pace in more than a year as  consumer spending  rebounded.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, speaking in Davos,
said it’s “realistic” to expect the U.S. economy to grow about
2 percent to 3 percent, adding that “We still face tremendous
challenges as a country.”  The White House used today’s GDP report to renew its call
for an extension of the payroll tax cut to boost growth and put
more Americans back to work.  “While the continued expansion is encouraging, faster
growth is needed to replace the jobs lost in the recent downturn
and to reduce long-term unemployment,” Alan Krueger, chairman
of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in a
statement.  Consumer Spending  U.S. consumer spending  rose  2 percent in the fourth
quarter, little changed from the 1.7 percent gain in the prior
three months, today’s report showed. The median forecast of
economists surveyed projected a 2.4 percent increase.  Spending rose 2.2 percent in 2011 after an increase of 2
percent in 2010, the weakest two-year performance of any
expansion since World War II.  Americans dipped into savings to finance their purchases.
The savings rate decreased to 3.7 percent, the lowest level
since the last three months of 2007, from 3.9 percent in the
third quarter.  “Final demand was pretty soft,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The
need for consumers to rebuild savings may be a headwind, but at
the same time, we’re not seeing a collapse.”  After-tax income adjusted for inflation  increased  at a 0.8
percent annual rate in the final three months of 2011 after
falling 1.9 percent in the prior period. It fell 0.1 percent
over the past four quarters.  Losing Momentum  Spending at retailers lost momentum each month in the
fourth quarter, slowing from a 0.7 percent gain in October to a
0.1 percent increase last month, according to previous Commerce
Department reports. Merchants, including Macy’s Inc., Gap Inc.
and Target Corp., cut prices to attract more business during the
 holiday shopping season .  Inflation took a smaller bite out of Americans’ wallets. A
measure of prices tied to consumer spending advanced at a 0.7
percent pace last quarter, down from 2.3 percent in the prior
period and the smallest gain in more than a year. That compares
with the Fed’s long-run goal of 2 percent.  Government agencies struggled last quarter as they cut
spending at a 4.6 percent annual rate, the fifth straight
decline. For all of 2011,  government spending  dropped 2.1
percent, the biggest drop since 1971.  Stockpiles were rebuilt at a $56 billion annual pace,
adding 1.9 percentage points to growth.  Business Investment  Business investment remained a bright spot. Corporate
spending on equipment and software rose at a 5.2 percent annual
rate last quarter. While down from the prior period’s 16 percent
gain, recent reports indicate it will rebound early this year.  Orders for durable goods like computers and machinery
climbed more than forecast in December, a Commerce Department
report showed yesterday.  “For many products, demand has been above our ability to
produce,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said on a conference call with analysts
yesterday.  While the world’s biggest maker of construction and mining
equipment has invested in factories to boost production, DeWalt
said his company is, “still very tight on many products and are
currently quoting extended delivery times for them.”  Homebuilding also picked up, adding to signs the industry
is stabilizing. Construction of residential real estate climbed
at an 11 percent annual rate, the best performance since the
second quarter of 2010, when a government tax credit boosted
demand. For all of 2011, the industry shrank 1.4 percent, the
smallest decline since 2005, the last year homebuilding grew.  Benchmark Rate  Fed officials said this week their benchmark  interest rate 
will stay low until at least late 2014 and they forecast
unemployment, which registered 8.5 percent in December, will
“decline only gradually.” The previously had vowed to keep
rates low until at least the middle of 2013.  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, said today that the fourth-quarter’s growth pace in
the U.S. is unlikely to be sustained.  In a speech in New York, he cited “uncertainty as to how
events in Europe will unfold,” as well as “more
contractionary” fiscal policies and a “depressed housing
market.”  John Olin, chief financial officer of Milwaukee-based
 Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , said he was concerned about the outlook
for sales in Europe. In the U.S., sales rose 12 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31.  “We feel great about where we see retail sales in the
U.S., but certainly remain cautious as we look forward, given
the tentative nature of the overall economy and consumer
confidence,” Olin said during a Jan. 24 conference call. “We
are more concerned about retail sales in Europe, given the fact
that they may already be in recession or may slip into
recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  