-- Economies Need the Visible Hand of a Gardener: Hanauer and Liu
-- B y   N i c k   H a n a u e r   a n d   E r i c   L i u
-- 2012-01-27T01:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/economies-need-a-gardener-s-invisible-hand-commentary-by-hanauer-and-liu.html
Imagine if our understanding of
geography was still based on a belief that the world is flat, or
if the study of astronomy placed the Earth at the center of the
universe. Now imagine the consequences if similarly antiquated
and mistaken notions were guiding our understanding of the way
the economy works.  In fact, that is precisely where we find ourselves, because
we still look at the economy in the industrial terms of the 19th
century . Consider the word “regulation,” which describes how
we manage the economy. It has its origins in mechanics and has
negative connotations, as in to limit or impede. Yet it is this
concept that frames our ideas of how to organize our economy and
society.  The machine metaphor comes from the revolution in science
and industry of the Enlightenment, which explained the world in
reductionist, mechanistic terms and still shapes how we see most
complex systems.  This mindset fails to take into account the scientific
revolution that has unfolded over the past 40 years, which has
changed our understanding. This new science of complexity allows
us to make sense of phenomena as diverse as earthquakes, the
spread of disease, the rise of Facebook Inc. or the nature of
economies.  Feedback Loops  It turns out these phenomena, and advanced economies in
particular, aren’t simple, predictable and efficient like
machines. They are complex, adaptive and effective like
ecosystems. They are subject to the same feedback loops and
evolutionary forces.  Applying this to our economic and social policies requires
a deep shift in our thinking, from a 19th century
“Machinebrain” to a 21st century “Gardenbrain.”  For example, in conceiving the role of government in the
economy, we should no longer see policy makers as mechanics, who
tinker with a self-sustaining machine by adjusting dials or
pulling levers. Instead, we should look at government as a
gardener who seeds, weeds, feeds and waters.  Embracing this Gardenbrain perspective would transform many
of today’s most cherished ideas about regulation,  taxes  and
spending.  REGULATION: The prevailing assumption in economics is that
markets should be perfectly efficient and thus self-correcting.
In this view, regulation is an unfortunate interference with a
frictionless process of wealth creation. But an economy can no
more self-correct than a garden can self-tend. Regulation should
mean nurturing useful activities, weeding the harmful ones and
helping the economic ecosystem adapt. Wise regulation is how
societies turn jungles into prosperous gardens: Everywhere one
finds successful private companies, there is also a highly
regulated economy; where regulation is absent, poverty is
endemic.  TAXES. Conventional wisdom and the efficient-market
hypothesis hold that taxes are an extraction of resources from
the jobs machine. This way of thinking regards  taxation  as not
just separate from but also hostile to economic activity. In
this view, to tax the rich is to punish the “job creators,”
whose wealth would otherwise trickle down to everyone else.  In fact, a well-designed tax system -- in which everyone
contributes and benefits -- circulates the basic nutrients of
the economic garden and ensures healthy growth of the entire
ecosystem. The parts of the garden where the fruit is growing
most robustly should supply the most seed.  Job Creators  Gardenbrain exposes the fallacy of policies that drive down
taxes for the richest Americans because they are “job
creators.” Jobs are a consequence of an organic feedback loop
between consumers and businesses. It’s a thriving middle class
that can afford to buy goods that creates jobs, not more wealth
for the wealthy.  SPENDING. The word “spending” means to “use up” or
“extinguish value,” and that is what many Americans believe
the government does with their tax dollars. Yet  government
spending  shouldn’t be seen as a process that is destructive or
wasteful. The reality is that it is part of a continuous
feedback loop that circulates money. To spend tax dollars on
education and health care and roads and research and development
is the equivalent of dispersing nutrients throughout the garden.  This connection between regulation, spending, taxes and
prosperity is hard to grasp if you’re relying on a Machinebrain
to make sense of the world.  It makes perfect sense through the lens of Gardenbrain.
This approach is strongly pro-capitalism and pro-growth. It
simply acknowledges that an economy where anything goes is like
a garden overrun by weeds. It is also a worldview that requires
government to be far more adaptive and responsive than it is
today.  We are gardeners, not mechanics. Untended markets,
undertaxed wealth and unfunded governments can never create a
fruitful and prosperous society. We need to govern our economy
and ourselves as if we knew that.  ( Nick Hanauer  is a founder of Second Avenue Partners, a
venture capital company in  Seattle . Eric Liu is a writer and a
former deputy domestic policy adviser to President  Bill Clinton .
They are co-authors of “The Gardens of Democracy.” The
opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Nick Hanauer at  Nick@secondave.com ;
Eric Liu at  epliu@truep.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 