-- Medicare System Overpaid Insurers $3.1 Billion in 2010
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/medicare-overpaid-insurers-3-1-billion-in-2010-on-u-s-errors.html
Insurers offering Medicare health
plans were overpaid by the U.S. as much as $3.1 billion in 2010
because the government miscalculated how sick beneficiaries
were, federal auditors said.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, and
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  of Louisville, Kentucky, are among the insurers
offering coverage to people 65 and older through Medicare
Advantage, an alternative to the traditional federal health
program for the elderly and disabled. Democrats have criticized
Medicare for overpaying companies for Advantage plans and the
2010 health-care overhaul reduced payments about $136 billion
through 2019.  The managed-care plans remain overpaid, said the  Government
Accountability Office , Congress’ investigatory arm, in a report.
Insurers received from $1.2 billion to $3.1 billion more than
they should have in 2010 because the government overestimated
how sick their customers were, a process called risk adjustment.  “We cannot afford to overpay health plans in Medicare any
more than working families and businesses can,” Representative
Henry Waxman of  California , the senior Democrat on the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement. The report
didn’t name the companies receiving overpayments.  Medicare Advantage patients often receive superior care to
those in traditional Medicare, so “conclusions about whether
the MA payment system appropriately pays plans should therefore
not be based on GAO’s analysis,” said  Robert Zirkelbach , a
spokesman for  America’s Health Insurance Plans , a Washington
trade group, in an e-mail.  Risk Calculation  Medicare calculates the risk of covering Advantage
customers each month by considering their age, gender and any
major medical conditions and disabilities. The plans get bigger
payments for people with higher scores.  Enrollment in Advantage plans was about 11 million people
in 2010, or about 24 percent of total  Medicare  beneficiaries,
according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit research
group in  Menlo Park , California. The U.S. paid about $114
billion to Advantage plans in 2010, according to the GAO.
Medicare  cost  an estimated $525 billion, according to the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  The report was requested by Waxman and three other U.S.
House Democrats: Representatives John Dingell of  Michigan , Pete Stark of California and Frank Pallone of New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  