-- Egypt’s Citadel Capital Plans to Construct Refinery This Year
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-27T07:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/egypt-s-citadel-capital-plans-to-construct-refinery-this-year.html
Citadel Capital SAE (CCAP)  (CCAP), the Egyptian
private equity firm that has raised $3.7 billion to build an oil
refinery, plans to start construction in the second quarter.  The refinery will have a capacity of 4.2 million tons of
refined products a year and construction will take four years,
Chairman Ahmed Heikal said in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland, where he is attending the  World Economic Forum .  Citadel has more than $9 billion in investments through
companies investing in 15 countries including Uganda, Sudan and
 South Africa  in industries such as food, transport, cement and
energy. The Cairo-based company raised 1.05 billion Egyptian
pounds ($173.9 million) in a capital increase last year. It also
raised $234 million in equity and debt for its railway
investments in Kenya and Uganda, as well as $150 million from
the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Co.  “We have agreed with our investors, our shareholders, that
the best risk-reward ratio that we have today is to put capital
at work within our existing portfolio,” Heikel said.  Part of the company’s plans this year is to pay “a lot of
attention to a number of our portfolios that are
underperforming,” he said, listing Rally Energy Corp., a Cairo-
based upstream oil and gas exploration company. Citadel will
also sell some of its “non-core investments” and “recycle”
the cash to other assets, Heikal said.  Citadel’s shares  gained 11 percent this month.  Egypt ’s
benchmark  EGX 30 Index  climbed 22 percent after the Arab country
inaugurated its first parliament following the uprising that
ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  last year and the government
requested a $3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary
Fund  to contain record borrowing costs.  Heikal said rising public debt and widening budget deficits
in Egypt and around the world will create opportunities for
private companies to invest more in services that governments
used to provide.  “Governments cannot invest in infrastructure, cannot
invest to provide some of the services they used to provide,”
he said. “If the governments can’t provide those services, the
private sector will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  