-- Egyptians Protest for Third Day After Anniversary of Revolt
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-01-27T17:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/egyptians-protest-for-third-day-after-anniversary-of-revolt-1-.html
Thousands of Egyptians merged on
Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  in the third day of protests marking of
the first anniversary of the uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak .  A platform, said by demonstrators to be erected by the
Muslim Brotherhood party, was playing music, provoking thousands
of surrounding protesters to chant “This is not a celebration,
it’s a revolution.” Speakers on the platform called for unity
as chants increased and protesters started throwing bottles of
water.  In some parts of the square, people played music and
celebrated. In other parts, the tone was more somber with
activists saying the revolution isn’t finished yet. Speakers on
a platform, said to have been erected by the Muslim Brotherhood,
called for unity.  “Our demands have been the same for a year and have only
increased. Bread, freedom, social justice have yet to be
fulfilled,’ said Radwa Darwish, a 30-year-old teacher, who came
with her mother to Tahrir. ”Now we want the military council to
leave. We want a constitution, we want speedy presidential
elections and we most importantly want proper trials of Mubarak
and his officials.” She said she is planning a sit-in when
“those who celebrate leave.”  Some protesters had camped overnight in the square, the
focus of mass rallies that ended the former president’s three-
decade rule. Tens of thousands filled the plaza on Jan. 25, some
calling on the ruling generals to accelerate the transfer of
power to civilians and others celebrating the anniversary of the
start of unrest that ousted Mubarak.  “Such protests are important to show the army that ceding
power to civilians is paramount to all Egyptians and that it
can’t breach promises it had made, as it did before,” Gamal
Eid, a human-rights lawyer, said by phone late yesterday. “It’s
also a clear message to the parliament that people will turn
against it if it doesn’t meet their demands.”  Council Promises  Seven weeks of elections, in which Islamist groups led by
the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice party took almost
three-quarters of the seats in parliament, have failed to quiet
activists organizing the anti-military rallies. Demonstrators
accuse the army of mismanaging the country’s transition and
using tactics similar to those used by Mubarak’s government to
stifle dissent.  The ruling military council has said it will cede power
when a president is elected by the end of June. Before the
anniversary, the council also promised to release prisoners and
partially lift the country’s state of emergency, which extends
the powers of the police, with the exception of “crimes of
thuggery.”  The Brotherhood hasn’t lent its support to demands that the
generals leave immediately.  Egypt ’s elected assembly held its inaugural session on Jan.
23. One of its first tasks is to select a committee that will
write the new constitution.  The unrest has deterred tourists and foreign investors.
Egypt’s economy grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through
June, the slowest pace in at least a decade. Tourist arrivals
fell 33 percent last year, while international reservations are
at the lowest level since March 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Cairo at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  