-- Lehman Says It May Give Creditors $8.1 Billion to $10.7 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/lehman-may-give-initial-distribution-of-up-to-10-7-billion-to-creditors.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which
has said it’s planning to start paying creditors from its cash
holdings, may initially distribute $8.1 billion to
$10.7 billion.  This would be the first payment of about $56 billion in
distributions that the company will make over the next few
years, said Lehman, whose creditors range from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to individual bondholders. The Lehman parent company
would contribute an estimated $3.3 billion to $4.8 billion, and
Lehman’s special financing unit might pay out $4.8 billion to
$5.9 billion, the defunct investment bank said in a court filing
yesterday.  The size of the payout will depend on a judge’s ruling on
how Lehman must keep reserves for $112 billion in disputed
claims, Lehman said. If forced to set aside available cash, the
payout will be smaller. If the judge allows Lehman to hold back
illiquid real estate and other non-cash assets as reserves,
creditors with approved claims will get more money, it said.  “Holders of allowed claims will benefit from the time-
value of having larger initial distributions,” Lehman said in
its request to the judge to rule in its favor.  First Estimate  The filing contains Lehman’s first public estimate of the
size of an initial payout planned for the first quarter. Lehman
Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal has said he intends to
raise $65 billion from the firm’s assets in the next few years,
giving the average creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar for
estimated claims of $370 billion.  Lehman, which in 2008 filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history, said yesterday that gross proceeds from the
liquidation, including cash on hand, will be about $63 billion,
although as much as $7 billion would be used for expenses. It
put cash on hand at $29 billion for Lehman and affiliates.  Lehman, which is currently fighting a claims battle with
its Swiss affiliate and trustees for mortgage securities
including a Citigroup Inc. unit, intends to cut disputed claims
by almost half, to about $59 billion, it said.  Lehman’s $1 billion of 4.5 percent notes rose 0.25 cent to
27.5 cents on the dollar as of 4:04 p.m. yesterday in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The notes have climbed
from 26 cents since December and 23.4 cents in September.  Lehman and its affiliates had more than $27 billion of cash
available on Dec. 31, although not all of it is available for
use.  Liquidation Plan  Lehman, which won a bankruptcy judge’s approval in December
for its liquidation plan, had earlier settled a fight with
creditors by allotting more money to derivatives creditors such
as  Goldman Sachs (GS)  and less to bondholders such as Paulson & Co.
Both groups had proposed rival plans to pay Lehman’s debts.  Lehman’s senior bondholders would recover 21.1 cents on the
dollar under the plan, compared with 21.4 cents under the firm’s
previous proposal.  Claims on Lehman’s derivatives unit would be paid
27.9 cents to 32 cents, while commercial paper claims would get
48.4 cents to 55.7 cents, all based on each dollar of their
investment, court papers show.  A guaranteed claim against Lehman’s special financing unit
would get 27.9 cents on the dollar, plus more than 11 cents from
a guarantee by the Lehman parent, or a total of about
39 cents.  Lehman has winnowed down claims from 67,000 filed
originally demanding about $1.2 trillion from what was once the
fourth-largest investment bank. It filed for bankruptcy with
$613 billion in debt under former Chairman Richard Fuld.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 