-- Lehman Investors Traded $32 Billion of Firm’s Debt Last Year
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-27T15:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/lehman-investors-traded-32-billion-of-firm-s-debt-last-year.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
investors traded $32.4 billion of the defunct investment bank’s
debt last year as a hearing on its plan to pay creditors
approached, according to a report.  Lehman won a judge’s approval in December, after more than
three years in bankruptcy, for a $65 billion plan that would pay
the average creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar in the
next few years. Lehman debt accounted for most of the
$36 billion in claims on bankrupt companies that changed hands
last year, SecondMarket Holdings Inc. said in the report
released today.  “Distressed-debt trading won’t go away after Lehman, but
it will go back into the shadows,” said  Stephen Lubben , a
bankruptcy law professor at Seton Hall University in Newark,  New
Jersey , who writes articles about Lehman. “That’s probably
where the traders prefer it, so they can benefit from the
market’s inefficiencies.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , part of a group that proposed a
competing plan to liquidate Lehman, sold $500 million of claims
on the company and its commercial paper unit in December,
according to court papers.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  sold about
$320 million in claims on Lehman and its special-financing unit
in October, court filings show.  The amounts refer to the face value of the claims, not the
trading prices, which reflect payment prospects and aren’t
disclosed. According to court filings yesterday, a Goldman Sachs
unit sold about $190 million in claims on Lehman and Paulson
Credit Opportunities Master Ltd. sold more than
$100 million in Lehman debt.  Debt Doubles  Debt of newly bankrupt companies almost doubled last year
after the filings of  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) ., the eighth-largest
U.S. bankruptcy with debt of almost $40 billion, and  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .,
parent of American Airlines, said New York-based  SecondMarket ,
which deals in illiquid securities. Jefferies & Co. bought a
$713,391 claim on MF Global in November, according to a court
filing.  December trades in Lehman debt exceeded $3.6 billion, out
of $3.8 billion of total claims traded during the month,
SecondMarket said.  Mesa Air Group Inc. (MESAQ)  was 2011’s second most actively traded
company after Lehman, with $1.5 billion in claims changing
hands.  Lehman Brothers Inc ., the remains of the brokerage unit,
placed third, with $332 million of claims traded.  Once the world’s fourth-biggest investment bank, New York-
based Lehman filed for bankruptcy in 2008 listing debt of $613
billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  