-- Eircom Said to Plan March Deadline in Final Effort to Find Buyer
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-01-27T15:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/eircom-said-to-plan-march-deadline-in-final-effort-to-find-buyer.html
Eircom Group Ltd (ERU) ., the Irish
telecommunications company seeking to restructure its 3.75
billion euros ($4.92 billion) debt, is planning a final attempt
to find a buyer, with a March 12 bid deadline, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The Dublin-based company said in documents to its senior
lenders that adviser  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is preparing for the sale
process, said people familiar, who declined to be identified as
the matter is private.  Eircom spokesman Paul Bradley declined to comment on the
sale plans or what route the company plans to take to complete
its restructuring.  Eircom’s board will make a final decision on its sale plan
after the first-lien lenders vote next week on a covenant waiver
extension being sought by the company, one of the people said.
The company sought the extension after it entered talks last
month with the lenders on a debt restructuring plan.  The lenders envisage writing off about 8 percent of their
2.36 billion euros of loans and taking full control of the
company, two people said Nov. 30.  Should Eircom fail to draw bids, the company may file for
examinership, an Irish variant of a U.S. Chapter 11 creditor
protection petition, to facilitate a debt restructuring,
according to three people.  An Irish company can file for protection if it can
demonstrate, through an independent accountants report, that it
has a reasonable chance of survival. A court-appointed examiner
must carry out a review of the company’s affairs and formulate
plans, or a so-called scheme of arrangements, to deal with
creditors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  