-- Better Place Says 2015 May Be Electric-Car Tipping Point
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-01-27T08:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/electric-car-use-to-reach-tipping-point-in-2015-better-place-s-ofer-says.html
Better Place LLC, a U.S. startup
developing charging stations for electric vehicles, predicts the
“tipping point” for electric car use will come as soon as
2015, Chairman  Idan Ofer  said today.  “The fact is that because we are making it convenient for
customers and the moment people realize there is no disadvantage
to owning an electric car” they will buy the models, Ofer said
in an interview with Bloomberg TV in Davos, Switzerland.  Better Place, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , started
putting its first cars on the road in Israel this week and
expects to go public in the next two years, Chief Executive
Officer Shai Agassi said on Jan. 24.  The company has raised $750 million since it was founded
four years ago and is in partnership with  Renault SA (RNO)  to install
electric-car charging systems in  Israel (ILCO) , Denmark and Australia.
Cars are expected to start using the company network in Denmark
within weeks and in Australia later this year.  Ofer’s family owns Israel Corp., which has a stake of about
30 percent in Better Place. Ofer said the company’s largest
potential market is China, where Better Place opened a visitors’
center in the southern city of Guangzhou last month.  China Growth  “That is no question that China will go electric,” Ofer
said. “By 2015, their government policy is to have 1 million
cars on the road. China is definitely the target. In fact, the
main reason I invested in this company is because I was thinking
 China .”  Plug-in hybrids and all-electric vehicles have the
potential to make up 9 percent of auto sales in 2020, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That could rise to 22 percent
of sales by 2030, or 4 million vehicles.  At the same time, their high price and low performance
compared with conventional vehicles may be a hurdle to growth,
U.K. market-research company  Technavio  said in an August 2011
report.  “The tipping point?” said Ofer. “I would say it’s 2015,
2016.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in Davos at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  