-- Televisa Posts Weekly Decline on Blocked Wireless Deal: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-01-27T21:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/televisa-slumps-on-blocked-wireless-deal-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Televisa SAB posted its
biggest weekly drop in almost three years as investors braced
for an antitrust ruling on the company’s plans to enter the
wireless business.  Televisa, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster,
fell 9.1 percent over the past five days to 51.73 pesos for the
biggest weekly decline since March 2009. The shares closed at
their lowest level since Oct. 3.  Mexico’s Federal Competition Commission voted 3-2 to block
Televisa’s planned $1.6 billion deal for a 50 percent stake in
mobile-phone provider  Grupo Iusacell SA (CEL*) , El Universal newspaper
reported Jan. 25, citing unidentified people. The agency said it
won’t officially disclose the ruling until the parties have been
legally notified, and Televisa has declined to comment.  “I see it as negative for the company,” said Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million as a  money manager  at
Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA. “The
company needs to look for other vehicles to figure out what to
do to participate in quadruple-play more quickly.”  Quadruple-play refers to packages of home-phone, Internet,
television and mobile services. Televisa already offers the
first three through its cable and satellite units.  Televisa had already agreed to spend $1.6 billion by the
end of last year to acquire debt in Iusacell that would be
convertible to shares when the deal was approved by the
antitrust agency. Televisa hasn’t disclosed whether it could get
its money back if the deal is rejected.  Lagunas sold shares this week and said he would start
buying again if the stock price dropped to 50 pesos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  