-- Ener1 Wins Approval of $13.5 Million Bankruptcy Financing
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-27T18:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ener1-wins-court-approval-of-13-5-million-in-funding-for-bankruptcy-case.html
Ener1 Inc. (HEVVQ) , a maker of lithium-ion
 car batteries  that filed for bankruptcy yesterday, won interim
court approval to borrow $13.5 million to finance operations
during its reorganization.  The company had sought permission to take $20 million from
shareholder Bzinfin SA, controlled by Ener1 director Boris Zingarevich. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan 
today refused to approve all of Ener1’s request.  “You have not persuaded me you should get $20 million
today when the budget you presented shows a maximum usage of
$13.5 million,” Glenn said. The judge scheduled a Feb. 27
hearing to consider confirming Ener1’s reorganization plan.  An Ener1 unit received a $118 million U.S. Energy
Department grant to make batteries for electric vehicles and
hybrids, which run on both electricity and gasoline.  “The demand for EVs, however, did not develop as quickly
as anticipated, which in turn harmed the debtor’s business,
operating results, financial condition and prospects,” Alex Sorokin, the interim chief executive, said in court papers. He
was named to the position in November.  The New York-based company filed for Chapter 11 protection
listing assets of $73.9 million and debt of $90.5 million.  Ener1’s stock will be canceled and new shares will be given
to Bzinfin and holders of long-term debt, under its plan.  Bzinfin’s Stake  Bzinfin, a holding and investment company based in  Russia ,
owns about 49 percent of Ener1’s stock and is the largest
shareholder,  Michael J. Venditto , a lawyer for Ener1, said today
in court. The stock was delisted by  Nasdaq , he said.  Bzinfin is providing Ener1 with $81 million in total
financing, which includes the debtor-in -possession, or DIP,
loan to fund operations during Chapter 11 and the exit financing
to complete the reorganization. In return, it will receive much
of the equity in the company after it emerges from Chapter 11.  “I’m particularly sensitive to these issues where the DIP
lender is going to essentially wind up owning the majority of
the company,” Glenn said before giving interim approval to the
loan.  Glenn noted that three lawsuits by shareholders seeking
class-action status have been filed against the company in  New
York . He urged Ener1’s lawyers to be prepared to present
evidence in case shareholders want to raise questions about the
valuation of the company at the confirmation hearing.  The largest unsecured creditors listed are Liberty Harbor
Special Investments LLC, with notes valued at $39.5 million
managed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and  Itochu Corp. (8001) , with
notes valued at $10.3 million. Itochu, based in  Tokyo , is
affiliated with Ener1 director Greg Kasagawa, according to court
papers.  The case is In re Ener1, 12-10299,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 