-- Ethiopia Rebels Say Government Blocks Release of Kidnapped German Tourists
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-27T17:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ethiopia-rebels-say-government-blocks-release-of-kidnapped-german-tourists.html
An Ethiopian rebel group said the
country’s government is blocking the release of two German
hostages the fighters are holding. Communications Minister
Bereket Simon denied the allegation.  The two Germans and two Ethiopians were abducted during a
Jan. 17 attack on a group of tourists on the edge of Erta Ale
volcano in the northeastern region of Afar that killed two
Germans, two Hungarians and an Austrian.  “Bianca Irmer and Jurgen Quick are in our custody and safe
and we are more than ready to set them free,” the Afar
Revolutionary Democratic Unity Front, or Arduf, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Ethiopian authorities in the Afar
region are out to render these efforts null and void in order to
get a plausible pretext to unleash a war on neighboring
Eritrea.”  Arduf is backed by Eritrea and the rebel group is
responsible for the hostages’ fate, Bereket said in a phone
interview today from  Addis Ababa , the capital.  “These are the terrorists who attacked the tourists and now
they are pretending they have an iota of humanity,” he said. “It
is a far-fetched and pretentious accusation.”  Ethiopia ’s government has accused Eritrea of being behind
the kidnappings and killings of the tourists. The hostages were
taken after a gun battle between the Ethiopian army and Arduf in
which 16 Ethiopian soldiers died, the group said.  “We have no contact with the Eritrean government but we
know for sure they have to take responsibility to ensure their
release otherwise they will face the consequences,” Bereket said.  Eritrea and Ethiopia fought a border war from 1998 to 2000
that killed 70,000 people, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group . The border dispute that caused the
war has not been resolved and troops from both sides are still a
heavy presence on parts of the divide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 