-- Mets Owners Ask Judge to Dismiss Madoff Trustee’s $386 Million in Claims
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-27T16:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/mets-owners-say-they-never-suspected-madoff-was-running-ponzi-scheme.html
The  New York Mets ’ owners asked a
judge to dismiss $386 million in remaining claims brought by the
trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm, saying their “early
faith” in Madoff was well-founded because of his reputation.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff threw out most of trustee
Irving Picard’s $1 billion in claims against the team owners.
The judge said Picard must prove they were willfully blind to
the convicted Ponzi schemer’s crimes if he wants to recoup money
they withdrew from their Madoff accounts, the Mets owners noted.
Since Picard hasn’t proved that, he has no case against them,
they argued.  “Defendants trusted their broker, Bernard L. Madoff, and
never suspected him of any fraud, let alone a  Ponzi scheme ,”
team owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz said in a court filing
yesterday. Picard can’t show they believed there was “a high
probability” that Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme or that
they took “deliberate action” to avoid seeing what was going
on, they said.  The Mets owners, after losing money in the Ponzi scheme and
an income stream from Madoff, have said they are trying to sell
stakes in the Major League Baseball team. Picard’s claims remain
a threat to their finances.  Fictitious Profits  Asking Rakoff to rule on one of his remaining claims,
Picard said the Mets owners must return $83 million in
fictitious profits taken from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme in the two
years before his 2008 arrest. The law allows him to take back
the money simply because the operation was a fraud, he said in a
court filing yesterday.  To get the money, Picard need only prove that Katz and
Wilpon didn’t give value in return for the money, and they can’t
possibly prove they did, as they were net winners, he said.  To get the other $300 million, Picard must prove the Mets
owners were willfully blind to the fraud, Rakoff has said.
Supporting their statements that they didn't know of the fraud, 
Wilpon and Katz attached testimony from  Arthur Friedman , a 
partner in their company, Sterling Equities, who handled their 
investments with the Madoff firm, depositing checks, making 
withdrawals and trying to duplicate Madoff’s investment strategy.  Under 17 hours of questioning by Picard, Friedman testified
that he made, on paper, less than half of Madoff’s reported
profits, though he was satisfied the strategy worked.  Fraud Insurance  Friedman told Picard that he couldn’t spell the word
“Ponzi” when he looked into buying insurance against
investment fraud. Friedman said he never bought the insurance
and was comfortable with the way Madoff did business. He said he
“understood” that Madoff was on a “short list” to become
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Picard, a partner at law firm Baker & Hostetler LLP in  New
York , originally demanded $300 million in profit and $700
million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a group of family
members and related entities, saying they turned a blind eye to
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The partners denied the allegation.  In September, Rakoff dismissed all or part of nine of 11
claims in Picard’s suit against Wilpon and Katz. He has set a
March trial for the rest of the claims.  Refusing to let Picard appeal his decisions this month,
Rakoff, a fan of the  New York Yankees , cited a quotation usually
attributed to that team’s Hall of Fame catcher,  Yogi Berra .  “Whether on the ball field or in court, ‘It ain’t over
till it’s over’ is both shrewd observation and sound advice,”
the judge said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  