-- EU Has Adequate Rules on Shale Gas Exploration, Study Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-27T12:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/eu-has-adequate-rules-on-shale-gas-exploration-study-shows-1-.html
The European Union has adequate
legislation to protect the environment as companies including
 Chevron (CVX)  Corp. explore for shale gas in several  member states , a
study commissioned by the EU regulatory arm showed.  “The legal study confirms that there is no immediate need
for changing our EU legislation,” EU Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger  said in a statement published today. “This
refers to the actual phase of exploration. We take environmental
concerns seriously and will continue to monitor the development
of shale gas extraction in the EU.”  As companies such as Chevron and Exxon Mobil Corp. started
drilling exploration wells in countries including  Poland , the
U.K and Germany, environmental groups raised concerns that
hydraulic fracturing, the process of blasting sand, water and
chemicals into shale that’s made the U.S. the world’s largest
natural-gas producer, risks earthquakes and polluting water
supply.  “From our point of view an adequate regulatory framework
for early exploration (seismic/test drilling) activities exists
taking into account all scrutinized laws and regulations,”
according to the study by Belgian-Luxembourg  law firm  Philippe &
Partners, published on the EU website.  Most of the relevant EU regulations include flexible
mechanisms, allowing the bloc’s nations to adjust their
legislation, to regional or local specifics of shale gas
exploration and potentially exploitation, it said.  300 Years  Poland, which is seeking to reduce its reliance on natural
gas from  Russia , may hold enough fuel trapped in shale to meet
its needs for 300 years, the U.S. Department of Energy said in
April. Almost 20 companies, including the nation’s dominant gas
company Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA and top
refiner PKN Orlen SA, have more than 100 licenses to explore for
shale gas in the country, considered  Europe ’s best prospect for
so-called unconventional gas.  Polish shale gas may be as much as 50 percent cheaper than
the Russian gas that the country now receives from the Yamal
pipeline, paying more than $500 per 1,000 cubic meters, Treasury
Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said on Jan. 19.  While there are no significant gaps in the EU law framework
when it comes to current shale gas activities, there’s “no
reason for complacency,” according to the study.  Polluting Water Supply  A central issue in the debate over the environmental aspect
of shale drilling is whether it risks polluting water supply.
While  France  banned fracking because of the risk of
contamination last year and  Bulgaria  followed suit earlier this
month, a U.K. parliamentary committee report in May found no
evidence shale drilling threatens underground water supplies.  In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency expects to
complete a report into shale and drinking water in 2014. Last
year the Oklahoma Geological Survey said a study of time and
geology showed a possibility that fracking a well near Elmore
City on Jan. 17 had caused a series of 43 minor tremors over a
period of 24 hours.  Last year exploration was suspended in the German state of
North Rhine-Westphalia as well as in northwest  England , where
fracturing gas wells caused two tremors.  Member states could step up efforts to consult the public
on shale gas activities at their early stages, according to the
study commissioned by the EU.  Public Participation  “At the moment where the project is still small scale and
thus easy ‘reversible,’ consultation of the concerned public is
not necessarily foreseen and hence has no say in the decision to
allow/refuse its start,” Philippe & Partners said in the study.
“It is exactly at this stage that public participation is
required the most.”  While drilling to explore for shale gas continues in
Europe, its extraction potential is still uncertain. Exxon Mobil
Corp., the world’s biggest oil company, said in November that
the region was in the “infancy” of shale gas development and
urged optimists to temper expectations.  Exploration and exploitation of shale gas requires
regulation in the field of environment, chemicals, civil law,
worker’s health and safety, resulting in a very diversified law
framework that involves different authorities, according to the
study by Philippe & Partners.  “In order to lower the burden on the operators and the
involved authorities as well as to ensure a coherent procedure,
the core authorization and permitting procedures on the one hand
and the environmental procedures and other permitting procedures
on the other hand could be more integrated, as is already the
case in  Germany  and  Sweden ,” the law firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 