-- EU Says Greece Debt Agreement Will Be Reached Soon as Athens Talks Resume
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-27T11:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/eu-says-greece-debt-agreement-will-be-reached-soon-as-athens-talks-resume.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said authorities are “very
close” to reaching an agreement on a private-sector involvement
in a Greek debt swap this month.  “The next three days will be very crucial for the future
in three years,” he said at a panel debate at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , today. “We’re just about
to close a deal on private sector involvement between the Greek
government and the private-sector community. Preferably, still
in January rather than February.”  Greece and its creditors are haggling over the terms of an
accord to reduce the country’s borrowings, three months after
private bondholders agreed to a 50 percent cut in the face value
of more than 200 billion euros ($263 billion) of debt by
voluntarily swapping bonds for new securities. The aim is to
reduce  Greece ’s debt burden to 120 percent of gross domestic
product in 2020.  European leaders are pushing investors to accept bigger
losses on their holdings on Greek government debt to avert a
default. An accord is tied to a second bailout for the country,
which faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  will meet creditor
representatives later today, according to his office. The
meeting between Papademos and  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the  Institute of International Finance , will be held at 6:30
p.m. Athens time, a spokeswoman from the premier’s office said
today by telephone.  Finance Minister  Papademos will also meet with Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and  Bank of Greece  Governor  George Provopoulos  at
12:30 p.m. Athens time, the spokeswoman said, declining to be
named, in line with policy.  Greece’s private bondholders had made an offer that would
lead to a loss of about 69 percent on the net-present value of
Greek bonds, two people with knowledge of the talks said on Jan.
23. The new 30-year bonds would carry an average coupon of about
4.25 percent, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels this week
signaled they would push Greece’s private investors to accept
bigger losses, with coupons below 3.5 percent for debt to be
serviced until 2020 and below 4 percent over the 30 years of the
next Greek package.  Dallara will make a proposal that the new bonds carry a
weighted average coupon of 3.75 percent, Greek newspaper
Kathimerini reported yesterday, without saying how it obtained
the information.  “We need to have a sustainable solution for Greece,” Rehn
said on the panel discussion with the French and German Finance
ministers. The private sector involvement planned in the Greek
rescue “won’t be applied to any other country of the  euro
zone .”  Rehn had said on Jan. 23 that talks with bondholders should
conclude “shortly.” A deal could be reached over the weekend,
if not today, he said at Davos today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  