-- Euro Can Withstand Greek Default, Spanish Economy Minister Says
-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e   a n d   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2012-01-27T10:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/euro-can-withstand-greek-default-spanish-economy-minister-says.html
The euro region can withstand a
Greek default, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said, as
he pledged to overhaul Spain’s financial system without adding
to the burden on public finances.  “It is strong enough for sure,” Guindos said in an
interview today with Bloomberg Television in Davos,  Switzerland .
“You cannot dismiss the political importance of the euro.”  De Guindos, appointed on Dec. 22 by newly elected Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy , is charged with steering a shrinking
economy back to growth and reducing a 23 percent jobless rate.
He is also leading an overhaul of banks reeling from the
sovereign debt crisis and the collapse of Spain’s property boom.  De Guindos, 52, said the Spanish government doesn’t plan to
use  taxpayers’  money to shore up banks. Lenders are capable of
funding 50 billion euros ($66 billion) of additional provisions
the government wants them to make from their earnings, he said.  “In the case of the 50 billion euros in further
provisioning, this is a figure that can be absorbed by the banks
through the P&L,” he said.  Provisioning efforts will be “especially dedicated” to
foreclosed real-estate assets, particularly “land and other
kind of property,” he said. Lenders that the government thinks
are not viable in the medium-term will have to merge.  Spanish lenders have piled up foreclosed land, unfinished
developments and homes onto their books since the collapse of
the property boom in 2008. While the Bank of  Spain  doesn’t
publish data on how much real-estate banks hold, it estimates
that total “troubled” assets linked to the industry amount to
176 billion euros, a figure that includes loans and property.
Provisions already cover about a third of that, according to the
Bank of Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher in Davos, Switzerland at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  