-- European Loans Contracted Most on Record
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-27T09:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/european-loan-growth-slowed-in-december-as-crisis-damped-economy.html
Loans to euro-area households and
companies contracted the most on record in December as the
sovereign debt crisis damped demand for credit and banks
tightened lending.  Loans to the private sector declined 0.7 percent from
November, the most since records began in 1991, the  European
Central Bank  said today. Loans grew 1 percent from a year
earlier, the lowest rate since July 2010 and down from the 1.7
percent annual gain in November.  “The sharp moderation in annual growth in loans to the
private sector in December, particularly the appreciable monthly
fall in loans to businesses, will reinforce concern that credit
conditions are now increasingly tightening and posing a mounting
risk to already struggling euro-zone economic activity,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London .  The ECB lent euro-area banks a record 489 billion euros
($640 billion) in December to ward off a funding squeeze caused
by a worsening in the two-year-old debt crisis. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said on Jan. 19 that the three-year loans prevented
a “serious funding crisis” and the benefits will become more
apparent in coming months.  “Many banks are under pressure to increase capital buffers
and that puts the brake on lending,” said Martin van Vliet,
senior euro-area economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. At the same
time, “the ECB’s three-year refinancing operation has helped a
lot and there are tentative signs of improvement in the real
economy.”  The rate of growth in  M3 money supply , which the Frankfurt-
based ECB uses as a gauge of future inflation, fell to 1.6
percent from 2 percent. M3 grew 2.1 percent in the three months
through December from the same period a year earlier, the ECB
said. M3 is the broadest gauge of  money supply  and includes cash
in circulation, some forms of savings and money-market holdings.  The ECB will publish its quarterly bank-lending survey on
Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  