-- European Stocks Retreat as U.S. GDP Misses Estimates; BP Falls
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-01-27T17:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-as-greece-s-debt-swap-talks-continue.html
European stocks  dropped from a five-
month high as a report showed that the  U.S. economy  grew at a
slower pace in the fourth quarter than economists had predicted.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, declined 2.6
percent after a judge ruled it can’t collect part of the cleanup
costs for its Gulf of  Mexico  spill from  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  BNP
Paribas SA fell 3.3 percent, making the biggest contribution to
the decline in a gauge of European banks, after JPMorgan Chase &
Co. recommended selling the shares.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  tumbled 1 percent to 255.4 at
the close of trading, the biggest drop since Dec. 14. The
benchmark index slipped 0.2 percent this week, snapping a five-
week rally, as  Greece ’s government continued to discuss a debt
swap with its private bondholders. The gauge has still  advanced
4.4 percent  in 2012, entering a  bull market  yesterday for the
second time in less than a year.  “The selling intensified after lunch, when U.S. GDP
figures failed to live up to expectations,” said Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in  London . The data
“was the catalyst for a general weakening of stock markets.”  The Stoxx 600 rose 1.1 percent yesterday, extending the
gauge’s rally from its Sept. 22 low to  20 percent . When an index
gains 20 percent from its most recent low, analysts say it has
entered a bull market. European equities have climbed since
September amid reports that indicated the U.S. economy is
recovering and speculation that the euro area will contain its
sovereign-debt crisis.  U.S. GDP Growth  A U.S. Commerce Department report today showed that the
world’s largest economy expanded in the fourth quarter at a
slower pace than economists had forecast. Gross domestic
product, the value of all goods and services produced, grew at a
2.8 percent annual pace. That fell short of the 3 percent
average prediction of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “This means that investors will be very careful with the
next U.S. data publications,” said John Plassard, director at
Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva. “Momentum is weaker than
expected and should make some investors doubtful.”  A separate report showed that  consumer sentiment  was the
strongest in 11 months in January, bolstered by job gains. The
 Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index  of confidence
for the month climbed to 75 from 69.9 at the end of December.
That beat the median estimate from a  survey of 62 economists  by
Bloomberg News.  National benchmark indexes fell in every western European
market except Iceland today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 1.1
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 Index declined 1.3 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index lost 0.4 percent.  Greece’s Debt Swap  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said Greece’s government will probably reach an
agreement on a debt swap with its private creditors this month.  “The next three days will be very crucial for the
future,” Rehn said at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , today. “We’re just about to close a deal on
private-sector involvement between the Greek government and the
private-sector community, preferably still in January rather
than February.”  The Institute of International Finance said that it made
“some progress” at a meeting last night in Athens between
managing director  Charles Dallara  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos . Talks continued today.  Greece and its creditors have haggled over how to reduce
the country’s borrowings three months after private bondholders
agreed to a 50 percent cut to the face value of more than 200
billion euros ($262 billion) of debt by voluntarily swapping
bonds for new securities.  BP Shares Decline  BP retreated 2.6 percent to 464.55 pence for the biggest
drag on the  Stoxx 600 . A judge ruled that the U.K. oil company
can’t collect from Transocean part of the $40 billion in cleanup
costs and economic losses caused by the 2010 Gulf of Mexico
spill. BP sued Transocean in April to recover a share of its
damages and costs. The blowout of the Macondo well led to the
world’s largest accidental oil spill.  Transocean advanced 0.9 percent to 43.83 Swiss francs.  BNP Paribas retreated 3.3 percent to 34.64 euros after
JPMorgan downgraded France’s biggest bank to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  dropped 1.6 percent to 4.94
euros.  Waertsilae Oyj, the world’s largest maker of ship motors
and power plants, fell 5.3 percent to 25.54 euros after
reporting fourth-quarter sales of 1.24 billion euros, missing
the  average analyst estimate  of 1.38 billion euros. The company
posted operating profit of 145 million euros, falling short of
the average projection of 151 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  