-- Euro Gains Amid Greek-Debt Discussions, Stronger U.S. Consumer Confidence
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-27T22:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/euro-advances-against-dollar-as-yields-fall-at-italy-bill-sale-yen-climbs.html
The euro gained for a fifth day
against the dollar, the longest streak in three months, after
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Greece was “close” to reaching agreement with its
creditors.  The 17-nation currency extended gains after a report showed
U.S. consumer confidence this month was the highest in almost a
year. The euro was supported as Italy sold bills, benefitting
the  European Central Bank ’s efforts to fight the spread of the
debt crisis by shoring up banks. The Dollar Index  headed  for its
second weekly decline after the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep
 interest rates  low for at least three more years.  “The next market focus is whether Greece will get this
next aid package and whether it will be able to stay in the
euro,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider
Foreign Exchange in  London . “The market senses the Fed is
cautious, so the market is scrutinizing all the data coming out
of the U.S., so prices are really reacting.”  The euro rallied 0.9 percent to $1.3220 at 5 p.m. New York
time, touching the highest level since Dec. 13. The yen
strengthened 1 percent to 76.70 per dollar.  Japan ’s currency
appreciated 0.1 percent to 101.39 per euro.  Fitch cuts  The shared currency remain higher after Fitch Ratings cut
the credit ratings of Italy, Spain and three other euro-area
countries, saying they lack financing flexibility in the face of
the regional debt crisis.  Futures traders  increased their bets the euro will fall
versus the dollar to a record for a fifth straight week. So-
called net shorts rose to 171,347 on Jan. 24, according to data
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The dollar strengthened earlier after U.S. gross domestic
product climbed at a 2.8 percent annual following a 1.8 percent
gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 3 percent increase. It
weakened after the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final
index  of consumer sentiment climbed to 75 from 69.9 at the end
of December.  The U.S. currency had a weekly loss against all 16 of its
major counterparts as the Fed’s pledge to keep interest rates
near zero percent until the end of 2014 spurred investors to
search for yield.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, declined for a third day,
dropping 0.7 percent to 78.836, touching the weakest since Dec.
12.  The yen rose against all its 16 most-traded counterparts.
It added 0.7 percent to 81.75 versus the Australian dollar and
jumped 0.6 percent to 63.26 against New Zealand’s currency as
technical indicators showed the Japanese currency may have
fallen too far, too quickly.  The seven-day relative strength index for the Australian
dollar versus the yen fell below the 70 level for the first time
in a week, the longest streak since April.  “The major driver for the market is still what will
hopefully come out of  Greece ,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of
U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York.
“You don’t want to sit on too much risk because of any
potential news over the weekend, so the yen will continue to
perform.”  Brazil Update  Brazil’s strengthened against the dollar even as traders
added to bets the nation’s central bank will cut benchmark
borrowing costs. The real advanced 0.7 percent to 1.7370 per
 U.S. dollar . The central bank’s board said it sees a “high
probability” the Selic rate, currently at 10.5 percent, will be
below 10 percent this year.  The dollar has weakened 2.3 during the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weight Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro fell 1.1 percent, and
the yen dropped 0.6 percent.  Italy  auctioned 182-day bills at a yield of 1.969 percent,
down from 3.251 percent at a sale of similar-maturity debt on
Dec. 28. The Frankfurt-based ECB loaned euro-region banks a
record 489 billion euros ($646 billion) for three years on Dec.
21 to avert a credit crunch.  “The next three days will be very crucial,” the EU’s Rehn
said at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . An
agreement may come “if not today, then over the weekend,” he
said.  Greece must repay 14.5 billion euros of bonds in March and
an agreement that triggers as much as $3.2 billion of default
insurance may be necessary unless all bondholders approve,
according to Marco Buti, head of the European Commission’s
economics division.  “They have not delivered on any pseudo announcement, but
it’s becoming more likely because the source of the talk, Rehn,
is from someone delivering a seemingly official message,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London. “The Fed’s interest-rate action and
extra liquidity from the ECB is a broad excuse to buy higher-
yielders. It’s a sugar rush.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  