-- European Stocks Post First Weekly Drop in Six; Petroplus Leads Declines
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/european-stocks-post-first-weekly-drop-in-six-petroplus-plunges.html
European stocks  declined for the
first week in six after a report showed the U.S. economy grew
slower that forecast in the fourth quarter and talks continued
between  Greece  and its creditors for a debt-swap deal.  Petroplus Holdings AG plunged the most ever after filing
for insolvency. Royal KPN NV, the biggest Dutch telephone
company, dropped 6 percent after predicting a decrease in 2012
profit and cash flow. Greek banks jumped on reports that debt-
reduction talks have made progress, with EFG  Eurobank (EUROB)  Ergasias
SA surging 79 percent.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.2 percent this
week. The gauge rallied 20 percent from its most-recent low on
Sept. 22 through Jan. 26, satisfying the typical definition of a
 bull market  by analysts. Stocks rebounded as the U.S. economy
maintained its recovery and speculation grew that the euro area
will contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  “The slightly disappointing data from America reminds
investors that being overly bullish in the current environment
may not be justified,” said Luis Benguerel, trader at
Interbrokers Espanola in Barcelona. “We also have the ongoing
Greek debt negotiations and it’s key that a solution in that
sense is announced soon.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than forecast in the fourth
quarter as consumers curbed spending and government agencies cut
back, validating the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to keep interest
rates low for a longer period.  Below Estimates  U.S. Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, climbed at a 2.8 percent annual pace
following a 1.8 percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce
Department figures showed in  Washington . The median forecast of
79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 3 percent
increase. Growth excluding a jump in inventories was 0.8
percent.  “After a rapid rise of the equity market in the past
month, the market is certainly reassessing the perceived
strength in the economic recovery due to the weaker than
expected GDP number,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser
at Schroeder Equities GmbH in Munich.  National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 lost less than 0.1 percent,
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased less than 0.1 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index advanced 1.7 percent. Greece’s ASE rallied
5.3 percent.  Greek Debt Burden  Greece must repay 14.5 billion euros ($19 billion) of bonds
maturing in March and the  International Monetary Fund  is
demanding a deal with investors in exchange for aid.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and  Charles Dallara ,
managing director of the Institute of International Finance,
representing private creditors, resumed their negotiations this
week to reduce the country’s borrowings. The talks came three
months after private bondholders agreed to a 50 percent cut to
the face value of more than 200 billion euros of debt by
voluntarily swapping bonds for new securities.  European Union finance ministers, meeting in Brussels,
failed to reach an agreement on Greek debt-swap, driving stocks
down from a five-month high early this week. The balked at
putting up more taxpayer money for Greece and called for private
bondholders to provide greater relief.  New Proposal  Private creditors will submit a new offer with an average
interest rate of 3.75 percent on bonds issued as part of a debt
restructuring, Kathimerini reported, without saying where it got
the information. IIF’s Dallara was going to make the proposal in
his talks with Greek officials, the newspaper said.  Meanwhile, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Greece’s government will probably
reach an agreement on a debt swap with its private creditors
this month.  In the U.S., the Fed said it sees the “exceptionally low”
 interest rates  to continue through 2014, having earlier pledged
to refrain from raising borrowing costs until at least the
middle of 2013.  U.S. policy makers are “prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation if employment is not making sufficient
progress towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if
inflation shows signs of moving further below its mandate-
consistent rate,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said. Bond
buying is “an option that’s certainly on the table,” he added.  Petroplus Insolvency  Petroplus (PPHN)  sank 83 percent, its biggest decline and the
lowest price since it issued shares to the public in November
2006. The company said it plans to file for insolvency in
Switzerland and other jurisdictions. The Swiss refiner had about
$1 billion in credit lines suspended last month, preventing it
from supplying its refineries with crude.  Royal KPN NV, the biggest Dutch telephone company, dropped
6 percent. The company said 2012 profit and  cash flow  will be
lower. Royal KPN reported fourth-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of 1.32 billion
euros, compared with the average analyst estimate of 1.36
billion euros. The company also said there will be no share
buyback in 2012.  STMicroelectronics NV slid 3.8 percent as  Europe ’s largest
semiconductor maker predicted that first- quarter revenue will
fall as much as 10 percent from the previous three months
because of lower sales at its wireless business.  Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless
networks, fell 12 percent after reporting fourth-quarter net
income that missed analysts’ estimates.  Eurobank rallied 79 percent, while National Bank of Greece
SA jumped 23 percent.  Outokumpu Oyj,  Finland ’s biggest stainless-steel maker,
rose 14 percent. ThyssenKrupp AG said it’s in talks to merge its
Inoxum stainless steel unit with Outokumpu. All options for the
unit are still open, including an initial public offering,
spinoff and a sale to an investor, ThyssenKrupp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  