-- Europe Financial Crisis Is at ‘Beginning of the End,’ Nomura Holdings Says
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-01-27T14:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/europe-financial-crisis-is-at-beginning-of-the-end-nomura-holdings-says.html
The worst of the European sovereign
debt crisis may be over as the region’s banks are increasingly
able to access funding, according to  Nomura Holdings Inc.’s (8604)  top
executive in the region.  “There is evidence Europe is starting to turn a bit of a
corner,” John Phizackerley, Nomura’s chief executive officer
for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said in an interview on the
sidelines of the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos,
 Switzerland  today. “If we can free up European markets and
access non-government money, it’s the beginning of the end.”  The  European Central Bank  is flooding the banking system
with cheap money to avoid a credit crunch after the market for
unsecured bank debt seized up in the second half of last year
and cash from U.S. money market funds dried up. The ECB in
December lent banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($642
billion) for three years.  Since the ECB’s first offering of three-year money last
month, banks including Rabobank Nederland and Nordea Bank AB
have sold more than 19.5 billion euros of benchmark senior
unsecured debt. That compares with 14.5 billion euros of bonds
from July to December last year.  ECB ‘Effective’  “The ECB is proving effective,” said Phizackerley, 49.
“It doesn’t mean we don’t have another five to 10 years of hard
work to do at the sovereign level, but at least foreign
investment will return if there is a degree of confidence
markets can clear.”  The Japanese broker bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
European and Asian operations in a bid to expand outside its
domestic market. The Tokyo-based firm has struggled to reap a
return from the expansion: Nomura’s overseas units posted their
biggest loss in six quarters for the three months ended
September. The firm is eliminating jobs to help reduce costs by
$1.2 billion.  “We are intending to stay the course,” Phizackerley said.
“We will be a beneficiary of the consolidation that is coming
in  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Davos, Switzerland at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  