-- Ex-Penn State Coach Sandusky Seeks to Amend Bail Terms to Visit His Family
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-27T23:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ex-penn-state-coach-sandusky-seeks-to-amend-bail-terms-to-visit-his-family.html
Jerry Sandusky, the former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach accused
of sexually assaulting boys, asked a court to change his bail
conditions.  Sandusky, 68, yesterday asked permission to visit with his
grandchildren in his home with supervision from at least one of
their parents, and to leave home to help his attorneys and
investigators locate potential defense witnesses in the
preparation of his defense. The requests were filed in state
court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  Sandusky’s grandchildren “have expressed their sadness to
their parents about not being able to visit or talk” with him
since Nov. 5, he said in court papers. Sandusky has 11 minor
grandchildren and another on the way, according to the court
filing.  Sandusky, a former assistant football coach, is charged
with more than 40 counts stemming from the alleged sexual abuse
of 10 boys. He waived a preliminary hearing in December and
prosecutors said his case will proceed to trial. Sandusky, under
home confinement on $250,000 bail, denies the charges.  “The change in bail is to allow Jerry to go out and
identify people who may assist in his defense,” Sandusky’s
attorney Joseph Amendola said today in a phone interview.  Amendola said it is a possibility that in their research
they could locate alleged victims.  Identifying Accusers  “It is a possibility,” he said. “We won’t know until we
can identify those people by name and know who they are for
sure. We believe we have identified most of the accusers.”  Amendola said Sandusky won’t have any direct contact with
potential witnesses. Instead, he will help identify their
locations, such as a home or work address, Amendola said.  “The Office of Attorney General will oppose any effort to
reduce or relax the bail restrictions that have been
placed on Mr. Sandusky,” Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for
state Attorney General Linda Kelly, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
MJ-49201-cr-0000636-2011, Magisterial District Court, Centre
County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 