-- Texas School Fund Weighs In-House Managers to Curb Fees
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-27T21:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/texas-fund-eaten-alive-by-hedge-fees-may-curb-costs-by-hiring-in-house.html
Texas (STOTX1) ’s Permanent School Fund may
hire in-house money managers to oversee its $25 billion in
assets because returns are being “eaten alive” by hedge-fund
fees, according to Chief Investment Officer Holland Timmins.  Returns were less than 1 percent for the 44 months through
November on assets managed by the five companies that bundle
multiple  hedge funds  into single investment vehicles, Timmins
said Jan. 25 at a State Education Board meeting. After fees, the
return was negative, he said.  “The sector that should have enhanced our funding for
schools actually detracted from it,” Timmins said. “We had a
positive return in the asset class, modestly, but it got eaten
alive by the fees.”  Hedge-fund expenses have reached about $72.7 million since
2008, according to a document Timmins distributed among board
members. The reserve backs school-district debt and distributes
$1 billion annually to support public education in the second-
biggest U.S. state by population. The board voted 13-0 today to
draw up a detailed plan for making the change, said Tom Ratliff,
a member of the board’s investment committee.  Driven by Competition  “Big-brand hedge funds have been able to maintain their
fee levels, but other funds have had to react to the marketplace
and make adjustments,” said Brian Bruce, a former finance
instructor at  Southern Methodist University  who previously
worked for PanAgora Asset Management Inc. in  Boston . “But
that’s been more driven by competition rather than people saying
these fees are too high.”  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  of equities gained 2.3
percent including reinvested dividends from March 31, 2008,
through November 30, 2011. The reserve’s hedge funds had a gain
of 0.75 percent through that month, according to Timmins.  Timmins proposed hiring one of the current investment
managers to advise on allocating assets to hedge funds, while
one or more of the poorly performing companies would be dropped.
The adviser would be picked from among the five firms, according
to Patricia Hardy, the head of the board’s finance committee.  Picking the adviser from among the current providers would
save time, as they are familiar to the board and know the
reserve’s investment goals, board members said.  Fee Estimate  About 68 percent of the reserve’s costs, or about $34
million a year, is tied to absolute-return and private-equity
investments that hold just 16 percent of its assets, Timmins
said at a July meeting. Absolute-return fees are projected to be
$114.7 million from 2012 to 2016 under the current system,
excluding private-equity investment costs, he said.  The fund had $2.42 billion in hedge-fund assets as of Aug.
31, 2010, according to its annual report.  The proposed arrangement would deliver the same strategic
advice provided by outside companies at a lower cost, said
Ratliff. “They will still be making plenty of money,” he said
of the hedge fund companies.  The Legislature last year added $18 million annually to the
fund for new employees to manage assets and cut costs, Ratliff
said. The board hasn’t acted in deference to Texas Education
Agency Commissioner  Robert Scott , who is hiring a deputy
commissioner to focus on the fund, he said.  Five Companies  The five companies that oversee the reserve’s hedge-fund
investments are K2 Advisors LLC, Grosvenor Capital Management
Holdings LLP, Mesirow Advanced Strategies Inc., Blackstone
Alternative Asset Management and  GAM Holding AG (GAM) , according to
documents distributed in July. The fund dismissed  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  last year, citing performance issues.  Timmins didn’t say how many new employees would be hired if
his proposal is set in motion. In July, he estimated about 30
would be added.  Christine Anderson , a  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  spokeswoman, and
William Douglass III, a K2 co-founder, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls seeking comment on the proposal. Bill
Blase, a spokesman for GAM, declined to comment. Officials of
Mesirow and Grosvenor didn’t immediately respond to telephone
calls or e-mails.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 