-- Texas Insurers Won’t Get Reprieve From Health-Care Spending Rule, HHS Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-27T22:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/texas-insurers-won-t-get-reprieve-from-health-care-spending-rule-hhs-says.html
Health insurers in  Texas  can’t take
more than 20 percent of the revenue they collect in premiums for
overhead and profit after the U.S. today denied a request from
the state for more generous limits.  Texas Republican Governor  Rick Perry ’s administration had
asked the U.S. to let plans led by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Texas spend less than 80 percent of their premium revenue on
patient care. Rules created under the 2010 health-care law limit
the administrative costs and profits for insurers selling to
individuals and small businesses.  Thirty-four companies sell policies to individuals in
Texas. Eight carriers who control 85 percent of the individual
market have said they’ll continue selling after the profit limit
is enforced, officials with the U.S.  Health and Human Services
Department  said in denying the request.  There is a not a “reasonable likelihood” that the profit
limit will destabilize Texas’s individual market, said  Steve Larsen , director of the U.S. Center for Consumer Information and
Insurance Oversight, in a letter today to the state insurance
commissioner, Eleanor Kitzman.  Not Enough Time  Kitzman’s agency, the Texas Department of Insurance, said
in a statement on its website that the decision doesn’t give
insurers enough time to adjust their businesses. Carriers that
spent less than 80 percent of premiums on care in 2011 must
rebate the difference to their customers this year.  “A reasonable, responsible phased-in approach would still
have afforded rebates to Texas consumers without risking
disruption, dislocation and withdrawal of carriers in the
individual market,” the department said.  Allison Castle, a spokeswoman for Perry, said the decision
was “the Obama administration’s latest overreach.”  “These types of decisions are best left to the states,”
she said.  Seventeen states have asked for adjustments, and HHS has
denied nine of them. One state,  Maine , got the higher profit
ceiling it requested in 2012, and five states got a limit
greater than 20 percent but less than they requested.  Two states,  Wisconsin  and  North Carolina , have requests
outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  