-- Texas Redistricting Dispute Back in San Antonio After High Court Rejection
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-27T19:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/texas-redistricting-dispute-back-in-san-antonio-after-high-court-rejection.html
The Texas redistricting dispute is
back in federal court in  San Antonio , where three U.S. judges
are seeking a compromise that can help them re-draw voter maps
in time to keep the state’s 2012 elections on schedule.  Lawyers for Latino voting rights activists, the state
attorney general, Texas lawmakers, election officials and
political party leaders today are continuing a redistricting
debate that has already gone before the U.S. Supreme Court.  County governments say they can’t afford multiple
primaries, which might also suppress voter turnout. The judges
have asked the parties to discuss possible compromise boundaries
and consider whether the state can reimburse local governments
for the cost of holding multiple primary elections.  The dispute is over whether new voter maps created by the
Republican-controlled  Texas  Legislature last year were
intentionally designed to keep Latinos from being elected. State
lawmakers contend they didn’t discriminate and were legally
allowed to draw districts that favored the election of
Republicans.  The San Antonio court is considering splitting Texas’s
primaries, holding the presidential primary April 3 and all
other state and local primaries later, U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia said in a Jan. 23 order.  Split Primary  Unless new voting district maps are approved within about a
week, Texas election officials say, the primaries must be
delayed or split, as counties won’t have time to rearrange
precincts, create voter registration cards and mail absentee and
military ballots as required by law.  The San Antonio court has ordered all parties in the
dispute to submit whatever boundaries they can agree on by Feb.
6 so new maps can be drawn up in time to preserve the unified
primary date.  Texas was required to create new voter boundaries after
gaining four congressional seats to accommodate almost
4.3 million new residents since 2000, according to the 2010  U.S.
Census . About 65 percent of the state’s population growth came
from Hispanics, who have historically voted more often for
Democrats than Republicans.  After Texas Governor  Rick Perry  approved the legislature’s
maps last July, Latino voter activists and lawmakers whose jobs
were threatened sued in San Antonio federal court, saying the
maps violated the Voting Rights Act.  Seeking Pre-Clearance  Texas sued in district court in Washington seeking so-
called pre-clearance of its maps. Pre-clearance is required of
all states with a history of voting rights violations. Texas
can’t implement its new election boundaries without this
approval from either a Washington federal court or the U.S.
Justice Department.  To avoid election delays while it considers pre-clearance,
the  Washington  court asked the three-judge San Antonio panel
last year to draw temporary voter maps for the election cycle.
The Texas panel released interim boundaries in November after
taking testimony in a two-week trial. The court also postponed
the state’s primary elections from March 6 to April 3 to allow
candidates time to assess the lines.  Texas appealed the San Antonio judges’ maps to the U.S.
Supreme Court. The high court rejected the court-created maps as
not deferential enough to the legislature’s maps. The justices
ordered the San Antonio judges to try again, using the
lawmakers’ maps as a starting point.  The Washington court hasn’t ruled on pre-clearance. That
court is scheduled to conclude a two-week trial next week, and
the San Antonio judges asked the Washington judges to expedite
their ruling to guide the Texas panel’s redistricting efforts.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 