-- Exchange Consolidation Will Continue, Nasdaq Chief Greifeld Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-27T12:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/exchange-consolidation-will-continue-nasdaq-chief-greifeld-says.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief
Executive Officer Robert Greifeld said consolidation among
exchanges will continue even if antitrust regulators block
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s bid for NYSE Euronext.  “Not at all,” Greifeld said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today in Davos, Switzerland, responding to
a question on whether consolidation is over. “We’re pursuing a
strategy of organic growth combined with bolt-on acquisitions.”  European antitrust regulators, led by European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , are next week likely
to formally prohibit the merger of  NYSE Euronext (NRX)  and Deutsche
Boerse, the last remaining deal after a year of failed attempts.
Should the takeover be blocked, it would mean $37 billion in
exchange mergers announced since October 2010 didn’t close,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nasdaq OMX, which made a failed hostile bid for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  in April, isn’t interested in buying  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , Greifeld said yesterday. He also said he
wouldn’t consider a second attempt at NYSE Euronext because the
U.S. Justice Department rejected the idea.  Almunia said earlier today that NYSE Euronext and Deutsche
Boerse’s planned merger of trading and post-trading operations
would cause “serious” concerns. Almunia’s team at the European
Commission has told the two companies they’ll seek to veto the
deal to create the world’s largest exchange because it would
monopolize derivatives trading in the region, according to two
people familiar with the matter. Almunia has promised a ruling
on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  