-- Facebook Plans IPO Filing as Early as Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/facebook-may-file-ipo-to-raise-up-to-100-billion-as-early-as-next-week.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social-networking service, is aiming to file for its initial
public offering as early as the coming week, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The company is discussing a valuation of $75 billion to
$100 billion, said two people, who asked not to be identified
because the plans haven’t been made public. Timing for the
filing is still being discussed and may change, they said.  The IPO would provide funds to help Facebook maintain its
expansion and fend off competition from Internet rivals such as
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc. The company has discussed raising
$10 billion in the offering, a person familiar with the matter
said in November. Facebook may set its price at the low end of
the valuation range to entice investors and ensure the stock
rises after the IPO, said Anupam Palit, an analyst at GreenCrest
Capital Management LLC in  New York .  “They might discount it a little bit in order to make sure
the first couple days of trading are very strong,” he said.  Facebook is close to hiring Morgan Stanley to handle the
deal, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will probably play a “major
role” in the IPO, the Wall Street Journal said Jan. 27. The
newspaper was first to report that Facebook may file its
paperwork as early as the coming week.  Larry Yu, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment, as did representatives of Goldman
Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , both based in New York.  Trading Suspension  Shareholders of Facebook faced a three-day suspension of
trading on secondary markets that lasted through  Jan. 27,
people with knowledge of the matter said this past week. While
buy and sell orders could be made, transactions wouldn’t be
processed by Facebook’s attorneys at Fenwick & West LLC, the
people said.  Halting the trading, which had allowed employees and early
stakeholders to buy and sell shares, didn’t mean the filing is
imminent, the people said. Still, some companies suspend trading
ahead of a filing to make sure that investors can’t exchange
shares until all of the information is public, said Sam Hamadeh,
chief executive officer of New York-based PrivCo.  A trading halt also may represent an effort by private
companies to ascertain how many shareholders they have.  Co-founded by  Mark Zuckerberg  in 2004 in a Harvard
University dorm room, Facebook has amassed more than 800 million
users with an easy-to-use website that lets anyone with an
Internet connection construct profile pages, post video and
photos and interact with friends. The company has nudged aside
competitors such as MySpace Inc. and generates sales from
advertisers as varied as  AT&T Inc. (T) , Best Buy Co. and Sony Corp.  IPO Surge  Facebook would follow a flurry of social-media companies
holding IPOs in 2011, the biggest year for U.S. Internet
offerings in more than a decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Nineteen companies raised $6.6 billion in 2011 -- the
most since 2000, when 101 businesses raised $11 billion.
Professional-networking site LinkedIn Corp., music-streaming
service  Pandora Media Inc., (P)  daily-deal site Groupon Inc. and
social-gaming company Zynga Inc. all sold shares last year.  Facebook expects to be required by U.S. regulators to
disclose financial results by April 30, if it doesn’t go public
by then, the company said last year when it announced an
investment from Goldman Sachs and other backers. The $1.5
billion investment valued the company at $50 billion.  Facebook decided to wait until 2012 for its IPO to give
Zuckerberg more time to gain users and boost sales, people
familiar with the matter said in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  