-- Obama Administration Expands Aid for Delinquent U.S. Homeowners
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/fannie-freddie-to-get-paid-for-forgiving-debt-in-revised-home-aid-program.html
The Obama administration, seeking to
help more homeowners lower their  interest rates  and shed
mortgage debt, will relax the rules on a federal loan-
modification program and triple its incentives to banks.  The  revised  Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP,
also would pay  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  to forgive debt on
homes that have lost value. The government-owned companies,
citing cost, don’t reduce principal, a policy that has limited
HAMP’s reach because they own or guarantee nearly half of U.S.
home loans.  Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan,
Assistant Treasury Secretary Tim Massad, and White House
National Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling  announced the
program changes yesterday in a phone call with reporters.  “This will expand the reach of HAMP,” Massad said.  The HAMP program changes are separate from a new
refinancing plan that President  Barack Obama  promised to deliver
in his State of the Union speech on Jan. 24, Sperling said. That
effort will be detailed in coming weeks.  Whether Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  accept the
administration offer is up to Edward J. DeMarco, acting director
of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which is charged with
minimizing losses to the companies and to taxpayers. In a
written statement, DeMarco said he would analyze the potential
costs and benefits of participating in HAMP’s principal
writedown effort.  No Principal Forgiveness  FHFA recently released an analysis “concluding that
principal forgiveness did not provide benefits that were greater
than principal forbearance”, DeMarco said in a  written
statement .  In that analysis, released to Congress in recent days,
DeMarco estimated that forgiving mortgage debt could cost the
government-supported companies almost $100 billion.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
and Freddie Mac, which have cost taxpayers more than $150
billion so far, guarantee nearly 3 million single-family homes
that are underwater, meaning the owners owe more than the
property is worth.  The HAMP expansion, called HAMP Tier 2, triples incentives
paid to banks that reduce mortgage principal to a maximum of 63
cents for every dollar of debt forgiven.  Investors who rent out their properties would be eligible
to refinance under the new rules. The deadline for applying for
a HAMP loan modification is extended for a year, to the end of
2013.  Signature Effort  HAMP has been the Obama administration’s signature rescue
effort for delinquent homeowners struggling in the aftermath of
a lending bubble that inflated property values.  About 900,000 borrowers have successfully used the lifeline
to refinance, saving an average of about $500 a month -- fewer
than the 4 million borrowers HAMP was expected to reach. The
program pays mortgage servicers and investors for successfully
modifying loans. Because of the low response, about two-thirds
of the program’s $29.9 billion budget, which was funded through
the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, hasn’t been
obligated.  HAMP loan modifications are limited to mortgages worth
$729,500 or less. The new rules are expected to be effective by
May.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been under government
control since 2008, when they were taken into conservatorship as
they teetered on the brink of collapse. Since then, the two have
relied on  government aid  to continue operating.  DeMarco, who is independent of the Obama administration,
has resisted policies that could add to the bailout. The new
HAMP rules, structured as sort of a fee for service, is one way
to entice the government sponsored companies to participate in
the administration’s foreclosure prevention efforts.  “This is a hoot,” said Thomas A. Lawler, an economist and
former Fannie Mae executive. “The government will pay Fannie
and Freddie, who are effectively owned by the government, to
reduce the principal on certain loans?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  