-- Fayyad Says Palestinians ‘Marginalized’ by Arab Spring
-- B y   O l i v i a   S t e r n s   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-01-27T16:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/fayyad-says-palestinian-statehood-marginalized-by-arab-spring.html
Palestinian Authority Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad said efforts to achieve a state through peace talks
with  Israel  have been “marginalized” by the Arab Spring and
the financial crisis in  Europe .  “Conditions are not ripe for resumption of the political
process,” Fayyad said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.
“Our cause has been marginalized to an extent unsurpassed for
decades.”  The Quartet, which includes the U.S., the  United Nations ,
the European Union and  Russia , had set yesterday as the deadline
for Israel and the Palestinians to resolve preliminary
conditions ahead of the resumption of official negotiations that
stalled more than a year ago.  After five meetings in Amman, Jordan, Israel and the
Palestinians failed to come to terms that could allow talks to
go forward, and a Palestinian official said yesterday there
would be no more meetings unless Israel agrees to stop
construction in Jewish settlements in the  West Bank .  Talks fell apart in September 2010 after Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to renew a 10-month freeze
on settlement-building and Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas ruled out negotiations while West Bank
construction continues.  ‘Seriously Narrowed’  Israeli President  Shimon Peres , speaking yesterday in
Davos, was more upbeat than Fayyad. Peres said that in Amman
gaps between the sides were “seriously narrowed, and neither
the Palestinians nor the Israeli have any choice but to make
peace.”  Fayyad said negotiations were now unlikely to gain traction
because of the U.S. election this year, the European debt crisis
and political turmoil in the region that has toppled leaders in
Egypt, Tunisia and Libya. Domestic issues will keep leaders
preoccupied, he said.  Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to Saudi Arabia in
January 2011, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak was toppled a
month later and is currently on trial, Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi
was killed in October and Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh
signed an accord to relinquish power in November.  Fayyad said that the Quartet efforts to get talks back on
track has come “at the expense” of giving “adequate attention
to issues of the here and now and what is happening on the
ground, including the fact that the  Palestinian Authority  is
facing a severe financial crisis that isn’t getting much
attention.”  The Palestinian Authority’s budget deficit is widening as
foreign aid dwindles, said Fayyad, an economist who previously
worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  Saudi Arabia said on Sept. 20 that it would pay $200
million to help ease a financial crisis that left the
Palestinian Authority struggling to pay employees and reliant on
foreign aid to narrow a budget deficit of about $1 billion.
Jihad Al Wazir, head of the Palestinian Monetary Authority, said
in September that the Palestinian Authority was facing a funding
deficit for 2011 of about $300 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  