-- Fed’s Dudley Sees ‘Significant Impediments’ to Economic Recovery This Year
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-27T17:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/fed-s-dudley-sees-significant-impediments-to-economic-recovery-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the  U.S. economy  will probably
slow this year while confronting risks “skewed to the
downside.”  “It is unlikely that the faster growth experienced in the
fourth quarter of 2011 will be matched in the first half of
2012,” Dudley said today in remarks in New York. “In addition
to the temporary nature of some of the recent improvement, there
are significant impediments to a robust recovery.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this week
voted to extend its pledge to keep interest rates low until at
least late 2014, compared with a previous date of mid-2013.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 that the Fed is
weighing additional stimulus to bring down the 8.5 percent
 unemployment rate , including another round of bond buying.  The economy expanded less than forecast in the fourth
quarter as consumers curbed spending and government agencies cut
back. Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced, climbed at a 2.8 percent annual pace
following a 1.8 percent gain in the prior quarter. It was the
fastest rate of increase since the second quarter of 2010.  “ Monetary policy  has done and will continue to do its part
in supporting the recovery -- but it is not all-powerful,”
Dudley said. “Other complementary policy actions in housing,
fiscal policy and structural adjustment or rebalancing of the
economy will be essential if we are to achieve the best
available recovery.”  Primary Risk  Stocks fell after the GDP report. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
index of stocks declined 0.3 percent to 1,314.69 at 12:43 p.m.
in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
was little changed at 1.93 percent.  Policy makers decided to extend their rate pledge this week
after assessing their economic outlook, Dudley said.  “The unemployment rate was going to remain quite high in
an environment where inflation pressures were subsiding,”
Dudley said in response to questions from reporters after his
speech.  An “outright decline of the  labor force ” means that the
“decline in the unemployment rate may overstate the improvement
in labor market conditions,” Dudley said. Joblessness fell to
8.5 percent in December, the lowest in almost three years.  The main risk to growth is “uncertainty as to how events
in  Europe  will unfold,” Dudley said. Also, “more
contractionary” fiscal policies and the “depressed housing
market” are likely to impede economic expansion, he said.  Falling Prices  “The ongoing weakness in housing makes achieving a
vigorous economic recovery more difficult for several reasons,”
including the resulting damage to consumer wealth, he said.
“The big drop in  house prices  has made it more difficult for
borrowers to refinance, undercutting some of monetary policy’s
ability to support demand.”  Dudley in a Jan. 6 speech called on the government to
remove obstacles to refinancing, suggesting that  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  reduce the principal of the loans they guarantee.
Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  called Dudley’s
suggestion “absolutely egregious.”  “I was talking about issues that were basically impairing
the ability of monetary policy to support economic activity,”
Dudley said in response to questions from reporters. “My goal
here was not to cause any sort of controversy,” it was to
create a “discussion” and “deeper examination.”  ‘Stronger Note’  While “recent data suggest that the U.S. economy ended
2011 on a somewhat stronger note,” the “amount of slack in the
economy remains substantial,” Dudley said.  “This large amount of slack is putting downward pressure
on trend inflation,” Dudley said. “Inflation has retreated and
may be headed down further.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented from the
central bank’s Jan. 25 pledge to keep  interest rates  low through
late 2014. The Fed may need to raise rates before then to
prevent an increase in inflation, he said today.  “I expect that as economic expansion continues, even if
only at a moderate pace, the federal funds rate will need to
rise in order to prevent the emergence of inflationary
pressures,” Lacker said in a statement on the Richmond Fed’s
website.  The Fed this week set a long-term goal of 2 percent
inflation, and forecast that price increases will fall short of
that target this year and next. The personal consumption
expenditures price index climbed 2.5 percent for the 12 months
ending in November.  Inflation Forecast  Inflation will range from 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent this
year, and from 1.4 percent to 2 percent in 2013, Fed officials
predicted. In November, they projected inflation of 1.4 percent
to 2 percent in 2012, and 1.5 percent to 2 percent next year.  Dudley said that inflation is likely to slow this year as
commodity prices have abated and economic growth declines. The
U.S. probably won’t confront a “bubble of inflation,” he said.  “The pace of recovery remains sluggish by historical
standards and is likely to slow somewhat in early 2012,” Dudley
said. “Thus, unemployment, both nationally and locally, is
likely to remain unacceptably high for some time. Also,
inflation is likely to be below our objective for several
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  