-- Harvard’s Feldstein Sees Slow Growth While Doubting Fed Easing
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-01-27T15:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/feldstein-says-u-s-economy-to-have-hard-time-reaching-2-growth-in-2012.html
U.S. economic growth may not top 2
percent this year and a third round of quantitative easing by
the Federal Reserve would have little effect, said  Martin Feldstein , a professor of economics at  Harvard University .  “We’re going to have a hard time reaching 2 percent this
coming year,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” with Sara Eisen in  New York . The economy is
still in a “danger zone,” Feldstein said, even as the
recession risk “is less now than it was.”  The economy grew at a less-than-forecast 2.8 percent pace
in the fourth quarter, with consumer spending at 2 percent, the
government reported today. Inventory accumulation accounted for
1.9 percentage points of the total growth rate, setting the
stage for fewer orders to factories in the first half of the
year.  Feldstein, a member of the committee that dates recessions,
said any move by the Fed to conduct a third round of
quantitative easing, known as QE3, is “not the solution.” The
economy wouldn’t “get much help from more monetary stimulus,”
he said.  Federal Reserve  policy makers this week pledged to keep
their key lending rate near zero until “at least” late 2014,
moving the target further back more than a year. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  hinted the central bank would consider
conducting QE3 through large-scale asset purchases, saying it
was prepared for further “accommodation.”  Feldstein, speaking before the GDP report was released,
said last year’s growth in household spending was largely due to
consumers drawing down their savings, which he said they won’t
be able to maintain this year.  Consumer Spending  “The thing that made that increase in consumer spending
possible was people cut their savings rate” he said. “It’s
hard to believe it’s going to happen again” at the same pace.  For the full year 2011, the economy expanded 1.7 percent
and  consumer spending  grew 2.2 percent, according to Commerce
Department data. The personal savings rate fell to 3.5 percent
in November from 5.8 percent in June 2010, the department said.  “The question is, what, if anything, is going to sustain
real GDP growth in 2012,” said Feldstein.  Feldstein said the second round of quantitative easing
provided a temporary boost to stock prices, consumer spending
and economic growth in 2010. Then, as the effect faded, the
economy “fell flat on its face in the first quarter of 2011,”
he said, when growth was 0.4 percent.  ‘A Joke’  Feldstein said it was a “joke” to term as “voluntary”
any agreement with the Greek government over lowering its debt
principal and payments to avoid triggering credit default swaps.  “To call that voluntary just so they can avoid triggering
the credit default swaps is really dishonest,” he said.
“People bought credit default swaps thinking that was a real
market, it was real insurance.”  Officials, including former European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , have insisted that a swaps trigger was
unacceptable because traders would be encouraged to bet against
indebted nations and worsen the crisis.  Feldstein is a former president of the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  and a member of the NBER committee that
declared the recession ended in June 2009. He formerly served as
chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ,
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  