-- Fighting U.S. on Housing Hazardous, Says Gundlach
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-27T19:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/fighting-u-s-on-housing-hazardous-in-gundlach-view-mortgages.html
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the top performing mortgage fund last year,
is shunning “overpriced” Ginnie Mae securities, because
investors underestimate the risk that the  Federal Reserve  and
President  Barack Obama  will spur a homeowner  refinancing  wave.  “I’m astonished people are fighting the will of the U.S.
government,” Gundlach, founder and chief investment officer of
Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, said in a telephone interview.
“Investors are being insufficiently compensated,” especially
given the risk of higher prepayments.  Ginnie Mae bonds are trading 2.4 cents on the dollar higher
than Fannie Mae debt, more than double the difference over the
past five years, making them more susceptible to price declines,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  is attempting to accelerate refinancing by holding
short-term  interest rates  near zero, buying mortgage bonds and
advocating for changes to government housing  policy . Obama said
this week he plans to send legislation to Congress to help more
homeowners take advantage of record-low borrowing costs.  Government-backed mortgage bonds trading at more than face
value because of their relatively high coupons can be damaged
when borrowers repay their debt more quickly, because it hands
investors their money back at par. That’s the biggest risk in
the $5.4 trillion market, including for Ginnie Mae’s, said
Gundlach, whose $17 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
rose 9.5 percent in 2011 to beat all of its peers.  Ginnie Mae prices average more than 109.5 cents on the
dollar, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  ‘Locked Out’  DoubleLine, which oversees $24 billion, has bought
“locked-out” slices of so-called collateralized mortgage
obligations that protect investors from that possibility, he
said. That’s allowed the fund to reduce exposure to prepayments
by more than 50 percent in the past six months, Gundlach said.  Ginnie Mae, which is based in  Washington  and formally named
the Government National Mortgage Association, was created in
1968 as a U.S. government-owned corporation and issued the first
mortgage-backed security two years later. Loans insured by the
 Federal Housing Administration , which allow down payments of as
low as 3.5 percent for home purchases, account for most of the
mortgages in its $1.2 trillion of bonds.  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance companies
that have been supported by the U.S. since being seized in 2008,
guarantee $4.3 trillion of home-loan debt. Obama’s
administration had the two companies revise the federal Home
Affordable Refinance Program for their loans with little or no
home equity to stoke refinancing starting last month. By
contrast, the FHA has added to the costs of refinancing into
lower rates.  Prevented Borrowers  The agency boosted its annual premiums in two steps
starting in October 2010, to as much as 1.15 percent from 0.55
percent. Since 2009, the FHA has also prevented its existing
borrowers from rolling closing costs for  refinancings  into their
new loans unless they can re-qualify with new appraisals. It
also began requiring lenders to determine that borrowers will
cut payments by at least 5 percent, switch to a fixed-rate or
shorten their terms to qualify for its streamlined program, as
well as excluding borrowers with recent delinquencies.  The administration hasn’t yet detailed the expanded
refinancing push that Obama mentioned in his State of the Union
speech this week, though the president said it would require
legislation. Lemar Wooley, an FHA spokesman, declined to
comment.  Prepayment Differences  Prepayments on Ginnie Mae’s 4.5 percent, 30-year mortgage
securities last month came at a pace that would erase 17.3
percent of the debt in a year, compared with 26.2 percent for
similar  Fannie Mae  debt. The underlying loans’ rates average
about 5 percent.  The price gap between the Ginnie Mae and Fannie Mae bonds
has narrowed from a record 3.1 cents in November to 2.4 cents,
Bloomberg data show. The gap narrowed by 0.1 cent today, and the
difference between some higher coupon bonds contracted by the
most this year.  While the debt is less overvalued than last year, investors
“need to rotate out of them,” said Gundlach, who was
previously the chief investment officer of TCW Group Inc. in  Los
Angeles  until starting DoubleLine Capital in December 2009.  The DoubleLine Total Return fund was the top-performing
among 63 mutual funds that invest in mortgage-related
securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $1.6
billion  Columbia U.S. Government Mortgage Fund (CUGZX)  was the second-
best performer last year, rising 8.9 percent, while Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $2 billion  Pimco GNMA Fund (PDMIX)  was
third, with an 8.4 percent gain, Bloomberg data show.  DoubleLine Holdings  The DoubleLine fund has 48 percent of its assets in agency-
backed mortgage debt, with 2 percent of that invested in Ginnie
Mae bonds, said Gundlach. Prices on those securities would have
to drop by 1.25 percentage points to be attractive, he said.  Buyers of Ginnie Mae bonds are primarily concerned that
they offer more attractive yields than  Treasuries (GNSF045Z)  rather than
how they trade relative to Fannie Mae securities, Nomura
International analysts including Ohmsatya Ravi and Ankur Mehta
wrote in their 2012 outlook last month. That’s why they’ll keep
acquiring, the analysts wrote.  Ginnie Mae securities are explicitly backed by the U.S.
While the government has vowed to protect holders of Fannie Mae
and  Freddie Mac  bonds, it doesn’t officially guarantee their
debt, which partly explains their lower prices, said Siddarth
Ramkumar, a Barclays Capital mortgage strategist in  New York .  “Certain overseas investors place a great emphasis on the
explicit government guarantee,” he said.  Comparable Returns  Ginnie Mae securities returned 7.8 percent last year, the
best performance since 2002, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Government-supported U.S. mortgage
bonds gained 6.1 percent overall and global corporate bonds
advanced 5.2 percent.  Lenders including Bank of America Corp. are also favoring
Ginnie Mae bonds as they plan for increased capital standards
under Basel III, in addition to proposed rules under the
international accord demanding they hold specific amounts of
liquid assets. Ginnie Mae debt is treated better in both.  The gap between Ginnie Mae and Fannie Mae prices narrowed
after the Fed said in December that the securities may both be
treated the same under U.S. rules on banks’ holdings of liquid
assets resulting from the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul.  BNP Paribas SA analysts led by Anish Lohokare wrote in a
Jan. 12 report that investors may be “unjustified” in assuming
based on the Fed’s proposal that it won’t later implement the
Basel III liquidity rules in a way that penalizes Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac debt.  Bernanke Reinvests  The gap between Ginnie Mae and other agency debt may
further narrow this year as Bernanke reinvests proceeds from
mortgage bonds the Fed has bought since January 2009.  “The bonds could weaken versus conventional agencies going
forward as the Fed reinvests into Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
securities,” said Ramkumar.  One recent measure suggests Ginnie Mae prepayments will
rise. A Mortgage Bankers Association index measuring  refinancing
applications  for FHA mortgages and other loans directly insured
by the U.S. has climbed about 60 percent since mid-December
while the group’s benchmark for conventional debt gained 30
percent, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Mahesh Swaminathan said yesterday in a report.  The “magnitude of the increase in the government refi
index is surprising with no satisfactory explanation,” the
analysts wrote. The disparity though between the two measures
does suggest a jump in Ginnie Mae prepayments in coming months.  While Gundlach said he wasn’t sure the government can pull
off a mass refinancing, current prices don’t compensate
investors enough.  “The announcements by President Obama and  Ben Bernanke  in
a 24-hour period were a one-two punch,” Gundlach said. “They
want people to refi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net 
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  