-- Flaws in Printing New U.S. $100 Bill Were Avoidable, Audit Says
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-01-27T23:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/flaws-in-printing-new-u-s-100-bill-were-avoidable-audit-says.html
Defects in the U.S. government’s
printing of the new $100 bill, which have delayed its release
for a year, were the result of poor planning and oversight by
the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the Treasury Department’s
 inspector general  said.  The bureau, part of the Treasury, presided over “a
production failure that potentially could have been avoided and
has already resulted in increased costs,” the watchdog wrote in
a report released yesterday. Some notes were creased during
printing, making them unusable.  The  $100 bill , known as NexGen, is designed to thwart
counterfeiting. Its design has additional colors and a three-
dimensional security ribbon woven into the paper. The flaws led
the bureau to halt printing of the bills and the Federal Reserve
to delay their release, which was scheduled for February 2011.  The inspector general’s report follows two audits by the
office last year that criticized the bureau for its lax security,
including one that took it to task for keeping some 54 million
$100 bills in a production area instead of a vault.  According to the report released yesterday, focusing on
difficulties in the printing process, the bureau didn’t perform
“necessary and required testing to resolve technical problems
before starting full production” of the bill, the inspector
general said.  The bureau also didn’t “adequately complete” a cost-
benefit study for disposing of about 1.4 billion notes that were
printed but not accepted by the  Federal Reserve , according to
the inspector general’s report.  Production Validation  Bureau Deputy Director Pamela Gardiner, in a response
included with the report, said the bureau had agreed on a
“production validation strategy” with the Fed and said it will
implement a new “design control process.”  Louise Roseman, director of the Fed’s division of reserve
bank operations and payment systems, said in a separate letter
that “although the more robust production validation process
should substantially reduce unforeseen production problems, it
will likely not eliminate them completely.”  The inspector general’s report also said the bureau is
still trying to decide how to handle the 1.4 billion new bills
that the Fed won’t accept.  While the bureau wants to inspect the notes and destroy
only those that are flawed, it doesn’t have technology to detect
the problems because the bills have already been cut. It would
cost more than $15 million to purchase and install equipment to
do that, the report said.  ‘Crow’s Feet’  That inspection system probably won’t be able to find
another flaw known as “crow’s feet,” or small wrinkles
surrounding the notes’ security ribbon, that has cropped up with
the bills, the inspector general said.  The inspector general recommended that the bureau put its
purchase of the equipment on hold and further study the costs
and benefits of destroying and replacing the bills. That option
would cost about $800,000 for the destruction and between $78
million and $92 million to replace the notes, the report said.  In 2010, the Treasury was forced to delay the debut of the
$100 bill due to printing errors. The new design has several
security features, including the “3-D Security Ribbon” and an
image of a bell on the front that, when tilted, changes in color
from copper to green.  In a September report, the inspector general found that the
bureau, or BEP, didn’t have adequate protection for its computer
network and systems. The inspector general’s staff persuaded 23
bureau users -- everyone it approached -- to give access to
their computers.  In May, the inspector general said millions of $100 bills
were inadequately protected at a bureau printing plant with
windows that lacked security features.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  