-- Ford Falls Short of Profit Estimates
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-01-27T21:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ford-falls-short-of-estimates-while-reporting-biggest-profit-in-14-years.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  posted fourth-quarter
profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates as overseas
operations dragged down results while a one-time tax gain
resulted in the company’s biggest annual profit since 1998.  Ford reported its  11th consecutive  profitable quarter, with
net income of $13.6 billion, or $3.40 a share, compared with
$190 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time
items, the profit was 20 cents a share, trailing the 25-cent
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  It was the third straight annual profit for Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally , 66, who has improved quality and expanded
the lineup with fuel-efficient models like the Fiesta
subcompact. Net income was boosted by a non-cash gain of $12.4
billion from eliminating a valuation allowance against deferred
tax benefits, Ford said.  “It was another good solid year, but the gains weren’t
quite as dramatic as in previous years,” said  Efraim Levy , an
analyst for S&P Capital IQ, who has a “buy” rating on Ford.
“It will get tougher going forward.”  Ford slid 4.5 percent to $12.21 at the close in  New York .
The shares are up 13 percent this year after falling 36 percent
in 2011.  Ford removed the valuation allowance, created in 2006 as it
began reporting operating losses, because it expects to be
profitable in the future and to use the tax benefits, according
to a U.S. regulatory filing last year. Ford lost $30.1 billion
from 2006 to 2008, as truck and sport-utility vehicle sales
collapsed and the economy fell into the worst recession since
the Great Depression.  ‘Level of Confidence’  “They’re telling the world that they’ve attained a level
of confidence in their ability to generate substantial amounts
of income for the foreseeable future,” said  Robert Willens , a
corporate tax specialist and president of Robert Willens LLC of
New York. “It’s quite a positive, forceful statement on their
ability to prosper going forward.”  Profit excluding some items for 2011 was $8.8 billion, or
$1.51 a share, up $463 million from the previous year.  In the fourth quarter, the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker was hamstrung by a weakening European market and
flooding in  Thailand  that wiped out profits in its Asian
operations, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said today.  The fourth-quarter earnings miss was caused by “the
external environment, the slightly greater impact than we
anticipated of commodity costs, currency and the Thai floods,”
Booth told reporters in Dearborn.  Commodities, Europe  Ford spent $2.3 billion on commodities such as steel in
2011, more than the $2.2 billion it told analysts in October it
would spend, Booth said.  The European market is deteriorating and Ford is not sure
when it will turn around, Booth said. Ford declined to provide a
forecast on whether it can make money in  Europe  this year.  “We think this has the potential to be another tough year
economically in Europe,” Booth said on the “The Hays
Advantage” on Bloomberg Radio. “We’re not making any
predictions about Europe this year.”  There is too much automotive factory capacity in the
region, which is causing carmakers to boost incentives, Booth
said. Ford increased incentives in the fourth quarter, while
still improving net prices, he said.  Ford said its pretax operating loss in Europe widened to
$190 million from a loss of $51 million a year earlier. In Asia-
Pacific and Africa, Ford reported a pretax operating loss of $83
million, down from a $23 million profit last year. For the full
year, Ford lost $92 million in Asia-Pacific and  Africa  and it
lost $27 million in Europe.  European Unit’s Prospects  “We’re obviously a little disappointed to be at just
slightly worse than break-even for Europe,” Booth said in an
interview. “We think of Europe as a solid business operating in
a very difficult business environment. That business environment
will turn at some stage.”  Ford’s outlook for Europe seems “a big optimistic,” said
Matthew Stover, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in
 Boston . “We think that you’re going to have to see production
reduced” and a loss for the year of $1.5 billion in Europe, he
said.  Sales Target  Ford is on pace to meet its mid-decade goal of increasing
global sales by 50 percent, Booth said. The automaker lost
34,000 vehicles of production to the Thai floods, which was more
than it was expecting, he said.  “We expect overall to see Asia-Pacific to be steadily
profitable, but we expect to see some spiking in the quarters
because it is a volatile region,” the finance chief said. “We
expect Asia-Pacific to be modestly profitable this year.”  Ford is building seven factories in the Asia-Pacific region
and introducing new models in China and  India , such as the
EcoSport small SUV it introduced in  New Delhi  this month. This
year in China, Ford will begin selling the Kuga SUV, which is
based on the Escape SUV sold in the U.S.  “In the forward years, you can expect to see the pace in
Asia-Pacific and Africa being relatively modest for the early
part,” Booth said. “Then accelerating for the later part of
the period as the plants come onstream and the new products come
on stream.”  Ford said its fourth-quarter automotive operating margin
fell to 2.2 percent from 3 percent a year earlier.  In  North America , where Ford generates most of its sales
and profits, the second-largest U.S. automaker reported pretax
operating income of $889 million, up from $670 million last
year. Ford’s U.S. sales rose 11 percent last year and it gained
market share for the third consecutive year for the first time
since 1970.  ‘North American Company’  “Ford is still a North American company,” said  Brian Johnson , an analyst with  Barclays Capital . “In 2012, we’re
looking for the U.S. sales rate to recover, their market share
to remain solid and their pricing to remain solid with products
like the Escape and the Fusion refreshed” with new styling.  Fourth-quarter sales rose 6.5 percent to $34.6 billion as
Ford boosted North American production by 14 percent during the
period to 674,000 cars and trucks. The average estimate for
total fourth-quarter revenue was $33.5 billion, according to the
average of four estimates.  Ford reiterated it will produce 675,000 cars and trucks in
North America during the first quarter, up 18,000 vehicles from
last year. Ford said today it will cut production in  South
America , Europe and Asia Pacific Africa this quarter.  Production Plans  Globally, Ford said it plans to produce 1.4 million cars
and trucks in the first quarter, down 51,000 vehicles from last
year.  For the year, Ford’s  revenue  rose 13 percent to $136.3
billion, compared with an average forecast of $134.7 billion
from five analysts surveyed.  U.S. consumers paid an average of $32,028 for the company’s
models last year, up 25 percent from 2002 and the highest price
Ford vehicles have ever commanded, according to online auto
researcher Edmunds.com.  Automotive debt, which excludes  Ford Motor Credit (F1) , was
$13.1 billion at year’s end, an increase from $12.7 billion on
Sept. 30, the company said.  The debt rose in the quarter primarily because it tapped
loans from the U.S. Department of Energy that boosted its
obligations by $300 million, the automaker said. The federal
loans are being used to produce fuel-efficient cars.  Pension Plans  Ford has more debt than rivals because it borrowed $23
billion in late 2006, after Mulally arrived from Boeing Co. and
before credit markets froze. That enabled the automaker to avoid
the bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009.  The company will contribute $3.5 billion this year to its
global pension plans, including $2 billion to the U.S. plan.  Ford said it will pay $2,450 to each of its 41,600 U.S.
hourly workers for second-half 2011 profits.  “Ford’s doing everything right except getting their stock
price up,” said  Gary Bradshaw , a  fund manager  at Dallas-based
Hodges Capital Management, which owns about 250,000 Ford shares.
“They’ve got their costs down, good products, good engineering
and good leadership. Ford can do surprisingly well this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  