-- Forint Advances for Fourth Week as SocGen Abandons Bearish Call
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-27T16:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/forint-has-longest-rally-since-2005-as-socgen-ends-bearish-call.html
The forint gained for a fourth week
on bets  Hungary  will obtain a bailout and as investor sentiment
improved for riskier assets, with  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  abandoning
its “bearish” position on the country’s currency.  The forint rallied 3.3 percent this week, the most among
among 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg against the euro.
Hungary’s currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 293.92 per euro
at 5:16 p.m. in Budapest.  “We are closing our bearish forint positions after the
strong rally in the forint, driven by the strong improvement in
global  market sentiment ,”  Benoit Anne , London-based global head
of emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale, said in an e-
mail today. “While we remain skeptical about the country’s
fundamentals, we recognize that the market risk has declined
substantially, thereby providing a significant boost to risky
assets.”  Hungary sold more debt than planned at an auction yesterday
and the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled earlier this week it would
keep rates low, boosting appetite for riskier assets. Hungarian
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told a parliamentary hearing
yesterday the government accepts seven out of nine European
Union amendment requests on the central bank law that had
contributed to the breakdown of aid talks with the EU and
International Monetary Fund last year.  “Foreign investors are taking it for granted that the deal
with the IMF will happen,” Akos Horvath, an analyst at
Budapest-based brokerage Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said in a
telephone interview today. “That was shown by the bond auction
yesterday. We shouldn’t forget though that there’s been no talk
yet of a concrete amount or duration for the  credit line  or
amendments to the central bank law, only promises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  