-- Former Groupon Sales Reps Countersue Over ‘Abusive’ Tactics
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-27T19:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/former-groupon-sales-managers-countersue-over-abusive-tactics.html
Former  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  sales managers
countersued the company, which had accused them of taking  trade
secrets  to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Groupon, the world’s largest online coupon site, sued two
former managers in October after they left to join Google
Offers, a competing venture. Lawyers for the managers accused
Groupon of using “sham litigation” to bully and silence
employees and obtain intelligence on a burgeoning competitor,
according to court papers filed Jan. 25 in an Illinois state
court.  “In its stop-at-nothing strategy to take itself public and
further enrich its founders, Groupon has crossed the line,”
lawyers for the managers said. “This counterclaim seeks to put
an end to that abusive and illegal behavior.”  Groupon in November sold shares in the biggest initial
public offering for a U.S. Web company since Google, selling 35
million shares for $700 million. The company, which was founded
in 2008 and sells daily discounted deals, is facing competition
from bigger rivals including Google and Amazon.com Inc. Groupon
Chief Executive Andrew Mason said earlier this week that the
company won’t be derailed by competition.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment on the counterclaims.  Confidential Information  Groupon claimed in its complaint that the managers,  Michael
Nolan  and Brian Hanna, were privy to confidential information
such as the company’s deal structure and pricing data and the
identity of current and potential merchants.  Lawyers for Hanna and Nolan denied the two men had access
to sensitive or proprietary information and argued that
Groupon’s employment agreement, which bars employment by a
competitor for two years, is invalid and unenforceable because
its unnecessary.  “What Groupon sells, in fact, are coupons, not
substantially different from the ones that have been clipped
from daily circulars for over a century or printed from websites
since the advent of the Internet,” Hanna and Nolan’s lawyers
said in the filing. “Groupon’s clients are similarly not a
secret ingredient in Groupon’s success.”  The filing accused Groupon of hiring “out-of-work young
people” based on false promises and using a complicated
compensation scale to undercut commissions and implement
unrealistic sales quotas. As morale waned among employees ahead
of the company’s initial public offering, Groupon filed the
lawsuit and several others like it in an attempt to silence
workers, lawyers for the managers said in the filing.  ‘Rifle Through’  “This suit also signaled to employees that, should they
leave, Groupon would aggressively attempt to prevent them from
working for a competitor, regardless of the legality of Groupon
taking such action,” lawyers for the managers said in the
filing.  The men accused Groupon of using the litigation to “rifle
through” its rival’s pockets by serving a third-party subpoena
on Google demanding business model and pricing information for
its Google Offers program.  The case is Groupon Inc. v. Hanna, 11CH36731, Cook County,
 Illinois , Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  