-- Former Bank Indonesia Deputy Goeltom Says She Is Suspect in Bribery Case
-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-27T09:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/former-bank-indonesia-deputy-goeltom-says-she-is-suspect-in-bribery-case.html
Former  Bank Indonesia (BI)  Senior Deputy
Governor Miranda S. Goeltom said the country’s anti-corruption
agency has named her as a suspect in the bribery case involving
her election to the post in 2004.  “I don’t have any worries,” Goeltom, 62, said today by
telephone. “I’m pretty sure the anti-graft body will be fair
and they will see the truth.”  Goeltom’s election sparked one of the highest profile
corruption scandals to involve  Indonesia ’s parliament, with more
than 20 lawmakers jailed for accepting bribes for votes.
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has faced renewed pressure to
stem corruption after a party official came under investigation
for bribery last year.  Fighting graft is key to Indonesia’s efforts to attract
investment after winning its second credit rating upgrade in
five weeks. Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 19 returned the
country to investment level for the first time since the Asian
financial crisis.  “I am not guilty,” Goeltom said, adding that she never
asked anybody to give money to lawmakers and that she learned of
her being a suspect from local media reports.  Bank Indonesia isn’t providing any assisting to Goeltom
regarding the case and will defer to the the legal process, Difi
Johansyah, a spokesman at  Bank Indonesia , said by text message
today.  Minimal Impact  The graft agency may have a tough time proving a connection
between those who bribed lawmakers and Goeltom herself,  Fauzi Ichsan , a Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard Chartered
Plc, said by phone. The impact of the case will be minimal since
she is no longer with the central bank, he said.  Her case “is something that attracts the attention of the
elite and within financial circles, but it’s not something that
attracts the interest of the mass population,” Ichsan said.  The graft agency said yesterday a former senior deputy
governor was a suspect, while declining to provide the person’s
full name. The agency is only allowed to provide the suspect’s
initials, which are MSG, spokesman Johan Budi said.  Goeltom’s five-year term as senior deputy governor expired
in July 2009. She received a doctorate in economics from  Boston
University , according to the central bank’s  website .  Muhammad Nazaruddin, former treasurer of Yudhoyono’s
Democrat Party, faces trial over alleged bribes for building
projects for the Southeast Asian Games hosted by Indonesia in
November. He has connections to businesses worth at least 6
trillion rupiah ($669 million), according to the Corruption
Eradication Commission, or KPK.  Yudhoyono’s popularity slumped after Nazaruddin’s arrest in
August. A poll by Indonesian Survey Circle published Oct. 16,
the most recently released, showed 46.2 percent approved of his
performance, down from 63.1 percent in January 2010.  Indonesia’s ranking in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perceptions Index improved last year compared with
2010, according to its latest  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  