-- France’s Sarkozy Orders Early Pullout of Afghan Combat Troops
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-01-27T19:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/france-s-sarkozy-orders-early-pullout-of-afghan-combat-troops.html
France  will gradually pull its
combat troops out of Afghanistan by the end of 2013, President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said, speeding up the withdrawal of NATO’s
fourth-largest contingent in the Asian country.  France will leave a “few hundred” soldiers in Afghanistan
in 2014 to help train the Afghan army, he said.  Sarkozy’s decision was announced after a meeting with
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  in Paris, where the leaders
discussed the French military’s future in the country after
Afghan soldiers killed five French soldiers in two incidents
within the past month. France previously had planned to follow
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s calendar of a
withdrawal of all foreign troops during 2014.  “We are not an occupation force,” Sarkozy said. “We have
confidence in the ability of President Karzai.”  Sarkozy said he’d ask NATO to consider passing control of
all combat missions to the Afghan National Army by the end of
2013. France has 3,900 troops in  Afghanistan , and 82 have been
killed since their arrival in 2001, the fourth-highest death
toll after the U.S., Britain and  Canada .  Killed While Jogging  France will resume training and support missions with the
Afghan army tomorrow, Sarkozy said. They were suspended Jan. 20
after an Afghan soldier killed four French soldiers as they
jogged at their camp.  Sarkozy said Karzai had pledged “to do everything” to
improve recruiting standards to prevent Taliban infiltration of
the Afghan military.  Sarkozy also said 1,000 combat troops will come home this
year, up from the 600 originally planned. France also will hand
over security control of Kapisa province, just east of the
capital Kabul, to the Afghan army this March.  Sarkozy said he’d speak to President  Barack Obama  tomorrow
to explain France’s moves.  Pessimistic Assessment  The Obama administration plans to pull most U.S. forces out
of Afghanistan by the end of 2014. However, a U.S. National
Intelligence Estimate last month warned that the Taliban remain
intent on regaining control of the country, and a debate is
under way within the administration about the pace of the U.S.
withdrawal.  Afghanistan has become an issue in France’s presidential
elections, with Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  -- who is
leading Sarkozy in the polls -- saying in his first major
campaign speech Jan. 22 that the mission “is finished” and
that he’d start bringing home the troops if elected in May.  Afghan troops or police attacked NATO personnel in more
than three dozen incidents between 2007 and last year, according
to a classified report by the coalition cited Jan. 20 by The New
York Times. In one of the deadliest cases, an Afghan air force
pilot on April 27 killed eight U.S. military personnel and a
contract employee of the coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  