-- U.K. Stocks Decline, Paring Weekly Gains for FTSE 100; BP Shares Retreat
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-27T17:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ftse-100-stocks-retreat-paring-weekly-advance-bp-shares-slide-in-london.html
U.K. stocks  fell from the highest
level since July as the U.S. economy expanded less than forecast
and private bondholders pressed on in talks with the Greek
government for a debt-swap agreement.  BP Plc (BP/)  dropped 2.6 percent after a U.S. court ruled that
the oil company can’t recover part of the cleanup costs of the
2010 Gulf of Mexico spill from Transocean Ltd.  InterContinental
Hotels  Group Plc lost 2.7 percent after UBS AG advised selling
the shares.  The  FTSE 100  fell 61.75, or 1.1 percent, to 5,733.45 at the
close in London, paring gains this week to less than 0.1
percent. The gauge has still risen 2.9 percent this year amid
signs that the U.S. economy is recovering and after the  European
Central Bank  moved to ease bank lending through its long-term
refinancing operation. The FTSE All-Share Index lost 1 percent
today. Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 0.5 percent.  “We’re still cautious on the outlook for equities at
present,” said Sally Davies, a  fund manager  at Octopus
Investments in  London , which has assets of 2.5 billion pounds
($3.9 billion). “We still think that the LTRO, whilst making
the potential collapse of the euro zone much less likely, is
little more than a temporary sticking plaster covering a deeper
wound.”  The Institute of International Finance, which represents
private creditors, said that it made “some progress” at a
meeting last night in Athens between managing director  Charles Dallara  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos . European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today
Greece was “close” to reaching an agreement.  Greek Debt  Greece and its creditors have haggled over how to reduce
the country’s borrowings three months after private bondholders
agreed to a 50 percent cut in the face value of more than 200
billion euros ($262 billion) of debt by voluntarily swapping
bonds for new securities.  Stocks extended declines after a report showed the  U.S.
economy  expanded less than forecast in the fourth quarter as
consumers reduced savings in order to boost spending and
government agencies cut back.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 2.8 percent annual
following a 1.8 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to
Commerce Department figures. The median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3 percent gain.  BP’s Cleanup Costs  BP dropped 2.6 percent to 464.55 pence. The U.S district
judge in New Orleans ruled the company can’t collect from
Transocean part of the $40 billion in cleanup costs and economic
losses caused by the 2010 oil-well blowout and Gulf of Mexico
spill.  BP must indemnify Transocean for pollution-related economic
damage claims under its drilling contract, the judge said.
London-based BP sued Transocean in April to recover a share of
its damages and costs from the spill.  InterContinental Hotels (IHG)  slid 2.7 percent to 1,321 pence.
UBS cut its recommendation on the shares to “sell” from
“neutral.”  Creston Plc (CRE)  slumped 23 percent to 51 pence. Profit before
tax for the full year at the marketing services company will be
slightly below last year, Espirito Santo analysts said.  Next Plc (NXT) , a retailer, rose 1.7 percent to 2,639 pence after
climbing as much as 3.5 percent. The shares, which gained 39
percent in 2011, today climbed above their 30-, 50- and 100-day
moving averages, prompting technical analysts to say further
gains may follow.  African Barrick Gold Plc advanced 5.3 percent to 515.5
pence, its highest price in seven weeks, after it reported a
fourfold increase in a deposit in Tanzania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  