-- Geithner Urges Bigger Euro ‘Firewall’ as Condition for More Help
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-27T11:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/geithner-urges-bigger-euro-firewall-as-condition-for-more-help.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged European leaders to bolster their crisis-fighting
bailout funds, warning more outside support wouldn’t be
forthcoming without them acting first.  “The only way  Europe ’s going to be successful in holding
this together, making monetary union work, is to build a
stronger firewall,” Geithner told the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting today in Davos, Switzerland today. “That’s going
to require a bigger commitment of resources.”  The call, reinforced by the  International Monetary Fund ,
shows the irritation of foreign policy makers that Europe hasn’t
put up more cash itself to defeat its two-year debt turmoil.
Geithner’s French and Spanish counterparts today spoke about the
value of erecting a larger deterrent to ward off speculators,
while  Germany ’s said the focus should remain on restoring fiscal
order.  In his sixth trip to Europe since September, Geithner said
the IMF would likely be willing to support the euro-area’s
rescue efforts “but not as a substitute for a more effective”
domestic response first.  European officials plan to reassess in March a planned
limit of 500 billion euros ($657 billion) on overall rescue
lending that will take effect when their permanent bailout
program begins in July. They can also use leverage to boost that
amount toward a level the IMF and U.S. may deem more
satisfactory.  ‘Big Enough’  “The higher the firewall, the less it will have to be
used,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said today.
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos, said it “has to be
big enough and flexible enough to avoid using it.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  nevertheless
said that no amount of money would compensate for failure by
cash-strapped countries to regain control of their debts. “It
will not work if the real problems were not solved,” he told
the conference.  Speaking to Bloomberg Television in Davos, IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  listed the firewall alongside growth
and better integration as the three areas Europe needed to focus
on. She said her organization is already in negotiations with
shareholders to raise the IMF’s lending capacity by $500
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  