-- Gingrich Jab at Goldman Sachs Belies Pro-Bank Policy Proposals
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/gingrich-jab-at-goldman-sachs-belies-pro-bank-policy-proposals.html
Newt Gingrich  took aim at  Wall
Street  and by extension Republican presidential opponent Mitt Romney yesterday as the former U.S. House speaker said he isn’t
running for president to “represent Goldman Sachs.”  Yet the investment firm Gingrich derided and the banking
industry as a whole stand to gain from his proposals to
eliminate the capital gains tax and repeal two financial-sector
measures, four analysts said in separate phone interviews.  Gingrich’s tax package, which also calls for a reduction of
the personal income and corporate tax rates, would be beneficial
to many on Wall Street, including those at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., an investment banking firm based in New York, the analysts
said.  “This is negative political rhetoric that’s not based on
anything, either his own history or his proposed policies,”
said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , an economic policy adviser to
Republican presidential candidate  John McCain  in 2008 who is 
unaffiliated this year. “He is proposing a flat, consumption-
style tax, which gives incentives for people to use the 
financial system.”  Gingrich’s comments yesterday are “inconsistent with what
he’s proposing,” said Holtz-Eakin, president of the American
Action Forum, an anti-tax organization based in  Washington .
“It’s hard to defend on the logic.”  Gingrich Proposals  In campaign speeches, Gingrich has promised voters that on
his first day as president, he’d repeal, in addition to Obama’s
health-care legislation, the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  to monitor
corporate auditing and the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act of Wall Street
regulations.  He often highlights his proposal on the  capital gains   tax
rate , which is scheduled to rise to 20 percent from 15 percent
by 2013. Gingrich would eliminate it.  “Balanced budgets, streamlined government and the biggest
capital gains tax cut in history led to unemployment falling to
under 4 percent by 2000,” Gingrich, who served as House speaker
for four years until resigning in 1999, said as he released his
economic plan Sept. 29 at a town hall meeting in  Des Moines ,
 Iowa .  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis, authorized hundreds of new regulations to curb
misconduct and excessive risk-taking by Wall Street financial
firms.  Dodd-Frank Act  It includes new rules restricting the kinds of trades banks
can make with their own money, increasing supervision and
oversight by federal regulators, and imposing new requirements
to protect consumers from unfair or complicated products.  The new law requires most derivatives to be traded on
exchanges, gives shareholders a say in how executives are paid,
and limits the amount merchants pay for debit-card transactions.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which Congress passed with an
overwhelming majority in the wake of the collapse of  Enron
Corp (ENRNQ) ., formed a new watchdog to oversee U.S. auditing and
required managers to sign off on financial reports and internal
controls at their public companies.  “If these laws were removed, you would see, over time, an
increase in profitability, an increase in hiring to work for
financial firms, an increase in economic activity,” said  Gerard Cassidy , managing director of bank equity research RBC Capital
Markets LLC. “It would enable financial companies to become
more profitable.”  ‘Not Realistic’  Many in the financial industry “might like that rhetoric,
but there’s a level of skepticism of what he’d be able to
accomplish as president,” said  Brian Gardner , senior vice
president of Washington research for Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Inc.. He said it’s “not realistic” to eliminate the capital
gains tax and repeal Dodd-Frank and Sarbanes-Oxley.  Gingrich pivoted to a different tone yesterday. He and
Romney are locked in a tight battle to win the Jan. 31  Florida 
primary, registering in a tie in recent polls that put them well
ahead of Texas Representative  Ron Paul  and former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum .  “We’re not going to beat  Barack Obama  with someone who
owns Swiss bank accounts, Cayman Island accounts,” Gingrich
said during a stop yesterday in Mount Dora, Florida. “I am
running for president to represent you, not to represent the
Washington establishment, not to represent  Goldman Sachs. (GS) ”  Gingrich again referred to New York-based Goldman Sachs
later yesterday in a meeting with reporters. He said Romney, who
released his 2010 tax returns and 2011 estimate on Jan. 24, had
personal holdings in “a part of Goldman Sachs that was
explicitly foreclosing on Floridians.”  Mouse or Elephant  During a debate in Jacksonville, Florida last night, Romney
pointed out that Gingrich also has invested in mutual funds that
had Wall Street and housing holdings. Gingrich, who reported
$3.1 million in 2010 gross income, tried to deflect that by
saying it was like comparing “a tiny mouse with an elephant.”
Romney’s tax  returns  showed his gross income of $21.6 million in
2010.  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said yesterday it’s
“puzzling to see Speaker Gingrich and his supporters continue
their attacks on free enterprise. Unlike President Obama and
Speaker Gingrich,  Mitt Romney  spent his career in business and
knows what it will take to turn around our nation’s bad
economy.”  Contributions  Goldman Sachs’ employees and their families provided more
contributions to Romney than any other single employer through
Sept. 30, the most recent campaign finance information
available, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
based in Washington. The contributions totaled $367,200,
according to the center.  Romney’s campaign collected $3.6 million from the financial
industry, according to the center. The former Massachusetts
governor, whose assets are valued at as much as $250 million,
was a co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, a Boston private-equity
firm.  New campaign finance reports are due out Jan. 31.  Wall Street, generally speaking, has a “comfort level”
with Romney, Gardner said “He’s one of them.”  By contrast, Gardner said, “there is lack of comfort with
Gingrich,” dating back to his years in the House. “I don’t
think he was ever comfortable with the  New York  financial crowd.
There was no real, major move on his part to reach out to the
investment and commercial banking communities.”  Many in the financial industry have determined Gingrich is
“unelectable and volatile,” Gardner said.  Seeking Balance  Business leaders are concerned with the country’s financial
integrity and bringing taxes and spending into alignment more so
than their individual tax rates, said Clinton Stretch, managing
principal of  tax policy  at Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington.  “They want a candidate whose plan makes sense and who can
get it done,” he said.  Gingrich’s tax policies “aren’t so much born of Wall
Street as they are aimed at Main Street,” Stretch said.  Gingrich and Romney would both retain some form of special
treatment for earnings tied to investments. Capital gains and
dividends are taxed at 15 percent compared to rates on wages,
which are as high as 35 percent.  Romney would continue the 15 percent rate on dividends and
capital gains and exempt anyone with adjusted gross income of
less than $200,000 from paying the tax at all. Gingrich would
eliminate the tax for all income brackets.  More than half of Romney’s 2010 income of $21.6 million was
tied to capital gains or dividends, which helped lower his tax
rate to 13.9 percent. Romney has been criticized for paying a
lower rate than middle-class taxpayers.  Ben Ginsberg, national counsel for Romney’s campaign, said
Jan. 24 that the Bain founder’s tax rate would have been even
lower if Gingrich’s proposal were in effect because it doesn’t
tax capital gains at all.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  