-- GM Seen Accelerating Opel Restructuring as Sales Plunge: Cars
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-27T21:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/gm-seen-accelerating-opel-restructuring-as-sales-plunge-cars.html
The financial crisis in Europe is
adding new urgency to  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s attempt to turn
around its money-burning Opel unit.  GM, which has already trimmed its European work force by
5,800, is considering a variety of additional steps to stem the
losses. The company is looking to find greater cost savings
between Opel and Chevrolet operations in Europe, Tim Lee,
president of GM’s international operations, told reporters this
month at the Detroit auto show. GM may move some work from  Korea 
to Europe to boost revenue and use assets there, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  In addition, Stefan Bauknecht, a Frankfurt-based  fund
manager  for Deutsche Bank AG investment vehicle DWS, said this
is the time for GM to work more aggressively with unions to
lower costs.  “The negative swing in the European automotive market
increases the pressure for both the management and trade unions
to find a compromise,” said Bauknecht. DWS holds $5 million GM
shares, according to Bloomberg figures, while Deutsche Bank as a
whole holds $316 million of GM stock.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has lost more than
$2.34 billion on GM’s European operations since pushing to call
off the sale of the Opel brand in late 2009. Plans to reach
break-even on an operating basis were scrapped in November as
the continent’s economy teetered.  GM’s European sales dropped 15 percent in December, led by
an 18 percent plunge at Opel, according to data from the
Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.
Opel’s share of the market in Western  Europe  fell to 7.3 percent
last year from 12.6 percent in 1993.  Once Mighty  Opel, founded in 1862 by Adam Opel, started out making
sewing machines and bicycles before going on to produce cars,
including its “Laubfrosch,” or tree frog, model. GM purchased
80 percent of Opel in 1929 after asset prices plunged worldwide.
Two years later, GM bought the rest of Opel, establishing itself
as the biggest carmaker in Europe through the 1930s.  Models such as the Kadett helped place Opel at the
forefront of the post-war German economic miracle. Opel was
finally overtaken by Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen (VOW)  in 1998
and has continued to lose ground ever since, according to ACEA
figures, as a lack of investment in new models gradually eroded
its market share and image.  Akerson, before becoming chairman and CEO, was one of the
GM board members who agitated to keep Opel and call off the sale
in November 2009 to Magna International Inc. and Moscow-based
OAO Sberbank. Akerson joined GM’s board after the automaker’s
U.S.-backed bankruptcy earlier that year and became CEO in
September 2010.  Off Track  The restructuring in Europe by post-bankruptcy GM was going
according to plan, executives told reporters as recently as the
Frankfurt auto show in September. Two months later, GM said it
couldn’t meet its target of breaking even before restructuring
costs. Europe operations lost $580 million before interest and
taxes from January through September, the Detroit-based
automaker said Nov. 9 in a statement.  “What we are looking at is an increasingly challenged
economic environment going forward, with a lot of uncertainty,”
Dan Ammann, GM chief financial officer, told analysts. “We’ve
got to get the break-even point lower, get the revenue higher,
in order to be profitable in that kind of market environment.”  GM had $900 million in restructuring and early-retirement
costs in Europe and cut 5,800 jobs there through Sept. 30, GM
said in the regulatory filing. Those efforts included closing an
assembly plant in Antwerp,  Belgium , the company said.  The company said it expects an additional $300 million in
costs by the end of this year to complete the programs, which
will affect 1,600 more employees. GM won’t rule out cutting more
jobs or closing additional plants, Ammann has said.  GM fell 1.4 percent to $24.37 at the close in  New York . The
shares rose 20 percent this year.  Government Pressure  Political interference has slowed restructuring in the
region’s auto industry, as governments supported demand in 2009
with sales incentives and hindered efforts to close factories to
protect local jobs.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  summoned PSA Peugeot
Citroen CEO Philippe Varin on Nov. 17, asking him to reconsider
plans to cut as many as 6,800 jobs, including temporary staff
employed by partners.  Fiat SpA shuttered an auto factory in Sicily this year,
marking only the second European plant closure since the 2008
financial crisis.  Work Force Options  While GM has avoided compulsory dismissals, it has other
options, said a union official.  “There’s always an opportunity where they’re not looking
to remove people who don’t want to be removed: for people who
want to go self-employed, emigrate, find some other job, retire,
take early retirement or whatever it is,” Andy Faughnam, a
Unite the Union representative for the Opel/Vauxhall plant in
the London suburb of Luton, said by telephone.  Akerson appointed Lee, whose responsibility includes Chevy
in Europe, Amman and Vice Chairman Steve Girsky to the Opel
supervisory board as they look to further the turnaround. Girsky
was named chairman of the board.  Girsky reiterated to reporters during an industry
conference earlier this month that Opel is not for sale.  Mary Barra, GM’s senior vice president for global product
development, joined the supervisory board yesterday. Johan Willems, a longtime GM spokesman, joined Opel’s management board
as head of communications.  “There are significant opportunities yet remaining in
Europe in terms of the operation of Opel/Vauxhall and the
operations of  Chevrolet  and Cadillac,” Lee said. For example,
he said, Chevrolet and Opel run separate warehousing and spare-
parts operations. “We’ve not brought back together a lot of the
behind-the-curtain things that could be together,” he said.  Savings Needed  The automaker is also looking to control rising material
costs and better offset fluctuations in currency, said a person
familiar with the effort. One idea being discussed involves
transferring work from Chevrolet in Korea to Europe, said three
people familiar with the matter. The people asked not to be
identified because the planning was private.  Klaus-Peter Martin, a GM spokesman, declined to comment on
the plans.  Opel, based in Ruesselsheim, Germany, lacks the cachet of
Volkswagen and others in Europe and has been unable to charge
enough to cover high German labor costs.  “They still need to skinny-down the operation,”  Joe Phillippi , principal of consulting firm AutoTrends Inc. in  Short
Hills ,  New Jersey , said. “Their costs are clearly still too
high.”  Selling Opel is difficult for GM because the automaker has
relied on the unit for engineering work on small and mid-sized
cars, such the Chevrolet Malibu and Cruze.  Vexing Problems  “I almost see Opel’s problems as not solvable,” said
longtime industry watcher  Maryann Keller , principal of a self-
named consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The question
is how do you get rid of it and still protect your intellectual
property because that’s where your small-car development is.”  GM is investing 11 billion euros in the Opel brand through
2014, Karl-Friedrich Stracke, president of  GM Europe , has said.  While ruling out a sale, GM hasn’t dismissed reports in
 Germany  that it is talking about a sales and distribution
alliance with its partner in  China , SAIC, to extend Opel’s
network of dealerships in the country.  Adam Jonas, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, has written in a
research note that Opel could form an alliance with SAIC to help
run the business more efficiently.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Washington at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  