-- Goldman, Macquarie, First NZ to Manage Mighty River Power IPO
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-01-27T02:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/goldman-macquarie-first-nz-to-manage-mighty-river-ipo-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG)  and a partnership of First NZ Capital and  Credit
Suisse Group (CSGN)  AG will manage the initial public offering of
Mighty River Power Ltd. as  New Zealand ’s government starts the
biggest round of state asset sales in more than 20 years.  The Treasury  named  the firms today as joint lead managers
for the sale of a minority stake in the Auckland-based energy
company. The IPO, planned for the second half of 2012, may raise
about NZ$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion), people familiar with the
matter have said.  Mighty River and four other divestments may raise as much
as a combined NZ$7 billion over the next three years, the
government estimates. Goldman Sachs, Macquarie and Credit Suisse
were picked from a group of six eligible firms that includes  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and alliances between  Forsyth Barr Ltd.  and Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, and Deutsche Bank AG and Craigs
Investment Partners, according to today’s Treasury statement.  “Firms not successful in the tender for work on the Mighty
River Power transaction will be able to compete for roles in
subsequent transactions,” the Treasury said. “Treasury will
immediately look to contract high quality broking firms and
other distributors with channels to retail investors.”  Investment banks managing a state deal may earn about 1.5
percent of the proceeds in fees, compared with an average 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent for IPOs of privately owned companies,
according to bankers who declined to be identified as they’re
not authorized to discuss commissions.  Based on an average 1.5 percent commission, underwriters
may earn as much as NZ$105 million in fees on the five state
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  