-- Goldman Sued by Stichting Pensioenfonds in New York
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-27T22:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/goldman-sued-by-stichting-pensioenfonds-over-mortgage-securities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was sued by
the Netherlands’ biggest retirement fund, accusing the
investment bank of making false or misleading statements in
selling residential mortgage-backed securities.  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP (ADPZ)  sued New York-based Goldman
Sachs in New York State Supreme Court today, saying that the
bank knew that originators of the loans underlying the
investments hadn’t followed underwriting standards.  “Goldman knew of, and facilitated, the wholesale and
systematic abandonment of underwriting guidelines by various
third-party originators faced with Goldman’s demands that as
many loans as possible be originated so that they could be
packaged and sold to investors like plaintiff,” lawyers for
Stichting said in the lawsuit.  Stichting also sued Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. over sales of mortgage-backed securities in  New York  state
court last year.  Stichting, the pension fund for Dutch public educational
and government workers, has more than
250 billion euros ($332.8 billion) in assets under management,
according to the complaint.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the lawsuit in a telephone interview.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 650264/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 