-- Gold Bulls Ascendant Amid Best Start to Year in Three Decades: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-01-27T17:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/gold-bulls-ascendant-amid-best-start-to-year-in-three-decades-commodities.html
Gold traders are bullish for a
fourth consecutive week, betting that the  Federal Reserve ’s
pledge to keep  interest rates  low until late 2014 will extend
the metal’s best start to a year in more than three decades.  Nine of 15 surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to gain next
week. The value of gold held in exchange-traded products jumped
$3.9 billion on Jan. 25, the most since October, as the central
bank laid the groundwork for a possible third round of asset
purchases, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Lower interest rates
increase the appeal of bullion because it generally earns
investors returns only through price gains.  Bullion rose 2.7 percent, the most in three months, after
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s considering additional bond
purchases to boost growth. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt
in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June
2011, during which gold appreciated about 70 percent. Investors
are now buying American Eagle gold coins from the  U.S. Mint  at
the fastest pace since July 2010, data on its website show.  “The trigger offered by the Fed definitely helped,” said
 Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“The opportunity costs of holding gold will remain low in the
future and this should boost the attractiveness of gold. We
don’t see an end to the long-term uptrend in  gold prices .”  January Rally  Gold rose 9.9 percent to $1,720.65 an ounce this month by
yesterday, the best start to a year since 1980 and rebounding
from the first quarterly decline in three years. Bullion is
beating the 3.3 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index of 24 commodities and the 5.8 percent gain in
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities. Treasuries lost
0.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The metal reached a record $1,921.15 in September and slid
to within 1 percentage point of a  bear market  on Dec. 29, taking
it below its 200-day moving average for the first time since
January 2009. Gold closed back above the 200-day moving average
on Jan. 11 and the 100-day moving average on Jan. 25. That’s a
sign for some investors who study charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict trends that the rally has further to go.  The Fed pledged that it is “prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation” if unemployment remains higher than it
would like while inflation falls below a newly-established
target. The  International Monetary Fund  said a day earlier that
the world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, down from a
4 percent estimate in September. The  World Bank  cut its growth
forecast last week by the most in three years.  Monetary Easing  A third, fourth and fifth round of easing “lie ahead,”
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote in a Jan. 25 Twitter post. The
 European Central Bank  kept interest rates at a record low this
month as the region contends with a spreading debt crisis.  The U.S. Mint sold 114,500 ounces of American Eagle gold
coins so far this month, its website shows. Full-month sales
would reach 143,125 ounces at that pace, the most since July
2010. The 2,359.638 metric tons of gold held in ETPs backed by
the metal is within 1.5 percent of the all-time high set last
month and exceeds the reserves of all but four central banks.  While traders are getting more bullish on gold, some
investors may return to stocks after about $2.9 trillion was
added to the value of global equities this year and the MSCI
All-Country World Index reached its highest since August.  More Alternatives  “There are now alternatives if equities begin to pick
up,” said Jessica Cross, chief executive officer of VM Group, a
London-based commodities research company. “It’s difficult to
get the same amount of physical demand again this year, which
will probably put a bit of a dampener on prices.”  Investors added about 171.5 tons of gold to their ETP
holdings last year, valued at $9.5 billion at today’s price.
Flows may reach 250 tons this year,  Barclays Capital  estimates.  Hedge funds  and other money managers also are getting more
bullish.  Speculators (.MMGCNET)  raised their net-long position to 116,978
futures and options in the week ended Jan. 17, the first gain in
six weeks, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Eight of 16 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect copper to fall next week and one was neutral. The metal
for delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, rose 12 percent to $8,530.50 a ton this
month after declining 21 percent last year. It reached a four-
month high today.  Sugar Prices  Four people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to rise next
week and the same number predicted a drop. The commodity slid 27
percent last year and is up 4 percent this month at 24.23
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Seventeen of 26 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week, while fourteen of 27 said soybeans will
advance. Corn dropped 1.3 percent this month to $6.3825 a bushel
and soybeans gained 0.7 percent to $12.165 a bushel.  “It looks as if the Fed is going to support the economy as
long as it takes,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at Fairfax
IS in  London . “This is going to support commodities in the
short term. But really we have to wait to see how things
progress through the year on a global basis and particularly
what happens in  China .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 