-- Greenlight, JP Morgan Cazenove Employees Fined Over Punch Tavern Trades
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-01-27T13:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/greenlight-jp-morgan-cazenove-employees-fined-over-punch-tavern-trades.html
Employees at  Greenlight Capital Inc. (GLRE) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Cazenove unit were fined in a second
wave of U.K. sanctions over Greenlight’s sale of  Punch Taverns
Plc (PUB)  shares in 2009.  Alexander Ten-Holter, the hedge fund’s former compliance
officer, was fined 130,000 pounds ($204,000) for failing to
“make reasonable enquiries” before selling the firm’s holding,
the  Financial Services Authority  said in a statement today.
Caspar Agnew, a Cazenove trader, was fined 65,000 pounds for
failing to identify and report a “suspicious order.”  Greenlight Capital and its chairman,  David Einhorn , were
already fined 7.2 million pounds by the U.K.’s FSA, which
included the regulator’s second-largest fine for an individual.
Andrew Osborne, a former corporate broker at  Bank of America
Corp .’s Merrill Lynch, also faces a fine of 350,000 pounds in
the investigation, a person with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  “Ten-Holter’s approach to compliance oversight was wholly
inadequate,” Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting director of
enforcement and financial crime, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Serious compliance failures of this nature can have a dramatic
effect on the orderliness and integrity of the markets.”  Full Support  Greenlight said that Ten-Holter continues to have the hedge
fund’s full support.  “Alex is a valued member of the Greenlight team and our
trader in the U.K.,” Greenlight said in an e-mailed statement.
“We believe that the FSA’s action against him is unwarranted.”  Agnew didn’t “act with due skill, care and diligence,” in
failing to report the trade as suspicious, the FSA said. He
“thought that Greenlight was simply fortunate in the timing of
its transactions.” The regulator said that his “integrity is
not questioned in any way.”  Kate Haywood , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in  London ,
declined to comment today. Agnew and Ten-Holter didn’t respond
to e-mail messages seeking comment. A number for Osborne
couldn’t be located and Bank of America declined to comment or
provide contact details for him yesterday.  Einhorn, Greenlight’s 43-year-old chairman, was told of
Punch Taverns’s plan to sell equity by a broker representing the
company, the  FSA  said in an e-mailed statement on Jan. 25. He
then sold more than 11 million Punch Tavern shares over the
following four days, avoiding losses of about 5.8 million pounds
for the fund, the regulator said.  “I didn’t believe in 2009, and I don’t believe now, that
there was anything wrong with our conduct,” Einhorn said after
the FSA fine.  Greenlight, wholly owned by Einhorn, had around 31
employees in 2009, according to the FSA. The $7.8 billion
Greenlight Capital LP fund returned 2.9 percent last year and
has produced annualized returned of 20 percent since the fund
started in May 1996, according to a letter sent to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  