-- Greece, Bankers Expect Debt-Swap Deal This Week
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-29T07:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/greek-debt-talks-drag-on-as-lagarde-keeps-pressure-on-creditors.html
Greece and its private creditors
said they expect to complete a debt-swap accord this week after
bondholders signaled they would accept European government
demands for lower  interest rates .  The sides are “close” to completing a voluntary exchange
within a framework outlined by Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, the  Institute of International Finance ,
negotiating on behalf of private creditors, said in an e-mailed
statement in Athens yesterday.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds, said a person familiar
with the talks, who declined to be identified because a final
deal hasn’t been struck yet.  Juncker, who also leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, said Jan. 24 that bonds issued in the swap should
have a coupon “well below” 3.5 percent for the period to 2020
and below 4 percent over the 30 years. As recently as Jan. 23,
private investors wanted the new 30-year bonds to have an
average coupon of about 4.25 percent, two people familiar with
the talks said then. That offer equated to a loss of about 69
percent on the net-present value of Greek debt.  Bondholders agreed with European officials three months ago
to implement a 50 percent cut in the face value of more than 200
billion euros ($263 billion) of debt by voluntarily swapping
bonds for new securities. A worsening  economy  since then has
made it more difficult to achieve a goal of cutting  Greece ’s
debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  ‘Further Progress’  An accord with bondholders is tied to a 130 billion-euro,
second bailout from Greece’s European partners and the
 International Monetary Fund  for the country, which faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment March 20.  “Further progress was made, building on the understandings
reached Jan. 27 on the key legal and technical issues,” the IIF
said in its statement yesterday.  It said it expects the deal to be finished in the new week
“as discussions on other matters move forward,” in a reference
to Greek government talks with the so-called Troika of the
European Union, the IMF and the  European Central Bank  about
steps required for the disbursement of the second bailout.  Private investors hold about 60 percent of Greece’s 350
billion euros of debt. The IIF is an industry group with more
than 450 members.  Structural, Pension Changes  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos separately said
yesterday a final debt-swap pact will be concluded in the new
week.  The next several days will shape Greece for the next
decade, Venizelos said. In addition to the debt swap, “We have
labor, structural reforms and pension issues to resolve,” he
told reporters in Athens late yesterday after meeting with
troika officials.  “There must be a national pact forged with
unions and employers,” he said.  Today, Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is scheduled to meet
the leaders of Greece’s political parties to discuss the second
bailout, ahead of a summit of European Union leaders in Brussels
tomorrow.  Greece now requires 145 billion euros for the second
bailout, 15 billion euros more than was agreed in October,  Der
Spiegel  reported yesterday, citing an unidentified official from
the troika in Greece.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told Bloomberg
Television Jan. 28 in Davos,  Switzerland , that Greece needs to
make more headway in overhauling its economy.  Budget Oversight  “We’re not terribly positive about what has been done, but
we want to put together a program for the country,” she said.
“The country itself has to provide the adjustment.”  As a possible condition of the bailout, European policy
makers are discussing plans to directly intervene in Greek
budget decisions as the country struggles to cut its deficit,
two euro-region government officials said yesterday.  Under the proposal, European institutions would have powers
to implement austerity measures agreed under the terms of
Greece’s bailouts, said one of the officials, who declined to be
identified because the talks are confidential. The plan would
accelerate decision making and strengthen the power of troika
officials overseeing Greece’s budget, the person said.  The Greek government rejects the plan because it’s contrary
to national sovereignty, a Greek official said yesterday. A
German  finance ministry  spokesman declined to comment. The
French finance ministry didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Following a report in the Financial Times yesterday that
 Germany  is proposing the creation of a commissioner with the
power to veto budget decisions by Greece, the European
Commission said that executive tasks must remain the full
responsibility of the Greek government.  “That responsibility lies on their shoulders and it must
remain so,” commission economics spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  It also said, “The commission is committed to further
reinforce its monitoring capacity and is currently developing
its capacity on the ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  