-- Greece Should Cut Spending on Defense, Health, Troika Draft Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-01-27T12:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/greece-should-cut-spending-on-defense-health-troika-draft-says.html
Greece  was told to focus exclusively
on spending reductions to meet 2012 deficit-cutting conditions
of a second bailout package, the country’s international
creditors said in a report to the government.  The report, dated Jan. 23, put the military, health care
and state-run companies at the center of austerity measures
amounting to about 1 percent of gross domestic product,
estimated last year at 217 billion euros ($285 billion).  Representatives of the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , collectively
known as the troika, prepared the recommendations amid concern
that the interim government of  Lucas Papademos  is falling short
of expectations in controlling its budget.  “We’re not terribly positive about what has been done but
we want to put together a program for the country,” IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an interview today
with Bloomberg Television in Davos,  Switzerland .  Papademos came into office in November charged with
securing a 130 billion-euro financing package set at an October
summit of European Union leaders, Greece’s second in less than
two years, and negotiating a debt swap with private creditors
that will lop 100 billion euros off the country’s 350 billion-
euro debt load.  The “document addresses suggested refinements to possibly
be incorporated into a new program,” said the report, which was
posted on  Capital.gr  news website. “The list at this stage
reflects the analysis of the staffs of the EC, ECB and IMF and
is expected to be refined as the Greek authorities present their
own suggestions.”  Selling Companies  Greece needs to implement reforms agreed after previous
rounds of talks with the troika and introduce structural
economic reforms including to the labor market and tax
administration, the report said. The state should “offer two to
three large companies for privatization” in the second quarter
to be consistent with asset-sales targets.  The report also suggested Greece should recapitalize its
banks using instruments without  voting rights . Banks should have
a core tier 1 capital ratio of 10 percent from 2013. This year
the banks’ core tier 1 requirement would be 9 percent.  The 2012 measures should “be achieved on the expenditure
side only and should be a few big ticket items,” said the
report. Cuts in health spending would focus on reducing
pharmaceutical costs. Greece should also start a program to
reduce state employees by 150,000 by 2015, the report said.  In the electricity sector, the report recommends Greece
“combine the sale of lignite with hydro plants owned by the
incumbent electricity company,”  Public Power Corp. (PPC)  SA, “to
create competition in the generation side of the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 