-- Greek Debt Wrangle May Pull Default Trigger
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-01-27T10:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/greek-debt-wrangle-may-pull-default-trigger.html
Opposition to payouts on Greek
credit-default swaps from European Union policy makers is
softening as disputes over a voluntary debt exchange threaten to
push the nation into default.  Any agreement between the Greek government and the
Washington-based  Institute of International Finance  on debt
writedowns will only bind 50 percent of investors in the 206
billion euros ($270 billion) of notes being negotiated, Barclays
Capital estimates. Hedge funds may resist a deal, seeking to get
paid in full or compensated from insurance contracts.  Greece must repay 14.5 billion euros of bonds in March and
an agreement that triggers as much as $3.2 billion of default
insurance may be necessary unless all bondholders approve, said
 Marco Buti , head of the European Commission’s economics
division. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today in Davos that a deal is “very close.”  “Politicians seem less concerned than before about CDS
triggers,” said Michael Hampden-Turner, a credit strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “Having a payout on Greek CDS is
probably better than the alternative: a loss in market faith of
the product’s ability to provide a hedge against sovereign
risk.”  Worsen Crisis  Officials, including former European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , have insisted that a swaps trigger was
unacceptable because traders would be encouraged to bet against
indebted nations and worsen the crisis.  Analysts at New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup say a Greek payout may actually bolster confidence in
the $232 billion sovereign insurance market and also help boost
the government bond market.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  resumes talks in
 Athens  today with  Charles Dallara , the IIF’s managing director,
after “some progress” was made at a meeting last night.  Default swaps insuring $10 million of Greek debt for five
years cost $6.3 million in advance and $100,000 annually,
according to CMA. That implies an 82 percent chance the
government will default in that time, assuming investors recover
22 percent of their holdings.  Greek 10-year bonds fell today, pushing the yield on the
securities up 16 basis points to 33.64 percent. The price
slipped to 21.05 percent of face value. Two-year notes advanced,
with the price climbing to 21.33 and the yield dropping 1,814
basis points to 182 percent.  Greece  said it may impose losses on investors who fail to
support the debt restructuring by adding a so-called collective
action clause, or CAC, into its bond documentation. That would
force holdouts to accept the same terms as the majority.  Restructuring Event  Use of CACs would trigger a restructuring  credit event  and
a payout of default swaps, according to rules from the
 International Swaps & Derivatives Association .  Credit events can be caused by a reduction in principal or
interest, postponement or deferral of payments, or a change in
the ranking or currency of obligations. Any of these must result
from a deterioration in creditworthiness, apply to multiple
investors and be binding for all holders. ISDA’s determinations
committee rules whether swaps can be triggered.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “A CAC is looking increasingly like the best option,”
Citigroup’s Hampden-Turner said. “That route seems to tick a
lot of boxes: they don’t have a bond default, the official
sector gets treated differently than the private sector, and
everybody has to participate in the exchange without anybody
getting paid in full.”  ECB Opposition  While the ECB oppose any involuntary restructuring of Greek
debt, policy makers such as Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager say they aren’t against a credit event.  The softer stance signals Greece is unlikely to get
sufficient participation in a voluntary bond swap to make its
debt burden sustainable. Negotiations have focused on the coupon
bondholders will accept on new debt with  Europe ’s finance
ministers pressing investors to accept bigger losses after the
IIF made what they described as their “maximum” offer.  “It would be welcome if the ECB is no longer blocking the
only sensible route for Greece to resurrect itself,” said Georg Grodzki, the London-based head of credit research at Legal &
General Plc, which manages $550 billion of assets.  Hedge funds  in  New York  and London are trying to profit
from trading Greek  government bonds  as banks brace for losses
from a debt swap.  Greek Bonds  Saba Capital Management LP, founded by former Deutsche Bank
AG credit trader  Boaz Weinstein , York Capital Management LP, the
$14 billion fund started by Jamie Dinan, and London-based
CapeView Capital LLP are among managers that now hold Greek
bonds, according to people with knowledge of the transactions.  Officials are now more concerned about preventing a
disorderly Greek default that might threaten indebted European
nations such as Italy,  Portugal  and  Spain . An orderly credit
event would be positive for the market, according to Saul Doctor, a London-based credit strategist at JPMorgan.  “There’s less emphasis on the perils of triggering CDS,”
said Barnaby Martin, a European credit strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  London . “It’s now about making sure
Greece’s debt is sustainable.”  Portuguese Bonds  Portuguese bond yields widened this month on speculation
the indebted nation may follow Greece in seeking losses from
private investors. The country’s 10-year bonds yield 14.88
percent. Two-year note yields are higher at 16.54 percent.  The upfront cost of insuring Portugal’s debt jumped 5
percentage points since Jan. 13 to a record 38 percent,
according to CMA, meaning it costs $3.8 million in advance
and $100,000 annually to insure $10 million of the
country’s debt for five years.  Outstanding contracts on Portugal have tumbled to $5
billion from about $8 billion last year, according to data from
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., covering 2 percent of the
nation’s debt.  “Contagion has already happened to a large extent and
officials are probably not as scared of triggering CDS as they
were six months ago,” said Cagdas Aksu, a European rates
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “If there is any way
to avoid the CDS trigger, they will of course prefer it, but the
chances of this has become low at this stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  