-- Greece to Sell as Much as 70% of Hellinikon Airport Project Near Athens
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-01-27T10:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/greece-to-sell-as-much-as-70-of-hellinikon-airport-project-near-athens.html
Greece will sell as much as 70
percent of the company with the rights to manage and develop the
Hellinikon airport site outside of  Athens , according to the
 Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund ’s executive director
for real estate.  “Between 66 and 70 percent will be sold in the tender,”
Andreas Taprantzis said in an interview in his Athens office on
Jan. 25.  The site, which includes Athens’s former international
airport, covers 6.2 million square meters (66.7 million square
feet) of land, three times the size of  Monaco . It will be one of
the largest development sites in  Europe .  The Hellenic Real Estate Fund last month started a public
tender process for a majority stake in  Hellinikon SA , which will
hold the rights to develop the site under a long-term lease. The
sale is part of the fund’s effort to raise 65 billion euros
($85.2 billion) by 2015 from state-owned assets to help  Greece 
raise cash to cut debt.  “When the project is sold on at some point in time we, or
whoever is in charge of the fund at that time, may decide to
sell the stake or retain it,” said Costas Mitropoulos, chief
executive officer of the fund.  Mitropoulis declined to disclose the duration of the lease
or the revenue it could generate, saying only that it will last
“decades” and be long enough for the developer and its lenders
to make their money back on the investment.  Greece, trying to avoid a default, is negotiating with
creditors on a deal to help cope with the country’s public debt.
Three months ago, private bondholders agreed to a 50 percent
reduction in the face value of more than 200 billion euros of
debt by swapping bonds for new securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  