-- Greek Banks Gain on Lower Capital Needs: Athens Mover
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-27T16:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/greek-banks-extend-gains-on-lower-capital-needs-athens-mover.html
Greek banks led by  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) 
rose for a third straight day amid reports the country’s
international lenders will ease  capital requirements  and as the
government inched towards a deal on a debt swap.  Piraeus, Greece’s fourth-largest lender, added  12 percent 
to close at 50 cents in Athens, bringing gains in the past three
days to 63 percent.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , the nation’s
second-biggest bank, gained 6 percent to 80 cents, bringing the
advance in the past three days to 53 percent.  Eurobank added 79 percent this week, the best performer of
the eight banks on the  Athex Exchange Banks Index (ASEDTR) , which rose 36
percent, the best weekly performance since December 1997.
 National Bank of Greece SA ,  Greece  biggest bank, increased 23
percent this week, and  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) , the third largest, was up
76 percent.  The European Commission, European Central Bank and
International Monetary Fund want the nation’s banks to have a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10 percent from next year rather
than from this year as originally demanded, Athens-based
newspaper  Kathimerini  reported today. It cited a  document 
drafted by the lenders for talks with the Greek government.  The three institutions, known as the troika, have lowered
the banks’ capital requirement for 2012 to 9 percent,
Kathimerini said, citing the document, which lays out the
conditions for a second loan accord. The government is also
being asked to re-capitalize its banks using instruments without
 voting rights , the newspaper said.  Private Control  “The troika is apparently aiming to maintain private-
sector control over the banking sector, which faces massive
capital needs following the implementation of the private-sector
involvement,” Alpha Finance SA, a Greek brokerage, said in a
morning note. “Existing shareholders will have to make their
cash contributions over an extended period of time and under a
potentially better macro market environment.”  The value of Greek banks has slumped in the past two years
as they wrote down their holdings of Greek  government bonds  and
their business was affected by the contraction of the economy.
Last year the general Athens index dropped 52 percent, while
Greek banks lost 79 percent.  Funds have been earmarked to support Greek banks from a
second 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) bailout package for the
country once a swap of Greek government bonds is completed.
Until now, officials have said recourse to the 30 billion-euro
Hellenic Financial Stability Fund would be in exchange for
common shares, which could wipe out existing shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  