-- IAEA’s Amano Says Not Sure ‘Iran Has Declared Everything’
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-01-27T10:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/iaea-s-amano-says-not-sure-iran-has-declared-everything-.html
The United Nations nuclear
inspectorate said it’s uncertain  Iran  has declared the full
extent of its atomic work as  Israel ’s defense chief warned the
Persian Gulf nation’s program may spill over in the region.  “We are not very sure that Iran has declared everything,”
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano
said in Davos, Switzerland. An Iranian nuclear weapon would mean
“the end of any anti-proliferation regime” in the  Middle East ,
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said after Amano’s remarks.  IAEA nuclear inspectors leave Vienna tomorrow for three-
days of talks with Iranian authorities. While the agency
confirmed Iran hasn’t used its declared uranium stockpile to
make weapons, inspectors said they have credible intelligence
showing the country studied how to make a nuclear bomb. Iran,
under four sets of UN sanctions, says it only wants atomic power
and that the intelligence was fabricated.  European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23 to ban
oil imports from Iran and to freeze Iranian central bank assets.
EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said the embargo was
aimed at pressing the Iranian government to resume negotiations
over its nuclear program.  Israel will assess the effects of the European embargo,
which starts on July 1, “in the next months,” Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman said Jan. 24 in Vienna. Israel has said it
would use force to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons.  Iran ‘Determined’  “Iran is determined to more forward toward a nuclear-
military program,” Barak told a panel in Davos today. “They
are ready to fight and deceive the whole world to turn into a
nuclear-military power.”  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey  would also pursue atomic weapons if
Iran is allowed to become a nuclear-military power, Barak said.
Israel probably has about 80 nuclear warheads, according to the
Federation of American Scientists, citing the U.S. Defense
Intelligence Agency.  Iranian officials have said they would block the  Strait of
Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of globally traded oil, if
military action were taken against their country.  Crude for March delivery today was up 21 cents at $99.91 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 10:16 a.m. Vienna time. The contract settled at $99.70
yesterday, the highest closing price since Jan. 19. Prices are
up 17 percent in the past 12 months.  Iran, which hid its nuclear work for more than a decade
before IAEA inspections began in 2003, is obligated under the
nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty to declare its enriched-uranium
stockpile.  “We have requested Iran to engage with us to clarify the
decisions,” Amano said. “Iran has a case to answer.”  Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said yesterday his
country is willing to revive talks on its nuclear program and
accused Western countries of dodging discussions, the state-run
Fars news agency reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  