-- Ticketmaster Hobbled by Springsteen Scalpers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-28T01:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ticketmaster-hobbled-by-scalpers-as-springsteen-goes-on-sale.html
Ticketmaster, the world’s biggest
online ticket service, said scalpers overwhelmed its computer
systems as the company began taking orders for Bruce Springsteen
concerts.  Traffic at the website was 2.5 times the highest level of
the past year, Los Angeles-based Ticketmaster, part of  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , said today in an e-mail.  “Early indications suggest that much of this traffic came
from highly suspicious sources, implying that scalpers were
using sophisticated computer programs to assault our systems and
secure tickets with the sole intention of selling them in the
resale market,” the company said.  Tickets to some of the music industry’s biggest touring
acts including Springsteen and Van Halen went on sale this
morning. Greater federal oversight of the ticketing industry is
warranted, U.S. Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a Democrat
from New Jersey, said in a statement today after Ticketmaster’s
Springsteen ticket trouble.  Live Nation gained 0.1 percent to $10.40 at the close in
 New York . The stock slid 27 percent in 2011.  Ticketmaster said it is working with law enforcement
agencies to prosecute scalpers. In June, a federal court in
 Newark ,  New Jersey , convicted three men who operated Wiseguy
Tickets of conspiring to evade computer security. The company
made more than $25 million from 2002 to 2009 by reselling
tickets to sporting events and concerts, including Springsteen
shows.  Wiseguy used programmers in Bulgaria to sidestep
Ticketmaster’s computer defenses and overload the system,
according to the defendants’ statements to the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  