-- IMF Staff Report Says Turkey Monetary Policy Is ‘Overburdened’
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/imf-staff-report-says-turkey-monetary-policy-is-overburdened-.html
International Monetary Fund  staff
recommended that  Turkey  lower its inflation target and said
 monetary policy  is “overburdened” by different objectives.  In an annual assessment of the country’s economic policy
dated Nov. 14 and released today, IMF economists said Turkey’s
“unconventional monetary policy framework” has a potentially
conflicting set of objectives. While the authorities consider
the current inflation target of 5 percent “appropriate,”
decreasing it would help the country’s competitiveness, IMF
staff said.  “Staff advocated a much tighter structural fiscal position
and financial policies geared to moderating systemic risk,” IMF
staff wrote. That would “allow monetary policy to maintain both
inflation and  interest rates  at levels similar to other emerging
markets within a conventional inflation-targeting framework.”  Under Governor Erdem Basci, the central bank has developed
a policy mix designed to reduce demand for imported  consumer
goods  through limits on bank lending, while rate cuts weaken the
lira. The bank this month maintained the corridor within which
it varies interest rates daily and offered banks increased
longer-term financing at a higher rate.  The IMF staff report predicted growth for Turkey at 2
percent this year. In a more recent report prepared for Group of
20 officials, who met Jan. 19-20, and released this week, the
IMF  forecast  growth this year of 0.4 percent for Turkey, down
from 8.3 percent in 2011.  Turkey dismissed the IMF estimates. The country stands by
its forecast of 4 percent growth this year, Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 