-- Inergy Falls Record 24% on Distribution Cut: Chicago Mover
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-01-27T21:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/inergy-drops-as-mild-temperatures-reduce-demand-chicago-mover.html
Inergy LP (NRGY) , a propane supplier and
natural-gas storage operator, fell the most since going public
after saying it may cut distributions and is reviewing
operations as mild weather reduces fuel demand.  Inergy declined 24 percent to close at $17.33 in  New York ,
the biggest drop since the shares began trading on July 26,
2001.  Inergy’s distributable cash flow for 2011 only covered 68
percent of its distributions, the Kansas City, Missouri-based
company said in a statement attached to a filing today. Market
conditions in its propane business and gas-storage operations in
 Texas  “remain challenging,” according to the statement.  Inergy’s propane sales have been hurt by the warm winter,
Ethan Bellamy, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in Denver,
said in an interview today. Companies often store gas during the
summer and sell it in the winter at a profit, he said.  “That seasonal arbitrage has really been crushed” by the
warm weather and an oversupply of gas, said Bellamy, who rates
Inergy’s units “underperform” and owns none.  Inergy is cutting costs in its propane business and
considering reducing distributions to a level that matches
expected  cash flow , according to the statement.  Inergy may see more cash flow from its pipeline business in
2012, Mark McCabe, an analyst with KDP Investment Advisors Inc.,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. The weather will continue
to impact Inergy’s propane business, which will account for 60
percent of its first-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
deductions and amortization, he said.  Raymond James & Associates Inc. cut Inergy’s rating to
“underperform” from “market perform” today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  