-- Innovate Without Mercy Is the Lesson of RIM’s BlackBerry: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-27T00:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/innovate-without-mercy-is-the-enduring-lesson-of-rim-and-blackberry-view.html
The travails of  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , the Ontario-based maker of the BlackBerry mobile messaging
device, follow a pattern sadly familiar to technology-company
watchers and admirers of classical tragedy. Brave innovation and
superb execution create a new market, which the upstart
dominates. But ultimately the very scale of the new champion’s
success drags it down.  No tech company, least of all RIM, can be unaware of this
cycle. The main lesson is in plain sight: Technology firms must
be their own most formidable competitor. They must strive as
eagerly as their rivals to displace their own commanding
technologies. If they don’t, somebody else will.  The lesson may be clear, yet applying it is almost
impossibly hard. One reason is that the bigger the initial
success, the greater the reluctance to dismantle it. On Jan. 22,
RIM proved the point. Its formerly class-leading, class-creating
products have been failing in the new market for smartphones.
Consumers and businesses are dumping their BlackBerrys for Apple
Inc.’s iPhones or smartphones powered by Google Inc.’s Android
operating system. RIM’s belated effort to market an iPad
competitor was a costly and embarrassing flop.  Revenue (RI1)  and  profit  have slumped and investors have hammered
the share price. Earlier this week, RIM announced that its
founders and co-chief executive officers,  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , were stepping down. But the new CEO, Thorsten Heins,
is a company insider who promptly affirmed his commitment to the
founders’ vision.  Future Disruption  What leads technology innovators astray is the idea that
market dominance, once achieved by their own disruptive
technologies, can be guarded from future disruption. This
complacency is understandable because great innovators
experience their sector’s barriers to entry firsthand. Economies
of scale, the power of established networks, and the salience of
industrywide standards and platforms make it hard to break
through. However, the force of a sufficiently powerful
innovation can overcome these barriers. And here’s the point:
the next sufficiently powerful innovation is always on its way.  RIM created valuable proprietary technologies. The
particular way BlackBerrys connect to mobile networks was its
main strength because it allowed the devices to work more
securely and corporate IT managers to exert the control they
desired. These benefits were overwhelmed, however, by the
amazing ease of use and range of applications offered by newer
smartphones.  RIM was too concerned about defending the technologies it
had created, and not concerned enough about giving users of its
devices the best possible experience -- a strategy that could
have meant surrendering its previous advantage.  Eastman Kodak Co., which filed for  bankruptcy  this month,
is the classical instance of this syndrome. A paradigm-shifting
innovator -- in the 19th and 20th centuries, that is -- Kodak
led the development of film-based photography, established
overwhelming presence in its burgeoning new market, and for
decades reaped profit accordingly.  Sadly, Kodak can also fairly claim to have invented digital
photography, the technology that destroyed film. But with a
near-monopoly to protect, the company grew that business too
tentatively. In a way, it wanted digital to fail. It rested on
its laurels and the power of its brand.  Newcomers with less to lose arrived and swept its business
away. Fujifilm Holdings Corp., its Japanese competitor, is one
such rival. Less wedded to past success, it innovated across a
wider range of technologies and embraced digital photography
more wholeheartedly. Fujifilm is still a successful business,
whereas Kodak is bust.  Defending Windows  Will Microsoft Corp. one day be another Kodak? It’s
possible. Microsoft still has a hugely profitable near-monopoly
in its  Windows operating system  to defend, and has been an
unimpressive innovator in technologies, including smartphones,
which now threaten to challenge it. Compare that with Apple,
which began its recent startling run with no similar grand
success to inhibit it. That, by the way, has now changed. Today,
Apple has its own platforms to defend and is no longer led by
one of history’s most instinctively disruptive bosses.  Examples of wholesale corporate reinvention -- of
shattering competition that works from the inside out -- are few
and far between. In the technology sector, International
Business Machines Corp. comes to mind. In its 100-year history,
the company has been a serial self-reinventor: from mechanical
tabulating machines to computers, from  mainframe computers  to
personal computers, from computing machines to computing
services. Transitions as demanding as the one that leveled Kodak
have been taken in stride, not once but repeatedly.  Paradoxically, innovation for its own sake has not been the
animating spirit of IBM, one of the world’s most innovative
companies. Instead, it has been the desire to build and keep
relationships with customers. That is worth pondering.
Technologies come and go, but you always need customers. The
watchword might be: Put their needs first, then innovate without
mercy for their sake, not your own.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  