-- Iran Oil Export Curbs Extend to 95% of Tankers in Europe’s Insurance Rules
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-01-27T14:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/iran-oil-export-curbs-extend-to-95-of-tankers-in-europe-s-insurance-rules.html
European Union sanctions on Iranian
oil will extend to about 95 percent of tankers because they are
insured under rules governed by European law.  The  International Group  of P&I Clubs insures all but 5
percent of the global tanker fleet and its 13 member clubs
follow European rules to participate in the claim-sharing pool,
said Andrew Bardot, the London-based secretary and executive
officer. Carrying Iranian oil would invalidate the ships’ cover
against risks including spills and collisions, he said.  “Any EU-regulated insurer will not be able to provide
insurance to cover any ship engaged in the carriage of Iranian
oil and petrochemicals to the EU and elsewhere,” Bardot said by
phone yesterday. “We have already notified ship owners of the
effect on their trading activities and our ability to cover.”  While the embargo on Iranian oil only covers the EU’s 27
member states, the extent of the region’s role in insuring ships
will curb trade globally.  Iran  is the second-biggest member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and sends oil
to China, Europe,  Japan ,  India  and  South Korea . EU foreign
ministers agreed to the ban on Jan. 23, seeking to increase
pressure on Iran over its nuclear program, which the nation says
is for civilian and medical purposes.  Vessels carrying oil from the nation will have to use
“questionable” insurance, said Simon Schnorr, the London-based
marine client director at Aon Risk Solutions, a unit of the
world’s largest insurance  broker .  Insurance Policies  The EU sanctions will still apply to shipping companies
with no European link because of their insurance policies,
according to Intertanko, the largest trade group representing
tanker owners. Members include Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Frontline
Ltd. (FRO)  and Tokyo-based  Kawasaki Kisen (9107)  Kaisha Ltd.  “The EU ban on related insurance and re-insurance means
that owners or operators with no EU link who seek to transport
Iranian oil will be caught even if there is no EU element to the
shipment itself,” Michele White, Intertanko’s general counsel,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. “This is
now a highly restrictive and volatile environment in which we
feel our members cannot trade without risk of breaching EU or
indeed the myriad of other sanctions against Iran.”  Ship owners will struggle to find insurance that doesn’t
comply with EU law and whose provider has the funds needed to
meet the “standard cover provision” of $1 billion for
pollution liabilities, Schnorr said. Ships without valid
insurance would be barred from entering most ports, he said.  Mutual Protection  China  and Japan have said they will still buy Iranian oil.
The Japan Ship Owners’ Mutual Protection & Indemnity
Association, the Asian nation’s only organization insuring
ocean-going and coastal vessels, is a member of the
International Group of P&I Clubs, according to its website. The
London-based group doesn’t list Chinese members.  Iran will close the  Strait of Hormuz  should sanctions
impede the sale of its oil, the state-run Fars news agency
reported Jan. 23, citing Mohammad Kowsari, the deputy head of
the parliament’s National Security and Foreign Policy
commission. The strait in the  Persian Gulf  is a transit point
for about 35 percent of all seaborne oil. The U.K. and the U.S.
have warships in the region and have vowed to keep the waterway
open.  Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in 2010, accounting for
about 50 percent of government revenue and 80 percent of
exports, according to the U.S. Energy Department. Iran produced
3.58 million barrels of crude a day in December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about 4 percent of global oil
consumption.  Million Barrels  OPEC members have about 2.85 million barrels a day of spare
crude production capacity, the  International Energy Agency  said
in a Jan. 18 report. West Texas Intermediate oil traded in  New
York  gained 0.6 percent to $99.41 a barrel this year as Brent
oil traded on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
advanced 3.6 percent to $111.25 a barrel.  The EU sanctions still need implementation by the European
Commission, its regulatory arm, before they become binding on
companies. Preexisting contracts are exempted until July 1.  “Unless they decide to do it uninsured or under
questionable insurance coverage, it will be difficult for the
vast majority of reputable ship owners to continue trading with
Iran,” Schnorr said. “In many places, if they call with
alternative cover, they probably won’t be accepted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  