-- Italy, Spain Are Among Five Euro-Zone Nations Downgraded by Fitch Ratings
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/italy-spain-are-among-five-euro-zone-nations-downgraded-by-fitch-ratings.html
The credit ratings of  Italy , Spain
and three other euro-area countries were cut by  Fitch Ratings ,
which said the five nations lack financing flexibility in the
face of the regional debt crisis.  Italy, the euro area’s third-largest economy, was cut two
levels to A- from A+. The rating on Spain was also lowered two
notches, to A from AA-. Ratings on Belgium, Slovenia and Cyprus
were also reduced, while Ireland’s rating was maintained.  The downgrades, flagged a month ago by Fitch, come as
 Greece  negotiates with creditors on how to avoid a default and
other euro nations struggle to bolster the region’s defenses
against contagion should those talks fail. While sovereign-bond
yields have fallen in Italy, Spain in recent weeks as the
 European Central Bank  added liquidity, the countries downgraded
yesterday still lack financial flexibility, Fitch said.  “The divergence in monetary and credit conditions across
the euro zone and near-term economic outlook highlight the
greater vulnerability” these nations face in the event of
financing shocks, Fitch said. “These sovereigns do not, in
Fitch’s view, accrue the full benefits of the euro’s reserve-
currency status.”  Negative Outlooks  Belgium’s rating was cut to AA from AA+, while that of
Cyprus was pared to BBB- from BBB. Slovenia was downgraded to A
from AA-. Ireland’s long-term rating was maintained at BBB+.  All the countries were removed from “ratings watch
negative,” though they retain a “negative outlook,” which
implies the possibility of a downgrade within two years,
according to Fitch.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  warned European
leaders in Davos,  Switzerland , yesterday that the U.S. isn’t
willing to provide more support for the region unless its own
governments act first.  “The only way  Europe ’s going to be successful in holding
this together, making monetary union work, is to build a
stronger firewall,” Geithner said at the annual meeting.
“That’s going to require a bigger commitment of resources.”  European leaders gather in Brussels on Jan. 30 to discuss
Greece, regional support mechanisms and how to spur growth.  ‘In the Pipeline’  Fitch placed Spain, Italy, Ireland, Cyprus, Belgium and
Slovenia on review on Dec. 16 for possible downgrades, citing
Europe’s failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the
region’s crisis. Fitch lowered the outlook on  France ’s AAA
rating at the same time, though the company said in January that
France’s rating probably wouldn’t be cut this year.  “This was in the pipeline,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “The important
thing is that the ratings of Italy and Spain remain on par or
above S&P’s, so this is catch-up. It’s definitely a wakeup call
for European leaders ahead of the summit.”  Italy’s credit rating was cut two levels to BBB+ last week
by  Standard & Poor’s , which also downgraded eight other euro-
region nations including France and Austria, citing European
leaders’ inability to contain the debt crisis.  The fallout in financial markets to S&P’s action was muted.
 Spain  on Jan. 17 paid an average 2.049 percent to sell 12-month
debt, compared with 4.05 percent on Dec. 13. The previous day,
France auctioned 1.895 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of one-year
notes at a yield of 0.406 percent, down from 0.454 percent on
Jan. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  