-- James Murdoch Loosens London Ties Ahead of New York Move Delayed by Probe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-28T00:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/james-murdoch-loosens-london-ties.html
James Murdoch , News Corp.’s deputy
chief operating officer, is cutting some of his ties to London
ahead of a move to  New York  that was delayed amid a phone-
hacking scandal that engulfed the U.K. business.  Murdoch, the son of News Corp. ChairmanRupert Murdoch, is
leaving the board of London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  after less
than three years, the U.K. drugmaker said yesterday. Murdoch’s
strategy adviser for Europe,  Matthew Anderson , is stepping down
and moving to San Francisco, News Corp. said separately.  James Murdoch was named deputy chief operating officer last
March, four months before reports of voicemail interception by
tabloid journalists in the U.K. forced News Corp. to drop its
bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  U.K. lawmakers are
currently preparing a report about Murdoch’s role in the scandal
and may publish their findings in coming weeks.  “The strategy has shifted with the political issues in
London, with the phone-hacking scandal, the BSkyB bid falling
through, the fact that James is moving from London to New
York,” said  Alan Gould , an analyst at Evercore Partners in New
York. “Most of the power is in New York. They want most of the
strategic planning with the senior executives.”  There are no plans to replace Anderson in London, according
to two people with knowledge of the considerations. They
declined to be identified because the decision is private. Alice Macandrew, the former head of public relations for News Corp. in
 Europe , left her role in December.  News Corp. spokesman  Jack Horner  declined to comment
yesterday on the management changes.  Lawmaker Investigation  Murdoch was given the deputy COO job in March 2011, with
News Corp. announcing plans to move the 39-year-old, who is
 Rupert Murdoch ’s youngest son, to its headquarters in New York.
By July, the company’s News International U.K. publishing unit
faced phone-hacking allegations against the News of the World,
leading to the tabloid’s closure. Both Murdochs appeared before
U.K. lawmakers to explain their role.  The fallout also led to the resignation of Rebekah Brooks,
the CEO of News International, and Les Hinton, head of the Dow
Jones & Co. division who had previously worked in the U.K.  Shareholders of News Corp. and pay-TV broadcaster BSkyB,
partly owned by News Corp., lodged protest votes against Murdoch
after the scandal engulfed the company. Murdoch is chairman of
BSkyB and also sits on the board of  Sotheby’s (BID) , the largest
publicly traded auction house.  ‘Ill-Suited’  Murdoch should quit the board of Sotheby’s, said CtW
Investment Group, an adviser to union-sponsored pension funds
with more than $200 billion in assets. The phone-hacking scandal
makes Murdoch “ill-suited for service” on the boards of Glaxo,
Sotheby’s and BSkyB, CtW said.  Sotheby’s spokeswoman Diana Phillips said in an e-mailed
statement that “James Murdoch is a valued member of Sotheby’s
board.”  Lawmaker Tom Watson, a member of the U.K.’s Labour party
and a member of the Parliament’s Culture Committee investigating
the scandal, said in July that James Murdoch should face
criminal charges and was unsuitable to be a director of BSkyB,
in which  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns 39 percent.  James Murdoch told lawmakers in November that News of the
World editor  Colin Myler  failed to tell him in 2008 that phone
hacking at the now-defunct tabloid was common. Myler and the
newspaper’s lawyer Tom Crone have repeatedly insisted that they
discussed evidence with Murdoch.  Succession  Murdoch joined News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit News
International as chairman in December 2007, after the hacking
took place. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes
with News Corp. units in providing financial news and
information.  When News Corp. announced Murdoch’s New York move, analysts
including David Joyce at Miller Tabak & Co. said the decision
was probably part of a plan for James to succeed his father at
some point.  Following the phone-hacking scandal, it will be important
for Murdoch to work with Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey ,
says Michael Morris, an analyst at Davenport & Co. LLC.  “Chase Carey is the single-most important operational
executive at the company, and he’s based in New York,” Morris
said. “If executives are going to be geographically aligned
with the economics of the business, then most of your executives
will be based in New York.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net 
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  