-- Japan Consumer Spending Revival Supports Growth as Exports Slide: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-01-27T06:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/japan-s-retail-sales-jump-2-5-softening-blow-of-export-slump-on-economy.html
Japan ’s retail sales grew at the
fastest pace in more than a year as a rebound in  consumer
spending  propped up an economy reeling from the March earthquake
and a deepening export slump.  Retail sales  rose 2.5 percent in December from a year
earlier, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today, the biggest
advance since August 2010 and exceeding the 2.1 percent median
forecast of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. From a
month earlier, sales climbed 0.3 percent.  “Consumers are gradually regaining their appetite,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist in Tokyo at  Itochu Corp. (8001) 
“But we can’t rule out the possibility that declines in exports
and production due to the global economic slowdown will weaken
employment and incomes.”  Consumers are picking up some of the slack after export
shipments slid the most since May because of a stronger yen and
faltering global demand.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said this week consumer spending has been
“unexpectedly robust,” citing the potential benefits of a
strong yen, which makes imports cheaper, and increased demand in
the aftermath of the March earthquake and tsunami.  The yen traded at 77.04 against the dollar as of 1:34 p.m.
in Tokyo. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.1 percent. Shares
in  Ryohin Keikaku Co. (7453) , owner of the MUJI retail chain, rose 2
percent.  Property Prices  Elsewhere in  Asia , a Chinese lawmaker said that property
prices need to decline 30 percent to reach a “reasonable”
level, equivalent to about six years’ salary for a family.  That “doesn’t mean prices will go down in every region,
every city,” He Keng, a deputy director of the Financial and
Economic Affairs Committee of the National People’s Congress,
said in a transcript posted on the website of China National
Radio. “The exact extent of the decline depends on demand.”  In  Kuala Lumpur , Malaysian central bank Governor Zeti
Akhtar Aziz told reporters that the nation’s interest rates are
“accommodative” and inflation has peaked. Thailand reported
that industrial output fell for a fourth month in December.  In  Europe ,  Spain  may report today retail sales fell 5.5
percent in December from a year earlier, while unemployment in
the fourth quarter rose to 22.2 percent from 21.5 percent in the
previous three months, according to Bloomberg surveys. Poland’s
economy probably expanded 4.2 percent in 2011, after growing 3.8
percent the previous year, a separate survey showed ahead of the
release by its statistics office.  U.S. Expansion  U.S. gross domestic product probably rose at a 3 percent
annualized rate in the fourth quarter after advancing 1.8
percent in the previous three-month period, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the Commerce Department report today.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment was probably 74, the same reading as the
preliminary number, according to a Bloomberg survey before the
report today.  Japan’s retail figures showed food and clothing were among
items that led to higher retail sales last month, today’s report
showed. Sales at  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ’s Uniqlo brand stores surged
14.2 percent in December from a year earlier, the first increase
since July.  A resurgence in household demand, which slumped in the
aftermath of the quake as weaker confidence and electricity
shortages kept people at home, has been a boon for retailers
including  Aeon Co. (8267)  and convenience-store chain  Lawson Inc. (2651) ,
which both posted record operating profits in the nine months
ended Nov. 30. Sales at  convenience stores  open at least a year
rose 4.1 percent in December from a year earlier, according the
Japan Franchise Association.  Holiday Season  Retailers got a boost from the first holiday season since
the March temblor, the Japan Department Stores Association said
in a report on Jan. 19. Department-store sales in the northeast
region, the area most severely hit by the earthquake and
tsunami, rose 5.8 percent last month, the industry group said.  “Last December was special as households were really in
the mood to shop after what they went through in the aftermath
of the disaster,” said Hiroyuki Fujiwara, a senior analyst at
Nippon Research Institute in Tokyo, which specializes in
consumer and corporate behavior and conducts research for the
government. “The strong retail sales confirmed the momentum,
but the question is how long this will last as we aren’t seeing
any encouraging signs of a recovery to other areas of the
economy.”  Record Deposits  Earthquake survivors in the northeast are tapping record
growth in deposits that have swelled from insurance payouts and
donations received in the aftermath of the disaster. Household
deposits in the Tohoku area rose 8 percent in November from a
year earlier, the biggest gain since comparable  Bank of Japan (8301) 
data became available in 1999.  In a sign that exports are losing their status as a driver
of growth in the world’s third-largest economy, a report this
week showed Japan posted its first annual trade deficit since
1980. A yen near postwar highs against the dollar and factory
disruptions from the March disaster curbed overseas shipments
and higher energy demands bolstered imports.  Separate economic releases today showed core consumer
prices, which exclude fresh food, slid 0.1 percent in December,
the third consecutive decline.  Bank of Japan  board members last
month expressed concern about how the yen’s appreciation and
slower global demand would hurt exporters, a record of a
December policy meeting released showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  