-- Japan Post-Fukushima Reactor Checks ‘Insufficient,’ Advisers Say
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-01-27T10:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/japan-post-fukushima-reactor-checks-insufficient-advisers-say.html
Japan ’s safety review of nuclear
reactors after the Fukushima disaster is based on faulty
criteria and many people involved have conflicts of interest,
two government advisers on the checks said.  “The whole process being undertaken is exactly the same as
that used previous to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi accident, even
though the accident showed all these guidelines and categories
to be insufficient,” Hiromitsu Ino, Professor Emeritus at the
University of  Tokyo , said at a briefing in Tokyo today.  The checks began after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
caused meltdowns at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Dai-Ichi station
and all but three of the country’s nuclear reactors are offline.
The government is ignoring criticism of the process as it tries
to convince a skeptical public the industry is safe and get
reactors back on-line, Ino said.  Reports on stress tests on 14 reactors have been submitted
to Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency. None of the
tests covers a scenario involving multiple natural disasters and
they were carried out even though the causes of the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi meltdowns and hydrogen explosions are still being
investigated, said Masashi Goto, a former reactor designer who
also serves on the committee.  “The tests are nothing but an optimistic desk simulation
based on the assumption that everything will happen exactly as
assumed,” Goto said, adding that they don’t include margins for
human error, design flaws or combinations of both.  Aware of Criticism  NISA has no plans to change the way the reviews are being
conducted, Tatsuya Taguchi, a NISA official in charge of nuclear
safety regulatory standards, said by phone today. The concerns
of Ino and Goto have been discussed, Taguchi said.  “We are doing the best we can to reflect reality,”
Taguchi said.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , a maker of nuclear plant
equipment, runs the disaster simulations for the utilities,
which pass the results to NISA, Ino and Goto said. The reports
are reviewed by the Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization,
which employs former Mitsubishi Heavy staff, raising a potential
conflict of interest, they said.  Some members of the advisory committee receive research
funding from Mitsubishi Heavy and related companies, Ino and
Goto said. Representatives of communities hosting reactors
haven’t been included in the safety review, they said.  Vested Interests  “Individuals and organizations that have vested interests
are reviewing themselves and under this regime a proper
assessment cannot be made,” Ino said.  Hideo Ikuno, a spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy, said he
wasn’t in a position to comment.  Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano  said Japan may have
no nuclear plants operating this summer and the government is
preparing measures to avoid power shortages, the Asahi newspaper 
reported  today, citing his comments in an interview. The safety
issue is more important than power supply concerns, Edano told
the Asahi.  “If there was a real discussion then the stress tests
would be a good forum” for assessing the risks and rewards of
nuclear power, Ino said. “As it is, the stress tests are just
being used to restart reactors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  