-- Jefferies Was Net Short Five EU Nations at Fiscal-Year End
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-27T22:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/jefferies-was-net-short-on-five-eu-nations-as-it-faced-investor-concerns.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , which sought
to ease investor concern about its European holdings after the
collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd., ended November with a $96.1
million short position against five European countries.  Jefferies’s net exposure to Portugal, Ireland, Italy,
 Greece  and  Spain  included debt and derivatives tied to sovereign
issuers, corporations and financial institutions, the New York-
based company said today in a regulatory filing. The company had
a negative net exposure of $122.9 million to the countries’
governments on Nov. 30, the end of its fiscal year.  Following the Oct. 31 bankruptcy of MF Global, brought on
by a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations, Jefferies faced investor concern that its own
European holdings would lead to losses. The firm reduced
sovereign holdings in the region by three-quarters in November
amid what Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler  called a
“barrages of misinformation.”  “In November 2011, we became the subject of unfounded
allegations and false rumors, including among others those
relating to our exposure to European sovereign debt,” Jefferies
said in the filing. “Although we were able to reverse the
negative impact of such unfounded allegations and false rumors,
there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully
in the future and our potential failure to do so could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
liquidity.”  Sovereign Holdings  The firm’s net holdings of debt securities had a positive
fair value of $75.6 million. That was more than offset by a net
derivative notional position of negative $171.7 million.
Presenting the notional amounts of derivatives “best reflects
the reduction in the underlying market risk,” Jefferies said in
the filing.  Jefferies’s net short on  Italy , including sovereign,
corporate and financial-institution exposure, was $215.5 million
at Nov. 30, the filing shows. Jefferies was net long on Portugal
$2.6 million, $32.3 million on Ireland and $84.5 million on
Spain.  Jefferies released its notional exposure to the five
countries, sometimes called GIIPS, something larger U.S. banks
haven’t officially disclosed. JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said last month that his firm had
bought and sold notional  credit derivatives  on about $100
billion of sovereign and non-sovereign debt in the five nations.  Jefferies had a short position on notional derivatives of
$225 million and a long position of $53.3 million as of Nov. 30,
bringing its net position to negative $171.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  