-- Jefferies, Cantor Outlooks Lowered to Negative by S&P on Trading Concerns
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/jefferies-cantor-fitzgerald-debt-outlooks-are-reduced-to-negative-by-s-p.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and Cantor
Fitzgerald LP had their outlooks lowered to “negative” by
 Standard & Poor’s  on the prospect that concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis will weigh on trading and  investment banking .  Brokers “will likely face continued pressures and lower
 profitability  as a result of broader issues affecting the
securities markets,” the ratings firm said yesterday in a
statement on the New York-based firms.  Jefferies, seeking to ease investors’ concern, reduced its
European sovereign holdings by three-quarters in November after
Egan-Jones Ratings Co. said the firm may face losses tied to the
region’s debt crisis. The company slashed assets to $35 billion
during its fiscal fourth quarter from $45.1 billion at Aug. 31.  “Although Jefferies’s direct exposure to Europe is modest,
in our view, and Cantor’s even more so, the risk of contagion
from the region’s debt crisis could lead to a prolonged period
of reduced trading and underwriting activities, heightened risk
of a recession in the U.S.” and less favorable funding
conditions, S&P said.  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for Jefferies, declined to
comment on the downgrade. Sandra Lee, a spokeswoman at New York-
based Cantor, didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking
comment. S&P also placed  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  on “CreditWatch
negative.” Patricia Gutierrez, a spokeswoman for New York-based
GFI Group, declined to comment.  Jefferies  slipped  39 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $15.81 in
New York. The firm has dropped about 39 percent in the past 12
months. GFI rose 36 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $16.92. Its shares
have gained 11 percent this year.  Negative Impact  A long-term debt rating downgrade from a credit-rating firm
could “negatively impact our stock and bond prices and could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and liquidity,” Jefferies said yesterday in its
annual filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  As of Nov. 30, Jefferies’s counterparties could call $20.2
million in collateral in the event of the one-level downgrade of
the long-term  credit rating , and $77.5 million if there was a
two-level cut, the filing shows.  Jefferies, which is recovering from a 48 percent stock
slide last year and sought to ease investor concern about its
European holdings after the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
said business has rebounded after slumping in November.  “Client transaction flows were reduced notably in November
2011 due to the attention focused on our firm following the
bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings Ltd.,” Jefferies said in the
filing. “Subsequent to November 2011, our transaction flows
have returned to more normal levels consistent with those
preceding the November events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 Lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  