-- Gingrich Moon Colony ‘Optimistic, to Say the Least,’ Glenn Says
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-01-27T17:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/john-glenn-says-newt-gingrich-idea-for-colony-on-moon-may-be-optimistic-.html
Newt Gingrich ’s goal to establish a
permanent moon base by 2020 if he is elected president would be
costly and shouldn’t be the space program’s focus, said John Glenn, the first U.S. astronaut to orbit Earth.  “Sometime we’ll go to the moon, but I think to have a
lunar colony by 2020 is optimistic to say the least,” Glenn,
90, said by telephone from Columbus, Ohio.  Glenn said he doubts the cost of a permanent base had been
thought out in the middle of the political season, especially
the expense of maintaining a colony. He called President  George
W. Bush ’s decision to end the space shuttle program “a drastic
mistake” and said the U.S. should be focusing on the boosters
needed to reach the International Space Station.  Glenn, a former Democratic senator, made the comments in an
interview about the 50th anniversary of his Friendship 7 orbital
flight on Feb. 20, 1962.  R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, said the former speaker
agrees with Glenn on the need to develop the boosters and that
the moon colony is still a reachable goal.  “He’s not taking into account the fact you have to provide
the leadership to move large projects forward,” Hammond said in
a telephone interview. “You can’t sit around like a wet blanket
and say things won’t get done.”  Shoot the Moon  Gingrich, campaigning in  Florida (STOFL1)  before its Jan. 31
Republican presidential primary, said in a Jan. 25 speech that
“We will have the first permanent base on the moon and it will
be American” by the end of his second term.  If he is elected, the U.S. also will have the “first
continuous propulsion system in space, capable of getting to
Mars in a remarkably short time,” Gingrich said in Cocoa, along
what is known as  Florida ’s Space Coast.  “It has been tragic to see what has happened to our space
program over the last 30 years,” Gingrich said, according to a
transcript.  During a televised debate last night in Florida,  Mitt
Romney  accused Gingrich of pandering to voters in Florida, which
has a number of businesses tied to space exploration. Romney
said Gingrich’s proposal is too expensive and that he would fire
an executive who came to him with that idea.  “It may be a big idea, but it’s not a good idea,”  Romney
said.  Glenn, who represented his native Ohio from 1974-99 and was
himself a candidate for the presidential nomination in 1984, was
one of the first group of seven “Mercury” astronauts selected
in 1959, according to his  NASA biography .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  