-- Jyske Bank Is Ready for Large Takeovers Next Year, CEO Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-27T14:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/jyske-bank-is-ready-for-large-takeovers-next-year-ceo-says-1-.html
Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  (JYSK),  Denmark ’s second-
biggest lender, will be ready for “larger” acquisitions next
year after absorbing losses and completing a technology platform
shift, Chief Executive Officer Anders Dam said.  The lender is “open” to buying both healthy and
struggling banks, Dam said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank has the means to conduct
smaller takeovers already this year, he said.  “We have the resources for what’s at play in the Danish
market if we want it,” Dam said. “We want to grow both
organically and through acquisitions. But we would rather have
calm in 2012 because we have the IT conversion. We can absorb
smaller acquisitions.”  The Danish government is urging lenders to consolidate to
resolve a funding crisis following the collapse of three banks
last year. Two of those failures triggered senior credit losses
and left the Nordic country in the grip of a regional banking
crisis that pushed the economy to the brink of recession.  Jyske Bank in September acquired parts of failed bank
Fjordbank Mors A/S and bought the leasing business of Spar Nord
Bank A/S, which had faced a funding gap of as much as 4.6
billion kroner ($813 million), according to estimates by Nordea
Bank AB.  Jyske Bank reported yesterday a 40 percent drop in full-
year profit before tax after taking a 62 percent loss on its
Greek debt and setting aside reserves of 229 million kroner for
potential legal costs.  “If there should come a couple of smaller, manageable
banks past our door that are interested, then we are prepared
for that,” Dam said. “We’re open for banks that are in some
condition, and we’re open for banks that would have to go
through” a state-ordered restructuring, he said.  Jyske Bank  declined  1.6 kroner, or 0.9 percent, to 169.50
kroner in Copenhagen trading at 3:50 p.m. local time, giving the
bank a market value of 10.98 billion kroner. The stock has
fallen 31 percent in 12 months, compared with a 13 percent  drop 
in Denmark’s benchmark stock index, the Copenhagen OMX 20 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story: Frances Schwartzkopff in
Copenhagen at   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  