-- Kenya Shilling Snaps 3-Day Rally as Businesses Pay Monthly Bills
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-01-27T10:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/kenya-shilling-snaps-3-day-rally-as-businesses-pay-monthly-bills.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened, snapping
a three-day rally, on increased dollar demand increase from
businesses to settle month-end bills.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.4 percent to 84.40 per dollar at 11:31 a.m. in the capital
Nairobi, compared with yesterday’s New York close.  “The shilling has weakened as businesses seek more dollars
to settle their end month obligations,” Chris Muiga, a senior
dealer at Nairobi-based Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said in a
phone interview.  Kenya’s central bank is offering 1 billion shillings ($11.7
million) of seven-day  repurchase agreements  in bidding that
closes at 1 p.m. in Nairobi today, a central bank official, who
declined to be named in line with the bank’s policy, said in a
phone interview from Nairobi today.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  Uganda ’s shilling strengthened on increased dollar inflows
by investors settling payment of treasury bills. The currency of
the third-biggest economy in East Africa appreciated as much as
1.3 percent and was trading 0.9 percent higher at 2,345 per
dollar at 12:27 p.m., in the capital, Kampala.  “There is also interbank selling of the dollar from
offshore players for the settlement of this week’s Treasury bill
auction,” Taib Lubega, a currency trader at Stanbic Bank Uganda
Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  Tanzania’s shilling weakened for a second day, depreciating
0.1 percent to 1,599 per dollar.  -- Editors: Peter Branton, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  