-- Krugman Take on $12 Trillion Question Rings True: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-01-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/krugman-take-on-12-trillion-question-rings-true-william-pesek.html
A fiery debate has broken out over
an issue many thought had long been settled:  Japan (JGDPAGDP) ’s economy is
sliding toward irrelevance.  The freshest evidence, reported earlier this week, is the
first annual trade deficit in 31 years. It means, at the very
least, that the huge pool of domestic savings that  Japan  uses to
finance its staggering national debt might instead start going
to support a trade deficit, an ominous sign.  Not necessarily a problem, says Eamonn Fingleton, a long-
time observer who recently wrote an op-ed in the New York Times
headlined “The Myth of Japan’s Failure.” His argument that
Japan is a model worth emulating generated a huge buzz. So much,
in fact, that it prompted a rebuttal from Nobel laureate and
Times columnist  Paul Krugman , who’s considerably less enamored
with  Asia ’s No. 2 economy. Fingleton then rebutted the rebuttal.  Who’s right? I’m more in Krugman’s camp than Fingleton’s.
Japan’s toxic mix of too much  debt , too little growth, too many
old people and too few babies will end badly if  Tokyo  doesn’t
get its act together.  It’s important, though, to highlight where Fingleton is
right. Japan is pretty close to a model society. It is an
incredibly safe, clean, efficient, predictable and consistently
quirky place for an expatriate to reside.  Japan  is reasonably
egalitarian, its people have one of the highest standards of
living and enjoy the longest life spans, and its cities feature
the best infrastructure anywhere. On a more superficial level,
Japanese cuisine arguably blows away all others.  Japanization Myth  It’s worth noting that, in some ways, the U.S. only wishes
it could become Japan someday. All the chatter about
“Japanization” takes on apocalyptic tones: lost decades,
debilitating debt levels, zero  interest rates  forever, financial
chaos and existential despair. Although those worries are valid,
Japan never unraveled the way skeptics expected.  Crime didn’t skyrocket, homelessness didn’t explode, Arab
Spring-like social instability never materialized. Workers and
companies merely adjusted, living off their savings. Japan
brought a whole new meaning to the concept of muddling through.  Could the U.S. pull off what Japan has? I doubt it. The key
to Japan’s ability to withstand 20 years of stagnation is
roughly $15 trillion of household savings. Many Americans
couldn’t live two months without a paycheck. Japan, by contrast,
is anything but a basket case.  Yet here is where Fingleton’s argument falls apart. In
1995, he published “Blindside: Why Japan Is Still on Track to
Overtake the U.S. by the Year 2000.” Today, the real blindside
among Japan bulls is thinking that what worked for Japan
yesterday will work tomorrow.  Since its  asset bubble  burst more than 20 years ago, policy
makers have worked frantically to keep the postwar boom alive.
For years, pundits fretted about Japan’s zombie companies. The
real zombie is Japan’s economic playbook.  The only reason Japan has any growth can be traced to its
growing public debt, the world’s largest relative to the size of
the economy, and the free money provided by the central bank.
The economic equivalent of steroids is what holds Japan Inc.
together, Krugman argues, not its organic vitality. To flourish,
Japan needs to ease regulations, tap its female workforce and
liberalize immigration. Lawmakers are doing none of the above.  There’s still a powerful aversion to change, and herein
lies the nation’s Achilles’ heel. The  Olympus Corp. (7733)  scandal
showed how corporate cronyism safeguarded an insular old-boys
club. The radiation leaking from Tokyo Electric Power Co.
reactors in Fukushima was a reminder of how dangerously top-down
Japan is in a bottom-up economic world.  Japan’s Media  The Japanese news media are part of the problem. Change
requires a vibrant and independent press policing leaders.
Japan’s press is subject to a not-so-subtle form of control. If
a reporter gets too enterprising and writes stories government
ministries or companies don’t like -- say, by questioning
 Tepco (9501) ’s radiation readings -- the sources dry up, making it hard
to be effective. So, most play along.  Japan probably could keep its head down and its sense of
uniqueness intact for a few more years were it not for  China .
Japan is now an incredibly expensive property in a poor
neighborhood. Yes, it will be decades before  China (CNGDPYOY)  matches Japan
in per-capita income, if it even can. Yet the competitive energy
being unleashed by 1.3 billion incredibly industrious people
means the status quo in Tokyo is no longer possible. Deflation
is here to stay as developing Asia chips away at high-cost
Japan’s market share and its prided egalitarianism.  Investors trying to predict the next debt crisis after
 Europe ’s tend to look to Washington or Beijing. What about
Tokyo? Those betting against Japanese bonds haven’t made much on
the trade. Yet consider one inauspicious milestone reached this
year.  On Jan. 9, youngsters celebrated Coming of Age Day, donning
kimonos, visiting temples and partying the night away. This
year, only 1.2 million Japanese turn 20, half as many as in
1970. A shrinking population complicates efforts to repay a $12
trillion debt, more than double the size of the economy.  It doesn’t take a  Nobel Prize  to know that paying off debt
gets harder when you’re running out of people.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 