-- New York Times Co. Faces Leadership Vacuum After Robinson Ouster
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/new-york-times-co-faces-leadership-vacuum.html
The departure of  New York Times Co. (NYT) 
Chief Executive Officer Janet Robinson last month leaves the
company with a leadership vacuum amid falling revenue, profit
squeezed by pension costs and pressure from family members to
restore a dividend once worth more than $20 million a year.  Robinson, 61, was pushed out by Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. and his cousin  Michael Golden , said a person familiar with
the situation. Golden, who is chief operating officer, just lost
part of his responsibilities when the company sold the regional
newspaper division he’d run and will take on new duties, said
the person, who wouldn’t be named because the matter is private.  Times Co. is looking for a non-family member to be CEO,
making it unlikely the 62-year-old Golden will take on that
role, said two people familiar with the matter. Robinson will
receive an exit package totaling more than $21 million, higher
than previously reported, said the people, who wouldn’t be named
because the information isn’t public.  The departure comes as Times Co. struggles with a slide in
traditional print revenue on top of pension and interest costs
that leave little to invest in its future. Last year, about 70
percent of its estimated $237 million operating profit went to
pension contributions and interest costs, compared with 19
percent in 2007, according to company statements.  “It’s a disturbing trend, and it does call into question
the long-term viability of the company,” said  Robert Willens ,
an accounting specialist at consultant Robert Willens LLC.  Sulzberger, Golden and Robinson declined to comment.  Profit Declines  Times Co., which is scheduled to announce fourth-quarter
results on Feb. 2, is projected to report revenue for last year
of $2.33 billion, a 2.7 percent decline from 2010. That would
make the sixth year in a row of sliding sales.  Profit, excluding what the company calls extraordinary
items, dropped in the first three quarters of last year, and is
projected to slide in the fourth quarter, to 41 cents a share,
from 46 cents a year earlier. Net income, without adjustments,
rose in the third quarter due to charges in 2010 related to the
Boston Globe and pension withdrawals.  Times Co.’s share price has fallen 84 percent since 2004,
including a 25 percent slide over the last year.  “The stock is kind of stuck in no-man’s land,” and the
absence of a CEO is part of what’s keeping it there, said
Douglas Arthur, an analyst with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  “’Who’s
the next CEO?’ That’s what everyone’s wondering.”  Sulzberger In Europe  Sulzberger said the board will conduct a search inside 
and outside the company for a new CEO. The 11 directors
include four members of the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which
controls the board with 90 percent of the Class B shares.  In the meantime, the 60-year-old chairman is serving as
interim CEO amid internal concerns about his travels overseas,
according to two people familiar with the matter. In the last 19
months, Sulzberger has attended at least a dozen conferences and
panels in Istanbul, Beijing, Munich, London, Paris and
 Switzerland  where his girlfriend, Claudia Gonzalez,  works .
His trips are aimed at establishing Times Co. as a global brand,
said Robert H. Christie, head of corporate communications.  Sulzberger, who took over as chairman in 1997, has
championed investments in digital technologies, including the
effort to begin charging readers for access to the namesake
newspaper’s articles on the Web. The so-called paywall, which
went up in March, has bolstered advertising and lifted paying
digital subscribers to 324,000 as of the end of September.  Still, the effort hasn’t been enough to offset the drop in
print advertising. Evercore’s Arthur estimates it brought in
about $33 million last year and expects $71 million this year.  “We’re in a very challenged sector,” Sulzberger said in
an interview last month about how digital platforms could choke
off access to news content. “We can’t pretend we aren’t.”  Ochs-Sulzberger Dividend  Times Co.’s flagship newspaper, which is driven largely by
national advertising campaigns, isn’t benefiting as much from
the resurgence in local retail advertising as  Gannett Co. (GCI)  and
 McClatchy Co. (MNI) , Arthur said.  Total advertising revenue was down 8.8 percent to $261.8
million in the third quarter, with print dropping 10 percent and
digital falling 4.5 percent. The company has lost more than 80
percent of its  market value  from a high of about $8.5 billion in 
1999 to its current value of $1.18 billion. It has not paid
 dividends  to shareholders for the past three years.  Some family members repeatedly pressed Robinson and
Sulzberger to restore the payouts, according to person familiar
with the matter who didn’t want to be named because the matter
is private. In 2007, family members received $23.7 million in
dividend payments, based on company filings and Bloomberg Data.
In 2008, the last year the company paid dividends, the family
received $20.5 million.  Family members have no intention of selling Times Co.,
Sulzberger said in the interview last month.  New York Times’s Independence  The company has reduced its debt by more than $500 million
in the last 10 quarters, using proceeds from the sale of a
portion of its stake in Fenway Sports Group, according to a
report from CreditSights Inc. The company also re-paid the $250
million, 14 percent interest loan from Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim  in August, three and a half years ahead of schedule.  Craig Huber, a media analyst who has followed the Times for
17 years, believes the company will continue to divest
subsidiaries, pay down debt, and possibly wind up solely with
its core asset, the New York Times newspaper and its related
digital properties.  “I think anything and everything is for sale at the right
price,” said Huber, now principal of Huber Research Partners in
Greenwich,  Connecticut . “The mission is to keep the flagship
independent. The risk is that most of its revenue still comes
from print, not digital.”  Buyout Offers  The company decided not to sell both the Boston Globe and
the Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspapers when a bid emerged, 
according to The New York Times  website . The company bought 
the Globe for $1.1 billion in 1993. The company also owns
About.com, which it purchased for $410 million in 2005. Its
regional newspaper group, which it sold to Halifax Media
Holdings LLC for $143 million, had been its worst-performing
unit with revenue falling an average of 12.5 percent year over
year since 2006, according to an analysis by CreditSights.  Times Co. began offering buyout packages in October to
eliminate 20 newsroom positions at its namesake newspaper and is
also pushing for a pension freeze for some New York Times
employees, a move that rankled the newsroom, according to
 Newspaper Guild  of New York President Bill O’Meara.  ‘Just Digital’  The Guild, representing almost 1,100 employees at the New
York Times, said the company sought to re-open negotiations a
day after Robinson’s departure was announced, as part of its
plan to cut long-term pension payments. Robinson’s exit package,
which includes her pension, supplemental retirement income,
consulting fee and stock grants, doesn’t sit well with newsroom
employees, according to O’Meara. Even with a pension freeze for
currently employed Guild members, O’Meara estimates Times Co.
would still have to pay about $20 million to $25 million each
year to honor prior obligations.  Key to the Times Co.’s future is finding a new CEO with
digital expertise, said Ken Doctor, media analyst for
Newsonomics and Outsell Inc.  “The question for Arthur now is, ‘How do they take the
next step in the digital evolution?,’’ Doctor said. ‘‘How do
they turn a company that is still largely a print plus digital
enterprise into a sustainable company that’s just digital?’’  The company should focus on the flagship brand as the
print enterprise inevitably declines, he said.  ‘‘The sword that’s hanging over the neck of the next CEO is
the death spiral of print advertising,’’ Doctor said. ‘‘That’s
the challenge.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
John Helyar in Atlanta  at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  