-- FBI Searchers New York Global, Reverse-Merger Adviser to Chinese Companies
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-01-27T15:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/new-york-global-group-s-wall-street-office-searched-by-fbi-agent-says.html
The FBI said it searched the
Manhattan offices of reverse merger advisory firm  New York
Global Group (NYGGRPZ) , which specializes in helping companies from  China 
go public in the U.S.  New York  Global describes itself as a private-equity and
corporate advisory firm also with offices in Beijing.  New York
Global Group (NYGGRPZ)  clients that became publicly traded in the U.S.
through reverse mergers include  CleanTech Innovations Inc. (CTEK)  and
Harbin Electric Inc.  “These searches were conducted in relation to an ongoing
FBI investigation,”  Jim Margolin , a spokesman and agent with
the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New York office, said
yesterday in a phone interview. Margolin declined to discuss the
reason for the Jan. 25 search of New York Global Group’s office
at 40 Wall St. or who may be under federal criminal scrutiny.  Benjamin Wey, founder and president of New York Global
Group, declined to immediately comment on the search. The news
of the raid was first reported by The Financial Investigator.  In a reverse merger, a closely held firm buys a publicly
traded shell company and retains its listing. The reverse-merger
process is faster and less expensive than initial public
offerings.  Chinese Stock  Chinese  stock trading  in the U.S. has faced investor
scrutiny after companies such as China MediaExpress Holdings
Inc. disclosed financial irregularities or auditor resignations.
Concern has focused on the more than 400 Chinese businesses that
have used reverse mergers. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in June cautioned investors about buying stakes in
reverse merger companies, saying they may be prone to “fraud
and other abuses.”  The SEC approved rules in November to toughen the listing
standards for companies that go public through reverse mergers.  Wey has built a career bringing companies from China onto
U.S. exchanges. He said in a 2010 interview that his clients
didn’t want to wait to list at home and that a full-blown
initial public offering in the U.S. is expensive and difficult.  In 2007, the  American Stock Exchange  delisted a fertilizer
company that Wey brought over, Bodisen Biotech Inc., for
incomplete and inaccurate disclosures related to share ownership
by officers as well as payments to Wey’s company.  The Oklahoma Department of Securities censured Wey in 2005
for not advising customers of the risks of stocks he sold and
not disclosing consulting relationships with some of the
companies. Wey agreed to a ban on working in the securities
business in the state without admitting to the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  