-- Newt Gingrich Showed Us How to Wreck a Revolution: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-01-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/newt-gingrich-showed-us-how-to-wreck-a-revolution-amity-shlaes.html
We want a revolution. We need a
revolution. So let’s get a revolutionary. Hence the  sudden 
support for  Newt Gingrich  in the presidential primaries.  From Social Security to Iranian nuclear power, Gingrich
articulates better than any other candidate what’s wrong with
U.S. policy and how to change it.  But Gingrich fans may want to recall a second fact:
Revolutions require enormous outlays of political capital. That
means there’s none left over to squander on personal scandal.
Too much squandering and no revolution.  The question therefore is whether Gingrich appreciates that
capital sufficiently or whether, as president, he would merely
squander it. To understand the stakes, it helps to review the
squandering on all sides in the period of Gingrich’s previous
revolution: the Republican Revolution of the 1990s.  Remember the ambitions at the start of that decade. The
Democrats were led by President  Bill Clinton , who sought his own
kind of revolution: conservative on welfare but radical on
health care. The Republicans, led by Gingrich, gained control of
the  House of Representatives  by offering the Contract with
America, which included a change in the law to make taxes hard
to raise, an amendment to balance the budget and reforms of
government budgeting methods.  The first squandering was by Clinton himself. The president
was already under investigation for the Whitewater real-estate
investments back in  Arkansas . The chief executive needed to
clear his name of scandal to pursue his legislative agenda.
Instead Clinton was diverted by Monica Lewinsky. That scandal,
in turn, prevented him from completing policy aims, including
Social Security reform. That was a particular shame because the
Grand Old Party and the Democrats shared much common ground.  Reputation Staking  Speaker Gingrich and other Republicans then squandered
their political capital by staking their own reputations on
support for social conservatism. They attacked Clinton rather
than pushing harder for new laws, especially on Social Security.
Look back at the 1990s and you will see plenty of capital spent
on bringing down Clinton through Whitewater, and too little work
on the minutiae of entitlement fixes.  The Republicans then squandered yet more capital by
trashing their own reputation as righteous social conservatives
through their own personal behavior.  That was especially true of Gingrich, who hurt the
credibility of the entire party by divorcing his wife to marry
Callista Bisek, a Capitol Hill employee. Welfare reform,
symbolic but small, did become law. Budget and Social Security
reforms, much more important, failed.  The point is not whether one approves or disapproves of
Gingrich’s divorces or Clinton’s dallying. It is that these
politicians, by wasting time on unserious activities, showed a
fundamental disregard for those who elected them to carry out
the policy goals.  At the time, it was possible to tell ourselves that none of
this squandering mattered. The conservative storyline was that
the failed prosecution of Whitewater represented a Machiavellian
disabling of Clinton, preventing him from passing a left-wing
health-care law. The economy didn’t seem to suffer. The budget
was balanced, at least for few years.  But today, we can see a cost to the incomplete 1990s
revolution. Fundamental changes on taxes and budgets would be
valuable today. Our entire political outlook would be more
sanguine if we could tell ourselves that Social Security reform
was already accomplished.  The next president will have to focus so hard on policy
that he’ll have no time for marital trouble or explanations of
questionable consulting contracts. In fact, he’ll have to be
downright allergic to scandal.  Value in Sanctimony  Some presidents are just born allergic.  Barack Obama  seems
to be one of them; that’s the value in his sanctimony. Another
scandal-averse leader was  Calvin Coolidge , who became president
in an era of great squandering, that by his predecessor, Warren Harding. Coolidge managed to husband political capital and avoid
scandal at all cost.  The extent of Coolidge’s scandal allergy becomes clear in a
story from the period after the presidency. One day the former
president was standing nearby as his secretary opened a box that
arrived at his law office in Northampton,  Massachusetts . The
secretary, Herman Beaty, lifted out a diamond bracelet, just the
kind of thing that might become Coolidge’s wife, Grace Coolidge,
an olive-skinned beauty.  “He treated that bracelet as if it were a scorpion,” Beaty
later recalled, ordering it packed up and sent back by return
mail, “taking care that there were ample witnesses to its
return.”  It’s a cute anecdote, but it also tells you why Coolidge
had been able to push the marginal  tax rate  down to a level
Gingrich would be proud of, 25 percent. He never squandered.  The promise of Gingrich depends on one of two
possibilities. The first is that personal scandal doesn’t matter
anymore. Gingrich’s victory in a primary after his ex-wife
unloaded the details of their divorce on national TV like a load
of laundry suggests that might be possible. But over the years
Americans have cared so much about personal consistency that it
is hard to imagine they are completely turning now. A second
hope for conservatives is that Gingrich, if he prevails over
 Mitt Romney , will live such a picture-perfect life in the future
that his past will fade from view.  If you don’t see either of these prospects as realistic,
then your support for Gingrich depends on how much you want a
revolution.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 