-- Nigerian Naira Falls for Second Day as Oil Dollar Sales Decline
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-27T13:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/nigerian-naira-falls-for-second-day-as-oil-dollar-sales-decline.html
Nigeria’s naira retreated for a
second day, heading for its first weekly decline in five, as
dollar sales from  oil companies  to fund operations declined.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer fell 0.2
percent to 161 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of 2:11
p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, compared with yesterday’s
New York close. The naira is down less than 0.1 percent this
week.  “The cyclical oil inflows are starting to dry up, which
has led to some modest upward pressure on dollar-naira,
especially as market players are taking advantage of relatively
attractive rates,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging markets
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed
reply to questions today. “Oil inflows supported the currency
to the 160 level and even below earlier this week.”  The Central Bank of Nigeria  sold  $604.5 million dollars to
lenders this week through its foreign currency auction and
forward sales. The regulator offers foreign currency to lenders
at twice-weekly auctions, where it tries to keep the  exchange
rate  around a midpoint of 155 naira to a dollar in order to
stabilize prices. The bank also sells dollars directly to the
interbank market to reduce pressure on the naira.  Inflationary Threats  “What is interesting is that dollar-naira seems to have
stabilized in a 160-162 range lately even as the CBN virtually
stayed out of the market in January,” said Gadio. “The CBN is
likely to intervene if dollar-naira drifts away from the current
equilibrium.”  Mohammed Abdullahi, a spokesman for the central bank based
in Abuja, the capital, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  Nigeria’s central bank may raise  interest rates  to curb
inflation if lawmakers boost spending above budgeted targets and
lift the benchmark oil price, Governor Lamido Sanusi said in an
interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos today.  Nigeria is facing a “number of inflationary threats” this
year, including a reduction in fuel subsidies and higher
 government spending , said Sanusi.  President Goodluck Jonathan on Dec. 13 sent to the
legislature a budget of 4.8 trillion naira ($29.8 billion) for
this year, based on an oil price of $70 per barrel, requiring
the government to save revenues if  oil prices  exceed that limit.
There is “concern” that the lawmakers may increase the
budgeted oil price to $75, fueling spending, Sanusi said.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  by 5.75
percentage points to 12 percent last year to curb price
pressures. The bank will probably keep the rate unchanged for a
second meeting on Jan. 31, according to eight of the nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ghana ’s cedi rose for a third day, advancing 0.2 percent to
1.683 per dollar, as of 1:09 p.m. in Accra, the capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  