-- Nippon Steel Swings to Loss, Cuts Forecast to Break Even
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-01-27T09:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/nippon-steel-swings-to-loss-cuts-forecast-as-exports-decline.html
Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest
steelmaker, posted its first loss in three quarters and cut its
full-year profit target to zero after it curbed Asian exports
and wrote off the value of stockholdings.  Nippon Steel had a  loss  of 50 billion yen ($650 million) in
the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a profit of 33.4
billion yen a year earlier, it said in a statement. The Tokyo-
based company cut its forecast for the year to March 31 from an
Oct. 26 estimate of 85 billion yen.  The European debt crisis slowed Asian demand for the metal
used in cars, ships and construction. The Japanese currency,
which rose to a postwar record in October, also reduced the
competitiveness of domestic mills over Chinese and South Korean
rivals by making their products more expensive.  Economic conditions “have forced us to present an
undesirable outlook for the current year,” Executive Vice
President Shinichi Taniguchi said today at a briefing in  Tokyo .  Nippon Steel booked an 84.6 billion yen charge in the
October to December quarter to write down the value of shares in
other companies it owns.  The company got clearance last month to proceed with its
merger with  Sumitomo Metal Industry Ltd. (5406)  and create the world’s
second-largest steelmaker on Oct. 1.  Nippon Steel closed down 3.5 percent to 194 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shares have fallen 32 percent during
the past 12 months.  Production Forecast  The steelmaker reduced its production forecast by 5.5
percent to 14.64 million metric tons for the six months to March
31, as Asian demand slowed and flooding in  Thailand  curbed
shipments more than it anticipated.  Nippon Steel said it will swing to an operating loss of
12.1 billion yen in the current quarter as average product
prices are expected to fall by about 5,600 yen a ton from the
previous quarter to 82,000 yen a ton. It accepted cuts in
product prices for domestic customers including carmakers after
raw material costs declined, Taniguchi said.  Toyota Motor Corp. agreed to a 4 percent cut in product
prices for the second half of the financial year, the Nikkei
newspaper reported on Jan. 25.  Japan ’s steel output may decline by between 2 million and 3
million metric tons in 2012 as the nation’s reconstruction after
an earthquake and tsunamiy last year is unlikely to make up for
falling demand from shipbuilders and other manufacturers, Japan
Iron and Steel Federation Chairman  Eiji Hayashida  said Jan. 25.
Steel production last year totaled 107.6 million tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  