-- NYSE’s Niederauer Has More Buyout Targets Should Deutsche Boerse Deal Fail
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-27T19:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/nyse-s-niederauer-has-more-buyout-targets-should-deutsche-boerse-deal-fail.html
NYSE Euronext (NRX) , awaiting a final
decision from the European Union on its merger with  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) , has other acquisition opportunities, Chief Executive
Officers  Duncan Niederauer  said today.  There are “lots of assets that are available right now,”
Niederauer said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Davos,  Switzerland . “Everyone will take a look at LME,
LCH.Clearnet is an important asset,” he said, declining to
comment on whether NYSE would make an offer.  The London Metal Exchange, founded 135 years ago, will
consider bids on Feb. 23 that may lead to a takeover of the
world’s biggest metals bourse. LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., owner of
the world’s largest swaps clearinghouse, is holding exclusive
talks with London Stock Exchange Group Plc after previously
drawing interest from  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   “We think the post-trade space is important, we think the
technology space is important,” Niederauer said. “You’re going
to see us focus most of our attention in those arenas,
consistent with what we’ve articulated the standalone strategy
to be before.”  European antitrust regulators, led by European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , are likely to formally
recommend next week against the merger of  NYSE Euronext (NRX)  and
 Deutsche Boerse , the last remaining deal after a year of failed
attempts. That would set the stage for a vote by the full
European Union, which isn’t bound by Almunia’s advice but
usually takes it.  Blocked Mergers  Should the takeover be blocked, it would mean $37 billion
in exchange mergers announced globally since October 2010 didn’t
close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the most for any
12-month period. Russia’s Micex Exchange acquired RTS Stock
Exchange on Dec. 19 for $1.5 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Exchanges completed $28.7 billion of deals in 2007
and 2008.  “There are other assets around the world,” Niederauer
said. “Put them in the ‘tuck-under’ or ‘bolt-on’ acquisition
category. I think that’s what a lot of the activity is going to
look like in the next year or two. I don’t think it’s
transformational.”  Executives have embraced consolidation after the number of
U.S. and European  trading  venues increased by about 50 in the
past decade, driving down  profitability .  Singapore, Australia  Singapore Exchange’s $8.3 billion bid for Sydney-based ASX
was blocked in April after lawmakers rejected losing control of
the venue to foreigners.  London Stock Exchange Group (LSE)  Plc ended
its bid for TMX in June after failing to get enough shareholder
support for the $3.1 billion deal.  “This is an industry that clearly lends itself to
consolidation,” Niederauer said. “You will see a wave of bolt-
on acquisitions” if the big deals get blocked, he said.  Almunia said earlier today that NYSE Euronext and Deutsche
Boerse’s planned merger of trading and post-trading operations
would cause “serious” concerns. Almunia’s team at the European
Commission told the two companies it will veto the deal to
create the world’s largest exchange because it would monopolize
derivatives trading in the region, two people familiar with the
matter told Bloomberg News in December.  Almunia has promised a ruling on Feb. 1, almost a year
after the exchanges announced their proposed agreement on Feb.
15 last year.  “It’s been a long journey for sure,” Niederauer said. “I
still hope it won’t” fail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  