-- For Obama, Pro-Business Populism Is No Oxymoron: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-01-27T17:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/to-obama-pro-business-populism-not-oxymoron-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
If 2011 was defined by a debate over
the national  debt , 2012 looks to be focused more on fairness,
which is just the way President  Barack Obama  wants it. The trick
for him -- the balance he was trying to strike in his State of
the Union Address -- is to come across as a pro-business
populist.  That may sound like an oxymoron (and “progressive” is a
more accurate description of Obama than “populist”), but it fits
this president and these times. There’s nothing anti-capitalist
about wanting to help businesses that help America and to
penalize (through the  tax code ) those that hurt the country by
not paying their fair share and by taking jobs overseas.  You wouldn’t know from some of the commentary that this was
a pro-business address, with a theme (an economy “Built to
Last”) lifted from a marketing campaign for  General Motors (GM)  Co.
trucks. The slogan does double duty as a sign of Obama’s
investment in education and other engines of middle-class growth
and as a reminder that the despised automobile bailouts were a
success, with GM now on top again as the world’s leading car
company.  Channeling JFK  When “Engine Charlie” Wilson, a former GM chief executive
officer serving as defense secretary, famously said at his
confirmation hearings in 1953 that “what was good for the
country was good for General Motors and vice versa,” he was
savaged. Now it’s practically Obama’s policy. Congressional
Republicans, by contrast, have been reduced to pillorying GM’s
chairman over the  Chevy Volt , a car wrongly stigmatized as
unsafe.  The president, channeling  John F. Kennedy ’s famous
inaugural address, framed it almost as a patriotism question:
“Tonight, my message to business leaders is simple: Ask
yourselves what you can do to bring jobs back to your country,
and your country will do everything we can to help you succeed.”  The response to this is often: Who is the president to tell
me where or how to run my business? But he’s not. He’s simply
saying he’ll offer you tax advantages when your interests are
aligned with the nation’s, and he won’t when they aren’t.  The most important new tax idea in the speech was for
“minimum taxes” for those making more than $1 million a year and
for companies leaving the U.S. to escape taxes. This idea isn’t
so much wrong as complicated -- another full-employment act for
high-priced accountants. I wish Obama had championed dramatic
tax simplification instead.  I understand why this president wanted to strike an
optimistic tone. But was Master Lock Co., which is moving jobs
back to  Milwaukee  from abroad, a hyped anecdote or an inspiring
foreshadow? Probably some of both. I’m told the president and
vice president were excited by the stories from 30 CEOs who
appeared at a recent White House conference on “in-sourcing.”
The CEOs explained how the rising cost of labor in China and a
need to be closer to supply chains and customers were leading
them to return factories and jobs to the U.S.  There has been a lot of talk since the speech about Obama’s
return to (spit out the words now): “industrial policy.” But
using the government to encourage manufacturing is hardly
radical. Were  Alexander Hamilton ’s “Report on Manufactures” and
Henry Clay’s “American System” socialist, too? The same goes for
government subsidies for clean energy, which the president
correctly noted have been used for the oil industry for more
than a century.  I also liked the way Obama pushed back on regulation, now
the all-purpose excuse offered by Republicans for why the
economy isn’t recovering faster.  Training for Success  The facts are these: Court orders, not politicians, impose
many of the most controversial regulations. The Environmental
Protection Agency actually tried to delay the implementation of
a court order on a new mercury standard, a costly regulation
that originated years before Obama came to town. Meanwhile, a
regulatory “look-back” supervised by the president’s old friend
Cass Sunstein has eliminated hundreds of dopey regulations on
the books (Obama made a “spilled milk” joke about one) and
slowed the issuance of new regulations to a level lower than
during the last two years of  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Arguably the most pro-business part of the speech came when
Obama set a goal of training 2 million people by converting many
community colleges into “community career centers” where
corporations can customize the curriculum to their needs and
fill hundreds of thousands of job vacancies.  All the fancy speechmaking isn’t meaningful if Congress
doesn’t act. But signs are that it might. When House Republican
freshmen went home for the holidays they found their
constituents were -- surprise, surprise -- anxious for them to
bring home something tangible. With approval ratings of the
congressional GOP in the teens in some polls, the strategy of
obstructionism may have run its course.  The failure of Republicans to get their way on the
extension of the payroll tax holiday in December means that when
it comes up again next month, there may be no fight. Obama was
said to have poisoned the well on confirmation of his appointees
by making recess appointments of  Richard Cordray , the new
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and
others. But some Republicans are signaling that some of the
unconscionable delays on approving uncontroversial nominees may
be over.  Nancy Pelosi  reported to the White House this week that
the Federal Aviation Administration bill that was the subject of
parliamentary games late last year is headed for passage.  Tax reform  will be harder. To get it, the president has to
get over his disdain for schmoozing and his distrust of
Republicans. He needs to get Republican leaders  Mitch McConnell ,
 John Boehner  and  Eric Cantor  in a room somewhere with the
Democratic leadership and the chairs of the tax-writing
committees (Senator  Max Baucus  and Representative  Dave Camp ),
lock the door and come out with an agreement.  There’s no chance for a deal on personal rates any time
soon. The election and the expiration of the Bush tax cuts on
Dec. 31 mean that any deal would come in the lame duck session
at the earliest. But I’m told by the White House that the
circumstances might be right for a deal on corporate taxes this
spring or summer.  None of this will placate those thin-skinned business
leaders still smarting over the president saying more than two
years ago on ``60 Minutes'' that he wasn’t elected to help out “a
bunch of fat cat bankers on  Wall Street .” But if they look at
the president’s record and proposals with an open mind, they
might be pleasantly surprised.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 