-- Oakland Raiders Make Broncos Defensive Coordinator Dennis Allen Next Coach
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-27T18:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/oakland-raiders-make-broncos-defensive-coordinator-dennis-allen-next-coach.html
The Oakland Raiders have hired
Denver Broncos defensive coordinator Dennis Allen, who becomes
the  National Football League ’s youngest current head coach.  The 39-year-old Allen replaces  Hue Jackson , who went 8-8 in
his only season before being fired earlier this month by new
general manager Reggie McKenzie.  The Raiders said on their website today that Allen will be
introduced on Jan. 30.  The Raiders haven’t made the playoffs since losing the
Super Bowl after the 2002 season, and owner Mark Davis this
offseason has begun reshaping the franchise since the October
death of his father,  Al Davis . McKenzie, the first person to
hold the Raiders’ general manager role since Bruce Allen left
the organization after the 2003 season, said the team needed to
“start anew” when he dismissed Jackson.  Dennis Allen will become the Raiders’ first defensive-
oriented head coach since John Madden was hired before the 1969
season,  NFL.com said . Madden, a member of the Pro Football Hall
of Fame, was the Raiders’ coach from 1969-78, compiling a
103-32-7 record and winning a  Super Bowl  title after the 1976
season.  The Raiders ranked 29th out of 32 NFL teams last season in
points and yards allowed. They lost four of their final five
games to miss the playoffs after a 7-4 start.  Allen is the team’s seventh head coach since 2002,
following Jackson, Tom Cable,  Lane Kiffin , Art Shell, Norv Turner and Bill Callahan. In his first season as the Broncos’
defensive coordinator, Allen helped Denver rank 20th in yards
allowed in winning a division title last season after the team
finished with the NFL’s worst defense in 2010.  Before joining the Broncos, Allen was an assistant coach
with the New Orleans Saints and  Atlanta Falcons .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  