-- Obama Proposes to Link Aid for Colleges to Affordability of Institutions
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-27T15:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/obama-proposes-to-link-federal-u-s-college-aid-to-affordability.html
Saying “we just can’t keep on
subsidizing skyrocketing tuition,” President  Barack Obama 
proposed to have the government, for the first time, link
federal aid to a college’s ability to control tuition costs and
maintain education quality.  “We are putting colleges on notice -- you can’t assume
that you’ll just jack up tuition every single year,” Obama said
today at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . “If you can’t
stop tuition from going up, then the funding you get from
taxpayers every year will go down.”  For institutions that control costs, the administration is
proposing to increase campus-based aid to about $10 billion a
year, up from $1 billion. The bulk of the money, about $8
billion, would be devoted to Perkins loans for students, with
other aid set aside for work-study grants and Supplemental
Educational Opportunity Grants.  Obama said higher education today is “an economic
imperative” instead of a luxury. “College is the single most
important investment that you can make in your future,” he
said.  The administration’s proposal calls for $1 billion to
entice states to help keep costs down at public colleges while
encouraging an overhaul of state programs that help finance
education.  Obama is also proposing $55 million for individual colleges
as an inducement to improve education quality.  Congressional Approval Needed  Congress would be required to approve the changes, which
will be spelled out in greater detail when the president submits
his fiscal 2013 budget to lawmakers on Feb. 13.  In his Jan. 24 State of the Union address, the president
said that states need to make “higher education a higher
priority in their budgets.”  As part of the package, the administration is urging
Congress to block an increase in government-subsidized Stafford
loan interest rates that would affect 7.4 million borrowers.
Rates are set to double this summer to 6.8 percent.  Obama’s proposal would double work-study jobs on
institution campuses, and he is urging Congress to extend beyond
2012 the Opportunity Tax Credit program, which offers as much as
much as $10,000 in credits for four years of college.  In 2008 Obama won  Michigan  by 16 percentage points. Tuition
and fees at the University of Michigan rose 6.7 percent in the
2011 school year after a $47.5 million decrease in state
funding.  Lower State Investment  The president said he wants the U.S. to have the highest
number of college graduates by 2020, though the weak economy has
lowered state funding for education and stymied his calls for
more investment in education.  Jack Jennings , president of the Center on Education Policy,
a Washington-based group that advocates for public education,
said Obama doesn’t have as many “power levers” when it comes
to regulating higher education.  The president has more influence on policies affecting
elementary and secondary education because the federal
government’s money for higher education goes not to the
institutions, but to students in the form of student aid,
tuition tax credits and  Pell grants .  “He’s got to deny Johnny Jones his loan in order to put
pressure on the state legislature,” Jennings said. “Johnny
Jones isn’t going to appreciate that very much.”  One-Third of Revenue  In the 2010-2011 school year, about one-third of the
revenue of U.S. colleges and universities -- $170 billion --
came from federal student aid, according to an estimate by the
Washington-based American Council on Education, which represents
more than 1,600 college presidents.  Over the last decade, tuition and fees at public four-year
universities increased at an average rate of 5.6 percent above
inflation, according to the New York-based College Board. At
private nonprofit colleges, that figure jumped 3.8 percent
annually above that measure.  Including room and board, private colleges charged an
average $38,589 a year -- and approached $60,000 at the most
expensive institutions. Students who borrow for their education
now graduate with an average of more than $25,000 in  debt , twice
the amount they were saddled with in 1996, according to the
Education Department.  ‘Price Control’  Colleges and universities would probably resist any attempt
by the federal government to impose a kind of “price control”
by tying federal aid to how much they charge, said Terry Hartle,
senior vice president at the American Council on Education.  “The government would be telling you how you could price
your product,” he said in a telephone interview. “Any industry
would be unhappy with that idea.”  F. King Alexander, president of  California State
University ,  Long Beach , was one of a dozen university professors
and higher education leaders at a Dec. 5 White House meeting
with Obama and Education Secretary Arne Duncan to discuss ways
to tamp down rising rates.  About a month ago, Alexander said, administration officials
asked if he would consider coming to the State of the Union
address on the condition that he pledge to freeze tuition rates
for a year. He said he refused and told the officials: “We will
be there if you make the 50 state legislatures and the 50
governors take the pledge first that they’re going to maintain
their investments. It’s not up to us.”  State Legislatures  State legislatures must be “punished” for reducing their
funding of higher education, Alexander said of his message to
the president.  “The primary reason tuition has been going up so rapidly
throughout the  United States  is because state legislatures have
been abandoning their investments and commitments in their
public institutions,” he said.  Alexander said he is meeting with White House officials on
Jan. 30 to help develop a plan that would reward institutions
that keep tuition rates low.  Holden Thorp, chancellor of the University of  North
Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , also attended the Dec. 5 meeting with
the president and Duncan and said he and other university heads
clearly delivered the message that “strained state budgets are
a big part of the reason why tuition has gone up” at public
universities.  North Carolina’s legislature has cut more than $100 million
in state appropriations for the school in the 2011 school year.  ‘Bully Pulpit’  “The president has the bully pulpit the way no one else in
the nation does, and I think when he calls for certain actions
to be taken, people take them seriously,” said Brit Kirwan,
chancellor of the University System of Maryland, who was also at
the White House meeting.  “There are regulations and the moral imperative to ensure
that colleges remain affordable, and putting the onus on both
the state government and universities is in my mind exactly the
right way to go,” Kirwan said.  Universities can’t be “let off the hook,” said Kirwan,
who oversees the University of  Maryland , Towson University and
several other schools with more than 150,000 students and an
operating budget of $4.5 billion for fiscal year 2012.  In the 2013 budget, Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , a
Democrat, is calling for a 3 percent tuition increase and a 2.2
percent increase to the university system’s operating budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  