-- Obama Pushes ‘Buffett Rule’ to Democrats as Biden Sees Winning Back House
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-27T20:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/obama-pushes-buffett-rule-in-populist-talk-to-house-democrats.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
press Congress to revise tax breaks that help rich Americans pay
lower tax rates than many wage-earners, as he rallied
congressional Democrats around a populist election-year message.  “We’re going to push hard for the Buffett rule,” Obama
told Democratic members of the U.S.  House of Representatives  at
a party meeting in Cambridge,  Maryland .  The president said he’s seeking minimum taxes on wealthy
Americans “not out of envy, but out of a sense of fairness, a
sense of mutual responsibility.” The proposal’s nickname comes
from a statement by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Chairman  Warren Buffett , who has said he shouldn’t pay taxes at a lower rate
than his secretary.  Obama told fellow Democrats that the country is “moving in
the right direction, thanks to your efforts, thanks to some
tough votes that all of you took.”  Although the Commerce Department today said the  U.S.
economy  expanded at a less-than-forecast 2.8 percent annual pace
in the fourth quarter, Obama said “we righted the ship, we did
not tip into a Great Depression.”  Vice President  Joe Biden , speaking to the lawmakers earlier
today, said Democrats have a chance to win control of the House
of Representatives in November’s election.  “I really do think we’re going to win back the House,”
Biden said.  Strategy Session  The House Democrats had gathered at a three-day strategy
session, honing plans to win a net 25 seats to regain the House
majority they lost in 2010. Democrats now hold 191 House seats,
while Republicans have 242. There are two vacancies.  Biden, a former Delaware senator, said he will campaign for
Democrats in what are predicted to be tough races in
 Pennsylvania (BEESPA) , Ohio, Michigan, Iowa,  New Hampshire  and  Florida (BEESFL) .  “We cannot succeed unless you all come back,” he told the
lawmakers.  In an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll conducted Jan.
22-24, Democrats had a six percentage point edge over
Republicans among registered voters who were asked which party
they preferred to lead Congress after the next election. The
survey, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.7
percentage points, indicated that public sentiment had shifted
in Democrats’ favor. In June, the survey showed that registered
voters were evenly split between the parties.  Republicans Helping  “These guys are helping us,” Biden said of Republicans.
“They’re helping us by saying what they believe.”  Echoing a theme of Obama’s re-election campaign, Biden said
the November election will turn on Democrats painting a “stark
contrast” between their policies and those advocated by
Republicans. Democrats say that last year’s debate in Congress
over federal spending, raising the  debt limit  and extending a
 payroll tax  cut for workers has helped swing public sentiment in
their direction. House Democrats are hoping to rebound from a
63-seat loss in the 2010 midterm election.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  is “a good guy”
personally, as is House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia,
though both have been unwilling to compromise, Biden said.  “The truth is, who can you make a deal with?” Biden said.
“Who can you reach out and shake hands with and say that we
have a bargain?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  and
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  