-- Occupy London Squat at UBS Puts Empty Buildings in Spotlight
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-01-27T16:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/occupy-london-squat-at-ubs-puts-empty-buildings-in-spotlight.html
Squatting -- the occupation of land
and buildings by people who have no legal title to them -- has a
long history in Britain. Participants in the Peasants’ Revolt of
1381 squatted on uncultivated acreage.  In 1946 thousands of homeless British occupied abandoned
homes in London as well as empty military bases. A squatters’
advisory service publishes a guide to the practice of finding
and living in unoccupied property. In London, Bristol, and
Brighton, three of Britain’s big squatting centers, it’s never
too hard to find a place. The government estimates 20,000
squatters live in Britain.  Now the British followers of the Occupy Wall Street
movement are fusing old-fashioned squatting with the
sophistication of 21st century protest, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Jan. 30 edition. For more than two months before
their peaceful eviction on Jan. 25, members of Occupy London
lived and worked in a vacant building across from  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s
London headquarters in the City. The squatters suspended banners
from the windows proclaiming such slogans as “UBS You Owe Us”
and “You Can’t Evict An Idea.”  The building belongs to UBS itself, which had been planning
to renovate it. Until, that is, about 30 members of the London
group entered the premises on Nov. 18, according to Pete
Phoenix, a coordinator for what he calls the “Occupy UBS
movement” and basically the house boss of the squat. The number
of squatters subsequently rose to as many as 60.  Financial Literacy  They participated in discussion groups and gave lessons in
financial literacy: A Jan. 7 meeting advised on how to
investigate financial crime. Positive press clippings and
slogans like “Homes Not Jails” were plastered on white walls.
A pair of Eastern Europeans guarded the entrance. Occupy London
members also offered tours of  Canary Wharf , the metropolitan
area’s most cosseted office complex, which the guide pointed out
is situated in one of London’s most blighted boroughs.  British law considers squatting largely a matter for civil
courts rather than criminal. That distinction makes it hard to
evict squatters quickly. The Swiss bank’s extended efforts to
expel the Occupy London squatters highlight the difficulties.
Eventually, after much wrangling, a court issued an eviction
notice and the protesters left. “The Bank of Ideas goes on,”
said Sean Boyle, one of the squatters.  For homeowners, the cost of evicting squatters can spiral
into thousands of pounds, said Alexander Ellis, a broker at
 Tullet Prebon Plc (TLPR) , whose parents’ home in Bath,  England , was
once occupied by squatters.  Breaking and Entering  “It’s nothing more than legalized breaking and entering,”
Ellis said in an e-mail. “Squatters normally break in to
properties, often claiming that they found a door or window
open, and live there for free while causing considerable
damage.”  There’s still Occupy London’s Finsbury Square camp opposite
Bloomberg’s London headquarters, an Occupy London camp outside
 St. Paul’s Cathedral , and a squat at Old Street Magistrates’
Court. About a 15-minute walk north of the UBS building, the
court has become another temporary home of members of the Occupy
London group.  They are mixing there with Lithuanians: Since the expansion
of the EU’s borders to the east, some Eastern Europeans have won
the right to live in any member state. A 22-year-old Lithuanian
man named Siggy gives a tour of the building. It’s been vacant
for 16 years, he says, while showing a wood-paneled courtroom,
the only one that isn’t in disrepair.  Blair, King  The courthouse is being used by Occupy London for a series
of mock trials of Britain’s 1 percent. These began on Jan. 19,
with “the case for and against the prosecution of  Tony Blair ,”
in connection with the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . The trial
was streamed on the Internet: Blair was found guilty.  A trial on Jan. 21 seeking to assert the rights of
shareholders against the management of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  was postponed in favor of a tour of West London’s
hedge funds. The courthouse still sports its jail cells, and the
squatters have reserved them for Blair, former RBS Chief
Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin , and  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King .  Under pressure from the authorities, these squatters, too,
may be leaving any day now. “There are a million empty
buildings in the U.K.,” said Phoenix. “Why can’t some of them
be used for homes, communities, or spaces for self-employed
people?”  Wary Landlords  Though Occupy  London  is leaving some of their protest
sites, landlords should be wary of future demonstrations,
according to Akhil Markanday of Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP’s
Real Estate Disputes Group.  “I doubt this is the end of the saga,” said Markanday, a
senior associate, by e-mail. “We are cautioning vigilance at
this time and encourage landowners to review their property
portfolios for those which may be at risk, such as those that
are vacant or attached to open spaces.”  After the Occupy London movement loses momentum, the more
traditional class of squatters will remain. Peter Myton, the
operations manager for London-based Ambika Security, which
protects vacant properties from squatters, says the company’s
business has risen in the past year.  Should the government tighten housing subsidy laws, even
more people could be pushed into the streets. At the same time,
members of Parliament have discussed making squatting an act of
criminal trespass.  “If people are desperate, and they’re desperate enough to
squat, I don’t think criminalizing it is going to change
anything,” Myton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  