-- Odier Says It’s ‘Regrettable’ Swiss Bank Wegelin Had to Sell
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-27T17:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/odier-says-it-s-regrettable-swiss-bank-wegelin-had-to-sell.html
Patrick Odier , chairman of the  Swiss
Bankers Association , comments on Wegelin & Co. agreeing to a
sale to Switzerland’s Raiffeisen Group, on Switzerland’s tax
negotiations with the U.S., bank secrecy laws, new money inflows
and capital buffers.  On his reaction to Wegelin:  “I only found out today, I find it unfortunate that the
situation developed in this manner but it shows that there’s a
need for a joint solution with the U.S.”  On whether other banks will follow:  “Each situation is different from the other. We have an
open case, we have to resolve. We’re looking at a global
solution and it’s being worked on heavily.”  “In general it’s regrettable that the oldest private bank
of  Switzerland  has to be confronted with the only solution to
sell itself to preserve the interests of its clients. I don’t
think it makes too much difference whether it’s private or not.
Each situation is different.”  On the U.S.-Swiss agreement:  “I think our administration is working very hard and I’m
absolutely sure that if our President gave the impression that
there was a possible solution this year, it’s because she’ll
work hard on it. I really salute that. We know about the issue,
we know about all technical aspects. We now need a political
willingness on both sides of the Atlantic.”  On an amount that could be settled:  “I never heard any figure. The combination of all the
aspects makes the solution a bit more complex. Everybody wants
to know things that haven’t even been discussed with us at this
stage. It’s important to solve the issue and sooner rather than
later.”  On tax agreements with other nations:  “It’s the right and only way to go at this point. The sign
that was expressed by Germany and  England ” is “very important.
And it’s a signal to other countries. The agreements are very
balanced.”  On new money inflows:  “The positive aspect is that Switzerland, because of its
stability and infrastructure and the franc, has attracted
moneys. This has been due to difficulties encountered in some
financial centers, some geopolitical difficulties, the financial
crises but also due to the strong growth of wealth in some parts
of the world, which don’t have yet the financial infrastructure.
It’s diversified across the world, I can’t pinpoint any
particular region.”  On banking secrecy:  “Swiss bank secrecy belongs to what the financial industry
wants to promote. We have to fight abuses.”  On negative factors to banks:  “On the pressure side, you have the fact that for many
small- to medium-sized banks, earnings come from international
activities, while costs are in francs. So margins will go down.
The cost in general in the financing industry has been pushed
toward higher levels due to the combination of many, many
regulations that are partially justified and sometimes
exaggerated. At the same time, innovation remains very strong.”  On capital buffers imposed in Switzerland:  “This is a proof that Swiss banks allow themselves to face
more stringent standards than anywhere else. They experienced
less difficulties as a financial marketplace than others. We can
re-generate capital in Switzerland because of the good service
mix. It could also turn to a competitive advantage.”  On the so-called “morality gap”:  “There’s a higher consciousness today of the dialogue
needed of the financial sector and the rest of the economy and
the population. That’s good. The responsibility of banks is
foremost to serve clients and not to make profits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  