-- Oil Markets Seen Withstanding Iran Attack Shock in Global Investor Survey
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-27T17:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/oil-markets-seen-withstanding-iran-attack-shock-in-investor-poll.html
More than 70 percent of investors
say an attack on  Iran ’s nuclear facilities would create only a
short-term disruption in oil markets, according to a quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll.  About a third of the 1,209 global investors, traders and
analysts surveyed Jan. 23-24 said an attack may trigger an oil
shock leading to a global recession.  The European Union agreed Jan. 23 to ban oil imports from
Iran starting July 1 as the West increased pressure on the
Islamic republic to halt its nuclear program. An Iranian member
of parliament reiterated the same day his country will respond
by closing the  Strait of Hormuz , the regional transit point for
about 20 percent of the world’s oil, the Fars news agency said.
 Saudi Arabia  has pledged to make up for any lost production.  While conflicts may affect oil markets over a longer period
of time, investors may have “lurking confidence that other oil-
producing nations would step up to increase production,” said
J. Ann Selzer, president of Selzer & Co., the  Des Moines , Iowa-
based company that conducted the survey for Bloomberg.  Forty-six percent of respondents said they would maintain
their crude-oil investments over the next six months, while 21
percent said they would increase them and 17 percent said they
would reduce their investments. The poll has a margin of error
of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  Price Expectations  Crude for March delivery rose for a third day today,
trading 17 cents, or 0.2 percent, higher at $99.87 a barrel as
of 12:07 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract
settled at $99.70 yesterday, the highest closing price since
Jan. 19. Prices are up 16 percent in the past year.  Forty-three percent expected crude  oil prices  to rise in
the next half year, while 22 percent said they would fall, the
survey showed.  Amid the increased tension and efforts to limit Iran’s oil
exports, its banking sector and its ability to engage in
international trade, most investors said a military conflict and
a blockade of the Strait of Hormuz aren’t likely.  One in five respondents said it’s very likely or fairly
likely Iran will carry out its threat to close the waterway.  Fifty-four percent of those surveyed said they are
confident there won’t be military action against  Iran’s nuclear
program  in 2012, while 30 percent said there will be a strike.
Fifty-four percent of those surveyed also said an attack on the
nuclear facilities would provoke a conflict. Forty-two percent
said Iran would retaliate by attacking Israel.  Nuclear Iran  On the best response from the international community if
Iran were to develop a nuclear weapon, 45 percent of respondents
said it was “such a lethal threat that military action against
Iran” would be necessary, while 34 percent said it was a
situation the world could live with and 24 percent had no idea.  While 57 percent of U.S. investors said military action
would be necessary if  Iran (OPCRIRAN)  acquired a nuclear weapon, 39 percent
of those outside America said they agreed. Thirty-eight percent
of those surveyed overseas said the world could live with a
nuclear-armed Iran, versus one in four in the U.S.  Fifty-nine percent of the U.S. investors said an attack on
Iran’s nuclear facilities would probably prompt attacks on U.S.
civilian and military targets in the  Middle East . Forty-six
percent outside the U.S. shared that view.  Tougher Sanctions  Respondents also were divided about the effects of tougher
sanctions on Iran. While 43 percent said the recent sanctions
targeting Iran’s central bank diminish the chances that the
nation will make concessions over the nuclear program, 36
percent said the sanctions may encourage it to negotiate.  The U.S., U.K. and  Canada  took coordinated action on Nov.
21 targeting Iran’s financial sector, with implications for any
entities that do business with both Iran and Western nations. On
Dec. 31, President  Barack Obama  signed into law congressional
sanctions on the Persian Gulf nation’s central bank aimed at
complicating payments for its oil by refiners in any country.  The EU’s measures announced this week included a ban on
trade in gold, precious metals, diamonds and petrochemical
products from Iran, and an asset freeze on Iranian banks and
port operators that will make tens of billions of euros in
annual trade with Iran almost impossible.  The U.S., European allies and  Israel  accuse Iran of seeking
to develop nuclear weapons. Iran’s leaders say their program is
solely for civilian energy and medical research.  In a Nov. 8 report, the  United Nations ’  International
Atomic Energy Agency  raised questions about possible military
dimensions of Iran’s nuclear program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  