-- Oil Increases This Week as Gasoline Surges, Greece Nears Debt Agreement
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-27T21:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/oil-erases-early-advance-on-slower-than-expected-u-s-economic-growth.html
Oil climbed this week as gasoline
jumped to the highest level since August and amid signs Greece
is near an agreement with its creditors.  Futures rose 1.1 percent this week after gasoline surged on
speculation that refinery outages and plant closures will cut
supplies. Olli Rehn, the European Union’s commissioner for
economic and monetary affairs, said an agreement is “very
close” on private-sector involvement in a Greek debt swap.  “The closing of a number of refineries in the Northeast is
making people very supply-conscious during a period with weak
gasoline demand,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading
advisory company Cameronhanover.com in New Canaan,  Connecticut .
“Expectations that they will put together a Greek deal soon are
lifting the entire complex.”  Oil for March delivery increased $1.10 this week to settle
at $99.56 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
have climbed 16 percent in the past year. Futures slipped 14
cents today.  Brent oil for March settlement gained $1.60, or 1.5
percent, this week to $111.46 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The futures ended today’s session up 67
cents, or 0.6 percent.  Gasoline futures for February delivery advanced 8.02 cents,
or 2.8 percent, today to $2.9268 a gallon, the highest
settlement since Aug. 31. Prices gained 5.1 percent this week.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  has scheduled a shutdown of a catalytic
cracker at the 238,000-barrel-a-day Bayway refinery in  New
Jersey , the Houston-based company said today in a state
regulatory filing. In  Illinois , the company’s 380,900-barrel-a-
day Wood River refinery reported a wet gas compressor tripped
offline yesterday.  In  Texas , Royal Dutch Shell Plc reported a “temporary
upset” at its 340,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Deer Park today.  Refinery Closures  Two refineries in  Pennsylvania  have been closed because
they weren’t profitable, and Hovensa LLC said last week it will
shut the 350,000-barrel-a-day St. Croix refinery in the U.S.
Virgin Islands by mid-February.  “The refinery closures are sending gasoline higher, which
is helping pulling crude higher as well,” Beutel said. “The
prospect of a Greek deal is the primary driver, though.”  Gasoline output tumbled 2.8 percent last week to 8.54
million barrels, the least since February 2010, the Energy
Department reported Jan. 25. Demand rose for the first time in
four weeks, gaining 1.3 percent to 8.1 million barrels a day.  Rehn said at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
Switzerland, today that a deal between the Greek government and
the private-sector community may come “if not today, then over
the weekend.”  The euro increased every day this week against the dollar
and touched $1.3229 in intraday trading today, the highest level
since Dec. 13. A stronger euro and weaker dollar boost
commodities’ appeal as an alternate investment.  U.S. Economy  Oil prices slipped today as data showed the U.S. economy
expanded less than forecast.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 2.8 percent annual rate
in the fourth quarter, slower than the 3 percent growth forecast
by economists surveyed by Bloomberg, a Commerce Department
report showed.  “We’ve had wrestling between the slightly weaker-than-
expected GDP number and the improving  Greece  outlook,” said
Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  Federal Reserve policy makers said Jan. 25 that they were
concerned about the economy’s lack of vigor, prompting a pledge
to keep  interest rates  near to zero into late 2014. Oil rose for
two straight days after the Fed’s announcement.  “The market is disappointed that the economy is not as
strong as people had hoped,” said Phil Flynn, an analyst at
PFGBest in  Chicago .  Iran Tensions  Oil also increased this week on concern that tensions with
Iran may disrupt supplies.  Iran has said it may close the Strait of Hormuz, the
transit point for about a fifth of global crude, after the EU
announced Jan. 23 that it will implement an oil embargo starting
July 1 to pressure the Islamic republic over its nuclear
program.  Iran’s parliament will consider a bill Jan. 29 that calls
for a halt of oil exports to  Europe  starting next week, Hossein
Ibrahimi, the vice chairman of the parliament’s National
Security and Foreign Policy Commission, said today in a report
by the state-run Fars news agency.  “With Iran hanging over the market, people are not going
to sell oil,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York.  Crude may rise next week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Fifteen of 32 analysts and traders, or 47 percent,
forecast oil will advance through Feb. 3. Ten respondents, or 31
percent, predicted prices will drop and seven estimated there
will be little change.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 422,789
contracts as of 4:05 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 514,378
yesterday, 12 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.37 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  