-- Oil Heads for First Weekly Gain in Three; Total Sees $100 Brent Support
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-27T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/oil-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-three-total-sees-100-brent-support.html
Oil headed for its first weekly gain
in three, trading near a one-week high in  New York  amid signs of
economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude
consumer.  Futures gained as much as 0.8 percent, advancing for a
third day. The U.S. Commerce Department may say today that
economic growth accelerated in the fourth quarter.  Durable goods 
orders rose more than forecast in December, according to data
published yesterday, and a report this week showed gasoline
demand grew the most in more than two months. Total SA Chief
Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said it would take a
“real recession” to send  Brent crude  below $100 a barrel.  “To see a lower price of oil, below $100, you really would
need to have a real recession, and I don’t think we will get a
real recession,” de Margerie said in an interview on Bloomberg
TV with Maryam Nemazee from Davos,  Switzerland .  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as 80 cents to $100.50 a barrel and was at
$100.16 a barrel at 12:33 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the
contract gained 30 cents to $99.70, the highest settlement since
Jan. 19. Prices have climbed 1.7 percent this week and 17
percent in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $111.21 a barrel, up 42 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $11.05 to
West Texas futures. The spread shrank to $9.90 on Jan. 18 and
reached a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Signs of Recovery  The Commerce Department may say today that U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The data we’ve seen out of the U.S. over the last few
months is indicating a recovery in the economy,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific
Pty in Sydney, said by telephone today. “The spread between
Brent and West Texas has blown out again. That suggests the
potential for some supply disruption out of the  Middle East  is
in the back of traders’ minds.”  U.S. bookings for durable goods, or products meant to last
at least three years, advanced 3 percent after rising 4.3
percent the prior month, the biggest back-to-back gains in
almost a year, based on a Commerce Department report yesterday
in  Washington . A median 2 percent increase was predicted by 78
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Iran Sanctions  Fuel consumption rose 7.5 percent to 19.2 million barrels a
day in the week ended Jan. 20, the largest gain since Nov. 4,
the Energy Department said on Jan. 25.  Oil has also risen this week amid concern European Union
sanctions on  Iran  will curb supplies. EU foreign ministers
agreed on Jan. 23 to ban petroleum imports from the Persian Gulf
nation from July 1 to pressure the country over its nuclear
program. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said his country
is willing to revive talks on its nuclear plans and accused
Western countries of dodging discussions, the state-run Fars
news agency reported yesterday.  Iran has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz  in
retaliation against the embargo. The waterway is a transit route
for about a fifth of the world’s crude, according to the U.S.
Department of Energy.  More than 70 percent of investors in a quarterly Bloomberg
Global Poll said an attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities would
create only a short-term disruption in crude markets. About a
third of 1,209 global investors, traders and analysts surveyed
from Jan. 23 to Jan. 24 said an attack could trigger an oil
shock leading to a global recession.  New York oil has technical support along its 50-day moving
average, around $99.28 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures slid to an intraday low yesterday
of $99.23. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels.  Crude may rise next week on the EU embargo plan and after
the  Federal Reserve  committed to keep  interest rates  near a
record low through 2014, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Fifteen of 32 analysts and traders, or 47 percent, forecast oil
will advance through Feb. 3. Ten respondents, or 31 percent,
predicted prices will drop and seven estimated there will be
little change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  