-- Holder Announces Working Unit on Mortgage-Backed Bonds Fraud
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-27T22:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/holder-announces-working-group-on-mortgage-backed-bonds-fraud.html
A new U.S. government unit will
investigate misconduct in the bundling of  mortgage loans  into
securities that fueled the housing bubble and contributed to the
financial crisis, Attorney General Eric Holder said.  In providing details about the new group, Holder said that
the Justice Department in the past few days has subpoenaed 11
financial institutions in related investigations.  The  mortgage fraud  unit will “streamline” and
“strengthen” current efforts to investigate fraud in
residential mortgage-backed securities, he said today at a news
conference in  Washington .  The unit is intended to help “restore faith in our
financial markets and institutions,” Holder said. “We will
marshal our civil and criminal capabilities” in pursuing the
investigations, he said.  President  Barack Obama  announced the new effort during his
State of the Union speech on Jan. 24.  A coalition of labor unions, consumer advocates and
political activists, including MoveOn.org, has been pressuring
the administration to do more to probe banks’ home lending and
the creation and sale of mortgage-backed securities.  Coordinating Efforts  The new unit will take control of existing civil and
criminal investigations in an attempt to better coordinate
efforts on mortgage fraud, according to the  Justice Department .  Holder said that those who question why the administration
is forming the group years after the housing bubble burst don’t
have the “facts.”  “It’s not as if we haven’t been doing anything” until
now, he said.  The unit will include officials from the Justice Department
and the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as U.S.
attorneys and state attorneys general. Holder was joined at
today’s press conference by other officials, including Housing
and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan, Securities and
Exchange Commission enforcement director  Robert Khuzami  and New
York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman .  About 55 Justice Department attorneys, analysts and
investigators and 10 Federal Bureau of Investigation agents and
analysts will be assigned to the unit. An additional 30
investigators and other staff will join the staff in the coming
weeks, according to the Justice Department.  Help for Homeowners  The stepped-up enforcement effort also should result in
some “benefits” for homeowners saddled with debt because of
the mortgage crisis, Donovan said, declining to be more
specific.  “It would be a tragedy if the investors were made whole
but homeowners who were wronged at the same time” received no
help, he said.  In his State of the Union speech, Obama said the unit
“will hold accountable those who broke the law, speed
assistance to homeowners and help turn the page on an era of
recklessness that hurt so many Americans.”  State and federal officials have been negotiating with the
five largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  -- to settle claims that they used so-called
robo-signing and faulty documentation to justify foreclosures.
All 50 states announced investigations into the practices in
2010.  Deal With Banks  The deal with the banks for loan forgiveness, interest-rate
reductions and other aid for homeowners could be valued as high
as $25 billion, said a person familiar with negotiations who
declined to be identified because the terms weren’t public.  Schneiderman is among a group of state attorneys general
that has raised concerns about the scope of liability releases
granted to the banks in the settlement, saying any agreement
shouldn’t protect banks from claims that haven’t been
investigated.  Schneiderman said in a telephone interview that the
proposed releases won’t impede investigations by the unit
announced today. Any final agreement will be narrowly focused to
release banks from claims related only to documentation errors
and other so-called robo-signing conduct, according to a person
briefed on the talks.  “I’m now confident that the releases are going to allow
this investigation to go forward,” Schneiderman said.  The joint federal-state mortgage investigative unit will be
part of a  task force  Obama created in a 2009 executive order to
probe financial fraud cases. The task force, led by Holder, is
made up of 20 federal agencies, including the Justice, Treasury,
Commerce and Labor departments, 94 U.S. attorneys and state and
local agencies.  Since its formation, the task force has charged more than
1,200 defendants for crimes related to mortgage fraud, including
schemes that resulted in financial losses to homeowners and
banks and attempts to illegally obtain government money,
according to the Justice Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net 
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  