-- Omnicare Sued by FTC to Block $440.8 Million Takeover of Rival PharMerica
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-27T22:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/omnicare-sued-by-ftc-to-block-440-8-million-takeover-of-rival-pharmerica.html
Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  was sued by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission to block its $440.8 million takeover of
rival drug-supply company  PharMerica Corp. (PMC) , a deal that
regulators said would hurt competition and increase drug prices.  Omnicare’s unsolicited bid for the Louisville, Kentucky,
company would boost medicine prices for Medicare Part D health
plans that are responsible for providing drug benefits for
nursing home residents and other beneficiaries, the FTC said in
a statement today.  “If Omnicare is allowed to purchase its biggest and only
national competitor, it will diminish competition and raise
health care costs, leaving taxpayers and patients to foot the
bill,” said Richard Feinstein, director of the FTC’s bureau of
competition, in the statement.  The combined companies would be able to control as much as
60 percent of the market to distribute drugs to nursing homes,
hospitals and hospices, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli
& Co. in Rye,  New York .  Omnicare fell less than 1 percent to $33.05 at the close of
New York trading. PharMerica declined less than 1 percent to
$14.30.  The deal offers an opportunity to save money through
automation and scale, Covington, Kentucky-based Omnicare CEO
John Figueroa said when it was announced in August. Omnicare is
trying become more efficient amid U.S. cuts to health-care
spending, he said.  Initial Rejection  PharMerica initially rejected the offer, saying Omnicare
would save more money through efficiency than was reflected in
the $15-a-share bid price, said Gregory Weishar, PharMerica’s
chief executive officer.  The deal had a value of $716 million including net debt,
Omnicare said when announcing the takeover bid in August.  “It undervalues PharMerica,” Weishar said Jan. 12 at the
J.P. Morgan Chase Health Care Conference in  San Francisco .
“Reasonable success in executing our growth strategy will lead
to greater  shareholder value  than the $15.”  The FTC in 2005  allowed  Omnicare’s takeover of
NeighborCare, saying that the company had many rivals in local
areas and that the institutional pharmacy market was easy to
enter. The commission also dismissed a concern that the Medicare
Modernization Act would allow Omnicare to get above-market rates
by coordinating with prescription drug plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  