-- Omnicare Extends $440.8 Million Takeover Offer for PharMerica to Feb. 17
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-27T21:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/omnicare-extends-440-8-million-takeover-offer-for-pharmerica-to-feb-17.html
Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  extended a $440.8
million takeover of rival drug-supply company  PharMerica Corp. (PMC) 
for the fourth time as U.S. regulators review the bid.  About 16 percent of PharMerica shares have been tendered
under the offer, extended to Feb. 17, Covington, Kentucky-based
Omnicare said today in a statement. Omnicare’s unsolicited bid
for the Louisville, Kentucky-based company was set to expire 5
p.m.  New York  time today.  “An extension means it hasn’t been rejected yet” by the
Federal Trade Commission, said  Jason Gurda , an analyst with
Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston , who rates Omnicare
“outperform.”  Omnicare is looking to control as much as 60 percent of the
market to distribute drugs to nursing homes, hospitals and
hospices, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,
New York. The deal would help save money through automation and
scale, Omnicare Chief Executive Officer John Figueroa said when
it was announced in August. Omnicare is trying become more
efficient amid U.S. cuts to health-care spending, he said.  Jamie Moser, spokeswoman with New York-based Joele Frank,
Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher representing Omnicare, declined to
comment on why the $15-a-share offer was extended or whether the
company had heard from the FTC.  Omnicare fell less than 1 percent to $33.05 at the close of
New York trading. PharMerica declined less than 1 percent to
$14.30.  Greater Efficiency  PharMerica initially rejected the offer, saying Omnicare
would save more money through efficiency than was reflected in
the bid, said Gregory Weishar, PharMerica’s chief executive
officer.  The deal had a value of $716 million including net debt,
Omnicare said in August.  The FTC in 2005 allowed Omnicare’s takeover of
NeighborCare, saying that the company had many rivals in local
areas and the institutional pharmacy market was easy to enter.
The commission also dismissed a concern that the Medicare
Modernization Act would allow Omnicare to get above-market rates
by coordinating with prescription drug plans.  Increased antitrust scrutiny from U.S. regulators under
President Barack Obama scuttled two of 2011’s biggest proposed
acquisitions.  AT&T Inc.’s $39 billion bid for  T-Mobile USA , which would
have made the Dallas-based company the largest U.S. wireless
carrier, fell apart in December following a lawsuit from the
 Justice Department  and possible opposition from the Federal
Communications Commission.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
dropped their $11.3 billion bid for NYSE Euronext in May after
the Justice Department, citing monopoly concerns, indicated it
would block the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 