-- One Stanford Client Lost $20 Million, Ex-Executive Tells Jurors at Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-27T22:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/one-stanford-client-lost-20-million-ex-executive-testifies-2-.html
A former Stanford Group Co.
executive told a jury that one client of R. Allen Stanford’s
securities brokerage lost at least $20 million before the
business was closed by U.S. regulators.  Jason Green, who led Stanford Group’s private-client group,
offered the figure while being cross-examined by the defense on
the fifth day of Stanford’s investor fraud trial in federal
court in Houston.  Stanford’s lawyers have said that customers who bought the
certificates of deposit issued by Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. and sold by the brokerage were able to
withdraw every penny of their money until the Securities and
Exchange Commission sued in February 2009.  Asked by defense attorney Ali Fazel if anybody had not
gotten their money back before then, Green replied, “Yes, one
person I know of specifically” was denied $20 million. Green
later identified the client as Michael Moreno, who had
residences in Lafayette,  Louisiana , and in Houston.  Stanford, 61, who was indicted in June 2009, is accused of
leading a $7 billion investment fraud centered on CD sales. He
is charged with 14 counts including mail fraud,  wire fraud  and
obstruction of an SEC probe. He denies the charges.  Stanford, who suffered a jailhouse beating after his
arrest, began rubbing his head during today’s proceeding. The
judge offered to let him lie down and follow the trial from
another room.  Joined in 1996  Green told the court yesterday that he joined the Stanford
Group brokerage in 1996 and stayed until its end.  Moreno, he said, entrusted Stanford’s business with almost
$50 million before withdrawing some of those funds to address a
tax obligation. The $20 million withdrawal request was made
shortly before Stanford stopped allowing clients to redeem CDs
before their maturity date to stanch the outflow of capital as
the global financial crisis deepened.  He also spoke of his efforts to persuade Stanford and the
company’s chief financial officer, James M. Davis, to reassure
customers after New York money manager  Bernard Madoff ’s December
2008 arrest for running the largest investment fraud in U.S.
history.  ‘Antiguan Madoff’  Green read an e-mail he sent to Stanford and Davis days
before the SEC sued, in which he cited news articles that
accused “Sir Allen of being the Antiguan Madoff” and said that
he and other managers believed that if immediate steps weren’t
taken to provide transparency, “we would not have a business to
defend.”  On cross-examination today, Fazel asked Green about risk
disclosures provided to prospective clients, offering them the
opportunity to ask questions and receive answers about the
firm’s “financial condition and affairs.”  Fazel asked if there was anything illegal about that.  “Only if people lie about their financial condition and
affairs,” Green replied.  “Did you lie?” the lawyer asked.  “No, but I feel like I was lied to,” Green said. “I have
a lot of clients, friends, relatives who haven’t gotten a penny
back because there was no money.”  Later, Fazel questioned Green about Stanford Group’s
ability to conduct financial research. The former executive told
the court about a unit in  Washington  staffed with people he
described as “political insiders,” including a retired
brigadier general and a surgeon formerly with the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration .  ‘Politics Into Profit’  Their mission was to analyze legislation and “turn
politics into profit,” Green said.  Asked by Fazel what became of that group after the Stanford
firm closed, he replied, “I think they went to  MF Global (MFGLQ) .”  MF Global Holdings Ltd., parent company of the MF Global
Inc. commodities brokerage, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
October. More than $1.2 billion may be missing from its
customers’ accounts, trustee James Giddens has said.  The criminal case is  U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case against Stanford is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  