-- Honeywell Forecasts First-Quarter Profit Below Estimates
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-27T21:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/honeywell-forecasts-first-quarter-profit-below-estimates-2-.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the
maker of turbochargers, digital flight controls and hardhats,
predicted first-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates
as the global economy weakens.  Earnings will rise as much as 11 percent to 93 cents to 98
cents a share, the  Morris Township , New Jersey-based company
 said  today. Analysts anticipated $1, the average of predictions
compiled by Bloomberg. Last quarter, profit beat estimates by 1
cent a share amid higher commercial-aerospace equipment sales.  Demand for Honeywell’s products is being hurt by a slowing
economy, especially in  Europe , where the sovereign-debt crisis
is weighing on the sales of industrial companies such as  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  The  World Bank  cut
its global-growth forecast this month, saying a recession in the
euro region may exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets .  “While we expect a more challenging macro environment
ahead in 2012, primarily driven by softness in Europe impacting
the short-cycle businesses, we’re confident that Honeywell is
well positioned to continue to outperform,” Honeywell Chief
Executive Officer Dave Cote said in a statement today.  Honeywell’s shares  rose  0.8 percent to $58.27 at the close
in  New York . The stock has gained 4.2 percent in the past 12
months.  Fourth-Quarter Loss  The company anticipates sales of $9 billion to $9.2 billion
for the first quarter, compared with the $9.23 billion average
prediction.  Honeywell reaffirmed its prior  forecast  of $4.25 to $4.50
per share for 2012 and anticipates being on “high side” of
that range, aided by sales growth that excludes acquisitions and
without counting on a turnaround in the European economy, Cote
said on a conference  call  with analysts.  “We feel that given the end markets we are in, we can
outperform our peers in any economic conditions because we think
we’ve done all the work we need to, to have great positions in
good industries,” Cote said.  Excluding pension expenses, fourth-quarter profit was
$1.05. Analysts anticipated $1.04. Including the pension-fund
costs, Honeywell posted a net loss of $310 million, or 40 cents
a share, compared with profit a year ago of $369 million, or 47
cents, a year earlier, according to the statement.  Sales rose 8.3 percent to $9.47 billion in the quarter,
below the average prediction of $9.56 billion. Sales excluding
acquisitions, known as organic sales, rose 7 percent from a year
ago.  Strong Dollar  During the quarter, sales were hurt by a stronger dollar
and lower commodity prices in the specialty-materials unit. The
drop in costs causes sales to decline, without hurting margins,
because the savings are passed on to customers, Chief Financial
Officer  David Anderson  said in an interview.  Aerospace sales advanced 8 percent as a 20 percent increase
in commercial offset lower demand for military-equipment and
services. Automation and Control Solutions rose 4 percent after
additional sales from acquisitions were weighed down by foreign
currency impacts. Sales jumped 24 percent at the Performance
Materials and Technologies unit and rose 10 percent at
transportation systems.  “This was another good operating quarter from Honeywell,
which we think had been largely expected by investors,” Robert Stallard, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said in a report
today. “To us, the growth in aerospace and the operating margin
are the stand out items.” He rates the shares “outperform.”  Earlier this month, Honeywell said it will build a
turbocharger plant in Wuhan, China, that will begin production
at the end of this year. In November, the company announced the
$338 million acquisition of King’s Safetywear Ltd., a Singapore-
based maker of work boots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  