-- Monti Says Italian Cabinet Approved Measures to Cut Bureaucratic Red Tape
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-27T16:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/monti-says-italian-cabinet-approved-measures-to-cut-bureaucratic-red-tape.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
Cabinet approved measures to reduce bureaucratic red tape, his
third major legislative effort since taking office in November.  The measures “improve the quality of life of citizens who
deal with the public administration and also improves the
competitiveness of the economy through gains in productivity
from these simplifications,” Monti said at a press conference
in  Rome  today after the Cabinet meeting.  The decree law seeks to abolish hundreds of laws and
simplify rules regulating companies and new businesses. Monti
said the revamp was important because the European Union and
“international observers give more and more importance to
structural reforms to judge the sustainability of public-finance
consolidation.”  Monti pushed through budget cuts worth 20 billion euros
($26 billion) in December, including higher levies on fuel and a
tax on primary homes, in a bid to convince investors  Italy  can
tame the euro-region’s second-biggest debt and curb record
borrowing costs. To kick-start the economy, the government last
week passed a second plan aimed at boosting competition and
growth by opening up so-called closed professions, including
notaries, lawyers and taxi drivers.  Internet Push  Today’s decree will allow Italians to carry out many
bureaucratic tasks online, according to an e-mailed statement
from Monti’s office. These steps include changing official
places of residence and obtaining or renewing birth certificates
and identification documents.  Use of the Internet will also be expanded throughout the
public administration, and red tape will be eased for companies
that “on average, present the same documents 27 times” to
state officials by posting key information about firms online.
That change will save an estimated 1.3 billion euros a year,
according to the statement.  The wide-ranging decree will also allow bakeries to stay
open on Sundays and holidays, and facilitate the process for
hiring workers from outside the EU. While the decree takes
effect immediately, it requires Parliament’s approval within 60
days to remain in force.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net  