-- Monti Takes on Italian Bureaucracy in Latest Policy Push to Revamp Economy
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-27T10:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/monti-takes-on-italian-bureaucracy-in-latest-policy-push-to-revamp-economy.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet
is set to approve a decree law to ease Italian bureaucracy and
boost productivity as he tries to revamp  Europe ’s fourth-biggest
economy to fend off fallout from the region’s debt crisis.  The package, Monti’s third legislative effort since taking
office on Nov. 16, seeks to abolish hundreds of laws and
simplify rules regulating companies and new businesses. The
Cabinet is set to pass the package today at a meeting that
started at 9:30 a.m. Rome time.  “No doubt the decree will facilitate the smooth
functioning of a number of now cumbersome procedures,
contributing to the modernization of the Italian economy,” said
 Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London . “It does not solve any of the structural weakness of
the economy but it will help the other more substantial reforms
in Monti’s agenda to have a better grip.”  Monti pushed through budget cuts worth 20 billion euros
($26 billion) in December, including higher levies on fuel and a
tax on primary homes, in a bid to convince investors Italy can
tame the euro-region’s second-biggest debt and curb record
borrowing costs. To counter the austerity, the government last
week passed a second plan aimed at boosting competition and
growth by opening Italy’s so-called closed professions,
including notaries, lawyers and taxi drivers.  Labor Laws  The government has also started talks with unions and
employers aimed at overhauling the country’s rigid labor laws,
the last pillar of Monti’s plans to remake the 1.6 trillion-euro
economy. Labor Minister Elsa Fornero said this week that she
hopes to have an agreement within a month.  The new plan comes as many Italians are rejecting Monti’s
calls for shared sacrifices now to spur future prosperity. A
wildcat strike by truck drivers this week has clogged traffic on
Italian highways, forcing Fiat SpA to halt car production and
leaving some cities short of gasoline and food.  Public transport workers and some airport and airline staff
are striking today, disrupting travel across  Italy . The 24-hour
strike wrecked havoc on transport on buses and trains while
Rome’s two metro lines and local commuter trains were shut down,
ATAC, the company that runs them, said in a statement on its
website.  Yields Fall  Italy’s 10-year yield fell to 5.96 percent at 11:11 a.m.
Rome time, the lowest in more than two months and down 9 basis
points from yesterday. The premium investors demand to hold
Italian 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds was at
408 basis points, the lowest since Oct. 31.  Italy sold 11 billion euros of Treasury bills today,
meeting its target, and borrowing costs plunged from the
previous sale as Italy benefits from the  European Central Bank ’s
efforts to fight the debt crisis. The Frankfurt-based ECB loaned
euro-region banks a record 489 billion euros for three years on
Dec. 21 to avert a credit crunch and has bought 217 billion
euros of  government bonds  since May.  While Monti’s measures may have helped shore up investor
confidence in Italian debt, the budget cuts and higher taxes are
deepening the economic slump in a country where growth has
lagged behind the euro-region average for more than a decade.
The  International Monetary Fund  forecast on Jan. 24 that the
economy will shrink 2.2 percent this year, compared with a 0.5
percent contraction for the euro area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  