-- Optimum Coal Closes Unchanged After Falling on Output Slump
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-01-27T15:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/optimum-coal-closes-unchanged-after-falling-on-output-slump-1-.html
Optimum Coal Holdings Ltd. (OPT) , the
target of a potential takeover by Glencore International Plc,
closed unchanged in Johannesburg trading after earlier dropping
the most in 10 weeks as output declined.  Optimum closed at 37 rand after earlier falling as much as
5.4 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Nov. 16. The
company produced 7.44 million metric tons of coal in the six
months through December, 15 percent lower than a year earlier,
it said today in a statement.  The company, which runs Optimum Collieries,  South Africa ’s
third-largest opencast mine, suffered three “industrial action
events” at the site in the period, Chief Executive Officer Mike Teke said in the statement. Output was also affected by the
transfer of excavation equipment to the Kwagga North section of
the operation, which curtailed output elsewhere, he said.  Optimum may get a takeover bid from its largest shareholder
Glencore, the Johannesburg-based company said in November.
Glencore’s Piruto unit and Lexshell 849 Investments, owned by
South African businessman  Cyril Ramaphosa , will offer at least
38 rand ($4.88) a share as soon as they win antitrust approval
for stakes already acquired, it said. Piruto and Lexshell have
bought, or agreed to buy, 65.14 percent of Optimum.  Buying Optimum will expand Glencore’s South African energy-
coal production. The assets also include Koornfontein Mines, on
the Witbank coal field in Mpumalanga province, and an allocation
to ship 8.44 million metric tons of coal a year through the
Richards Bay terminal, South Africa’s main coal-export harbor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  