-- Orange Juice From Brazil, Canada Tested Positive for Fungicide, FDA Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-01-27T16:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/orange-juice-from-brazil-canada-tested-positive-for-fungicide-fda-says.html
The  Food and Drug Administration 
detained imported  orange juice  shipments after samples from
 Brazil  and  Canada  tested positive for a banned fungicide.  Eleven of 80 orange juice shipments contained
concentrations of 10 parts per billion or higher, the agency
said today. Nine shipments were detained while manufacturers of
two other shipments voluntarily halted imports.  The agency began holding and testing imported juice after
low levels of the compound carbendazim was detected in trace
amounts in products from Brazil. Carbendazim is banned in use in
U.S. oranges and has been linked to liver tumors in animals.  “FDA is confident that orange juice in the  United States 
may be consumed without concerns about its safety due to the
possible presence of such residues,” the agency said in a
statement.  Twenty-nine shipments of imported juice tested negative,
the agency said. Those shipments originated in  Mexico , Canada,
 Costa Rica , Brazil, Belize, Honduras, Lebanon and Turkey.  Imported juice that tests at concentrations of 10 parts per
billion or higher will be refused or destroyed, the agency has
said. Testing is also being done on domestic orange juice. That
benchmark is 80 parts per billion because the Environmental
Protection Agency’s risk assessment says there are no concerns
at that level.  Americans consumed 1.2 million gallons from the 2009-2010
growing season, U.S. Department of Agriculture data shows. Most
juice sold in the U.S. is a mix of domestic and imported
product, according to the Juice Products Association.  The U.S. is the biggest single importer of orange juice and
took in 190,000 metric tons last year, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net  and Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
   dstanford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  