-- Stanford, Morgan Stanley, BP, Apple, MF Global in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-27T11:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/morgan-stanley-mf-global-commerzbank-chevron-in-court-news.html
R. Allen Stanford, standing trial on
allegations he led a $7 billion investment fraud, appeared in an
October 2008 video shown to jurors in which he decried “damn
greed” on Wall Street as the financial crisis deepened.  “People are stupid, they’re greedy, they’re lazy, they
don’t stick to their core values,” he told a gathering of
Stanford Financial Group Co. executives in Miami. “We’re
different.”  In the video, shown yesterday in Houston federal court, the
financier told his audience that the company was “$5.5 billion
more liquid than it should have been.” Four months later, U.S.
regulators filed suit claiming his businesses were missing
billions of dollars in investor money. He was indicted in June
2009.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of skimming more than $1
billion in investor deposits from his Stanford International
Bank Ltd. to fund a lavish lifestyle and support real estate
developments and unrelated companies that included regional
airlines and newspapers.  Charged with mail fraud, wire fraud and obstructing a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission probe, Stanford, 61, told
jurors earlier this week that he wasn’t guilty. He faces as long
as 20 years in prison if convicted on the most serious charges.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who is overseeing
Stanford’s case, said the trial, which began Jan. 23, may last
six weeks.  The video was played as Jason Green, former president of
Stanford Group Co.’s private client group, testified against his
ex-boss.  Green told the jury of 10 men and five women, which
includes three alternates, about a monthly newsletter Stanford
drafted for his investors and sent to him for his input in
December 2008, the same month  New York  money manager Bernard
Madoff admitted to the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case against Stanford is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Morgan Stanley Sued Over $1.2 Billion in Mortgage Securities  Morgan Stanley was sued over about $1.2 billion worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities by Bayerische Landesbank
and  Dexia (DEXB)  SA in New York state court.  Bayerische Landesbank, based in Munich and the second-
biggest German state-owned lender, asserts claims on almost $486
million in residential mortgage-backed securities purchased in
22 offerings in 2006 and 2007.  Dexia asserts claims on more than $680 million worth of the
securities bought in 21 offerings in 2006 and 2007. Belgium and
France are dismantling Brussels-based Dexia, once the world’s
leading lender to municipalities, after the company could no
longer fund itself as the sovereign-debt crisis dried up short-
term financing.  Both banks say the loans underlying the securities were
riskier than promised and that Morgan Stanley “knew or
recklessly disregarded” that the loans didn’t conform to
underwriting standards.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
declined to comment on the lawsuits, which were both filed Jan.
25 in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, because the
company hadn’t received them yet.  The cases are Bayerische Landesbank, New York branch v.
Morgan Stanley, 650230/2012; and Dexia SA/NV v. Morgan Stanley,
650231/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BP Can’t Collect Part of $40 Billion Spill Costs From Transocean  BP Plc (BP)  can’t collect from  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  part of the $40
billion in cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the 2010
oil well blowout and Gulf of Mexico spill, a judge ruled,
sending Transocean shares higher.  BP (BP/)  must indemnify Transocean for pollution-related economic
damage claims under its drilling contract, U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier  in New Orleans ruled yesterday.  London-based BP (BP\) 
sued Transocean in April to recover a share of its damages and
costs from the spill.  Any awards for punitive damages against Transocean or civil
penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act won’t have to be
covered by BP, the judge wrote in his 30-page decision. He
didn’t say whether Transocean will be liable for punitive
damages or Clean Water Act penalties. Transocean has already
accepted responsibility for equipment losses and paying personal
injury and death claims, citing contract provisions.  “This confirms that BP is responsible for all economic
damages caused by the oil that leaked from its Macondo well, and
completely discredits BP’s ongoing attempts to evade both its
contractual and financial obligations,” Transocean said in an
e-mailed statement.  The decision leaves Transocean at risk for Clean Water Act
penalties and possible punitive damages. The U.S. sued BP and
Transocean in December 2010, alleging violations of the Clean
Water Act, and seeking penalties for each barrel of oil spilled.  “Under the decision Transocean is, at a minimum,
financially responsible for any punitive damages, fines and
penalties flowing from its own conduct,” BP said in a
statement. “Transocean cannot avoid its responsibility for this
accident.”  BP argued that Transocean’s conduct voided the agreement.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Apple, Google Must Face Employee-Poaching Ban Antitrust Lawsuit  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  were among seven technology
companies that must face a lawsuit claiming they violated
antitrust laws by entering into agreements not to recruit each
other’s employees, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
said yesterday that even if she dismisses some claims, she will
give the plaintiffs a chance to amend their complaint and re-
file it.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
Pixar animation unit,  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and Lucasfilm Ltd. are also
named as defendants.  “They still have an antitrust claim that’s going forward
so I don’t want to see any obstruction on discovery,” she told
lawyers during a hearing.  The case is a private lawsuit brought on behalf of
employees that mirrors claims the companies settled with the
U.S. Justice Department in 2010 following a probe. The companies
agreed to refrain from placing “cold calls” to lure workers
from competitors, the government said at the time.  The decision yesterday requires the defendants to produce
documents describing the agreements and permits lawyers to take
depositions, Saveri said. “We get to see what really
happened,” he said, adding that damages in the case could
amount to hundreds of millions of dollars.  Google said in a statement that is has “always actively
and aggressively recruited top talent,” declining to comment
further.  George Riley, a lawyer for Apple, and Robert Mittelstaedt,
an attorney for Adobe, declined to comment immediately after the
hearing.  Zenia Mucha, a Disney spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately
available for comment after regular business hours yesterday.  Intel spokeswoman Laura Anderson, Intuit spokeswoman Sandra
Corradetti, and a representative at Lucasfilm didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on Koh’s ruling after regular
business hours yesterday.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-2509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose). The previous case is United States v.
Adobe Systems, 10-cv-1629, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Virginia, Alberta Lead Suit Against Corzine Over MF Losses  The Virginia Retirement System and Canada’s Alberta
province will lead a group lawsuit against Jon Corzine seeking
compensation for losses from  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) .’s collapse.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in Manhattan combined 12
lawsuits against Corzine, putting Virginia and Alberta at the
head as their combined investment losses of $19 million give
them a larger stake in the suit than seven other applicants for
lead plaintiff, he said in a signed order.  MF Global executives led by Corzine,  New Jersey ’s former
governor, made “materially misleading” statements about
liquidity and financial controls, Joseph DeAngelis alleged in
the first of the 12 similar suits. He also named Henri
Steenkamp, the New York-based company’s chief financial officer,
and  Bradley Abelow , its president. JPMorgan Chase & Co., MF
Global’s banker, should have noticed the “depletion” of
customer money, and should have investigated, commodity
customers said in a separate suit seeking unspecified
restitution and damages.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, hasn’t responded to
e-mails seeking comment on the suits and Mary Sedarat, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, has declined to comment.  The main case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mets Ruling Draws 34 Similar Suits by Madoff Trustee  A federal judge’s ruling in a $1 billion lawsuit against
the New York Mets owners has drawn 34 suits to the judge’s door
that claim to be similar to the case brought by the liquidator
of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm against Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan threw out most
of trustee  Irving Picard ’s claims against the team owners and
refused to let Picard appeal his ruling before a March jury
trial on $386 million in remaining claims.  Rakoff has accepted as related some of the 34 cases against
other defendants, while others await decisions, according to
court records. Two new suits were added to the list Jan. 25.  Defendants in Picard’s bankruptcy court suits, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., have asked district judges to decide
whether Picard, a New York lawyer, has the right to sue them,
and for how much. They say that Picard is straining the limits
of the law as he tries to grab back money for victims of
Madoff’s fraud -- and some of them have won initial victories.  The Madoff trustee calculated in October that people and
companies he sued in about 247 actions had sought an “escape
hatch” from bankruptcy court, intended by Congress to handle
such cases, he said. Judge shopping was “perverting” the law,
Picard said in the October filing. He is appealing district
court rulings in the JPMorgan and other bank cases that knocked
out more than $28 billion of his claims.  The Mets owners have said they will ask Rakoff next month
for judgment on all remaining counts of Picard’s complaint.
Picard said separately he wants a ruling before trial on one
remaining count.  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and $700
million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a group of family
members and related entities, saying they turned a blind eye to
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The partners denied the allegation. In
September, Rakoff dismissed all or part of nine of 11 claims in
Picard’s suit against Wilpon and Katz.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Chinese Vitamin C Makers Can Be Sued by Buyers as a Group  North China Pharmaceutical Co. (600812)  and three other Chinese
makers of vitamin C can be sued in the U.S. for alleged price-
fixing by buyers acting as a group, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan in Brooklyn, New York,
yesterday certified a class of vitamin C buyers. The buyers are
seeking triple damages.  “Individual class members are unlikely to have sufficient
resources -- let alone fluency with federal antitrust law -- to
institute a lawsuit such as this,” Cogan wrote.  The defendants, including Aland (Jiangsu) Nutraceutical
Co., Northeast Pharmaceutical Co. and Weisheng Pharmaceutical
Co., captured more than 60 percent of the worldwide market for
vitamin C by 2001, Cogan said in a September ruling.  China ’s
share of vitamin C imports to the U.S. climbed to more than 80
percent in 2002 from 60 percent in 1997, he wrote.  Cogan appointed Ranis Co., a food company in Elizabeth, New
Jersey, to represent the group seeking damages.  The judge also certified a group of buyers asking the court
to force the Chinese companies to stop their alleged antitrust
violations. He appointed  Animal Science Products Inc. , a
Nacogdoches, Texas-based maker of animal-feed additives, to
represent that group.  The ruling “is important because Chinese companies selling
products in the U.S. are being treated like companies from
England and Switzerland and Japan and Korea,” William A.
Isaacson, a lawyer for the plaintiffs at Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP, said in a phone interview.  North China’s unit in the case is Hebei Welcome
Pharmaceutical. Charles Critchlow, a lawyer for Hebei Welcome at
Baker & McKenzie LLP in New York, declined to comment on Cogan’s
ruling.  Richard Goldstein, a lawyer for Aland (Jiangsu) at Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in New York; James Serota, a lawyer
for  Northeast Pharmaceutical (000597)  at Greenberg Traurig LLP in New
York; and Daniel Mason, a lawyer for Weisheng Pharmaceutical at
Zelle Hofmann Voelbel & Mason LLP in San Francisco, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment on the decision.  The case is In re Vitamin C Antitrust Litigation, 06-
md-1738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Perelman Trial Testimony Ends With Tale of Broken Friendship  After 2 1/2 days of testimony about contract clauses and e-
mails, jurors in Donald Drapkin’s lawsuit against Ronald
Perelman’s  MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc.  heard a witness
recount how the $16 million breach-of-contract claim splintered
a once-close friendship.  The testimony yesterday wasn’t about Perelman’s
relationship with Drapkin, a top dealmaker who worked for
Perelman at MacAndrews & Forbes for 20 years. Rather, Eric Rose,
who heads the firm’s life sciences business, testified that he
fell ill last year and that Drapkin, once a dear friend, ignored
him.  “I think he’s been more than aware of the difficulties
I’ve had in the last six months,” said Rose, who walked into
court using two canes and wearing a cap to retain body heat.
“He hasn’t even picked up the phone and called me.”  Drapkin, the former vice chairman, is suing MacAndrews &
Forbes for $16 million that he says the firm failed to pay him
after he left in 2007. Lawyers for MacAndrews & Forbes called
Rose to the witness stand as their final witness yesterday to
bolster their claim that Drapkin breached a separation agreement
by trying to induce Rose to quit.  Rose testified about a dinner at Quality Meats in Manhattan
on May 14, 2007, three weeks after Drapkin left MacAndrews &
Forbes. Most of the dinner was about “everyday life stuff,”
said Rose, who met Drapkin on a rafting trip in the early 1990s.
Then the conversation switched to the firm.  “Mr. Drapkin told me that Mr. Perelman had little interest
in life science, and in light of that my continuation at
MacAndrews would be disastrous long-term for my future,” Rose
testified. “The implication of that was clear for me.”  Drapkin says he agreed to leave the firm in 2007 in return
for millions of dollars in severance and proceeds from the sale
of his stock. He has yet to be paid $16 million, money that
MacAndrews & Forbes says it withheld because Drapkin breached
the separation deal by withholding documents and trying to get
Rose to leave.  The cases are Drapkin v. Mafco Consolidated Group, 09-
cv-1285, and MacAndrews & Forbes LLC v. Drapkin, 09-cv-4513,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Dresdner Banker Says Commerzbank Bonus Didn’t Match ‘Worth’  A former manager at  Commerzbank AG’s (CBK)  Dresdner Bank unit
told a  London  court he was suing the German lender because it
hasn’t paid him the bonus his performance deserved -- $394,000.  Desmond McNamara, who headed up risk management for
Dresdner’s capital-markets division, is one of 104 London-based
bankers who have sued claiming Commerzbank failed to honor a
bonus pledge Dresdner made before it was taken over in 2009.  “I’m only claiming the amount my line manager determined
during the year my performance was worth,” McNamara said. While
he received salary and a guaranteed bonus worth around 400,000
pounds ($628,000) for 2008, Commerzbank didn’t pay a
discretionary bonus he was told was worth another $394,000.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, completed a
takeover of Dresdner in January 2009 then cut bonuses by 90
percent or more, according to court filings from the former
Dresdner bankers. Stefan Jentzsch, Dresdner’s former chief
executive officer, had in 2008 promised to set aside 400 million
euros ($524 million) for workers who stayed at the bank.  Commerzbank, which took an 18.2 billion-euro bailout from
Germany during the credit crunch, has been sued in London,
Germany and Singapore by workers who claim they weren’t paid
what they were owed after the buyout.  Earlier, Commerzbank lawyer Tom Linden set out the
Frankfurt-based lender’s case, saying the 400 million-euro
promise made by Jentzsch at a 2008 meeting “cannot have been
intended to be legally binding even if it genuinely represented
the intentions of the bank.”  The cases include: Mr. Fahmi Anar & Others v. Dresdner
Kleinwort Limited,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill & 71
others v. Dresdner Kleinwort Limited, Commerzbank AG, HQ09X04007  Chevron Bid to Block Judgment Rejected by Appeals Court  A U.S. appeals court blocked  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  from using a New
York law to try to bar a group of Ecuadoreans from collecting on
an $18 billion judgment in an environmental damage lawsuit.  The appeals court yesterday reversed a lower-court order,
saying Chevron can’t use the law against the plaintiffs before
they try to collect.  “Chevron will have its opportunity to challenge the
judgment’s enforcement under this act at such time, if any, as
judgment-creditors seek to enforce the judgment in New York,” a
three-judge panel of the Manhattan-based court said yesterday.  In March, U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan
issued a ruling that barred Ecuador residents in the Amazon
River Basin from enforcing an $18 billion judgment awarded by a
court in their country until a separate suit by Chevron against
the villagers and their lawyers is decided.  “A grave injustice against the Ecuadorians has been set
right by today’s 2nd Circuit ruling,”  Karen Hinton , a
spokeswoman for the plaintiffs, said in a statement. “It
rebukes Chevron’s abusive legal tactics of the past two years.”  Chevron was ordered Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18 billion
in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged
dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the Ecuadorian jungle from
1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-old lawsuit
decided by a judge in Lago Agrio, a provincial capital near the
Colombian border.  “Chevron believes this corrupt judgment will be
unenforceable in any country that adheres to the rule of law and
we will continue to defend Chevron’s interests against any
attempts to enforce the fraudulent judgment,” San Ramon,
California-based Chevron said in a statement yesterday.  Chevron says it cleaned up its portion of the oil fields
and was released from pollution claims against Texaco in an
agreement with the government of Ecuador. Chevron acquired
Texaco in 2001.  The case is Chevron Corp. v. Naranjo, 11-1150, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ranbaxy Violations Include Unsafe Drugs, U.S. Says in Settlement  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  made “adulterated, potentially
unsafe” medicines that were illegal to sell, U.S. prosecutors
said in a proposed settlement with the Indian drugmaker.  Among alleged violations, Ranbaxy failed to adequately
separate the production of penicillin and non-penicillin drugs
and failed to take adequate steps to prevent contamination of
sterile medicines, the U.S. Justice Department said in a 58-page
document filed in federal court in Maryland Jan. 25.  The settlement stipulates proposed changes Ranbaxy, based
on the outskirts of New Delhi, must make to settle the three-
year-old dispute. The drugmaker set aside $500 million to
resolve all potential civil and criminal liability related to
the U.S. investigation, it said last month. The company didn’t
admit or deny the accusations detailed in the settlement, which
requires approval by a federal judge.  “This action against Ranbaxy is groundbreaking in its
international reach -- it requires the company to make
fundamental changes to its plants in both the United States and
India,”  Tony West , assistant attorney general for the Justice
Department’s Civil Division, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our commitment to ensuring that the drugs the American
people rely on are safe, effective and manufactured according to
the FDA’s standards extends beyond our borders,” West said.  The department in collaboration with the Food and Drug
Administration uncovered numerous problems with Ranbaxy’s drug
manufacturing and testing in India and at facilities owned by
its U.S. subsidiary, according to the statement.  The defects led the FDA to block more than 30 generic drugs
made at the Indian drugmaker’s Paonta Sahib and Dewas plants,
the FDA said in September 2008, three months after Tokyo-based
 Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  agreed to buy a controlling stake in Ranbaxy
for $4.6 billion.  Ranbaxy consented to the proposed decree on Dec. 20 in an
agreement signed by company officials including co-defendants
Dale Adkisson, head of global quality; Managing Director Arun
Sawhney; and Venkatachalam Krishnan, the company’s regional
director for the Americas.  “Today’s announcement is the next step in the process of
finalizing our agreement with the FDA to resolve this legacy
issue,” Sawhney said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday. “We
are pleased with the progress we have made in upgrading and
enhancing the quality of our business and manufacturing
processes.”  Daiichi Sankyo declined to comment on the proposed
settlement until the court approves the filing, spokesman Masaya
Tamae said.  The case is U.S. v. Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd., 12-00250,
U.S. District Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  For more, click here.  Johnson & Johnson Wins Jury Verdict Over Levaquin Warning  Johnson & Johnson  can’t be held liable for the tendon
injuries to a 78-year-old man who said the company didn’t
properly warn of the risks of its antibiotic  Levaquin (JNJ) , a
Minnesota jury said.  Clifford Straka, who blew out two Achilles tendons after
taking the drug for pneumonia, sued J&J and its Ortho-McNeil
Pharmaceutical unit in 2008. Straka said his doctor wasn’t aware
when she prescribed the drug that Levaquin was linked to an
increased risk of tendon damage in elderly patients.  Johnson & Johnson, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, has
denied any failure to warn and contended that Straka needed
Levaquin to treat his pneumonia. The Minneapolis federal jury
yesterday found that J&J and its unit failed to provide
reasonably adequate warnings, while also ruling that this wasn’t
the cause of Straka’s injuries. The verdict is the companies’
third straight trial win.  “We are trying to understand how the jury arrived at the
verdict,” Ronald Goldser, Straka’s attorney, said in an
interview. “If the warning is inadequate, what is it the doctor
did wrong?”  The company is “pleased with the verdict,” Foster said in
an e-mail yesterday. “When used according to the product
labeling, Levaquin has been proven to be a safe and effective
medication.”  The lawsuit was the third federal case to go to trial in
Minnesota alleging the unit, now known as  Janssen
Pharmaceuticals , downplayed the risks of the antibiotic to boost
sales. J&J lost the first, a jury verdict for $1.8 million in
2010, and won the second last year. The company also won the
first state case in October, when a New Jersey jury rejected the
claims of two plaintiffs.  J&J is facing more than 3,700 claims involving Levaquin in
state and federal courts, Bill Foster, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail. The 2010 trial loss has been appealed and 43 cases
have been dismissed, he said.  The case is Straka v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-05742, combined
for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability Litigation, 08-
md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  Ex-UBS Municipal Derivatives Chief Faces July Criminal Trial  Peter Ghavami, former co-head of  UBS AG’s (UBSN)  municipal-
derivatives group, will go on trial July 9 along with two
colleagues, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty, in a municipal bond
bid-rigging case, a federal judge said.  The three, who have pleaded not guilty, are accused in a
six-count indictment of engaging in “complex fraud schemes and
conspiracies that subverted competition in the market for
municipal finance contracts and deprived municipal bond issuers
of the benefits of their investments,” according to court
documents. U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in Manhattan set the
trial date yesterday.  The case is one of three brought by the U.S. Justice
Department’s antitrust unit in connection with a nationwide bid-
rigging probe of contracts used by states and local governments
to invest municipal-bond proceeds.  The conspiracy included more than 200 deals involving state
agencies, local governments and non-profits across the country,
according to documents filed in federal court.  The amount of evidence collected in the case is massive,
Charles Stillman, a lawyer for Ghavami, said in court. The U.S.
has provided more than 600,000 audiotapes and hundreds of
millions of documents, he said.  An unidentified municipality hired Ghavami’s firm to handle
the bidding for the investment of bond proceeds, government
prosecutors allege. Ghavami preselected the winning bidder in
exchange for a kickback to his employer, whom the government
didn’t identify, in a conspiracy that began in October 2001 and
ran until February 2002, according to the U.S.  Stillman, Jonathan Halpern, a lawyer for Heinz, and Gregory
Poe, a lawyer for Welty, all declined to comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.K. Prosecutor’s Fraud Chief Joins Jones Day as Departures Rise  Glyn Powell, a senior attorney at the U.K. Serious Fraud
Office, left the agency to join law firm Jones Day, adding to
the number of departures under the current director.  Powell, the former head of fraud and assurance at the SFO,
joined the U.S. firm this week after eight years at the agency.
He oversaw investigations of the U.K. operations of Bernard
Madoff, who is serving a 150-year prison sentence in the U.S.
for operating the largest Ponzi scheme in history, and Asil
Nadir, the former Polly Peck International Plc chief executive
officer who went on trial this week in London accused of
stealing 150 million pounds ($235 million).  “Glyn’s criminal experience is a perfect adjunct to the
civil team here,” said Craig Shuttleworth, the head of
litigation in London at Jones Day, a Washington-based firm that
according to its  website  has clients including Bank of America
Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Powell is being replaced on an interim basis at the SFO by
case managers Jane de Lozey and Claire Whitaker until a new
director takes over in April, David Jones, an SFO spokesman,
said.  Richard Alderman , the director since 2008, will be
replaced by David Green, a barrister who was formerly the
director of the Crown Prosecution Service’s Fraud Group.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  