-- Osborne Says U.K. Treasury Will Take Over in Future Bailouts
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-01-27T15:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/osborne-says-u-k-treasury-will-take-charge-of-future-bailouts.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  proposed laws to give the British Treasury sole power
over when to bail out banks, sweeping aside opposition from the
central bank as he seeks to end confusion over who should take
charge during a crisis.  The Financial Services Bill, laid before Parliament in
London today, will give the chancellor power to order liquidity
support for an institution, unwind its operations and all other
aid for the financial system that requires taxpayers’ money. The
central bank wanted those powers to be exempt from the bill,
lawmakers said this month.  “Independent central banks should not be put under
pressure to do what governments do not have the courage to do on
their own account,” Osborne said in a speech today to the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . “There will be no
ambiguity about who is in charge.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  resisted pressure from
the Treasury to extend liquidity to banks from 2008, arguing
that the bank shouldn’t bear potential losses from the support.
Osborne said he hopes the measures will end the “paralysis and
confusion” that began when Northern Rock Plc ran into funding
difficulties in 2007 and continued through to the
nationalization of  Royal Bank of Scotland  Group Plc.  Crisis Times  “During normal times, the independent Bank of England will
be responsible for prudential regulation and systemic stability,
accountable to Parliament,” Osborne said. “But in a crisis,
when taxpayers’ money is at risk both, the responsibility and,
crucially, the power to act will rest with the chancellor of the
day.”  In the bill, the government also said it will adopt a
recommendation from the Treasury Committee, a cross-party panel
of lawmakers, that the term of  Bank of England  governor should
be changed to a single eight-year term rather than two five-year
terms. A proposed new oversight committee within the central
bank will be “expected to commission retrospective internal
reviews from the bank’s policymakers of policy-making and
implementation performance.”  ‘Material Risk’  The Treasury Committee said Jan. 23 the Bank of England
resisted Osborne’s desire to take control as soon as the bank
tells the Treasury there is a “material risk” of taxpayer
funds being required in a banking crisis, the lawmakers said.
The bank previously recommended that the division of powers be
contained in a Memorandum of Understanding.  “The MoU on  crisis management  was developed personally
between the chancellor and the governor and both sides are in
total agreement on it,” a spokesman for the Bank of England
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The bill is scheduled to be approved by legislators in late
2012. It will pave the way for the central bank’s Financial
Policy Committee to take action to address risks.  King and Osborne began work on the new laws in June 2010, a
month after Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government
took office, on the regulatory overhaul. It will give the Bank
of England more power than it has ever had in its 318-year
history.  When the previous Labour government took office in 1997,
 Gordon Brown , the chancellor at the time, handed the bank powers
to set  interest rates , while stripping it of supervisory and
some financial-stability responsibilities that it is now set to
regain.  The bill also allows for the creation of the Financial
Conduct Authority, a body with powers to publish summaries of
disciplinary investigations earlier and to ban risky financial
products or intervene in how they are marketed.  The legislation will also establish the Prudential
Regulation Authority, which will be responsible for overseeing
all deposit-taking institutions, insurers and investment banks
and effectively replaces the FSA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  