-- Oshkosh Shareholders Snub Icahn Efforts to Shake Up Company
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-01-27T23:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/oshkosh-shareholders-snub-icahn-efforts-to-shake-up-company-1-.html
Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  shareholders rejected
billionaire investor Carl Icahn’s efforts to shake up the maker
of blast-resistant military vehicles.  The company, citing preliminary results, said at least 12
of its 13 nominees were elected by shareholders to the board of
directors today. The outcome for the remaining seat was “too
close to call,” it said in a statement after its annual meeting
at the Experimental Aircraft Association Center, an aircraft
museum in Oshkosh,  Wisconsin .  Icahn didn’t attend the meeting, which lasted less than 30
minutes. He had sought to elect six candidates to the 13-member
board. The 75-year-old investor has criticized Oskkosh’s
performance and management, and has suggested that the company
be merged with another truck maker,  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) 
of Warrenville,  Illinois .  Icahn announced a 9.5 percent stake in Oshkosh in June and
a similar amount in Navistar in October.  “We will put the proxy contest aside and pursue our
principle objective of creating value for shareholders,”
Charles Szews, chief executive officer, said in a brief
presentation to several hundred attendees.  Shares of Oshkosh rose 61 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $25.41
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  A phone call to Icahn’s office in New York to seek reaction
to the preliminary results was not immediately returned.  ‘Significant Win’  If the early results are accurate, they are a “significant
win for Oshkosh and a repudiation of  Carl Icahn ,” Charles D. Brady, an analyst for BMO Capital Markets in  Boston , wrote in a
note to investors.  “We believe it very likely that Icahn will exit his
position in Oshkosh,” said Brady, who rates the company as
“outperform.”  Company officials didn’t identify the Oshkosh nominee whose
seat was at risk. More preliminary results are expected within
four business days and a final tally within a few weeks.  Six of Icahn’s representatives attended the meeting,
including board candidate Samuel Merksamer, a managing director
at Icahn Capital in New York.  “We hope the company has a renewed focus on creating
 shareholder value  and that they take to heart some of the points
we bought up during this proxy fight,” Merksamer said in an
interview before Oshkosh issued its statement.  In Securities and Exchange Commission filings, Icahn said
the company should consider selling its JLG business, which
makes construction lift equipment.  No Fireworks  Joe Paradowski, an Oshkosh shareholder from  Milwaukee , said
in an interview that Icahn’s approach wasn’t in the company’s
best interests.  “If he could get some members on the board, he would shake
the company down, try to merge it with Navistar, sell off parts
of this at absolutely the wrong time in the economy to be
sold,” Paradowski said.  The meeting drew little reaction to the underlying fight
for board seats. “We came to see the fireworks, and there were
none,” John Pozorski, a shareholder from Milwaukee, said in an
interview.  Demand for Oshkosh’s blast-resistant trucks for the Iraq
and Afghanistan wars made the company one of the  Pentagon (USBODEFN) ’s top
10 defense contractors. Revenue surged almost seven-fold to
$9.84 billion in fiscal 2010 from $1.45 billion in fiscal 2001.  The company’s dependence on defense is now posing risks.
War spending has declined, and the Pentagon plans to cut at
least $487 billion, or 8 percent, from its base budget during
the next decade.  The company’s  revenue  decreased 23 percent to $7.58 billion
in fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30. On Nov. 1, Oshkosh lowered
its outlook for defense sales by 15 percent for the current
fiscal year.  Defense accounts for 56 percent of the company’s total
revenue.  Oshkosh stock hit an all-time high of $65.76 in July 2007.
Its shares fell 39 percent in 2011, hitting a low of $14.07 in
October before recovering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  