-- Most Profitable Carry Trade Spurred by Colombia’s Interest-Rate Increases
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-01-27T19:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/most-profitable-carry-trade-spurred-by-colombian-rate-increases.html
Betting on gains in the Colombian
peso has proven to be the most profitable risk-adjusted trade in
the foreign-exchange market this year as policy makers raise
 interest rates  to keep inflation in check.  The peso’s so-called Sharpe ratio, a gauge that measures
the reward for the risk investors take, jumped to 22 this year,
the highest among 44 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso’s
drop in volatility is making it more appealing to investors who
buy higher-yielding currencies with funds borrowed in countries
with lower interest rates.  Further rate increases in Colombia, the region’s only major
economy to be tightening monetary policy, will drive gains in
the peso, said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Most economists
 surveyed  by the central bank for a report published Jan. 12
forecast policy makers would keep the key lending rate at 4.75
percent at their meeting on Jan. 30, before raising it a quarter
point to 5 percent in February and to 5.5 percent by year-end.  “ Colombia  definitely is at the other extreme, being one of
the few central banks that are hiking,” Cattan-Naslausky said.
“That reinforces the attractiveness of this trade where you
have resiliency in terms of growth, where you have a very
conservative central bank and you still have very good flows.”  Rate Outlook  The peso rose for a fourth consecutive week, closing today
at 1,807.03 per  U.S. dollar . It has jumped 7.3 percent this
year.  Policy makers last increased Colombia’s  key rate  a quarter
percentage point in November, citing “very dynamic” internal
demand, loan growth and record housing costs. The rate was at a
record low of 3 percent in January 2011.  Colombia’s rate increases are in contrast to cuts in
 emerging markets  worldwide.  Brazil ,  Chile ,  Russia , the
 Philippines ,  Israel ,  Romania , Moldova, and Mauritius all reduced
benchmark lending rates within the past two months amid concerns
 Europe ’s debt crisis will derail global growth.  Banco de la Republica will lift the overnight lending rate
to 5 percent in February and leave it at that level through the
remainder of the year to keep inflation below 4 percent, the
upper limit of the target range, predicts  Camilo Perez , the head
analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the country’s second-biggest
bank.  “The economy doesn’t need further stimulus,” Perez said.  Colombia’s gross domestic product rose 7.7 percent in the
third quarter from a year ago, the fastest pace since the fourth
quarter of 2006. It may have grown as much as 6 percent in 2011,
the fastest pace since 2007, according to the central bank.  Inflation Target  Latin America ’s fifth-largest economy will grow 4.5 percent
this year, more than the region’s 3.7 percent estimated average,
the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America
predicts.  Inflation (COCPIYOY)  ended 2011 at 3.73 percent, within the central
bank’s target for this year and next of 2 percent to 4 percent.  The jump in GDP, as well as gains in the peso, are being
spurred in part by record foreign investment as companies search
for oil, coal and gold in areas that were once overrun by
guerrillas and considered too dangerous to explore.  Direct investment from abroad jumped 58 percent in 2011 to
a record $15 billion, with 81 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance data from the central bank. Foreign
investment into  stocks  and bonds leaped almost five-fold to
$1.23 billion in the last three months of 2011 from $263 million
in the third quarter, the central bank data shows.  Job Loss  In a bid to ease gains in the currency, the central bank
said Oct. 28 it will sell $200 million in dollar options to
control the peso’s volatility. The sale will be triggered when
the peso’s 20-day moving average changes by more than 4 percent.
No options have been auctioned since the announcement.  Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo yesterday asked
the central bank not to “add fuel to the fire” by raising
interest rates further as the peso’s rally has “strongly” hurt
coffee, flower and banana exporters.  The currency’s jump this year has sparked outcries from
companies dependent on sales abroad who say jobs are at risk as
they get fewer pesos for their sales in dollars.  “Its very worrying,” Augusto Solano, president of the
Association of Colombian Flower Exporters, said in a Jan. 24
interview on RCN Radio. “The pressure is so big some just can’t
take it anymore.”  New Measures  Solano, who said 20,000 jobs in the flower industry have
been lost in the past few years because of the peso’s rally,
asked the government and central bank to adopt further measures
to stem gains.  Those measures may come as soon as the Jan. 30 meeting,
said  Andres Pardo , the head analyst at financial services
holding company Corp. Financiera Colombiana, known as
Corficolombiana. He predicts the central bank will start buying
dollars in the market again.  In September, Banco de la Republica ended a one-year
program of purchasing a minimum of $20 million daily in the
 currency market  to stem gains in the peso.  “The trend for a stronger peso will continue,” Pardo
said. “There’s so much investor interest to explore Colombia,
it’s now on everyone’s radar screen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 