-- EU to Seek Deal on Clearing Law for Over-the-Counter Derivatives
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-01-27T17:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/tougher-otc-derivatives-regime-likely-as-eu-seeks-accord-on-clearing-rules.html
European Union lawmakers and
officials will meet next week to thrash out a deal on clearing
rules for over-the-counter derivatives, paving the way for
implementation before a Dec. 31 deadline.  The Jan. 31 talks in Brussels will focus on “the big
question” of what powers regulators should have to override
national decisions authorizing clearinghouses, said  Sharon Bowles , a U.K. lawmaker who chairs the parliament’s financial
regulation committee.  Denmark , which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, will lead the negotiations with members of the
European Parliament and  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief.  “This is the main issue left,” Bowles said in an
interview today. There has been “quite a lot of concern” on
this point, she said.  Europe  is working to toughen rules on trading of OTC
derivatives in line with a 2009 agreement among the Group of 20
nations. The Financial Stability Board warned last year that the
EU may miss a deadline for implementing measures by the end of
2012 that include requiring trades in standard types of
derivatives to be centrally cleared and logged in databases.  “The EU still needs to fully clear up some of the points
with the most practical impact for industry,” Damian Carolan, a
financial-regulation lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP, said by
telephone from  London .  ‘Geographically Neutral’  Next week’s meeting may also tackle a planned exemption for
derivatives trades between different units of the same bank,
Bowles said. Denmark wants to ensure that the exemption would
apply if one of the units is based outside Europe, Preben
Aamann, a spokesman for the Danish presidency, said by e-mail.  “Elements of this exemption still need to be got right to
ensure that it’s geographically neutral,” Carolan said. “There
has been real concern about an unlevel playing field, both
between banks headquartered in and outside of Europe and between
the regulated and non-regulated sector.”  Part of the problem has been that “existing legal concepts
and definitions” of a consolidated banking group don’t apply
well outside the EU, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  