-- Moynihan Shuns Gorman Stance That Pay Critics Should Leave
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-27T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/moynihan-shuns-gorman-stance-on-pay.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said talks to cut employees’
pay are “open and honest” and he doesn’t share Morgan Stanley
CEO  James Gorman ’s opinion that miffed workers should leave.  Asked today if he would tell complainers to go, Moynihan
answered, “I wouldn’t.”  “Our employees know what they’ve contributed and how
they’re paid,” he said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Davos,  Switzerland . “We’re with people every step of the way,
so the discussions are always open and honest and fair.”  Wall Street firms are reducing compensation for dealmakers
and traders amid a revenue slump, with Bank of America telling
its investment bankers to expect 2011 pay that averages 25
percent less than a year earlier, people with knowledge of the
talks said earlier this week. Gorman said that while his
employees understand why  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is cutting remuneration,
anyone who doesn’t should adjust their attitude or leave.  “You’re naive, read the newspaper, No. 1,” Gorman said he
would tell complaining employees during a Jan. 25 interview from
Davos. “No. 2, if you put your compensation in a one-year
context to define your overall level of happiness, you have a
problem which is much bigger than the job. And No. 3, if you’re
really unhappy, just leave. I mean, life’s too short.”  Both Moynihan and Gorman are attending the  World Economic
Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos this week.  Freezing Salaries  Bank of America’s warnings to employees about the 25
percent cuts preceded formal 2011 pay discussions, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company’s talks are private. The reductions
include salary and bonus, the people said.  The firm is also freezing base salary levels and limiting
cash bonuses to $150,000 for some investment bankers, two people
with knowledge of the plans said this week. The cap on cash
payments applies to those getting as much as $1 million in total
year-end bonuses, with the rest coming in shares of the lender,
said the people.  The bank’s decision to leave salaries unchanged comes after
companies boosted them in 2009 to de-emphasize bonuses, which
lawmakers said encouraged unwarranted risks that fueled the
financial crisis. Bank of America uses a tiered system based on
the size of the bonus to determine the portion to pay in cash.  ‘Serious Disruption’  Financial stocks were the worst performers among the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 10 sectors last year. Concerns
that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread to lenders
sapped deal activity and trading, and the  Federal Reserve ’s low
interest rates helped to bring down margins.  The trading environment is showing signs of improvement,
Moynihan said today.  “You had serious disruption in the markets in the last
part of last year,” he said. “That’s a little bit behind us”
with stability and spreads improving.  Bank of America slipped 1 cent to $7.29 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The company has surged 31 percent this year, the best
performance in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Moynihan’s firm
dropped 58 percent last year as mortgage-related costs pressured
earnings.  He said today that the bank’s costs will decline as loan
performance improves.  “Delinquencies continue to come down, which is important
because what that really represents is we’re getting to the
other side of the river,” Moynihan said. “It’s still got a lot
of work ahead of it, but we’re getting there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Clark in  New York  at 
 Pclark48@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in Davos at  eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 