-- Pals Become Foes in Fight for New Districts
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/pals-become-foes-as-they-fight-for-new-congressional-districts.html
Over 15 years as U.S. congressmen
from northern  New Jersey (BEESNJ) , Democrats Bill Pascrell Jr. and Steve Rothman can point to almost identical voting records.  Arriving in Washington at the same time from similar paths
-- each is a former mayor -- Pascrell has voted with his party’s
majority 94 percent of the time and Rothman 93 percent,
according to Open Congress, a non-partisan research website.
Their politics, hashed out over dinners and train rides to and
from the nation’s capital, made for “a good friendship,”
Rothman, 59, said in an interview.  The goodwill dissolved last month. New boundaries stemming
from the 2010 Census put Rothman in the district represented by
 Scott Garrett , 52, a five-term Republican.  Rothman, rather than face an opponent hailed as “a beacon
of light” by Tea Party activists, decided to move to Pascrell’s
district. The Democrats will compete in a June 5 primary, and
the winner will be favored in November in a district tilting
toward their party.  “He keeps saying, ‘Bill is my friend,’” Pascrell, 75,
said of Rothman in an interview. “Friends don’t treat each
other this way.”  The U.S. Constitution mandates redistricting every 10 years
so that the House’s 435 seats reflect population shifts. For the
2012 election, 10 states lost a total 12 seats to eight growing
states, mostly in the Southeast and West. In all states,
changing growth and residency patterns mean redrawn districts.  Buddies to Combatants  The upshot: the new boundaries can turn longtime political
buddies into partisan combatants.  Primaries pitting House incumbents against one another are
under way or a possibility in states including  Arizona ,
 California ,  Illinois ,  Louisiana ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania .  New
York , which lost two congressional seats in the Census to give
it 27, is among the up-in-the-air states, with its revised map
yet to be completed.  The costliest intramural race is predicted to occur in
 California (BEESCA) , where a newly formed non-partisan commission used
Census results to reconfigure the state’s 53 House seats.  Battling in a Los Angeles-area district are Democrat Howard Berman, 70, who was elected in 1982 and is the ranking member on
the House  Foreign Affairs  Committee, and Brad Sherman, 57, a 15-
year lawmaker who serves on Foreign Affairs and Financial
Services.  ‘Allies’  The two were “clearly allies,” particularly on support
for  Israel , Parke Skelton, a spokesman for Sherman, said in an
interview.  On 45 of 49 issues considered “hot” because of regional
or national interest, Berman and Sherman voted similarly,
according to Open Congress.  On June 5, they will be part of all the candidates in the
district vying in a nonpartisan primary, and the top two
finishers -- regardless of party -- will meet in November.  “Things are a little strained right now,” Skelton said of
the congressmen’s relationship since redistricting.  Berman’s campaign spokeswoman,  Gene Smith , didn’t return
phone calls seeking comment.  Berman had $2.25 million cash on hand as of Sept. 30,
according to Federal Election Commission data. Affiliates of
Time Warner, General Electric and Walt Disney Co. were among his
top backers, and he had individual donations from  Steven Spielberg , Barbra Streisand and Tom Hanks.  Sherman, with $3.72 million as of Sept. 30, has support
from members of unions including the Teamsters and  United Auto
Workers , plus electrical, plumbing and other trades.  Money Record  The Sherman-Berman race should set a fundraising record for
a House primary, said Stu Rothenberg, editor and publisher of
the Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan
newsletter.  “They can both raise a ton of money,” Rothenberg said in
an interview. “It has all the earmarks of a memorable race.”  In  Ohio , with a House delegation that shrinks by two seats
to 16, eight-term Democrat Dennis Kucinich last month announced
he is running against 15-term Democrat Marcy Kaptur in a
reconfigured district in the state’s northern tier.  Kucinich, 65, is known nationally for having sought the
Democratic presidential nomination in 2004 and 2008, with his
candidacy based largely on his opposition to the Iraq war. In
the House, he filed unsuccessful impeachment resolutions against
then-President  George W. Bush  and then-Vice President  Dick Cheney .  War Memorial  Kaptur, the longest-serving woman currently in the House
and the second-ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee,
was a force behind the National World War II Memorial in
 Washington  that was dedicated in 2004, first introducing a bill
proposing it in 1987.  Steve Fought, a spokesman for Kaptur, said Kucinich worked
with Ohio Republicans to create a district that will be
competitive between the two Democrats in a March 6 primary.  “Congressman Kucinich was not on our team,” Fought said
in an interview. “In a state like Ohio that’s been devastated
by the recession, one of the hardest-hit states in the country,
having someone like Representative Kaptur, with that much clout
on Appropriations, is a positive. To lose that seniority and
that influence can in no way be good for a state with as many
economic challenges as  Ohio (BEESOH) .”  A phone call for comment to the Kucinich re-election
headquarters in  Cleveland  wasn’t returned.  ‘Political Base’  In an interview the day he filed to challenge Kaptur,
Kucinich on Dec. 28 said he likes his chances against her
because the re-designed district includes “the heart of my
political base” in the Cleveland area.  In  Arizona (NFSEAZ) , where the House delegation grows a seat to
nine, the redrawing process collapsed much of Republican
Representative Ben Quayle’s district into one that includes
Republican Representative David Schweikert’s home.  Both were elected in 2010, part of the Republican wave that
gave the party control of the House. Schweikert, 49, has said he
is running in the district in which he resides. Quayle, the 35-
year-old son of former Vice President Dan Quayle, hasn’t yet
announced his plans.  “I don’t have a time frame on that,” Quayle’s press
secretary, Zach Howell, said in a Jan. 24 interview.  In the  New Jersey  Democrat-on-Democrat race, as of Sept. 30
Pascrell had $1.43 million on hand and Rothman $1.74 million,
federal campaign finance records show. Each has spent about that
much on their entire campaigns in the past.  ‘Tricky’ Fundraising  “Fundraising is going to be tricky in a head-on-head
primary campaign,”  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and
political science at New Jersey’s Montclair State University,
said in an interview. “They have plenty of potential sources
out there and I do see them raising millions more.”  On the issues, “when you look at their voting records,
there’s just so little to differentiate them,” Harrison said.  The two have spent much of January releasing lists of
endorsements.  No such pressure weighs on Garrett, the Republican whom
Rothman decided not to contest.  “A Democrat in that district is going to need high name
recognition and deep pockets” to have a chance against him,
said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling
Institute in West Long Branch, New Jersey. “Once you’re in
office for as many years as Garrett is in office, the Democrats’
hands are tied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  