-- Panetta Plan for Lean, Agile Military Reflects a Tighter Budget
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/panetta-plan-for-lean-agile-military-reflects-a-tighter-budget.html
With an eye on Asia and a
constrained wallet, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  offered
a plan to create a “smaller and leaner” military that will be
“rapidly deployable and technologically advanced.”  Former President George W. Bush also promised to create an
“agile, lethal, readily deployable” military -- until the
prolonged ground wars in Afghanistan and Iraq required a larger
Army and more heavily armored vehicles.  This time, defense analysts say, fiscal pressures,
technological advances, changing threats and an aversion to
another land war may make a military transformation more
achievable.  “I think the ideas work better now than in 2001,” said
 Michael O’Hanlon , a defense analyst at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington, in an e-mail. “The plausibility of simultaneous
large ground wars is substantially less than before. Meanwhile,
maritime threats have grown greater in the Persian Gulf and the
rise of  China  is even more impressive.”  Panetta’s plan, which will face a divided Congress in an
election year, calls for shrinking the Army and Marine Corps by
about 100,000 people, while placing greater focus on advanced
missiles, new unmanned systems and a new strategic bomber, among
other things.  “The days of Iraq and  Afghanistan  and long
counterinsurgency operations are over,” said  Gordon Adams , a
professor at American University in Washington, in a telephone
interview.  With Risk Attached  To be sure, any plan to shrink the military comes with
risk, said David Maxwell, associate director of the Center for
Peace and  Security Studies  at  Georgetown University  in
Washington.  “I don’t think anybody can predict whether we’ll be in
another ground war again,” Maxwell said.  Leading Republicans in Congress were quick to criticize the
planned drawdown as reckless.  “The defense budget that the Obama administration will
propose ignores the lessons of history that we have learned time
and again,” said  John McCain  of  Arizona , the senior Republican
on the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Still, the prolonged U.S. occupation of  Iraq  and the
“deepening quagmire” in Afghanistan “will significantly
decrease the likelihood that we choose to become involved in
this type of war going forward,” said Christopher Preble, a
defense analyst at the Cato Institute in Washington, which
advocates for limited government.  Hedging his bets, Panetta said the Army will retain more
non-commissioned and mid-grade officers and make only
“marginal” cuts to the Army Reserve “to regrow the force
quickly” if needed.  Risks Considered  “These risks have been fully considered,” said General
Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who
presented the plan with Panetta at a briefing yesterday. “I am
convinced we can properly manage them by ensuring we keep the
force in balance, investing in new capabilities and preserving a
strong reserve component.”  The Pentagon’s shift to forces focused on  Asia  and the
 Middle East  “is actually budget-driven,” said Adams, an
official in the White House budget office during the Clinton
administration. “We would not be having the conversation would
it not be for the fact that the resources are being driven
down.”  Panetta acknowledged that much of the downsizing was
prompted by the need to trim at least $487 billion from
projected future growth over the next decade to help reduce the
nation’s budget deficit.  Reducing the Deficit  “This will be a test of whether reducing the deficit is
about talk or action,” Panetta said.  The key to successful military operations will be the
ability to gather intelligence on potential adversaries,
according to Adams.  “The biggest thing to be prepared for the future is
intelligence,” he said.  Panetta is emphasizing the use of intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, the use of advanced
sensors and increased reliance on special operations forces.  The Pentagon’s Asia and Middle East emphasis also
reinforces the need for a new long-range stealth bomber,
sustaining 11 aircraft carriers with 10 air wings, as well as
large-deck amphibious assault ships, Panetta said yesterday when
he disclosed the outlines of a $613 billion defense budget
proposal for fiscal year 2013, which starts Oct. 1.  Submarine Warfare  “Modernizing our submarine fleet will be critical to our
efforts to maintain maritime access in these vital regions,”
Panetta said.  The budget plan calls for modifying the Navy’s Virginia-
class attack submarines, built by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc., to carry more Tomahawk
cruise missiles and developing an undersea, non-nuclear “strike
option” as an alternative to intercontinental ballistic
missiles.  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham,  Massachusetts  makes the
Tomahawk.  Huntington Ingalls (HII)  of Newport News, Virginia, is building
the three-ship, $40 billion Gerald R. Ford class of aircraft
carriers, which will be equipped with a new electromagnetic
catapult system built by closely held General Atomics
Aeronautical Systems Inc.  “You are not talking revolution in military affairs,”
 Anthony Cordesman , a defense analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, said in an interview yesterday.
“These are very gradual, evolutionary plans.”  Precision Strike  The technology for the new precision-strike capabilities
for the Virginia-class submarines has yet to be developed, and
it could be years before it is operational, according to
Cordesman.  Even so, the strategy shift, however evolutionary, is
already being attacked.  The Republican chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of
 California , criticized President Barack Obama for abandoning
“the defense structure that has protected America for two
generations.”  While unmanned systems and agile Special Forces are
“vital,” McKeon said, “They are insufficient to meet the
manifold security challenges America faces.”  Panetta was quick to acknowledge the resistance he will
face in seeking to transform a long-stressed military.  “This is a tough challenge,” he said. “No one ought to
underestimate just how difficult it will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  