-- Papua New Guinea Outlook Revised to Negative by S&P After Mutiny
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-27T06:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/papua-new-guinea-outlook-revised-to-negative-by-s-p-after-mutiny.html
The outlook for  Papua New Guinea ’s
sovereign credit rating was revised today to negative from
stable by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited political instability
after a failed mutiny in the resource-rich nation.  S&P affirmed the nation’s B+ local and foreign currency
long-term rating and B short-term rating in a statement it
released today. Albania, Bolivia and  Egypt  have the same long-
term rating as Papua New Guinea, sometimes referred to by its
initials PNG, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The level
is four steps below investment grade.  “The political instability centers on both Michael Somare
and Peter O’Neill claiming the position of prime minister
following O’Neill’s election to the position in August 2011 by
the PNG parliament during Somare’s absence on medical grounds,”
Kyran Curry, an S&P credit analyst, said in the statement.  Exxon Mobil Corp., operator of a $15.7 billion liquefied
natural gas venture in the country, Rio Tinto Group, Harmony
Gold Mining Co. and Newcrest Mining Co. are among miners and
explorers with operations on the island.  S&P said the unresolved claims to the prime minister’s
position underlie the vulnerabilities associated with the
country’s fragmented political structure, public policy
development, and service delivery, which have traditionally
constrained the ratings on PNG.  The struggle for the leadership has “increased the risks
of the country losing donor support and much needed investments,
in our view,” Curry said.  Natural resources  While rich in resources such as copper, timber and gas,
about 37 percent of the population lives below the poverty line
and the  unemployment rate  is as much as 80 percent in urban
areas. The highlands region of PNG is so remote some villagers
didn’t come into contact with Europeans until the 1930s.  The nation of 6 million people is 160 kilometers (100
miles) north of  Australia .  “We would lower the ratings if the political friction
remains unresolved, leading to a loss of donor support and
investment required to diversify the economy and buttress PNG’s
government finances and external position,” S&P said. “A
return to a stable outlook would require a normalization of the
country’s policy and institutional platforms, evident from the
election of a government with a clear mandate and an easing in
political tension.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  