-- PepsiCo May Boost Marketing Budget to Take On Coca-Cola: Retail
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/pepsico-may-boost-marketing-budget-to-take-on-a-surging-coca-cola-retail.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  Chief Executive Officer
 Indra Nooyi  has taken over a coconut-water company, acquired a
dairy in  Russia  and spent millions on a philanthropic marketing
campaign. Her next big investment has a more familiar name:
Pepsi-Cola.  The world’s largest snack-food maker may boost the
advertising and marketing budget for its namesake cola and other
drinks by as much as $600 million, or 50 percent, to $1.7
billion when it announces the results of a yearlong business
review Feb. 9, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nooyi is seeking to take back market share from  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  and regain the confidence of investors who have questioned
whether she has focused too much on healthier products. Some
investors and analysts have also recommended splitting the
company. PepsiCo’s shares have risen about 2 percent during her
five-year tenure while Coke has gained more than 50 percent.  “PepsiCo overall needs to step up investments behind their
brands to reinvigorate them,” Bonnie Herzog, a New York-based
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in a telephone interview.
“If you go back 10 years, they have definitely been under-
investing relative to Coke.”  Nooyi took over as Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo’s CEO
in October 2006 and sped up the company’s move into healthier
snacks and drinks. She set a goal of tripling sales of what the
company calls “nutrition products,” including Gatorade,
Tropicana and Quaker, to $30 billion by the end of the decade.  To that end, Nooyi, 56, has focused resources on
acquisitions, including juice producers.  Pepsi Neglected  Meanwhile, Pepsi-Cola advertised less on television and
pulled back on direct product pitches; the company’s North
American beverages unit didn’t run  Super Bowl  ads for its Pepsi
brand drinks in 2010, the first such absence in 23 years.  The company spent about $100 million on its “Pepsi
Refresh” campaign -- with a heavy digital thrust -- supporting
good works proposed by customers, which did little to improve
share.  “A good amount of the weakness stems from the management’s
increased focus on its better-for-you portfolio,” Ann Gurkin, a
Richmond, Virginia-based analyst with Davenport & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “They took support and focus away from
their core beverages -- Pepsi-Cola, Diet Pepsi -- and spent more
time and more effort enhancing juices, waters, sports drinks.”  Spend More  PepsiCo as a whole should spend $579 million more this year
than in 2011 to market its products, with most of that going to
beverages in  North America , estimated  Ali Dibadj , a New York-
based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Herzog projected
between $500 million and $600 million more for beverages
overall. Mark Swartzberg, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in New York, estimated PepsiCo will spend an additional $200
million to advertise beverages in the Americas.  North American beverages account for about a third of
PepsiCo’s global sales.  Coca-Cola has invested more than PepsiCo as a percentage of
its net sales for a decade, Herzog said. The gap widened in 2004
and averaged 5.1 percentage points through 2010, she said.
PepsiCo’s advertising spending declined to 4 percent of revenue
as of 2010 from 6 percent in 2004, according to Kaumil
Gajrawala, a New York-based analyst for UBS AG. That excluded
the impact of bottler acquisitions.  “It’s too low, and historically there’s been a clear link
between advertising spend and sales,” said  Kevin Rendino ,
managing director for Blackrock Basic Value Fund Inc. in
Plainsboro,  New Jersey . “Nooyi may have taken her eye off the
ball on the North American beverage side.” Rendino manages
about 850,000 PepsiCo shares as part of $11.5 billion in assets.  Lost Share  PepsiCo lost share in the U.S. carbonated beverage market
to Atlanta-based Coca-Cola from 2008 through 2010, according to
Beverage Digest, an industry newsletter. In 2010,  Diet Coke  -- a
regular advertiser on programs including the Academy Awards --
overtook full-calorie Pepsi-Cola to become the second-best-
selling soft drink in the U.S. behind Coca-Cola.  Nooyi started fighting back last year, boosting ad spending
for North American beverages by 30 percent and focusing on soft
drinks including Pepsi Max. The company loaded airwaves with a
new Pepsi-Cola campaign that featured  Santa Claus , a regular in
Coca-Cola’s commercials, shunning the brand for a Pepsi-Cola
while on vacation at a tiki bar.  ‘X Factor’  Nooyi also signed a $60 million sponsorship deal with  Simon Cowell ’s ’’X Factor,’’ an answer to Coca-Cola’s decade-long
sponsorship of the hit show American Idol. PepsiCo also will
return to the Super Bowl next month with soft drink ads.  The spending hasn’t worked yet. PepsiCo’s share of dollar
sales at groceries, drug stores,  convenience stores  and mass
merchandisers, excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc., for soft drinks
carrying a Pepsi trademark declined by half a percentage point
last year to 18 percent, according to data from SymphonyIRI
Group, a Chicago-based researcher. Trademark Coca-Cola grew 0.3
percentage points to 28.4 percent.  PepsiCo’s struggles have led analysts including Dibadj to
suggest that the company’s beverage and snacks businesses would
be worth more separate than together. That would follow the
example of Kraft Foods Inc., which is splitting in two to help
its snack business push products into  emerging markets  while the
slower-growing, higher-margin grocery company returns cash to
shareholders.  Dismissed Recommendations  So far, Nooyi has dismissed such recommendations.  “PepsiCo’s value is maximized as one company,” she said
during an October conference call. “It was created as an
integrated stack and beverage business and its success is tied
to this combination.”  To help pay for a boost in marketing and advertising
spending, Nooyi may have to cut costs elsewhere, said  Dave
Novosel , a food and beverage analyst at  Gimme Credit  in  New
York . PepsiCo may fire several thousand employees this year, a
person familiar with the plans said earlier this month.  Rendino, who is looking for as many as 5,000 job cuts and
$500 million or so in increased advertising, said he bought
PepsiCo for the first time recently because of its depressed
value.  “We think there’s change taking place,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  