-- Peugeot CEO Says French Auto Pact Must Boost R&D, Training Funds
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-27T15:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/peugeot-ceo-says-french-auto-pact-must-boost-r-d-training-funds.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carmaker, said France needs to increase spending
on development and training as the government works on an
assistance package for the  auto industry .  More money should be invested in research, apprentice
schemes and standardization of electric cars, Chief Executive
Officer Philippe Varin said in a briefing at a plant in Poissy,
near Paris, where production of the 208 model began today.  Peugeot and French rival  Renault SA (RNO)  have until the end of
February to provide ideas for the forthcoming program, French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said at the event. The government
had said Jan. 2 that it planned to reveal details of the new
“pact” with the industry by the middle of the month.  “Hopefully Renault and Peugeot won’t go to these
negotiations with different agendas,” said Thierry Huon, an
analyst at BNP Paribas in Paris with ratings of “neutral” on
Peugeot and “underperform” on Renault. “These kinds of thing can
take more time than expected. You need to find consensus.”  French passenger car registrations fell 18 percent in
December, dragging the annual decline down to 2.1 percent.
Peugeot’s European sales fell 9 percent last year.  The future of Peugeot’s plants in Aulnay and Sevelnord,
 France , is undecided beyond current production cycles, Varin
said. The former will build the Citroen C3 through 2013, while
an agreement with Fiat to produce light commercial vehicles at
the latter lasts until 2017. Paris-based Peugeot is looking for
other partners or solutions for after that date, he added.  Some 550,000 208s should be sold in 2013, 400,000 of them
in Europe, in what will be its first full year of production,
Varin said. Peugeot is investing 600 million euros ($789
million) in the car, including 350 million euros in development
funds, adding 700 permanent and 300 temporary workers in Poissy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt   awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  