-- Peyton Manning, Colts Owner Have ‘No Hard Feelings’ After Verbal Exchange
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-01-27T20:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/peyton-manning-colts-owner-have-no-hard-feelings-after-verbal-exchange.html
Indianapolis Colts quarterback
 Peyton Manning  and team owner Jim Irsay say they have a great
relationship and want to “dispel any misperception that there
might be any hard feelings between us.”  Their joint statement, published today on the Colts’
website, came after Manning questioned the atmosphere on the
team and Irsay criticized the four-time National Football League
Most Valuable Player for speaking out publicly.  “Since 1998, we have enjoyed a great relationship, based
upon mutual respect and trust,” the pair said in the statement.
“We have always been able to talk and address matters we’ve
faced over the years, not just as owner and player, but as
friends.”  Manning, 35, missed the 2011 season following neck surgery
and the Colts went 2-14, their worst record in 20 years. Coach
Jim Caldwell, Vice Chairman  Bill Polian  and General Manager
Chris Polian were fired after the season.  Manning told the Indianapolis Star this week that the
Colts’ practice facility wasn’t a good place for healing.  “It’s not a real good environment down there right now, to
say the least,” he said. “Everybody’s walking around on
eggshells.”  Irsay responded by telling reporters that Manning should
have kept his opinions within the team.  “If you got a problem, you talk to each other, it’s not
about campaigning or anything like that,” Irsay said.  Irsay has until March 8 to decide whether to pay Manning a
$28 million bonus or let him become a free agent. The Colts have
the No. 1 pick in the April draft and Irsay has said they will
take Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck .  “We had a long talk today and we want to assure Colts fans
everywhere that we are both committed to maintaining our close
relationship and to working together through any challenges the
future may bring,” Irsay and Manning said in the joint
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  