-- Pfizer Wins U.S. FDA Approval for Advanced Kidney-Cancer Treatment Inlyta
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-01-27T21:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/pfizer-wins-u-s-approval-for-advanced-kidney-cancer-treatment-inlyta.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, won U.S. clearance to sell a new medicine for
advanced kidney cancer in patients who have failed prior
treatments.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the drug, Inlyta,
after concluding it helps prevent the cancer from progressing,
the agency said today in a statement.  The drug will provide a new treatment option for as many as
13,000 patients diagnosed with advanced kidney cancer in the
U.S. each year, said Subramanian Hariharan, the lead of New
York-based Pfizer’s global medical team for Inlyta. Sales of the
drug may reach $555 million in 2016, according to the  average
estimate  of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re excited for patients,” Hariharan said today in an
interview. “Along with Sutent and Torisel, Pfizer now has three
drugs that will help physicians and patients with advanced
kidney cancer in the United States.”  Pfizer  declined  less than 1 percent to $21.48 at the close
in New York. The shares have gained 16 percent in the past year.  Inlyta, Sutent and Torisel are among seven drugs approved
by the FDA for metastatic or advanced kidney cancer since 2005,
Richard Pazdur, director of the FDA’s Office of Hematology and
Oncology Products, said in the statement. The others are Nexavar
from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Afinitor,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Votrient.  Potential Competitor  Tivozanib, a kidney-cancer drug from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Aveo Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVEO)  is in late-stage
clinical trials and may also compete with Inlyta if it gains FDA
approval.  Inlyta, known chemically as axitinib, worked better than
Nexavar in a comparative study of 723 patients who had failed
one prior therapy. Those treated with Inlyta lived a median of
6.7 months before their tumors got worse, two months longer than
patients who received Nexavar, the FDA said.  Pfizer’s drug also shrunk tumors in 19 percent of the trial
participants who received it, compared with 9 percent of
patients treated with Nexavar, Hariharan said.  Inlyta blocks receptors in the body thought to play a role
in spreading tumors. Kidney cancer affects  296,000  people in the
U.S., according to the  American Cancer Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 