-- Philippine Peso Has Third Weekly Advance on Fund Inflows, Fed
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-27T08:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/philippine-peso-has-third-weekly-advance-on-fund-inflows-fed.html
The Philippine peso completed a
third weekly advance as overseas investors added to holdings of
the nation’s equities.  The peso rose to the strongest level in almost three months
after the  Federal Reserve  said this week U.S. borrowing costs
will stay near zero through 2014, fueling investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets. Global funds purchased $121 million more
of the nation’s equities than they sold this week through
yesterday, according to stock exchange data.  “ We’ve seen a run on the peso mostly because of the
offshore news,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president
and head of financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in  Manila .
“People are looking for an excuse to take profits on this long
run,” capping the peso’s upside, he said.  The peso climbed 1 percent from a week ago to 42.850 per
dollar at the close of trading and reached 42.785 earlier, the
highest level since Nov. 2, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency was little changed today.  Bonds, GDP  Ten-year  government bonds  were also little changed before
the release of gross domestic product data on Jan. 30.  The economy expanded 3.8 percent in the quarter ended Dec.
31 from a year earlier, faster than the 3.2 percent pace in the
three months to September, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. GDP probably rose 3.7
percent for the year, slowing from 7.3 percent in 2010, the
survey showed.  The yield on the 6.375 percent bonds due January 2022 was
at 5.37 percent, according to noon fixing prices from Philippine
Dealing & Exchange Corp. The rate gained five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, today.  Better-than-expected growth “should be negative for bonds
as the market might think there would be a slowdown in interest-
rate cuts,” Algarra said.  Policy makers lowered the benchmark overnight borrowing
rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Jan. 19 to 4.25
percent, the first reduction in more than two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 