-- Poland Deserves 2012 Credit-Rating Increase, Deutsche Bank’s Kalicki Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-01-27T15:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/poland-deserves-2012-credit-rating-increase-deutsche-bank-s-kalicki-says.html
Poland  deserves an increase in its
 credit rating  this year as economic growth helps boost investor
confidence, said Krzysztof Kalicki, the chief executive of
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit said.  Poland is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the sixth-
highest grade and on par with Italy. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings both have Poland at A-, the seventh-highest grade. Italy
is two steps higher at Fitch and one step lower at S&P. An
upgrade is unlikely until Poland delivers on fiscal pledges,
Fitch said this month.  “It makes perfect sense to expect a rating upgrade for
Poland,” Kalicki said yesterday in an interview in Warsaw. “I
don’t want to say there are no challenges facing the Polish
economy, but they are incomparable to what’s going on elsewhere
in  Europe . Poland definitely deserves an upgrade after all the
work it has done since 1989.”  Poland’s economy, the largest of the European Union’s
eastern members, was the only one in the 27-member bloc to
escape a recession in 2009. The government expects gross
domestic product to rise 2.5 percent this year. The euro area’s
economic output may shrink 0.3 percent, according to the  World
Bank .  S&P cut the credit ratings of nine euro-region states on
Jan. 13, including top-rated France and  Austria , saying steps by
European leaders “may be insufficient” to solve the bloc’s
debt crisis. The government bonds of  Hungary , a former Soviet
satellite that joined the EU at the same time as Poland in 2004,
were cut to junk by all the major rating companies in the last
three months.  ‘Far Lower’  Credit-default swaps used to insure Polish debt against
non-payment for five years are trading at 238 basis points,
compared with 409 basis points for  Italy , according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Polish 10-
year bonds over German same-maturity debt fell to 374.9 basis
points today, from 408 basis points on Jan. 5.  “Poland’s credit-default swaps are far lower not only than
Hungary’s, but also than  Spain ’s or Italy’s,” Kalicki said.
“The market is showing that it has confidence in Poland.”  The creation of a European rating company would be a good
idea “after the experiences of the last couple of years,”
Kalicki said. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  on Jan.
17 said it was “high time” to establish a rating company in
Europe to compete with U.S. rivals.  ‘Always Biased’  “The rating agencies were always biased against this
region, I suppose because of history,” said Kalicki, who was
deputy finance minister in 1994-1996. “But recent experience
has shown that they weren’t sufficiently objective. It’s simply
irrational that countries embroiled in the crisis have a higher
rating than Poland.”  Prime Minister Donald Tusk last year became the first
Polish leader since the collapse of communism to win a second
consecutive term. He raised employers’ disability contributions,
plans to cut tax incentives and pledged to introduce a tax on
metals extraction to narrow the  budget deficit  to within the EU
limit of 3 percent of GDP this year.  The budget gap probably narrowed to 5.6 percent of GDP last
year from 7.8 percent in 2010, according to government
estimates. The government must take further measures to overhaul
the country’s budget including cutting public sector jobs,
Kalicki said.  ‘Do More’  “We need to do more -- and not only on the revenue side,”
he said. “We need to cut spending. There are plans to do just
that, but there’s a big difference between plans and
implementation.”  Tusk may list a new series of initiatives once his plans
are enacted to ensure the budget cuts are sufficient, the Polish
edition of Bloomberg Businessweek reported on Jan. 23.  “Our macroeconomic situation is very stable, and Poles
themselves seem to be satisfied with this level of stability and
to be working to keep it,” Kalicki said. “After 20 years of
wanting to catch up with the West, Poles are thinking more long
term and rationally.”  Poles have increasingly used bank loans to invest in
property rather than short-term luxuries like clothes or cars,
according to Kalicki.  Polish households had 270 billion zloty ($83.5 billion) in
 mortgage loans  during the first quarter of last year, an
increase of 23 percent from the year-earlier period, according
to figures from the national  banking regulator .  “We see this in deposit trends, but also in consumer
finance,” Kalicki said. “In the 1990s and early 2000s, people
wanted to fund consumption with credit. This sector has now
shrunk in Poland. Mortgage and housing finance generally have
become far more important.”  No Credit Freeze  There are no signs that Poland’s banks will suffer a credit
squeeze, Kalicki said. Western lenders, some of which are
struggling to meet capital and liquidity requirements, control
about 75 percent of eastern Europe’s banking industry.  Polish bank’s are “very well capitalized,” central bank
Governor Marek Belka said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Davos today, adding that credit growth is
“robust.”  “There’s no reason why credit should freeze in Poland,”
Kalicki said. “The Polish banking supervisory body is
monitoring what’s going on in undercapitalized subsidiaries here
very carefully and is exerting pressure on banks to retain
profits, while tightening conditions on paying dividends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  