-- Politicians Shouldn’t Pressure ECB: Borg
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-01-27T07:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/politicians-shouldn-t-pressure-ecb-on-losses-sweden-s-borg-says.html
Politicians shouldn’t pressure the
 European Central Bank  to join private creditors in taking losses
on Greek debt, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  Such pressure could make the ECB regret its decision to
help struggling euro nations such as  Greece  through bond
purchases, Borg said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg TV today from Davos, Switzerland.  “If they are forced to take a broad loss on Greek paper,
they are more likely to come to the conclusion it was a mistake
to become more active on these issues,” Borg said. “I would
prefer that we make it easier for the ECB to take an active role
in combating this crisis. So the politicians should not put
pressure on the ECB to take losses.”  European officials and the  International Monetary Fund  have
yet to strike a deal with Greece’s private creditors on losses
as both parties strive to reach a voluntary agreement that
leaves the euro nation with a sustainable debt load. European
officials have said that concessions made by private creditors
don’t go far enough, while the IMF has signaled public debt
holders may also have to increase their support in any deal.  Borg criticized Greece for not pushing through the
necessary reforms to bring the economy on a sustainable footing,
and said the euro area’s most indebted nation is “destroying”
its credibility. He praised the market for pressuring countries
to “do the right thing” as well as austerity programs in Italy
and  Spain .  ‘Game-Changer’  “Italy has recognized that it’s in a deep crisis and that
they need structural reforms to regain competitiveness,” Borg
said. Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  “is a game-changer in
that respect,” he said.  Finland’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  also told Bloomberg
TV in Davos that the focus in  Europe  should be on boosting
confidence through fiscal responsibility.  “We cannot afford to stimulate the economy,” he said.
“Growth comes when the confidence comes back and the confidence
comes back when you do structural reforms even though it takes
time.”  While the European debt crisis is still “ongoing” and
reforms take years, “markets want to see decisions” by indebted
countries to reform their economies, Katainen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  