-- Posco Says Cost of India Plant to Increase 20% Following Delays
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-01T08:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/posco-said-to-consider-lower-capacity-at-planned-india-steelmill.html
Posco (005490) , the world’s third-largest
steelmaker, said the cost of its proposed plant in India will
increase at least 20 percent as land-acquisition and government
delays have set the project back by more than six years.  The company will arrive at a final figure after it secures
land for the project, estimated at $12 billion in 2005, Posco
India Chairman and Managing Director Yong-won Yoon said today in
an interview at Paradeep, near the plant site in the eastern
state of Odisha. Construction may start this year, he said.  The project, billed as the biggest overseas investment in
the South Asian nation, has been hampered as farmers refused to
vacate the government-owned land they have occupied for
generations. The Pohang, South Korea-based company has endured
the delays, attracted by  India ’s average 10 percent growth in
annual steel consumption over the past six years.  The government has taken over 2,000 acres and Posco will
seek transfer of the land after 2,700 acres, or about two-thirds
of the area needed for the project, has been acquired, Yong-won
said. The initial annual 8 million metric ton capacity will be
built in two equal phases, Deputy Managing Director Ho-Chan Ryu
said in the same interview. Construction will take about five
years, he said.  Posco gained 0.5 percent to close at 416,000 won in Seoul
trading, compared with a 1.3 percent increase in the local
benchmark Kospi index. The stock has gained 9.5 percent this
year, underperforming an 11 percent gain in the Kospi.  Security Issues  The company remains committed to its original plan of
building a 12 million ton project, Ho-Chan said. The balance of
capacity will come after land-acquisition issues have been
settled with the villagers, he said. Security is an issue at the
site, Yong-won said.  Posco is looking to reduce the size of land for the project
from the original 3,719 acres, said two people last month,
declining to be identified. The plant size may be cut to 8
million tons from 12 million tons, one of them said.  Posco agreed to remove a clause in its original approval
that allowed it to export 30 percent of the  iron ore  produced at
the mine, one of the people said. The clause in the mining
agreement with the state government was being renegotiated last
year after it expired. Odisha was known as Orissa until its name
changed in November.  Steel Demand  India’s steel ministry in November estimated the country’s
demand may grow at 9 percent per annum over the next five years.
Posco and rivals including ArcelorMittal, the world’s top
producer, are looking to build steel factories in India on
expectations the consumption there will outpace global demand.  ArcelorMittal has $20 billion of planned projects in the
states of Odisha and Jharkhand and has also waited more than six
years because of delays in securing approvals and land. The two
companies have also planned investments in a proposed factory in
the southern state of Karnataka.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  may secure all the land for its $6.3 billion
plant in the southern state of Karnataka by this month, state
Industries Commissioner Maheshwar Rao said on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  