-- Proposed Multistate Mortgage Settlement Said to Be Limited to Foreclosures
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-27T18:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/proposed-u-s-mortgage-deal-said-to-be-limited-to-foreclosures.html
A proposed multistate settlement to
resolve probes of flawed foreclosure practices won’t release
banks from criminal liability, according to a person briefed on
the talks.  Any final agreement will be narrowly focused to release
banks from claims related only to documentation errors and other
so-called robo-signing conduct, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the talks are ongoing.  U.S. regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.,  Federal Reserve , Securities and Exchange Commission,
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Department of Housing
and Urban Development would be free to pursue cases related to
 securities fraud , loan origination and other practices, the
person said.  Banks wouldn’t be released from tax or fair-lending claims.
They also wouldn’t be freed from liability related to Merscorp
Inc., a registry for real estate deeds and liens that acts as a
proxy for banks that pool and sell mortgages.  Claims by state pension funds, including those related to
their purchases of mortgage-backed securities, also wouldn’t be
affected by a final settlement, the person said.  Streamline Investigations  In a separate announcement today, U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder said a new multiagency mortgage unit will help
streamline investigations into mortgage-backed securities and
the subprime lending collapse.  Federal regulators and  attorneys general  from all 50 states
have been investigating foreclosure practices for more than a
year after the discovery that banks, faced with a flood of loan
 defaults , used flawed documents in seizing homes.  Attorneys general disagree over the scope of a final
accord, which could be worth $25 billion in aid to homeowners if
all states join in. Yesterday, California Attorney General
Kamala Harris called the latest proposal “inadequate.”  Banks have used the robo-signing talks to push for a
broader release of liability, including protection from claims
related to the sale of mortgage-backed securities to investors
including pension funds.  Under the draft agreement still being negotiated, banks
would get credit for helping borrowers refinance into less-
expensive loans and forgiving mortgage debt on homes that have
fallen in value. Banks also would agree to improve their
foreclosure practices.  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  said in October that the
settlement, under negotiation since April, wouldn’t prevent
state and local officials from pursuing other claims, including
those related to packaging mortgage securities.  Harris and others, including New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , are conducting their own investigations into bank
practices related to mortgage lending and securitization.  The nation’s largest mortgage lenders and servicers,
including  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc., are
participating in the negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  