-- Putin May Face Communist in March Presidential Run-Off as Support Declines
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-27T10:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/putin-to-face-presidential-run-off-as-support-falls-polls-show.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  may face a presidential run-off in March against Communist
leader  Gennady Zyuganov  as his support fell for the first time
since last month, according to two opinion polls.  Putin, who needs more than half the vote on March 4 to
avoid a second round, will get 49 percent, according to the Jan.
21-22  survey  of 1,600 people by the state-run All-Russian Center
for the Study of  Public Opinion , known as VTsIOM. He will
receive 44 percent, according to a Jan. 21-22  poll  of 3,000
people by the Public Opinion Foundation, known by its Russian
acronym, FOM.  The Russian leader, 59, who suffered a slide in popularity
in recent years, is facing the biggest challenge to his rule
since he came to power 12 years ago after mass protests sparked
by allegations of fraud in Dec. 4 legislative polls. The
opposition plan their next major rally in Moscow on Feb. 4.  “The Kremlin will do everything to ensure Putin wins in
the first round,” Stanislav Belkovsky, director of the Moscow-
based Institute for National Strategy, said by telephone today.
“But the situation is getting out of the Kremlin’s control.”  Nationalist Support  Putin’s voter support is as low as 37 percent, according to
an opinion poll by the independent  Levada Center , which surveyed
1,600 people on Jan. 20-23 and had a margin of error of 3.4
percentage points. Zyuganov would get 8 percent according to
Levada and 11 percent according to VTsIOM and FOM.  The prime minister, whose election campaign has focused on
shoring up nationalist support by promising to crack down on
illegal immigration and using anti-U.S. rhetoric, won’t succeed
in broadening his electoral base, said Belkovsky.  “The people who are swayed by this rhetoric are already
Putin supporters,” said the analyst, a former Kremlin adviser.
“The rest of the electorate is tired of his rule.”  A Jan. 14-15 opinion poll by VTsIOM released a week ago
showed Putin’s voter backing rising four percentage points to 52
percent, with a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points. His
support climbed one percentage point to 45 percent in a Jan.
14-15 survey by FOM, which gave no margin of error.  The opposition accused Putin’s United Russia ruling party
of inflating its score from 30 percent to about 50 percent in
the Dec. 4 parliamentary elections. The prime minister, who was
president from 2000 to 2008 and is seeking a new six-year term
after four years of his protege, President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
insists the legislative polls were fair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  