-- Ranbaxy Falls Most Since March on Proposed Settlement Costs: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-01-27T12:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ranbaxy-may-forgo-200-million-in-lost-sales-after-settlement-kotak-says.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  India ’s
biggest drugmaker, slumped the most in ten months in Mumbai
trading because of costs of a proposed settlement with U.S.
authorities over manufacturing violations.  Ranbaxy declined 6.5 percent to 443.90 rupees, the worst
fall since March 21, at the close in Mumbai, making it the 
biggest loser on the 50-member  S&P CNX Nifty (NIFTY)  index. The company,
based on the outskirts of  New Delhi , may forgo at least $200 
million in  sales  as a result of the settlement, Kotak 
Securities Ltd. said.  A decree signed last month and filed by the  Department of
Justice  in federal court in  Maryland  on Jan. 25 requires Ranbaxy
to relinquish 180-day marketing exclusivity for three pending
generic drug applications. Court documents don’t identify the
affected medicines, though probably include a version of  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Actos diabetes pill, said Priti Arora, a
pharmaceuticals analyst at Kotak in Mumbai.  “Losing 180-day exclusivity is very bad,” Arora said in
an interview yesterday. Selling generic Actos in the U.S. with
limited competition may have generated more than $200 million in
revenue for Ranbaxy, she said. The drug, which had global sales
of $4.7 billion in 2010, faces generic competition in August.  Ranbaxy set aside $500 million to resolve all potential
civil and criminal liability related to the three-year-old
dispute with the Justice Department and  Food and Drug
Administration , it said on Dec. 21. Before today, the stock had
gained about  20 percent  since then on optimism the company can
press ahead with its applications to sell generic medicines in
the U.S.  Details of the proposed settlement released this week
“dispel any optimism,” Credit Suisse AG said in a report
yesterday.  ‘More Severe’  “We had expected the filing of this consent decree to show
a way out of Ranbaxy’s difficulties and reopen its exports to
the U.S., but the decree’s actual terms are more severe than we
anticipated,” Tokyo-based health-care analysts Fumiyoshi Sakai
and Toshiyuki Tateno said.  One of the three generic drug applications affected may
include a version of Nexium, a heart-burn treatment sold by
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  that had global sales of $5 billion in 2010,
according to Credit Suisse. Five other generic-drug applications
are at risk if Ranbaxy doesn’t implement certain changes by a
specified date, Mumbai-based analyst Anubhav Aggarwal said.  Chuck Caprariello, a spokesman for Ranbaxy in the U.S.,
declined to specify the drug applications affected.  ‘Potentially Unsafe’  The Indian drugmaker made “adulterated, potentially
unsafe” medicines that were illegal to sell, U.S. prosecutors
said in the court documents. The company didn’t admit or deny
the accusations detailed in the 58-page filing, which requires
approval by a federal judge.  Ranbaxy consented to the proposed decree on Dec. 20 in an
agreement signed by company officials including co-defendants
Dale Adkisson, head of global quality; Managing Director Arun Sawhney; and Venkatachalam Krishnan, the company’s regional
director for the Americas.  Drug manufacturing and testing defects led the FDA to block
more than 30 generic drugs made at the Indian drugmaker’s Paonta
Sahib and Dewas plants, the FDA said in September 2008, three
months after Tokyo-based  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  agreed to buy a
controlling stake in Ranbaxy for $4.6 billion.  Daiichi Sankyo  closed down  2.3 percent in Tokyo trading at
1,422 yen, the lowest since Dec. 2.  Earnings Prospects  Earnings contributions from Ranbaxy “remain uncertain,
weighing down shares in Daiichi Sankyo,” Sakai and Tateno said
yesterday. They reiterated an “underperform”  rating  on the
stock and expect it to fall to 1,200 yen in the next 12 months.  The proposed decree made it clear why Ranbaxy and Daiichi
Sankyo took more than three years to reach an agreement with
U.S. authorities, a Morgan Stanley analyst said.  “While the companies are making progress to resolve the
issue, they still have many more hurdles to overcome,” said
Mayo Mita, health-care analyst at Morgan Stanley in  Tokyo  by
telephone today. “The timeframe of that is unclear. The process
may require more staffing and investment, in addition to $500
million Ranbaxy set aside.”  Daiichi Sankyo declined to comment on the proposed
settlement until the court approves the filing, spokesman Masaya Tamae said.  Ranbaxy has 66 generic-drug applications awaiting approval
with the FDA. For 13 of these, the company was the first to
challenge patents, according to a  presentation  on its website.
Under a 1984 law, the first generic drugmaker to challenge U.S.
patents gets six months of exclusive sales before competitors
can enter the market.  Provigil, Diovan  Near-term exclusivities relate to versions of the sleep-
disorder drug Provigil, which had $1.1 billion in sales in 2010;
Actos; and Diovan, a blood-pressure pill made by  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
that generated $1.5 billion in annual sales, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said in a report yesterday.  The proposed settlement includes requirements that Ranbaxy
remove false data contained in past drug applications; hire an
outside expert to conduct a thorough internal review at the
affected facilities and to audit applications containing data
from those facilities; withdraw any applications found to
contain false data; set up a separate office of data reliability
within Ranbaxy; and hire an outside auditor to audit the
affected facilities in the future, according to court documents.  “The detailed process, particularly product-by-product
validation of data integrity, imply that complete resolution can
take two to three years,” Nomura analysts Saion Mukherjee and
Aditya Khemka said in a report yesterday. “As Ranbaxy works
towards compliance with the help of external agencies, it will
continue to incur high costs for resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  