-- Transocean Rises After U.S. Court Indemnity Ruling: Zurich Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-01-27T16:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/transocean-rises-9-3-in-swiss-trading-after-u-s-court-ruling.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  rose the most in
almost five months in Swiss trading after a U.S. court ruled
that  BP Plc (BP/)  must indemnify it for pollution-related economic
damage claims related to the Macondo  oil spill .  Transocean, based in Vernier, Switzerland,  climbed  as much
as 9.3 percent in Zurich, its biggest gain since Sept. 6. The
stock closed 0.9 percent higher at 43.83 francs while BP fell
2.6 percent in London to 464.55 pence.  BP can’t collect from Transocean part of the $40 billion in
cleanup costs and economic losses caused by the 2010 oil well
blowout and Gulf of Mexico spill, U.S. District Judge  Carl
Barbier  in New Orleans ruled yesterday. BP must indemnify
Transocean for pollution-related economic damage claims under
its drilling contract, Barbier said.  The judge’s comments “are supportive for Transocean,”
Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote.
“For BP, the picture is less clear.”  BP, which is London-based, sued Transocean in April to
recover a share of its damages and costs from the spill.  Barbier said he would defer ruling on “BP’s arguments that
Transocean breached the drilling contract or committed an act
that materially increased BP’s risk or prejudiced its rights.”  The decision “implies that Transocean is not responsible
for cleanup costs, or claims that were paid directly by BP from
the  trust fund ,” the analyst wrote today in a note. At the same
time, “our understanding is that this means BP’s lawsuit
against Transocean still stands and that Transocean therefore
still faces potential fines and penalties including that of the
 Clean Water Act .”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the explosion that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP, its partners and contractors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  