-- Real Madrid Eyes Wenger If ‘Classico’ Failure Continues: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-27T10:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/real-madrid-eyes-wenger-if-classico-failure-continues-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger Interest  Real Madrid will step up interest in Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  after  Jose Mourinho  failed to beat Barcelona again, the
 Daily Express  said.  Real was knocked out of the Copa del Rey this week after a
2-2 tie at Barcelona. Mourinho has won “El Classico” just once
in 10 tries since taking over before last season. The two clubs
meet again on April 22.  Wenger, who is under contract until 2014, and German
national coach Joachim Loew are on Real’s shortlist of
candidates, the Express said.  Extra Security  QPR defender Anton Ferdinand has spent 30,000 pounds
($47,000) on extra personal security ahead of tomorrow’s F.A.
Cup match with Chelsea, the  Sun said .  The game will be the first between the west  London  clubs
since Ferdinand was allegedly racially abused by Blues captain
 John Terry  during an October match. Terry faces criminal charges
over the incident.  Ferdinand, who received a death threat in November, will be
escorted by police to and from Loftus Road, the Sun said. It’s
unlikely the two will shake hands before the match, the
newspaper said.  Samba Wants Out  Christopher Samba has told Blackburn he won’t be able to
give 100 percent if the club forces him to stay, the  Sun said .  Samba, who has demanded a transfer, has been training with
the reserves and doesn’t want to be involved with the first
team, the Sun said.  “Blackburn need players who are 100 percent for the club
and I am not,” the newspaper quoted Samba as saying. “The only
way to solve this is for them to let me go.  Late Move  Chelsea is planning a move for Manchester United midfielder
Paul Pogba before the transfer period ends next week, the  Daily
Mirror  said.  The Blues recently sent scouts to watch Pogba ahead of
making an offer of around 3 million pounds, the Mirror said.
Pogba is refusing to sign a new deal at United and has also been
linked with  Inter Milan , Mirror said.  Andy Attention  Fulham striker  Andy Johnson  has attracted attention from
Rubin Kazan and Galatasary, the  Daily Mail  said.  Johnson is a one-time target for West Brom and Blackburn
and would prefer to remain in  England , the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 