-- Treasuries Snap Two-Day Advance on Speculation Economic Growth Quickened
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-27T01:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/treasuries-snap-two-day-advance-on-speculation-economic-growth-quickened.html
Treasuries snapped a rally that
pushed five-year yields to a record low before a government
report economists said will show U.S. gross domestic product
growth quickened in the fourth quarter of last year.  Five-year inflation  swaps , which allow investors to
exchange fixed interest rates for returns equivalent to the
consumer price index, rose to 2.26 percent yesterday, the most
since August. The increase followed the  Federal Reserve ’s
announcement that it’s considering taking additional measures to
spur the  U.S. economy .  “We’re going to get better numbers” in today’s report,
said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in Tokyo at CIBC World
Markets Japan Inc., a unit of Canada’s fifth-largest lender.
“With the Fed easing, it’s good for the economy. Investors may
favor corporate bonds and other credit products over the safety
of  government bonds .”  Benchmark 10-year  rates  increased one basis point to 1.95
percent as of 10:07 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent security maturing in November 2021
fell 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 15/32.  Five-year notes yielded 0.78 percent, versus the record low
of 0.75 percent set yesterday.  GDP grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter,
after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Auction Demand  Treasuries rallied for a second day yesterday as the Fed’s
pledge to keep borrowing rates low through at least late 2014
and consider additional asset purchases pushed yields to the
least on record at a government auction of seven-year notes.  The securities drew a yield of 1.359 percent, compared with
the previous record low auction rate of 1.415 percent in
November. Yields slid after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
unexpectedly said the day before that bond buying is “an option
that’s certainly on the table.”  “Bernanke gave people a free pass to buy the belly of the
curve,” Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in  New York  at RBC
Capital Markets LLC, one of 21 primary dealers required to bid
at government-debt auctions, said referring Treasuries maturing
in the medium term. The “Fed announcement caught the market off
guard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  