-- Treasury Five-Year Yield Declines to Record Low as GDP Misses Forecast
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-01-27T22:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/treasuries-pare-losses-after-u-s-says-growth-was-slower-than-forecast.html
Treasury five-year note yields fell
to a third consecutive record low after slower-than-forecast
U.S. growth added to speculation the  Federal Reserve  will expand
asset purchases to spur economic growth.  Ten-year (USGG10YR)  notes rose as stockpile rebuilding accounted for
1.9 percentage points of the 2.8 percent economic expansion,
sparking concern growth may be weaker than expected in the first
three-months of this year. New York Fed President William C.
Dudley said the economy will probably slow this year while
confronting risks “skewed to the downside.”  “The GDP print came in below expectations, which somewhat
affirmed the message delivered by the Fed during the week,”
said Russ Certo, managing director of rates trading at Gleacher
& Co. in New York. “The Fed set the tone for not just this
week, but for the quarter or the year.”  The five-year  note  yield decreased two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 0.75 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time
after dipping below 0.74, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The 0.875 percent securities maturing in January 2017
rose 3, or $0.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 19¾.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes fell four basis points to
1.89 percent after climbing to as high as 1.97 percent.  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 0.3 percent decline at the same point
last year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the threat of a U.S.
economic slowdown combined to give Treasuries a 9.8 percent
return last year, the most since 2008.  ‘Slightly Less’  The rise in gross domestic product, the value of all goods
and services produced, follows a 1.8 percent gain in the prior
quarter, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 3 percent increase. Excluding a jump in
inventories, growth was 0.8 percent.  “It’s slightly less than what the market was expecting,
but the number kind of fits the description that the Fed’s been
giving us,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New
York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “I don’t think it’s
as bad as market thinks.”  Dudley said today in remarks in New York that the main risk
to growth is “uncertainty as to how events in Europe will
unfold.” Also, “more contractionary” fiscal policies and the
“depressed housing market” are likely to impede economic
expansion, he said.  Additional Stimulus  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this week
voted to extend its pledge to keep  interest rates  low until at
least late 2014, compared with a previous date of mid-2013.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 that the Fed is
weighing additional stimulus to bring down the 8.5 percent
unemployment rate, including another round of bond buying. The
announcements sparked a two-day rally in Treasuries.  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the break-even rate, widened today to 1.80 percentage points,
up from 1.55 at the end of last year.  Demand for inflation protection has led to a 1.2 percent
gain in TIPS this year, following a 14 percent return in 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Fed Sells  The Fed sold $8.74 billion of securities due from March
2014 to January 2015 today as part of a plan to replace $400
billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs. The central purchased
$2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing that
ended in June.  Longer-term Treasuries have lagged behind shorter
maturities in this week’s rally, increasing the  difference 
between five- and 10-year yields to 1.21 percentage points
yesterday, the widest in almost three months. The spread was
1.15 percentage points today.  “Most people tend to listen to the Fed, and the Fed
certainly doesn’t seem too concerned with inflation,”said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets
America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers obligated to bid in U.S.
debt auctions, said of the growth report. “In fact, it might
even be too low.”  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  Yields on  30-year  bonds fell three basis points to 3.06
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  