-- Treasuries Decline, Snap Two-Day Gain Before U.S. Report on GDP
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-27T12:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/treasuries-fall-as-economists-project-report-to-show-fourth-quarter-growth.html
Treasuries fell, snapping a two-day
rally that sent five-year yields to a record low yesterday, as
economists predicted a government report today will show U.S.
growth quickened at the end of last year.  The 30-year bond led the decline on speculation the  Federal
Reserve ’s pledge to keep its benchmark interest rate low through
late 2014 will spur inflation. Five-year inflation  swaps , which
allow investors to exchange fixed interest rates for returns
equivalent to the  consumer price index , slipped after rising
yesterday to 2.26 percent, the highest level since August.  “Market focus is on the advanced reading of fourth-quarter
GDP,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole SA in London. “Macro news has largely been positive
for risk sentiment, and strong data may weigh on Treasuries.”  Yields on 30-year bonds increased four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.13 percent at 7:12 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent securities maturing in November 2041 fell 22/32, or
$6.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 30/32. Yields have risen two
basis points this week.  Five-year note yields were 0.77 percent after falling
yesterday to a record low 0.75 percent. Benchmark 10-year note
yields advanced two basis points to 1.95 percent today.  U.S. Debt Losses  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 0.3 percent decline at the same point
last year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the threat of a U.S.
economic slowdown combined to give Treasuries a 9.8 percent
return last year, the most since 2008.  U.S. GDP grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median forecast of 79 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce Department’s report.  “We’re going to get better numbers,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a
debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World Markets Japan Inc., a unit
of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender. “With the Fed easing, it’s
good for the economy. Investors may favor corporate bonds and
other credit products over the safety of  government bonds .”  Bernanke Stance  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 25 that he’s
considering additional bond purchases to boost growth after the
central bank’s  Federal Open Market Committee  announced that the
target lending rate would stay low through late 2014. The
announcements sparked a two-day rally in Treasuries.  Policy makers set a long-term goal of 2 percent inflation
as measured by the annual change in the  price index  for personal
consumption expenditures. They also forecast that price
increases will fall short of the target this year and next.  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt known
as the break-even rate, widened today to 1.81 percentage points,
up from 1.55 at the end of last year.  Demand for inflation protection has led to a 1.2 percent
gain in TIPS this year, following a 14 percent return in 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said that  interest
rates  may need to rise before late 2014 to prevent an increase
in inflation.  Lacker’s Dissent  “I do not believe economic conditions are likely to
warrant an exceptionally low federal funds rate for so long,”
Lacker said in a  statement  on the Richmond Fed’s website,
explaining his dissent from the central bank’s Jan. 25 decision.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs. It plans to sell as much as $8.75 billion of
securities due from March 2014 to January 2015 today under the
plan, according to the New York Fed’s  website . The central
purchased $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing that ended in June.  Longer-term Treasuries have lagged behind shorter
maturities in this week’s rally, increasing the  difference 
between five- and 10-year yields to 1.21 percentage points
yesterday, the widest in almost three months. The spread was
1.17 percentage points today.  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  