-- Rembrandt, Snarling Bear, Devils Dazzle at Morgan Dutch Treat
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/rembrandt-snarling-bear-devils-dazzle-at-morgan-dutch-treat.html
“Rembrandt’s World: Dutch Drawings
from the Clement C. Moore Collection”  could be classified as a
bait-and-switch exhibition. Only four drawings out of more than
90 are by Rembrandt.  But don’t let that deter you.  The show, part of a promised gift to the  Morgan Library &
Museum , is wide-ranging and eccentric enough to offer a rich
view of Dutch Golden Age art, as well as portraits of a period
and of an unconventional collector.  And to see Rembrandt among his followers, students and
peers has its own rewards.  The Dutch Republic’s Golden Age, a period of maritime
supremacy, enormous growth and prosperity, lasted roughly from
1609 to 1672 and fostered a middle class hungry for pictures
about their life.  So we see ordinary people in varied settings: towns,
landscapes, canals, windmills, homes and harbors.  Divided into sections such as portraiture, marine views,
landscapes, the natural world and genre scenes, the handsome,
one-room exhibition focuses on artists who worked primarily
close to home and drew directly from life.  Snarling Bear  It offers an extensive range of subjects and themes -- from
Danae receiving the Golden Rain to the Adoration of the Magi;
from fishermen, peasants and shepherds to the Dutch fleet,
revelers at a wedding, birds, tulips and a snarling bear.  The show’s main attraction is Rembrandt. But it is
instructive to remember that he, like his countryman Jan
Vermeer, is an anomaly.  Few artists here come close to matching Rembrandt’s
exactitude and spiritual depth, as well as his ability to create
naturalistic light.  Rembrandt’s solid black chalk drawing believed to be of St.
Peter preaching to a mesmerized crowd -- with his hand
outstretched, like that of a magician -- makes visually palpable
the power of the spoken word, moving from figure to figure. Yet
Rembrandt is not the only talent represented.  Anthonie Waterloo’s “Wooded Landscape by Moonlight” emits
a romantic bluish glow; its foreground trees appear to be
strolling arm-in-arm, like lovers.  Animals, Devils  In Jacob Adriaensz Backer’s chalk study of a sleeping
youth, the rustling surface of his cloak suggests uneasy dreams.
And Philips Koninck’s aerial view “Panoramic Landscape with a
Pond and a Windmill” is golden, gorgeous -- a fluid sweep into
the far distance.  Fun yet fiendish is Cornelis Saftleven’s fantastical
military parade of animals and devils, “Procession of
Diabolical Creatures Making Music,” in which a demon clutching
an upraised spear with both claws sails above the group like a
windblown flag.  Cornelis Hendricksz Vroom’s ink drawing “Hills Beyond a
River or Lake, with a Large Tree in the Foreground” is
stippled, twinkling -- foretelling Impressionism. And the
writhing forms in Jan Van Goyen’s pen-and-brown-ink drawing
“Gnarled Oak Tree near Farm Buildings” suggest the hand of the
Post-Impressionist Dutch master  Van Gogh .  But back to Rembrandt. There’s a remarkable ink drawing of
a beggar leaning on a walking stick. Its energies flow from the
figure’s collapsing hat down through his pointed chin and long
coat to the tip of his boot, like heavy rain, as he steadies
himself against a world that is racing out from under him.  Look, also, for Rembrandt’s study of a woman for “Christ
Healing the Sick (Hundred Guilder Print).” The woman’s lower
body is lame, grounded, exposed. Her upper body is elevated,
expectant and inward. Here, hope and humility are interwoven.  You realize why Rembrandt, even with merely a cameo
appearance, commands top billing.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 