-- Republic Airways Sees Separate Frontier in 6 to 12 Months
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-27T21:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/republic-airways-sees-separate-frontier-in-6-to-12-months-2-.html
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  said
its Frontier Airlines business may begin operating as a separate
company in six to 12 months, without specifying whether that
would happen through a sale or a spinoff.  Frontier will be an “ultra-low cost” carrier and its
headquarters will return to Denver, Republic said in a U.S.
 regulatory filing  today. Indianapolis-based Republic named
veteran industry executive  David Siegel  as Frontier’s chief
executive officer yesterday.  Republic veered away from its traditional role of providing
regional flights for larger carriers when it acquired Frontier
out of bankruptcy in 2009 and began competing on main jet
routes. Republic said in November it would sell or spin off
Frontier to shareholders in an effort to restore  profits .  “We believe we have a good story to tell investors about
Frontier’s future,” the company said in the filing. “None of
this guarantees we’ll find investors, but we are optimistic
about our chances.”  Republic rose 0.8 percent to $5.37 at 3:59 p.m. in New York
trading. The shares have fallen 16 percent in the past 12
months.  Republic also said it expects Frontier to be profitable for
all of 2012. Republic should have a fourth-quarter 2011 profit
of 31 cents to 36 cents, excluding one-time items, because of
record full planes and higher revenue from each seat flown a
mile at Frontier, the company said on Jan. 25. At that time, the
average profit  forecast  was 9 cents.  Frontier Concessions  None of the steps under consideration now to boost profits
at Frontier involves asking employees for additional pay cuts,
Republic said. Frontier earlier this year secured concessions
from employees, vendors and aircraft lessors.  Siegel, who has served as a Republic director, previously
was chief executive officer of US Airways Group Inc. and Xojet
Inc., a private jet charter service. He also was an executive at
Continental Airlines Inc. and Northwest Airlines Inc. in the
1990s.  “One of Dave Siegel’s key strengths is great experience
working with the types of investors who participate in
transactions such as the split we’re looking at here,” Republic
said in the filing. “Dave brings great credibility to this
process.”  Republic CEO Bryan Bedford will remain chairman of
Frontier, the company said. Robert Ashcroft, who previously
oversaw network planning, scheduling and pricing at  Allegiant
Travel Co. (ALGT) , was named senior vice president for finance at
Frontier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  