-- Trichet, Turner Question Real Value of Bigger, Faster Trading
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-01-27T17:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/trichet-turner-question-real-value-of-bigger-faster-trading.html
The technology-driven jump in
trading volume has been of little discernible benefit to the
real economy and must be more closely watched by regulators,
policy makers said at a debate at the  World Economic Forum .  Jean-Claude Trichet , former president of the  European
Central Bank ,  Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority, and  Guillermo Ortiz , ex-governor of  Mexico ’s
central bank, told the debate today hosted by Bloomberg
Television in Davos,  Switzerland  that high-frequency trading
should be scrutinized as a source of systemic risk.  The three attendees of this week’s WEF in the mountain
resort were debating regulators’ progress in taming risk in the
financial system after years of crises. High-frequency trading,
where firms use computer-driven algorithms to place hundreds of
trades a second, now accounts for more than half of U.S. stock
trading volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Before the crisis, there was a very strong belief within
the economic profession that this was good,” Turner said of
higher trading. “We know from the efficient-market hypothesis
that the more markets you have, the more allocative efficiency
there will be, the more risk will be shared, the better price
discovery we will have. But once you’ve got a reasonably active,
liquid market, is there any real value? I think it’s quite
reasonable of us to ask searching questions in a way we didn’t
before the crisis on whether this is limitlessly good.”  The European Union announced in October a plan to curb
high-frequency trading following the so-called flash crash last
May, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  ‘Incredible Intellectual Exercise’  “It is an incredible intellectual exercise to try to catch
up with these new tools that are permanently putting into
question the wisdom of our own regulation,” Trichet said. “We
have to be prepared for even more dramatic changes in the
functioning of IT and therefore the functioning of markets.”  Trading volumes in foreign exchange and credit have
exploded in recent years as improvements in technology enabled
companies to place more trades more quickly in more asset
classes, Turner said.  “The acid test here is to ask yourself whether new
products and innovation is something that benefits directly or
indirectly the real sector of the economy, the households,”
said Ortiz. “Does it help to better allocate resources, does it
help distribute risk better, or are we just talking about bets
that are being taken in the financial sector and have nothing to
do with the real economy?”  The debate participants, who also included  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  and Luxembourg
Finance Minister Luc Frieden, disagreed over whether bank size
makes a difference to their riskiness to the financial system.
Sands said U.K. proposals risk splitting banks into entities
similar in size to most that have failed over time.  “I’m comfortable if a hedge fund takes risk on behalf of
his own investors and if they do well they do well, if they fail
they fail,” said  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
professor who predicted the financial crisis. “I’m less
comfortable with using taxpayers’ money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  