-- RIM’s Heins ‘Here to Fight’ for BlackBerry Revival Against Apple
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/rim-s-new-chief-heins-here-to-fight-for-blackberry-revival-against-apple.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s Thorsten Heins, five days into his job as chief executive officer,
pledged to regain lost ground in the U.S. smartphone market and
said he held talks with rivals eager to license its software.  RIM will begin a campaign with U.S. carriers next week to
entice consumers to try its latest BlackBerry 7 devices with
touch screens and better Web browsers, Heins said yesterday in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . The
promotions won’t be about “just simply money,” they will also
involve mobile applications, or apps, he said.  “We have to do something dramatically different in the
U.S. to get our market share back,” said Heins, 54. “I’m here
to fight. I’m here to win.”  Heins, a 24-year veteran of  Siemens AG (SIE) , faces the challenge
of reversing momentum at RIM after the company lost out in the
smartphone market to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices that run on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. RIM’s  revenue  has slumped for
two quarters, driving RIM shares down 75 percent last year.  Heins, who took over from co-Chief Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , said his immediate priority is to
revive BlackBerry sales in the U.S., get a revamped version of
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM’s struggling PlayBook tablet onto
the market next month and introduce its new operating system,
BlackBerry 10, on time later this year.  “In the first 100 days, that is what you’re going to see
me focus on,” Heins said. “My first job is to get BlackBerry 7
into all of your hands.”  U.S. Missteps  The Munich native is getting by on a handful of hours sleep
a night so that he can travel by day to meet customers and run
the business by night on his BlackBerry. The company needs to
improve its marketing and communicate better to build excitement
about its products, he said.  U.S. sales fell 45 percent last quarter, dragging revenue
lower even as sales in  emerging markets  like Indonesia and  India 
surged. The BlackBerry’s share of the global smartphone market
fell to 11 percent in the third quarter of 2011, from 21 percent
two years earlier, according to Gartner Inc. The aging
BlackBerry lineup failed to match the features and number of
applications available on the iPhone and Android devices.  “When BlackBerry got positioned the way you experienced
it, it was on a set of values: battery life, network efficiency,
security and best typing experience,” Heins said. “In the U.S.
specifically, what we missed is a shift in those paradigms” to
more consumer-oriented features like Web-browsing and apps,
Heins said.  Licensing Talks  Now, RIM is rebuilding its lineup of BlackBerrys on BB10,
an operating system based on software used to run nuclear  power
plants  and unmanned aerial drones. During his interview, Heins
repeatedly went back to a video demonstration of PlayBook 2.0,
its new tablet software which incorporates many of the features
that will come with BB10. He showed how users can flip between
e-mail, Web browsing, Facebook and Twitter without ever leaving
any of those programs.  RIM’s new software is appealing enough that he’s been
approached about licensing it, Heins said. The company has held
discussions with interested handset makers and personal-computer
makers, he said, declining to name them.  “We’ve had lots of interest about this,” Heins said.  RIM  rose  3.3 percent to $16.80 yesterday. The stock was
given a lift after  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  said it
doubled its stake in RIM. Prem Watsa, who runs Fairfax, was
named as a director at RIM this week as part of RIM’s leadership
changes.  The stock has rebounded after falling earlier in the week
when comments by Heins on a conference call were interpreted by
some investors as a sign that he would run RIM much in the way
of his predecessors.  Neither that nor the suggestion that he will be unduly
influenced by Lazaridis, who is staying on as vice chairman and
leads RIM’s innovation committee, is correct, Heins said.  “I love to work with Mike in his visionary capacities,”
he said. ’’But make no mistake, I run the company.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  