-- RIM Shareholder Fairfax Doubles Stake in BlackBerry Maker
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-01-27T21:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/rim-investor-fairfax-financial-doubles-stake-in-blackberry-maker.html
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , the
insurer run by Canadian investor Prem Watsa, doubled its stake
in  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  in a vote of confidence in the
BlackBerry maker after Watsa joined the company’s board.  Fairfax owns 26.85 million RIM shares, up from 11.8 million
shares in September, according to a regulatory filing today. The
company raised its stake to 5.12 percent, worth about $451
million at today’s closing price.  Watsa was named a RIM director on Jan. 22 as part of a
management shakeup that included the replacement of co-Chief
Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis  with former
operating chief Thorsten Heins. The company is rebuilding its
product line to try to stem recent market share losses to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices that run on Google’s Android platform.  “This is a vote of confidence in the current trajectory of
the company or he thinks that there’s some value here that can
be unearthed,” said Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg Bank
in London.  “Watsa is extremely well-respected, kind of like
the  Warren Buffett  of Canada, so the bottom line is that the
stock today should be up on the back of this.”  Shrinking Market Value  RIM  rose  3.3 percent to $16.80 at the close in New York.
The stock, which fell 75 percent last year, lost more value this
week after Heins told investors there isn’t “drastic change
needed.”  RIM’s share of the smartphone market tumbled to 11 percent
in the third quarter of 2011, from 21 percent two years earlier,
according to Gartner Inc.  The largest shareholder in RIM is Primecap Management Co.,
with a 5.5 percent stake, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Lazaridis has a 5.4 percent stake in the company and
Balsillie owns 5.1 percent, the data shows.  “This is a huge psychological boost,” said  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research at MacDougall MacDougall and MacTier Inc.
in Toronto, whose firm oversees C$4 billion for clients,
including RIM shares.  Fairfax has said RIM is an attractive investment because
the company is trading at less than book value with free  cash
flow , yet still has a growing subscriber base and increases in
revenue.  Favors Buffett  The stock purchases were made by Watsa, Fairfax and about a
dozen of the Toronto-based company’s subsidiaries, according to
the filing.  Toronto-based Fairfax bought 6.5 million shares on Jan. 25
and another 7.6 million shares yesterday, according to the
filing. That means the company has spent about $230 million
buying RIM shares in the past two days, based on Nasdaq prices
for those dates.  Born in Hyderabad, India, Watsa has built Fairfax by
investing in the assets of out-of-favor securities, and said
this week he may increase his stake in Waterloo, Ontario-based
RIM.  Watsa, 61, founded Fairfax in 1985 and has patterned his
style of value investing after Warren Buffett, recommending
shares of companies such as  Wells Fargo & Co. , Johnson &
Johnson,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  US Bancorp. (USB)   Fairfax benefited from declines in U.S. banks during the
financial crisis, purchasing credit-default swaps on lenders.
The swaps, instruments based on bonds and loans that are used to
speculate on a company’s ability to repay debt, led to
investment gains of $2.72 billion in 2008.  Watsa has shifted in recent years to investing in U.S.
municipal bonds backed by Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  