-- Rio, Anglo CEOs See China Resilience in Face of Euro Contraction
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-01-27T12:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/rio-anglo-ceos-see-china-resilience-in-face-of-euro-contraction.html
China’s economic growth will remain
resilient to a contraction in Europe and underpin longer-term
growth in demand for raw materials, according to the heads of
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and Anglo American Plc.  “For the next year, so as long as China is in this soft-
landing mode we’ll be OK,” Tom Albanese, chief executive
officer of London-based Rio Tinto, told Bloomberg Television’s
Erik Schatzker on “Inside Track” today during the World
Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. “We’re
looking at 8 percent plus growth in that market.”  China’s economy  may grow 8.4 percent this year, compared
with global expansion of 2.5 percent and a 0.3 percent
contraction in the euro area, the  World Bank  said Jan. 18. China
is the biggest user of everything from energy to copper to
cotton and the largest customer for  iron ore  produced by  Rio
Tinto , the world’s third-largest mining company.  “I was just in China a couple of weeks ago,”  Cynthia Carroll , chief executive officer of Anglo American Plc, told
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in Davos.
“We think this year it will range between 8 and 9 percent and
going forward, very, very similar sort of growth.”  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1.8 percent this year, while the
euro-region will shrink 0.5 percent, the  International Monetary
Fund  said Jan. 24 in an update of its World Economic Outlook.
The IMF sees Chinese growth slowing to 8.2 percent this year and
global growth of 3.3 percent. The euro-region will shrink 0.5
percent, it said.  U.S. Growth ‘OK’  “We’re looking at the U.S. slowly coming out of a tough
spot, 2 percent growth that’s probably OK for us,” Rio’s
Albanese said. “ Europe , although it’s difficult for many, many
economies, is probably less of an effect for us, as long as the
ramifications of the euro would not have consequences outside of
Europe.”  Rio, the second-largest exporter of iron ore, will post
record full-year profit of $15.6 billion, according to the
average estimate of 19 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
company is due to report earnings Feb. 9.  “The steel outlook is very, very robust as well, off of
the back of the economic development and transformational change
in the emerging countries led by China,” said Carroll, who runs
the world’s largest platinum producer. Still, the company
expects softer prices for iron ore and metallurgical coal, the
two key steel-making ingredients, in the first-half, she said.  Rio said in November it expects to increase capital
spending 17 percent in 2012 and raised its iron ore expansion
target to meet demand from  China . It plans to invest at least
$14 billion in developing projects this year, which may rise on
further approvals, it said at the time.  “We’ve been saying through the course of 2011 that we
would expect that China would avoid a hard landing, and that’s
what I would think now,” Rio’s Albanese said. “Our order books
are full, we’re selling everything that we can produce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  