-- Roche Begins $5.7 Billion Hostile Takeover Offer for Gene Mapper Illumina
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-01-27T21:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/roche-begins-5-7-billion-hostile-takeover-offer-for-gene-mapper-illumina.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  began its $5.7
billion hostile takeover offer for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , even as
investors signaled they expect the Swiss drugmaker to raise its
bid for the gene-mapping company.  Shareholders of Illumina have until midnight New York time
Feb. 24 to tender their shares at $44.50 each, Basel-based Roche
said today in a statement. The offer can be extended, Roche
said. Investors should take no action while the board reviews
the proposal, Illumina said in a separate statement.  Roche is going directly to Illumina shareholders because
the San Diego-based company rebuffed its approaches, Roche said
Jan. 25. Illumina is adopting a “poison-pill” defense to block
the takeover. Roche also wants to nominate six members of the
Illumina board at the U.S. company’s annual meeting.  Illumina’s stock has traded above the offer price since the
announcement amid speculation of a higher bid. The company fell
1.8 percent to $51.69 at the close in  New York .  Roche said in a statement yesterday it was “disappointed
that the Illumina board of directors has been unwilling to
participate in substantive discussions,” adding that it was
confident shareholders will see the offer’s value.  The Swiss maker of cancer drugs wants to bring Illumina’s
gene-sequencing technology out of academic labs and into routine
medical use, building the Roche  palette  of health diagnostics
products and potentially allowing it to better target its own
medicines toward individual patients. Illumina said on Jan. 10
that by the end of the year it would market a machine capable of
scanning DNA in a day.  Roche fell 1.9 percent to close at 157.10 Swiss francs in
Zurich, giving the company a market value of 136.6 million
francs ($149.3 billion.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  