-- Romney Machine Takes on Gingrich Revolution in Florida Primary
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-27T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/romney-machine-takes-on-gingrich-revolution-in-florida-race-s-final-days.html
The morning of President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address on Jan. 24,  Mitt Romney 
arrived on schedule clad in a blue suit. He stood behind a
lectern framed by an overhead sign that read “Obama Isn’t
Working” and delivered what aides billed as a “prebuttal” to
the speech.  About 15 miles away in  St. Petersburg , Florida, Newt Gingrich’s day was also starting out like most others in the
campaign. He arrived almost 30 minutes late to the dingy Tick
Tock restaurant, stood before the overflowing crowd and went on
the attack. “I discovered that Romney has a new debate coach,”
he told cheering supporters. “His specialty is to say as many
untrue things as fast you can.”  Policy differences aren’t likely to determine who wins the
Republican presidential nomination. All the candidates are
promising to cut spending, lower  taxes  and crack down on illegal
immigration.  While there are marginal disagreements on issues, the two
Republican front-runners couldn’t be more different in their
style, temperament and background. Those are the measures that
are likely to move voters, who now are about evenly divided, on
Jan. 31, Florida’s primary day.  Stark Differences  Romney, 64, is the son of a governor; Gingrich’s 
stepfather served 27 years in the U.S. Army. Romney, co-founder 
of Bain Capital LLC, speaks with boardroom diplomacy; Gingrich, 
68, thrives on rhetorical combat. Romney spent most of his
professional life in the private sector; Gingrich built his
career in politics.  Republican voters overwhelmingly see Romney as more
electable in the race against Obama. Yet Gingrich, they say, is
the one would really take the fight to the president, according
to a recent  poll  conducted by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University .  “Sometimes I think you should vote your conviction, but on
the other hand you want someone who’s electable,” said Cheryl
Moureaux, a retired teacher, as she waited for Gingrich to speak
in Columbia, South Carolina, last week. “So that’s sort of the
decision, Mitt or Newt.”  On the trail, Romney campaigns as if he’s applying for a
job.  The former Massachusetts governor describes a country in
economic and global decline, exasperated by a president unable
to put it back on the right track. He paints himself as a
thoughtful, serious leader able to turn around the economy and
restore American leadership in the world.  Choosing a President  “We’re not choosing a talk-show host,” Romney told
hundreds of voters gathered for an evening rally in Ormond
Beach,  Florida , on Jan. 22. “We’re choosing the person who
should be the leader of the free world.”  At his events, Gingrich preaches as though he’s leading a
revolution.  A former college history teacher, he casts his argument in
the grand terms of political theory, frequently portraying Obama
as a “Saul Alinsky radical,” a reference to a long-deceased
Chicago community organizer.  “I would just want you to note: Lincoln standing at
Council Bluffs was grandiose,” Gingrich said in Cocoa, Florida.
“The Wright Brothers standing at Kitty Hawk were grandiose.
 John F. Kennedy  was grandiose. I accept the charge that I am
grandiose and that Americans are instinctively grandiose.”  Struggling With Details  While Gingrich focuses on the big picture, his campaign
struggles with the details.  He frequently runs at least a half an hour late to his
events, leaving supporters listening to a loop of his country
music-infused campaign soundtrack. When a supporter walked to
the microphone to announce that Gingrich had finally arrived at
a  Fort Myers , Florida, event, a man in the crowd shouted out:
“That’s what you told us an hour ago.”  His senior aides must try to manage a schedule and a boss
who can’t help but answer every question -- down to his favorite
candy. It’s gummy bears, reporters who followed him on a visit
to the world’s longest candy counter in Littleton,  New
Hampshire , learned.  Gingrich’s freewheeling style means the campaign message
can veer off course in a period of hours. On Jan. 25, he opened
the day by attacking Romney’s immigration policy in a pitch to
Florida Hispanics. At the end of the day, he was pledging to
establish the first permanent base on the moon during a stop on
the Space Coast.  That offbeat idea opened him up to attacks during a CNN-
hosted debate last night in Jacksonville, when his rivals
questioned the cost of such a proposal.  ‘You’re Fired’  “If I had a business executive come to me and say they
wanted to spend a few hundred billion dollars to put a colony on
the moon, I’d say, `You’re fired',” said Romney.  By contrast, Romney’s tight-lipped team keeps things
running on time and on message. The campaign provides reporters
with minute-by-minute plans for each day, complete with the
weather forecast for the cities they will be visiting.  On Jan. 24, Romney’s campaign told reporters the candidate
would arrive at 2:50 p.m., in Lehigh Acres, Florida, after a
two-hour-and-sixteen-minute drive from Tampa. The campaign bus
arrived at 2:48 p.m.  Aides with earpieces bustle around events -- be they in a
shuttered paper factory or a parking lot rally -- corralling
staff, reporters and voters.  When Romney faced an irate union representative after a
speech to business leaders in Nashua, New Hampshire, staff
members blasted music making it impossible for the conversation
to continue as aides hustled Romney through the crowd and out a
back entrance.  Avoiding Spontaneity  Nowhere is that discipline more pronounced than in dealings
with the press.  Romney’s team keeps a close circle around the candidate
that almost never allows for questions outside controlled press
conferences. Even the most benign inquiries are often avoided:
In Lexington,  South Carolina , a reporter who asked Romney
whether he would try a hush puppy during a visit to Hudson’s
Smokehouse was quickly cut off by aides.  A week later in Florida, Romney briefly came back to the
press section of the airplane on a Jan. 25 flight from  Orlando 
to Miami, to banter in a friendly manner.  “Not a word, not a word,” he said, as the reporters
started asking questions about immigration policy. “Sorry,
sorry,” he said, before heading back to the front of the plane.  Attacks are precisely aimed and reinforced by daily
conference calls with Romney surrogates, who are even dispatched
to Gingrich events to spread the message.  Freddie Mac  Florida Congressman Connie Mack yesterday introduced Romney
at a campaign event in Jacksonville. Two hours later, he showed
up at a Gingrich rally a few miles away where he criticized the
former House speaker for his work with  Freddie Mac , the
government-backed mortgage-finance company that many Republicans
blame for helping cause the housing crisis.  “I keep wanting to hear him answering the question about
Freddie Mac,” Mack told reporters. “I’m doing my part to see
if he can answer the question.”  The Romney campaign is especially guarded when managing
the release of potentially harmful information.  As the campaign prepared to disclose his tax returns,
reporters were told to expect details at 8:30 a.m. on the
morning of Obama’s State of the Union  address , which aides
calculated would bury their news.  On the evening before the Jan. 24 release, information
about the  returns  was leaked to selected news organizations,
including Bloomberg News, with an embargo against publishing
until midnight.  Tax Returns  The following morning, the manager of Romney’s blind trust,
his campaign lawyer, policy director, and a former Internal
Revenue Service commissioner were all dispatched to brief the
press on a conference call.  Gingrich’s release of his tax returns on Jan. 19 was more
like dropping a bomb. R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s spokesman, posted
a tweet in the middle of a Republican debate, announcing that
the forms were available online, “in case you were wondering.”  The two camps even celebrate differently.  At Romney’s victory party in New Hampshire, supporters --
including some of the campaign’s biggest fundraisers from across
the country -- waited in the cafeteria of South New Hampshire
University until they were allowed to file into a ballroom
upstairs.  Romney took the stage shortly after his competitors gave
their concession speeches. After his remarks, enthusiastic
backers shook hands and mingled as they made their way out of
the room.  Party Differences  After scoring a 12-point victory in South Carolina,
Gingrich’s supporters -- sweaty in the overcrowded and
overheated room in the Columbia Hilton Hotel -- lined up for
liquor from a cash bar as they awaited the candidate, and a DJ
blasted club remixes of 1990s’ pop songs.  Almost an hour after network newscasts declared his
victory, Gingrich officials appeared on stage to introduce the
winner, concluding their remarks with “ladies and gentlemen,
 Newt Gingrich .”  He was nowhere to be found. Aides cranked up the campaign
soundtrack, playing the opening verses of Toby Keith’s
“American Ride” again and again as the crowd waited. Finally,
after almost 20 minutes, Gingrich took the stage to declare his
victory.  When asked why the delay, an aide simply shrugged.  “It’s Newt,” he mouthed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Jacksonville, Florida at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Jacksonville, Florida at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  