-- Romney May Cost Private Equity as Pensions Warn of Backlash
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-01-27T14:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/romney-seen-costing-private-equity-as-pensions-warn-of-backlash.html
Mitt Romney’s campaign for the
Republican presidential nomination may be costing his private-
equity backers a lot more than they bargained for.  Attacks by opponents portraying Bain Capital LLC, Romney
and other buyout managers as corporate looters who enrich
themselves at the expense of ordinary workers have put a
spotlight on the industry that will affect negotiations about
future investments, according to officials and trustees at
public pensions. As firms struggle to raise funds, pensions may
be more reluctant to commit money and may ask for more details
on  job creation  and push for lower fees, these officials said.  “Private-equity managers’ wealth and tax rates are on
display at a time when pensions are getting squeezed,” said
Joseph Alejandro, treasurer of the  New York  City Patrolmen’s
Benevolent Association. “Public investors should raise
questions about whether the business is overly generous for
managers. I hope the renewed attention on the industry will lead
to discussions on fees and greater controls like claw-backs.”  The debate is affecting private-equity managers, including
Romney’s former firm, Boston-based Bain Capital, as they’re
competing for a shrinking pool of investor dollars. Fundraising
slowed in the third quarter to the weakest pace since before the
global financial crisis and stayed near that level in the final
three months of the year, according to London-based researcher
Preqin Ltd.  Political Attacks  U.S. public and private pensions provide 42 percent of the
capital for all private-equity investments, according to the
Private Equity Growth Capital Council in  Washington . Public
pensions are sensitive to protracted debates about managers’
compensation and whether buyouts create value and jobs, because
they must answer to ordinary workers, said one official, who
asked not to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak on
the topic.  “The political attacks against Romney and Bain will
definitely come up when firms pitch us their new funds,” said
William Atwood, executive director of the Illinois State Board
of Investment, which oversees $10.4 billion in pension funds.
“You’d be crazy not to bring it up.”  The pension board had $621.3 million, or 6 percent of its
assets, in private equity as of Dec. 31, according to its
website.  Private-equity firms typically charge about 1.5 percent of
assets to cover their expenses, and 20 percent of the profits
from investments as compensation, or carried interest.  Institutional Investor Push  Pensions, endowments and sovereign-wealth funds, which
comprise the majority of so-called limited partners in buyout
funds, have pressed for better payouts and data from global
private-equity managers in the wake of the financial crisis.
Some of the biggest investors formed the Toronto-based
Institutional Limited Partners Association, which introduced
guidelines in 2009 addressing fees, governance and communication
with clients.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co. and TPG Capital are
among firms that have signed on.  In addition to the fees, which eat into returns for
pensioners, private-equity managers have also been criticized
for paying a lower  tax rate  on much of their income than
ordinary wage earners. Carried interest is taxed at the lower,
15 percent rate for  capital gains , rather than the 35 percent
top rate that applies to regular income.  Gogel Sees Change  Donald Gogel, head of Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, said
today he would accept changes to the carried-interest tax rate.
The spotlight shed on that issue by Romney’s campaign may lead
to changes to the U.S. tax code, Gogel said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  at the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .  “I would like to see a progressive system that is far more
simple,” Gogel said in the interview. The tax code “is not
very efficient or fair across the board.”  Two-thirds of investors surveyed in the Bloomberg Global
Poll say the tax break for carried interest isn’t warranted.  Buyout profits and their tax treatment helped make buyout
pioneers such as  Stephen Schwarzman , co-founder of Blackstone
and a supporter of Romney’s campaign, some of the richest
Americans. Schwarzman, ranked the 66th-richest American by
Forbes, held a fundraiser for Romney at his Park Avenue
apartment on Dec. 14. He has opposed raising the tax on carried
interest and endorsed a flat tax as part of comprehensive reform
of the U.S. tax code.  Punishing Blackstone  U.S. pensions account for about 27 percent of assets at one
of Blackstone’s largest funds, compared with 30 percent and 31
percent for comparable funds at Washington-based  Carlyle Group 
LP and New York’s  KKR (KKR) , according to Preqin estimates based on
the investors it tracks. Their influence was on display last
year, when Blackstone lost out on a deal to manage hedge-fund
investments for New York City’s public pensions after the firm’s
chief strategist suggested retiree benefits were too generous.  Buyout funds globally are seeking to raise about $165
billion, more than in 2006 at the height of the fundraising
boom. KKR, Warburg Pincus LLC and Providence Equity Partners LLC
are garnering commitments.  Carlyle Group, which is preparing an initial public
offering, and Silver Lake Management LLC are set to begin
marketing funds, according to people familiar with the plans.  Search for Yield  Institutional investors stung by the financial crisis have
been slow to commit to new buyout funds, which raised almost
$214 billion in the second quarter of 2007, at the peak of the
leveraged-buyout boom. Industrywide, firms raised $52.4 billion
for 108 funds during the fourth quarter.  Bain, which late last year started gauging investor
interest for a new buyout fund, relied on pensions for about 9
percent of client assets in a recent fund. The firm has
traditionally raised most of its capital from foundations,
endowments, family offices and wealthy individuals.  Alex Stanton, a spokesman for  Bain Capital , declined to
comment.  When Romney set out to raise Bain’s first fund in 1984, he
steered clear of pension funds, pursuing ultra-high net worth
individuals who contributed about $37 million to form the fund,
according to a person who worked with Romney at the time. KKR’s
co-founders, by contrast, received early capital from Oregon’s
and Washington’s pensions, with the latter contributing $12
million to KKR’s first fund in 1982.  Bain’s Returns  The success of Bain’s first fund, which generated a 61
percent average annual return, according to marketing documents
from 2004 obtained by Bloomberg News, helped attract other
investors who wanted to share in the profits and allowed Bain to
charge a premium for its investment services. The firm collects
30 percent of the profits it earns on its investments, the
highest in the industry. Pensions historically have been less
willing to pay Bain the higher performance fees.  With Romney keeping the spotlight on Bain, public plans may
be reticent to invest now because of the controversy, said
Heather L. Slavkin, senior legal and policy adviser for the
office of investment at AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest union
federation.  “Trustees are concerned about headline risk and there’s a
headline on Bain every day,” said Slavkin, whose office
advocates for the security of $480 billion of union-sponsored
pensions. “Nobody wants their decisions under a microscope and
trustees are no different. They don’t want to see their
decisions questioned publicly.”  ‘Heads Down’  For their part, many firms say the firestorm will blow over
and pensions will come to rely more on private equity to meet
their growing obligations to workers because traditional assets
like stocks and bonds won’t return enough.  The  Federal Reserve  this month said it would keep  interest
rates  low through 2014, driving investors into higher-yielding
assets and pushing down borrowing costs for leveraged buyouts.  Bain Capital Managing Director Stephen Pagliuca, also
speaking in Davos, said investors will stick with the firm and
criticism of the private-equity industry will pass.  “Our limited partners have been with us for 28 years many
of them,” he said in an interview with Erik Schatzker. “We
just keep our heads down and try to build value.”  Romney’s Taxes  Under pressure from rivals, Romney, whose wealth is
estimated at between $190 million and $250 million by his
campaign, this month disclosed tax returns showing he paid a
13.9 percent tax rate in 2010 on income of $21.6 million.  Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, said on Jan. 18 that he
plans to reintroduce legislation that would tax carried interest
at ordinary income rates.  Schwarzman, who said four months ago that he pays an
effective personal income tax rate of 53 percent, has been less
forthcoming. Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, is reducing its  voting rights  in  BankUnited Inc (BKU) . by
converting some shares so that Schwarzman doesn’t have to
disclose his financial information to the U.S. Federal Reserve,
a person familiar with the plans said earlier this month.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to
comment.  To mitigate the damage to private equity’s image, the
industry’s lobbying group is starting a campaign to showcase its
members’ contributions to the American economy, using
testimonials of people who say private equity has helped their
businesses grow.  David Rubenstein , Carlyle’s co-founder, said
Romney shouldn’t be criticized for the taxes he pays lawfully.  Still, said Atwood at the Illinois pension, the industry
has little choice but to wait for an end of the attacks.  “We all know that private-equity managers make a lot of
money and we know how they do their business, but when it’s on
the front page it causes us to think twice when making
investment decisions,” Atwood said. “Private equity is more
lucrative when it’s kept quiet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  