-- Romney Joins Gingrich in Escalating Attacks
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-01-28T20:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/romney-demands-gingrich-apology-on-immigration-remarks-in-florida-debate.html
Republican presidential rivals Mitt Romney and  Newt Gingrich  criticized each other as they fanned
out across the state of  Florida  courting voters in a final
weekend push before the Jan. 31 primary.  Romney teased Gingrich for being thin-skinned at debates
this week as his campaign unveiled a new television
advertisement reminding voters of the former U.S House speaker’s
ethics 1997 congressional reprimand.  At a rally in Pensacola, Romney said his “most fun”
recently had been at televised debates.  “This last one, Speaker Gingrich said he didn’t do so well
because the audience was too loud. The one before, he said he
didn’t do so well because the audience was too quiet,” Romney
said. “This is like Goldilocks, you know, he’s got to have it
just right.”  Gingrich, campaigning in  Port St. Lucie , called the
Goldilocks quip “baloney.” He said he unhappy with both of the
previous debates because Romney was “totally dishonest.”  NBC Complaint  The Romney ad, which began airing statewide in Florida
yesterday, shows former NBC News Anchor Tom Brokaw opening his
Jan. 21, 1997, newscast detailing the House vote reprimanding
Gingrich, and the $300,000 in fees his colleagues imposed on him
to cover the expenses of the ethics investigation.  Gingrich was formally reprimanded for providing false
information to a congressional panel investigating whether he
used tax-exempt charitable contributions for political purposes
in violation of federal law.  The Romney campaign bought more than $1 million worth of
advertising time to run it, according to a person familiar with
the purchase who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The NBC News legal department wrote a letter to Romney’s
campaign asking for the removal of all NBC News material from
their political ads. Brokaw said in a statement today that he is
“extremely uncomfortable with the extended use of my personal
image in this political ad” and that he didn’t want his “role
as a journalist compromised for political gain by any
campaign.”  The Romney campaign didn’t immediately reply to a request
for comment, while Gingrich Spokesman R.C. Hammond sent an e-
mail saying “Finally! A crack in the establishment.”  Gingrich’s Challenge  Romney has taken a more aggressive posture in trying to
blunt Gingrich’s challenge for the party nomination in a state
that represents the most diverse electorate so far of the
primary campaign.  A poll of 580 likely Republican primary voters released
yesterday by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University 
showed Romney pulling away from Gingrich, 38 percent to 29
percent, with a margin of error of plus or minus 4.1 percentage
points. A Quinnipiac poll released Jan. 25 put Romney only two
points in the lead.  The  Florida (NFSEFL)  primary increased in importance after earlier
Republican contests in three states produced three different
winners.  Gingrich attracted crowds today of about 250 each at golf
courses in Stuart and Port St. Lucie, where he started a call-
and-response with the audience that included a chorus of,
“Defeat  Barack Obama .” At both stops, Gingrich promoted his plan
to re-invigorate the U.S. space program and portrayed Romney as
a moderate who didn’t represent average Americans.  Romney’s Taxes  “I’m trying to lower your taxes to the Romney level,”
Gingrich said to applause. “I think if 15 percent is good enough
for  Mitt Romney , 15 percent is good enough for you. It’s time
that somebody fought for hard-working, tax-paying Americans.”  Gingrich’s campaign announced plans yesterday to air a
television ad in Florida suggesting Romney was dishonest in his
criticisms of Gingrich.  “What kind of man would mislead, distort, and deceive just
to win an election?” the narrator of the advertisement says.
“This man would be Mitt Romney.”  Competing for the state’s Hispanic voters, Gingrich, 68,
and Romney, 64, both spoke yesterday in Miami to the Hispanic
Leadership Network, a pro-Republican group. Hispanics make up
about 10 percent of registered Republicans in Florida.  Before Gingrich addressed the group, his campaign released
a letter from 19 Hispanic leaders who said Romney has “not
provided a real solution on behalf of the 12+ million immigrants
who live in the shadows of the American communities.”  Hispanic, Jewish Voters  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and business
executive, stressed his support of “legal immigration” and
pushed for expanded trade.  While Romney generally avoided direct attacks on his rival
yesterday, he referred to Gingrich’s proposal to establish a
colony on the moon -- a plan his rivals have described as a
waste of federal funds -- during an afternoon stop at  Cape
Canaveral .  “In the politics of the past, to get your vote on the
Space Coast, I’d come here and promise hundreds of billions of
dollars,” Romney said, referring the U.S. space program work
done in Florida. “I know that’s something that’s very
attractive, very popular, but it’s simply the wrong thing to
do.”  Hundreds of miles south in  Delray Beach , Gingrich worked to
win support from Florida’s Jewish community yesterday.  At a Republican Jewish Coalition rally -- where some of the
crowd of 400 were wearing pins reading “Obama, Oy Vey!” --
Gingrich won applause by calling  Iran  the “biggest existential
threat to the  United States ” and criticizing the Obama White
House for a foreign policy of “appeasement.”  Florida’s Jewish population of 640,000 is more than any
state except for  New York  and  California , according to the North
American Jewish Data Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Pensacola , Florida at   jdavis159@bloomberg.net 
Michael C. Bender in Port St. Lucie, Florida, at   mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  