-- Rubber Declines, Paring Weekly Gain, as U.S. Data Raise Growth Concerns
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-01-27T07:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/rubber-declines-paring-weekly-gain-as-u-s-data-raise-growth-concerns.html
Rubber declined, paring a fourth
weekly advance, after new homes sales unexpectedly fell in the
U.S. and jobless benefit claims increased, raising concerns
about the strength of the economic recovery.  The July-delivery contract, which was listed yesterday,
settled at 316.4 yen a kilogram ($4,105 a metric ton) on the
 Tokyo  Commodity Exchange. The most-active contract has gained
0.6 percent this week and 20 percent this year.  A U.S. report showed that sales of new homes declined in
December for the first time in four months. Claims for U.S.
jobless benefits rose last week. The dollar declined against the
Japanese currency, cutting the appeal of yen-denominated
contracts.  “Rubber was ripe for profit-taking after sharp gains this
month,” Ken Kajisa, an analyst at broker ACE Koeki Co. in Tokyo,
said by phone today. “It came under pressure as the U.S. data
failed to add positive incentives.”  Futures were also sold amid speculation that purchases by
China, the world’s largest consumer, may lose steam on high
prices and uncertainty about car-sales growth, he said.  China ’s
auto sales slowed last year after the government ended stimulus
measures and as the nation’s economic expansion eased.  “Prices may rebound next week as some areas in northern
 Thailand  have entered wintering season and the southern region
will follow suit soon,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at
Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  The Thai  cash price  remain unchanged at 128 baht ($4.09) a
kilogram today, the highest level since Oct. 18, according to
 the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand . The Shanghai market
closed this week for the Lunar New Year holidays.  The government of Thailand, the biggest producer and
exporter, approved a plan to buy 200,000 tons of rubber,
targeting a local price of 120 baht a kilogram.  Rubber market this year will be driven by a recovery in
demand from the automotive sector in China and  India , rather
than a shortfall in supply,  Standard Chartered  said today in a
research note. The bank initiated coverage of rubber market with
a ‘bullish’ outlook and forecast an average price of 350 yen a
kilogram this year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  