-- Rupee Jumps to 11-Week High on Inflows: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-01-27T06:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/rupee-jumps-to-11-week-high-on-inflows-mumbai-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects investment data in second paragraph.)  India ’s rupee climbed to an 11-week
high after the central bank eased monetary policy for the first
time since 2009 to support economic growth, prompting investors
to boost holdings of local stocks and bonds.  The rupee was set for a fourth weekly advance, the longest
winning streak since April, and the best month at least since
1973. Overseas funds added $1.56 billion to  investments  in
Indian stocks this month through Jan. 24 and boosted  ownership 
of debt to a record $29.5 billion, exchange data show. The
 Reserve Bank of India  cut  reserve  requirements for lenders by
half a percentage point to 5.5 percent on Jan. 24.  “The central bank’s decision is giving optimism that
India’s fundamentals will improve and make the rupee an
attractive investment,” said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager
of treasury at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The rupee should
advance further in the short term.”  The currency appreciated 1.4 percent this week to 49.665
per dollar as of 11:23 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 49.6450 earlier, a level not
seen since Nov. 9, and rose 0.9 percent today.  The rupee, which strengthened 6.8 percent this month in
 Asia ’s best currency performance, may climb to 49.50 next week,
Paul said. It tumbled 16 percent in 2011, the region’s biggest
exchange-rate loss, as  Europe ’s debt crisis fueled fund outflows
from  emerging markets .  Strong Inflows  “Recent official measures have tempered the rupee’s
weakness,” analysts including Selena Ling and Emmanuel Ng at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore  wrote in a research
note yesterday. “Bond and equity inflows into India remain
strong although it remains to be seen” whether the rupee can
sustain its gains beyond 50, they wrote.  The  Reserve Bank , which raised its benchmark  repurchase 
rate by a record 375 basis points in the past two years to cool
inflation, left the measure unchanged at 8.5 percent this week.  “The growth-inflation balance of the monetary policy
stance has now shifted to growth,” the bank said in its
statement. The reserve-ratio cut “can be viewed as a
reinforcement of the guidance that future rate actions will be
towards lowering them,” it said.  Currency options signal further gains in the rupee. Implied
volatility on three-month dollar-rupee options, a gauge of
expected exchange-rate swings, fell to 10.3 percent today, the
lowest level since Oct. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 50.69 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 51.54
at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  