-- Russian Eurobond Tax Plan May Be Scrapped, Barclays Says
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-01-27T16:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/russia-eurobond-tax-may-be-scrapped-says-barclays-after-government-meeting.html
Russia ’s Finance Ministry may scrap
plans to start collecting a 20 percent tax on Eurobond interest
payments after oppostion at a meeting with bankers in Moscow
yesterday, according to  Barclays Capital .  Ministry officials have been holding talks with issuers
after authorities sought to levy a tax on some Eurobond
payments, Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Shatalov  said by phone
late yesterday. Barclays said Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak voiced oppostion to the tax at yesterday’s meeting.  While payments to foreign debt holders through offshore
units known as special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, are taxable
under existing law, the rules haven’t often been enforced,
Shatalov said by phone yesterday. The tax could cost issuers an
estimated $1.5 billion a year on the total $100 billion of
outstanding Eurobonds, according to an e-mailed research note
today from Alfa Bank, the country’s biggest private lender.  “The initiative reflects a renewed attempt to curb the use
of offshore structures by Russian corporates,” Vladimir Pantyushin, a Moscow-based economist at Barclays, wrote in an e-
mailed note today. “We believe the tax is an awkward way to
achieve this, lacking support even within the  Finance Ministry 
and having potentially significant negative implications, and
therefore expect this proposal to be scrapped.”  Shatalov didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment today.  Transneft Weighs Buyback  OAO Transneft, the country’s oil pipeline operator, is
considering buying back about $4 billion of its Eurobonds within
a year because of the ministry’s tax plans, Igor Dyomin, a
spokesman for the company, said by phone yesterday.  Transneft’s $1.05 billion of Eurobonds due 2018 rose today,
snapping two days of declines and lowering the yield nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.664 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s  shares  dropped 0.6
percent to 57,792 rubles at the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, the
first fall in three days.  About half of the cost of the Eurobond tax would fall on
OAO Gazprom, VTB Group and Russian Agricultural Bank,  Alfa Bank 
analysts Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin wrote in the note.  Issuers would face “serious losses” from the tax,
Vladimir Dmitriev, chairman of Russian state development bank
VEB, said in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland  today.  “Banks will take a consolidated stand on that proposal,”
he said. “It’s important to understand what is behind it, who
will compensate them for the 20 percent loss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  