-- Kazakh Wealth Fund Sees Injections Into BTA as ‘Inevitable’
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-01-27T14:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/samruk-kazyna-says-injections-into-bta-bank-are-inevitable-.html
Kazakhstan ’s sovereign-wealth fund,
the majority owner of BTA Bank, said the need to inject funds
into the lender, which is seeking a second debt restructuring in
as many years, is “inevitable.”  This “won’t necessarily be a capital injection, other
forms are possible,” Yelena Bakhmutova, deputy CEO of the fund,
known as Samruk-Kazyna, told reporters in Astana today. The
possibilities include less expensive government funding and
higher coupons on Samruk-Kazyna bonds that the bank now holds,
she said, without elaborating on the timing.  “The amount of injections hasn’t been determined yet,”
she said. “We must find mutually acceptable decisions for the
creditors and shareholders and for the survival of the bank.”  BTA Bank (BTAS)  said yesterday it will push ahead with debt
restructuring talks even after failing to gain sufficient votes
from holders of global depositary receipts to begin the process.
The lender missed a coupon payment at the start of this month on
its July 2018 dollar bonds. It has reiterated a pledge to exempt
depositors from restructuing.  Samruk-Kazyna took control of BTA in February 2009, two
months before the central Asian nation’s largest lender at the
time defaulted on $12 billion of debt.  “Samruk-Kazyna will carry out the injection if all sides
are certain that the bank is viable after restructuring,”
Bakhmutova said. In addition to the restructuring, BTA needs to
improve its business-model to be competitive in the “hard
Kazakh banking market,” Bakhmutova said.  Kazakh lenders should prepare for a coming crisis,
President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  said today at a government
meeting, while calling for regulators to ensure the stability of
the local currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana, Kazakhstan at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  