-- HSBC Names McLean to Head Japan as Bank Scales Back
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-16T04:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/hsbc-names-kaber-mclean-as-japan-head-replacing-milne.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph of story published on Jan. 27 to
say McLean worked as business manager for global banking and
markets in Asia-Pacific.)  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  named Kaber McLean
as its chief executive officer for Japan, where  Europe ’s biggest
bank is reducing its presence as part of a global restructuring.  McLean replaces Stuart Milne, who will remain at HSBC, the
London-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today. McLean
was also appointed chairman of the Japanese brokerage and asset
management units.  HSBC is seeking buyers for its Japanese retail banking unit
four years after starting the business, according to three
people familiar with the matter. The U.K. bank said this week it
agreed to sell operations in Thailand, Costa Rica, El Salvador
and  Honduras  as part of CEO Stuart Gulliver’s efforts to reduce
expenses and prepare for tighter capital rules.  HSBC may sell  HSBC Premier , the division that targets
wealthy individuals in  Japan , the people said earlier this week
on condition of anonymity because the plan isn’t public. The
company has started an auction for the business, and may shut it
if offers aren’t attractive enough, two of the people said.  Last month, HSBC agreed to sell its Japanese private
banking business to Credit Suisse Group AG. The sale of the
unit, which managed assets of $2.7 billion as of Oct. 31, is
expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2012, HSBC
said in a statement on Dec. 21, without disclosing the price.  Yokohama History  McLean joined HSBC in  London  in 1996, and has worked at its
global banking and markets businesses in London,  New York  and
 Hong Kong , according to the statement. He most recently served
as business manager for global banking and markets for Asia-
Pacific, based in Hong Kong.  HSBC, which opened its first Japanese branch in the port
city of Yokohama in 1866, started services for customers with
savings of at least 10 million yen ($129,000) in Tokyo in 2008.  In 2010, it added retail offices in Osaka and Nagoya,
Japan’s second- and third-largest metropolitan areas, bringing
the total to six. By comparison,  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. , a unit of Japan’s biggest banking group, had 772 branches
nationwide as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  