-- SEC Commissioners Said to Seek Larger Role in Choosing Next Watchdog
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-01-27T23:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/schapiro-hiring-of-sec-watchdog-said-to-face-opposition-from-commissioners.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  may have to revise a proposal
for hiring the agency’s next internal watchdog after at least
three commissioners demanded greater say in the process,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Commissioners were recently presented the plan in which
panels of senior SEC staff would rate, interview and suggest
final candidates to succeed H.  David Kotz , according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the plans weren’t
public.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  said in a statement that it was
Schapiro’s idea to direct the staff to work together with other
commissioners on an approach to the hiring process. After the
staff developed an initial proposal, each commissioner was asked
for their thoughts, he said.  “The chairman had not yet embraced any particular approach
and looks forward to continuing the collaborative process,”
Nester said. “That process is under way.”  Kotz, whose four-year tenure as inspector general ends
today, was accused by SEC employees and alumni of pursuing
investigations that often lacked evidence of wrongdoing and
unfairly damaged some workers’ reputations. Kotz also came under
scrutiny for giving a lengthy interview to the host of a paid
radio show who posted it on his website and uses it in marketing
financial services.  More Sensitive  The flap over Kotz’s tenure has made commissioners and
staff more sensitive to how the agency oversees the inspector
general’s office, the people said. While the watchdog previously
reported to the chairman, the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave the
responsibility to the full five-member commission.  Citing that change, three of the commissioners told
Schapiro they should have an equal say over which staff will
rate and interview candidates for the job, according to the
people. The commissioners have also called for new procedures
and policies to clarify who the new watchdog would report to and
what kind oversight the commission would have.  Noelle Maloney, who has served as Kotz’s deputy, will be
acting inspector general until a replacement is named, the SEC
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  