-- Schiano Says He Will Apply Rutgers Football Principles as Buccaneers Coach
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-27T21:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/schiano-says-he-s-excited-over-buccaneers-as-rutgers-searches-for-coach.html
Tampa Bay Buccaneers coach Greg Schiano said he wants his new team to reflect many of the
principles he taught at  Rutgers University , which needs to
replace him less than a week before high school recruits can
sign to play at the school.  Schiano, 45, accepted a five-year contract with the
 National Football League  team yesterday. Hours later, Rutgers
Athletic Director Tim Pernetti named offensive line coach Kyle
Flood the school’s interim head coach as a search for Schiano’s
replacement begins. National signing day is Feb. 1.  Schiano said the 2012 Buccaneers will reflect the mindset
that he was known for at Rutgers, one of trust, belief and
accountability.  “Our team will be built around a humble, unselfish
attitude of sacrifice,” Schiano said at his introductory news
conference in Tampa. “It’s hard to find that in today’s world,
but that’s who we’ll be.”  The Buccaneers finished 4-12 last season, losing their
final 10 games.  Schiano led the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based university
to its first bowl victory, its second 11-win season and its best
finish in the Associated Press Poll, No. 12 in 2006. The team,
which Pernetti called the “worst program in college football”
before Schiano’s arrival, has won five consecutive postseason
bowl games dating back to 2006, the longest active streak in the
sport’s top division, according to the university.  Pernetti said on the school’s website that he has a list of
coaching candidates and will find a permanent replacement “as
soon as possible.”  ‘Take Time’  “It would be great for incoming recruits to know who their
coach is before signing day,” he said. “If it takes a little
bit more time, then we will take that time.”  The list of possible Schiano successors includes Temple
coach Steve Addazio, Florida International coach Mario Cristobal, a former Rutgers assistant, and former Penn State
defensive coordinator  Tom Bradley , who took over the program
when  Joe Paterno  was fired in November, according to the Record
newspaper of Bergen County,  New Jersey .  Schiano said he was impressed by the family oriented
Buccaneers front office and the team’s core of talented young
players. He said previous offers to leave Rutgers had never felt
right.  “I did not need to be a head coach in the National
Football League today,” he said. “I really studied the team, I
studied the situation, I studied the ownership, and that’s what
makes me comfortable. Every time I did it I said, ‘That’s an
advantage.’”  Recruit Targets  Pernetti, who played football at Rutgers and assists in the
team’s recruiting, said the new coach must be able to draw high
school talent from the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut region.
Recruits must know that the program is the same as it was three
days ago, he said.  “It is going to stand for the same things,” he said.
“The core values are things that will never be sacrificed.”  Rutgers’ 2012 class is ranked No. 45 in the country by
Scout.com, a recruiting website. It is the team’s highest-rated
class since Schiano put together the No. 29 class in 2009.  Under Schiano, Rutgers also was the only team in football’s
top division to be ranked in the top three in the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association ’s multiyear Academic Progress
Report each of the last four seasons, according to the
university.  “This program is built,” Pernetti said. “Those
championships are ahead of us. I’ve never been more certain of
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  