-- Schiano Owes Rutgers $800,000 After Move to NFL’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/schiano-owes-rutgers-800-000-after-move-to-nfl-s-tampa-bay-buccaneers.html
Greg Schiano owes  Rutgers University 
$800,000 after the coach’s decision to leave for the  Tampa Bay
Buccaneers  of the  National Football League .  Schiano, who was head coach at the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based school for 11 seasons, is obligated to pay a
$500,000 buyout plus the $300,000 remaining on a home loan
contained in his most recent contract in 2007, Jason Baum, a
Rutgers athletic department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The loan, originally $800,000, was forgiven $100,000 for
every year he stayed with the team. He made $2.03 million
including bonuses in the fiscal year ended in June.  Schiano, 45, accepted a five-year contract with the NFL
team. He thanked those affiliated with the university yesterday
in his introductory news conference in  Tampa Bay .  Financial details of his contract with the Buccaneers
weren’t disclosed by the team. The Newark Star-Ledger, citing an
anonymous person familiar with the negotiations, said Schiano’s
NFL deal is worth slightly more than $15 million.  Rutgers is trying to increase revenue to balance its
intercollegiate sports budget. The athletic department’s $26.9
million subsidy in fiscal 2010 from student fees and the
school’s general fund was the most among the 53 public
universities in college football’s biggest conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The Rutgers athletic department had $62.7 million in
revenue that year, with $46.7 million, roughly 75 percent,
coming from the football team, according to financial records
obtained through open records laws.  Schiano said yesterday that he wants the Bucs to reflect
many of the principles he taught at Rutgers.  ‘Humble, Unselfish Attitude’  “Our team will be built around a humble, unselfish
attitude of sacrifice,” Schiano told reporters. “It’s hard to
find that in today’s world, but that’s who we’ll be.”  Rutgers Athletic Director Tim Pernetti selected offensive
line coach Kyle Flood as the school’s interim head coach while
officials search for Schiano’s replacement.  National signing day is Feb. 1, which means Rutgers has to
search for a new coach less than a week before high school
recruits can sign to play at the school. Pernetti said on the
school’s website that he has a list of coaching candidates and
will find a permanent replacement as soon as possible.  The list of possible Schiano successors includes Temple
coach Steve Addazio; Florida International coach Mario
Cristobal, a former Rutgers assistant, and former Penn State
defensive coordinator  Tom Bradley , who took over the program
when  Joe Paterno  was fired in November, according to the Record
newspaper of Bergen County,  New Jersey .  “It would be great for incoming recruits to know who their
coach is before signing day,” Pernetti said. “If it takes a
little bit more time, then we will take that time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  