-- Schwab Suit Against Merrill Wins Judge’s Tentative Go-Ahead
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-01-27T21:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/schwab-suit-against-merrill-wins-judge-s-tentative-go-ahead-1-.html
Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill
Lynch unit,  Wells Fargo Co. (WFC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  must face a lawsuit by
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  alleging they misled the company about the
risks of millions of dollars of mortgage-backed securities it
bought from them, a California judge ruled tentatively.  Judge Richard Kramer in  San Francisco  said today he intends
to let claims over 46 of the 50 securitizations at issue
proceed. The four claims he rejected involved securities from
 Countrywide Financial Corp (CFC) ., the mortgage lender acquired in
2008 by Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America.  “It is my tentative ruling that those four securitizations
are barred” because they were filed too late, Kramer said at a
hearing today. He said Schwab lawyers can try to revive one of
the four claims by amending their complaint.  Schwab, an independent San Francisco-based brokerage,
alleged in a 2010 lawsuit that the securities dealers lied or
didn’t disclose information about loans underlying the bonds
they sold, including the loan-to-value ratios of mortgages and
the number of properties that were not primary residences,
according to the complaint.  Christiaan Brakman, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS, and
 Bill Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to comment
on today’s ruling. Tom Goyda, a spokesman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  The case is one of several pending in state courts around
the country by investors seeking repayment for mortgage-backed
securities. The Federal Home Loan Banks of Seattle, San
Francisco, Pittsburgh,  Chicago  and Indianapolis, as well as
companies including Schwab and Allstate Insurance Co., have sued
investment banks under state investor-protection laws.  The case is Charles Schwab v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith, 10-501151, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net :
Pam MacLean at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  