-- Shareholder Arbitration Requirement, IRS-Mutual Funds, Finra: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/shareholder-arbitration-requirement-irs-mutual-funds-finra-compliance.html
Carlyle Group (CG)  LP’s plan to protect
itself from class-action lawsuits may set a precedent that
undermines shareholder rights and encourages more companies to
follow suit, lawyers, investors and government officials said.  The buyout firm this month amended a regulatory filing to
require future shareholders to resolve claims against it through
arbitration. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
blocked an initial public offering with a less-restrictive
arbitration clause more than 20 years ago, must decide whether
to allow Washington-based Carlyle’s offering to proceed.  Preventing the share sale could lead to a showdown between
the agency and the  Supreme Court , which has issued a series of
pro-arbitration decisions in recent years. Allowing the IPO
would rile congressional Democrats and pave the way for other
buyout firms, hedge-fund managers and traditional corporations
to go public with similar restrictions.  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC in  Washington ,
declined to comment, as did  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman.  Arbitrations differ from court proceedings in several ways:
they are generally confidential, permit less discovery by
plaintiffs and have fewer avenues for appeal.  The SEC has held that companies can’t go public with a
clause in their governing documents that limits the ability of
shareholders to seek remedies under federal securities law. The
blocked a stock sale more than two decades ago that included a
mandatory arbitration clause, according to Carl Schneider, a
former securities attorney who represented the thrift.  Mary
Schapiro , chairman of the SEC, served as one of the agency’s
five commissioners at the time.  Since then, securities class-action suits have become a big
industry in the U.S., with 3,415 filings in federal court
between Jan. 1, 1996, and the end of 2011, according to San
Francisco-based Cornerstone Research. Settlements totaled $52.7
billion from 2001 and 2010, Cornerstone estimates, including
$6.2 billion in the case of WorldCom Inc.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  IRS Should End Commodity Mutual-Fund Runaround, Levin Says  U.S. tax authorities should stop a private rulemaking
process that has encouraged speculation in oil and agricultural
markets by letting mutual funds exceed limits on commodity
investments, Senator  Carl Levin  said.  The  Internal Revenue Service ’s so-called private letter
rulings, which let funds use foreign corporations and other
strategies to escape the tax implications of boosting commodity
holdings above 10 percent of income, are a “blatant end-run
around the legal restrictions,” Levin said yesterday at a
hearing held by the  Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations .  The IRS has issued more than 70 such rulings since 2006,
according to Levin, the Michigan Democrat who leads the panel,
and Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , the committee’s top
Republican. Levin said the IRS should permanently ban the
practice and revoke the existing rulings, which he said allow
U.S. firms to use shell corporations and “financially
engineered notes” to make commodity investments.  The IRS in June temporarily suspended new private rulings
pending a review of its policies. The IRS has an “open mind on
this issue” and may publish new guidelines, IRS Commissioner
Douglas H. Shulman told lawmakers at the hearing.  Under current  tax code , mutual funds don’t pay corporate
income tax so long as they comply with limits on investment type
that say commodities can’t represent more than 10 percent of
income. Private rule-making by the IRS can allow funds to invest
more of their assets in commodities and exceed the 10 percent
limit, according to Levin. He has pushed for greater limits on
speculation in commodities markets, including through so-called
position limits that would be imposed by the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission .  For more, click here.  Sarkozy Transaction Tax May Weaken French Position, Jouyet Says  France ’s top financial regulator said a tax on financial
transactions advocated by President Nicolas Sarkozy would weaken
the country’s position in the asset-management industry.  The tax “could penalize our asset management industry” by
pushing professionals and transactions elsewhere if France acts
alone, Jean-Pierre Jouyet, president of the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, said in Paris yesterday.  The  European Commission  has proposed a tax covering a wide
range of trading that could raise 57 billion euros ($74 billion)
a year. Financial institutions would pay in their home
countries, regardless of where transactions take place. U.K.
officials have led opposition to the tax, which they say would
be ineffective unless adopted globally.  Sarkozy has pushed to implement the levy unilaterally,
while French officials have cautioned that such action could
cause difficulties.  Francois Hollande , the Socialist candidate
seeking to unseat Sarkozy, also supports the transaction tax.  Compliance Action  Finra Warns of Increasing Reports of Funds Stolen by Hackers  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said it has
received an increasing number of reports involving investor
funds being stolen by hackers.  The hackers first gain access to the investor’s e-mail
account and then e-mail instructions to the firm to transfer
money out of the brokerage account, Finra said yesterday in a
statement.  “Investors who suspect that their e-mail account has been
hacked should immediately notify their brokerage firm and other
financial institutions, and anyone who suspects they have been
defrauded should file a complaint with Finra,” said Gerri
Walsh, Finra’s Vice President for Investor Education.  Raiffeisen Says It Half Way to EBA Capital Goal, Targets 9.4%  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and its parent,  Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG (RZBOPA) , have created about half the capital
needed for RZB to meet the  European Banking Authority ’s capital
rules.  The banks have completed measures that are equivalent to
increasing capital by 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion), and
target another 1.6 billion euros by the EBA’s deadline of June
30, RZB said in a Jan. 25  presentation  on its website. RZB will
have core reserves of 9.4 percent by that date, beating the
EBA’s 9 percent threshold, according to the plan.  RZB created about 450 million euros by transforming capital
disqualified by the EBA into types the regulator recognizes as
loss-absorbing, according to the document.  Courts  Morgan Stanley Sued Over $1.2 Billion in Mortgage Securities  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was sued over about $1.2 billion worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities by  Bayerische Landesbank 
and Dexia SA in New York state court.  Bayerische Landesbank, based in Munich and the second-
biggest German state-owned lender, asserts claims on almost $486
million in residential mortgage-backed securities purchased in
22 offerings in 2006 and 2007.  Both banks say in their complaints that the loans
underlying the securities were riskier than promised and that
Morgan Stanley “knew or recklessly disregarded” that the loans
didn’t conform to underwriting standards.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the lawsuits, which were both filed
yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , because
the company hadn’t received them yet.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into a
recession and collapse of the housing market. The crisis swept
up lenders and investment banks as the market for the securities
evaporated.  The cases are Bayerische Landesbank, New York branch v.
Morgan Stanley, 650230/2012; and  Dexia SA (DEXB) /NV v. Morgan Stanley,
650231/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Stanford Invented Offshore Bank’s U.K. Insurer, Prosecutor Says  R. Allen Stanford failed to tell a financial adviser he
hired for his first offshore bank that the insurer he selected
for the institution was a company he created, a federal
prosecutor told a jury.  Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach made that claim
Jan. 25 while questioning the adviser, Michelle Chambliess, on
the first day of testimony at the federal courthouse in Houston,
where Stanford is on trial charged with investment fraud.  Chambliess said she was one of Stanford’s first hires in
1987, at Guardian International Investment Services, a U.S.-
based sibling of Stanford’s Montserrat-based Guardian
International Bank Ltd. Guardian was the precursor to Stanford
International Bank Ltd., the Antiguan entity at the heart of
Stanford’s alleged $7 billion fraud.  Stanford told her he’d obtained insurance for the bank from
a carrier called British Insurance Fund Ltd., which appeared to
be an independent U.K.-based company and did not tell her it was
a shell company she said, in response to a question from
Stellmach.  Stanford, 61, is charged with  wire fraud  and mail fraud. He
told the jury Jan. 24 he isn’t guilty.  Chambliess also told the court she learned that Stanford
and some of his businesses borrowed money from the bank from a
disclosure in Stanford’s 1996 annual report.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  For more, click here.  Dresdner Banker Says Commerzbank Bonus Didn’t Equal His ‘Worth’  A former manager at  Commerzbank AG’s (CBK)  Dresdner Bank unit
told a London court he was suing the German lender because it
hasn’t paid him the bonus his performance deserved -- $394,000.  Desmond McNamara, who headed up risk management for
Dresdner’s capital-markets division, is one of 104 London-based
bankers who have sued claiming Commerzbank failed to honor a
bonus pledge Dresdner made before it was taken over in 2009.  Commerzbank completed a takeover of Dresdner in January
2009 then cut bonuses by 90 percent or more, according to court
filings from the former Dresdner bankers.  The bank, based in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed statement
it will “argue that no binding contractual commitment was made,
that bonus amounts communicated were provisional and that it was
reasonable and rational to reduce the bonuses” after a 6.3
billion-euro loss at Dresdner’s investment banking business.  The cases include: Mr. Fahmi Anar & Others v. Dresdner
Kleinwort Limited, Commerzbank AG,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill & 71
others v. Dresdner Kleinwort Limited, Commerzbank AG,
HQ09X04007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 