-- Simpson Says ‘Terrified’ Obama Walked Away From Deficit Issue
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-28T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/simpson-terrified-obama-ditched-deficit-issue.html
President  Barack Obama  “walked
away” from his bipartisan U.S. deficit-cutting commission’s
plan “because he knew he’d be torn to bits,” said former
Republican Senator  Alan Simpson , who was co-chairman of the
panel.  Obama is “terrified” of the deficit issue, Simpson said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “He didn’t deal with it”
in his annual State of the Union address to Congress on Jan. 24.  Jamie Smith , a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Simpson also said the Republican presidential candidates
are “almost like robots” in their aversion to any taxes as a
way to help shrink the government’s $1.3 trillion  deficit .  The former Wyoming lawmaker saved his sharpest criticism
for  Newt Gingrich , who served as House speaker during the end of
Simpson’s 18 years in office.  “He caused us more pain,” Simpson, 80, said. “He was
Newt first, Republicans second, country third.”  Simpson headed Obama’s commission along with Erskine Bowles, a White House chief of staff under President  Bill Clinton . The $3.9 trillion, 10-year Simpson-Bowles plan included
about $2.2 trillion in spending cuts, $673 billion in reduced
interest payments and $1 trillion in tax increases.  Republican and Democratic lawmakers rejected it because of
its mix of taxes and cuts in entitlement programs.  ‘Bizarre Exercise’  Simpson called it a “bizarre exercise” for Republicans in
Congress to sign activist Grover Norquist’s no-tax-increase
pledge.  The Republican presidential candidates “should have a
little mark on the inside, ‘Grover Norquist Owns Me’” he said,
calling Norquist “the most powerful man in the United States of
America right now.”  A budgetary time bomb is set to go off at the end of this
year when Bush-era tax cuts will expire, slashing Americans’
paychecks. At the same time, $1 trillion in automatic cuts in
 government spending  will begin taking effect in January.  The spending reductions were designed to be so draconian
that they would force a budget-cutting “supercommittee” to
agree on a plan for reducing the government’s trillion-dollar
deficits. Like a succession of budget-reducing groups before it,
the panel deadlocked last year over proposed tax increases and
cuts to politically sensitive programs such as Medicare.  Automatic Cuts  Simpson predicted Congress would find a way to continue
avoiding the issue and the automatic cuts, known in  Washington 
as a “sequester.”  “If it gets bad enough and howling goes on from the
special interest groups,” he said, Congress “may even pass a
law to get rid of the sequester.”  On immigration, Simpson said all four Republican
presidential candidates seem anti-immigrant, calling it a
“trigger point” issue in  Florida , which holds its primary Jan.
31. At a Jan. 26 debate, Gingrich and former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney traded insults about immigration.  “If you have 11 million or 12 million or 13 million people
in the  United States  that are here illegally, you going to go
hunt for them?” Simpson asked. “I don’t want to be part of a
country” that does that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  