-- Simpson Says Obama ‘Walked Away’ From Deficit Issue (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2012-01-27T23:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/simpson-says-obama-walked-away-from-deficit-issue-transcript-.html
Former Republican Senator  Alan
Simpson  of Wyoming, who was co-chairman of Barack Obama’s
bipartisan deficit-reduction commission, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that the president “walked away” from the
issue in his annual State of the Union speech to Congress
“because he knew he’d be torn to bits.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with former senator and co-chair
of the deficit commission, Alan Simpson. Senator Simpson, thank
you so much for joining us.  ALAN SIMPSON: It’s a pleasure.  HUNT: The president’s State of the Union, didn’t mention
Bowles-Simpson. He appointed the commission. Is he abdicating
leadership on this issue?  SIMPSON: He didn’t respond to our commission, and yet we
got five Democrats, five Republicans, and one independent, and
that’s pretty good bipartisan support, and 60 percent of the
commission. He walked away from it because he knew he’d be torn
to bits, and he would’ve. So he waited for  Paul Ryan  to come
forward with something, which was to handle the mastodon in the
kitchen, which is health care, and watched Ryan get torn to bits
and helped with the White House to help tear him to bits. Very
sad.  But to go through the State of the Union address and never
mention where this country is headed -  HUNT: So he didn’t mention it.  SIMPSON: Didn’t mention it at all. Terrified of it. It will
not - he knows that if you - and mention the solvency of Social
Security, you can’t raise the  retirement age  to 68 by the year
2050, and don’t talk about it? No, you don’t dare. You get torn
to bits.  HUNT: Well, let me ask you again. Is that abdication?  SIMPSON: Yeah, I did. I said that. I said, when he gave
that last speech months ago and never mentioned the solvency of
Social Security, I said that’s an abrogation of leadership. The
White House came winging right back, as they all do. They’re
poised like, you know, nobody - there are guys up there who just
wait for somebody to say something so they can stick in their
ear within 32 seconds, but they said, well, Simpson, you have to
realize we’re going to deal with that separately. It isn’t part
of the - of the - of the deficit and the debt. In that sense, it
isn’t, but we’re trying to save solvency for itself to save
itself.  He didn’t deal with it. He never mentions the flash words,
the flash words. He mentioned a bizarre equation. He said we’re
going to take the war we’ve saved in  Afghanistan  and half of
that we’ll dedicate to the debt or the deficit. I can’t remember
which one he was saying. Well, we already figured that in.
That’s already been figured in by everybody that’s been doing
their math.  HUNT: Well, on Congress, the supercommittee failed, didn’t
do anything. There’s supposed to be something called
sequestration, which is automatic cuts. Do you think that
they’ll duck that, too? Or you think that’ll take effect -  SIMPSON: Oh, I think if it gets bad enough and howling goes
on from the special interest groups - and, boy, are - you know,
they laughed when we started this thing.  HUNT: Right.  SIMPSON: I mean, the Realtors and everybody who is involved
with anything in the  tax code  just said, well, these jerks are
really - you know, this is laughable. But now they see that it
could happen, and I think that the - they may even pass a law to
get rid of the sequester. They might just gather together and
say, we can get this -  HUNT: You talk about Barack Obama’s abdication on this
issue. How about your party, the Republican presidential
candidates? Every one of them says no tax cuts at all. Mitt
Romney would increase the deficit, his plan, by $180 billion by
2015.  Newt Gingrich  would give a tax cut of $422,000 average for
the top 1 percent. How’s your party handling this -  SIMPSON: Well, that’s a terrible thing to ask. It’s just
disgusting that you’d - let me tell you, what got me was to
watch all nine of them there months ago, and they said if you
got - if you got $9 worth of spending cuts, you needed $1 of
revenue, would you vote for it? And almost like robots, these
nine hands go up. All of them should have a little mark on the
inside, “ Grover Norquist  Owns Me.”  Because Grover Norquist right now is the most - you -
people don’t know who the hell he is, and I think he’d be
irrelevant in two years after they see what he’s doing with his
bizarre exercise of 95 percent of the Republicans in Congress
have signed this thing. Some of them signed it when employment
was 4 percent and the deficit was $4 trillion. It’s a lot
different now, and they’re repudiating him. I hope they will
continue to do that. But then this guy is the most powerful man
in the  United States  of America right now.  HUNT: Does it disappoint you, though, that someone like
Mitt Romney, a businessman, a governor, someone who knows these
issues, has - has also ducked this issue?  SIMPSON: Well, I’ll tell you. As soon as they get rid of
the Iowa primary, the world will be better, because all you have
to do in the Iowa primary -  HUNT: Caucus.  SIMPSON: - or caucus is gather up lesser people than vote
in the state of  Wyoming , which is the lowest population state in
the  United States of America , and gather together 50,000 or
58,000 or 60,000. That’s - Wyoming does more than that. And they
get together from the right and the left, and they ask - they
put up their blood oath.  HUNT: So it doesn’t - but it doesn’t pay to address the
deficit issue -  SIMPSON: No. No. You’d be torn to bits, because the  AARP 
will come out and the - and the senior citizens, you’re breaking
the bedpans. I mean, this is - this is bizarre. The AARP and
Grover Norquist, if they carry the day, if we’re in thrall to
them, you ain’t got a prayer.  HUNT: Well, another issue you were instrumental in when you
were in the United States Senate was immigration.  SIMPSON: Yep.  HUNT: Does it disappoint you the tone of the Republican
debate, including  Mitt Romney , who’s leading it, that’s very
anti-immigrant?  SIMPSON: They all are, in a sense. It’s a trigger point.
And we’re going to be more of a trigger than  Florida  right now.
But, you know, if you have 11 million, or 12 million, or 13
million people in the United States that are here illegally, you
going to go hunt for them? I don’t want to be part of a country
- and I wasn’t.  HUNT: So are they making a mistake on - are these
candidates making a mistake on this issue?  SIMPSON: Not to get elected in Florida.  HUNT: Yeah. But - but long term for the  Republican Party ?  SIMPSON: Long term, there’s a way to do it, and everybody
knows what it is. You give these people some kind of a legal
status. You don’t deport all of the 12 million, and you make
them pay a fine for creeping in here illegally, and you make
them get on a path to citizenship where they have to be
productive, and you give them a simple card, and then you get
them a green card, and then they can 10 years later be a
citizen. We brought 3 million of those people forward the last
time.  HUNT: Well, talking about the ‘80s, you were an important
senator during the ‘80s. Newt Gingrich says he was central to
the Reagan revolution. Do you remember Gingrich playing that
kind of a central role in the ‘80s?  SIMPSON: No, but I don’t think Reagan would remember it,
either. But I’ll tell you, Dole and I will never forget it, what
he did at the Andrews air base, where he - they all made a deal.
The Republicans gathered, and they said, here it is. And it’s
two-year budgeting, and it’s - we’re dealing with lots of things
to stabilize America, but we’re going to have to have some
revenue.  And they went to George the first. They said, Mr.
President, we need revenue. And George said, well, that’s great,
because I’m sure they would remember my “Read my lips,” since
George was honest with them to the - to the - to the failure,
and they said, “But we can get it. We can get the votes,” and
Dole said, “I can deliver a bipartisan package.”  And Newtie said that, too, came to Dole, came over to the
Senate. The vote was 66-33. We passed it. Newt went back to the
House, said, well, as a member of the group out there, I voted
for it, but not now, and - because it calls for new taxes.  And I’m telling you, every Democrat in the House just
grinned. You can almost hear them laughing clear over in the
Senate chamber, because that was the end of Bush, it was the end
of everything, but it was the ascendancy of Newt.  HUNT: And he did it by undercutting?  SIMPSON: It was - it was cheap. Now, if you asked him today
why he did that, he will say gravely that he did it because he
knew he didn’t want to impose any new taxes on the American
public. He saw Bush in the decline, and he saw President Newt
rising up through as the grave anti-tax savior now, and, boy,
I’ll tell you, he caused us more pain. And everybody that knows
him - I understand Dole made some statement recently about it -
he was just pure pain. He was Newt first, Republicans second,
country third.  HUNT: Alan Simpson, thank you so much for being with us.  SIMPSON: Good to see you, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 