-- Smurfs Caught Short as Jakks Toy Bid Seen for 20% Less: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-27T21:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/smurfs-get-caught-short-as-jakks-toy-takeover-seen-for-20-less-real-m-a.html
Jakks Pacific Inc. (JAKK) , which rejected
the cheapest offer for a toy company on record, may now have to
accept an even lower bid after the maker of Hello Kitty, Pokemon
and Smurfs character goods cut its sales forecast.  Jakks, which received an unsolicited offer of $20 a share
from Oaktree Capital Management LP in September, turned it down
three weeks later and said the buyout firm was trying to “take
advantage” of adverse economic conditions to acquire the
company on the cheap. The bid valued Jakks at 0.52 times its
revenue, less than half the median for toy takeovers over $100
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Jakks losing  20 percent  of its value after saying last
month that  sales  for 2011 would fall short of its own estimates,
the company is now worth less than it was before Oaktree’s offer
emerged. While Jakks is betting that its  Monsuno  action figures,
which target 6- to 11-year-old boys and are based on a Japanese
animated television series, will help increase returns for
shareholders, Needham & Co. says that Oaktree could chop its
takeover proposal by as much as 20 percent to $16 a share.  “Things have changed,” Sean McGowan, an analyst at
Needham in New York, said in a telephone interview. “What’s
most likely is that Oaktree does come back at a lower price than
$20. This collection of assets, as it currently stands now,
managed differently could probably produce a lot more profit.
I’d be surprised if they didn’t come back.”  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based
Oaktree, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  Joel Bennett , chief financial officer at Malibu, California-based
Jakks, declined to comment on whether it was considering a sale.  Dog Toys, Fairies  Founded  in 1995, Jakks sells everything from swimming pool
water guns and dog toys to fairies and princess costumes. Many
of its items are based on brands that it licenses from Walt
Disney Co.,  Warner Bros . and the  Ultimate Fighting Championship 
mixed martial arts league, according to its website.  Since reaching a record of $31.04 a share in 2007, Jakks
lost  half its value  to end at $15.26 yesterday. The decline was
four times the drop of the  109-stock  Standard & Poor’s SmallCap
Consumer Discretionary Index. Jakks slipped 0.7 percent to
$15.15 today.  Shares of Jakks jumped as high as $19.88 after Oaktree,
which  oversees  about $73 billion, said in a Sept. 14 statement
that it planned to acquire the toymaker for $20 a share. The
proposal valued Jakks at 52 cents for every dollar of sales, or
40 percent less than any other toy acquisition of more than $100
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The median deal was valued at 1.07 times revenue.  Intrinsic Value  Oaktree announced its offer after saying that Jakks’
 management  has since March “repeatedly rebuffed” its proposal
to take the company private. On Oct. 5, Jakks said it rejected
Oaktree’s bid, saying the offer represented an attempt to buy
the company below its “intrinsic value.”  Last month, Jakks cited a “difficult” sales environment
for toys during the holiday season in chopping its full-year
revenue forecast. The company now expects sales to decline for
the third consecutive year.  The Dec. 16 announcement caused its stock to tumble by the
most in seven years, increased concern consumers are turning to
toys made by its larger rivals  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  and
raised speculation that Jakks may be left without a buyer.  “I’d be kind of surprised if any bid were to happen now,”
Colin Symons, chief investment officer at Symons Capital
Management Inc. in Pittsburgh, which oversees $450 million and
owns shares of Jakks, said in a telephone interview. “While
obviously I’d like a buyout, I’m not holding it for a buyout.”  Saving Earth  While Jakks’ management has refused to engage in
discussions at $20 a share, the company’s sales slump gives
Oaktree a chance to lower its proposal and still appeal to some
shareholders, according to Scott Hamann, a Cleveland-based
analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets Inc.  The stock is still about 5 percent below its price when
Oaktree announced its bid in September, even after rallying from
a low of $13.36 this month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oaktree, which  owned  about 5 percent of Jakks as of Sept.
30, could reduce the number of licensed toys the company sells
to boost profitability, according to Needham’s McGowan. Jakks’
joint venture to produce action figures based on the Monsuno
series, in which kids command creatures in a battle with evil
forces to protect Earth, could also attract Oaktree, he said.  Jakks gets about 75 percent of  sales  from toys based on
brands controlled by other companies and owning a piece of
Monsuno would let Oaktree reap greater profits if the adventure
series gains popularity, Keybanc’s Hamann said.  Smelling Blood  Oaktree can also take advantage of Jakks’ cash holdings, he
said. Jakks has $232 million in  cash and short-term investments ,
equal to almost 60 percent of its market value, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The valuation is obviously very attractive right now on
basically any metric you look at and that’s a function of
 management  not executing,” Hamann said. “Shareholders, in the
wake of the hit they took at the end of last year, are going to
be more interested in what a potential buyer has to say. The
sharks have to be smelling some blood in the water.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 