-- Solar Outlook Boosts N.Y. Index to 4-Month High: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-27T20:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/solar-outlook-boosts-new-york-index-to-four-month-high-china-overnight.html
Solar stocks  drove Chinese companies
traded in the U.S. to a four-month high, after panel
manufacturers said the country may double installations this
year as the government pushes to consolidate the industry.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. gained 1.4 percent to 103.99 at 3:08 p.m.
in New York, poised for the highest close since Sept. 15.  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led gainers, adding the most since Jan. 12, while  LDK
Solar Co. (LDK)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  both advanced more than
4 percent. Renren Inc. led a surge in Internet companies on a
report that Facebook Inc. may issue shares next week.  Chief executive officers of of Suntech and Trina, China’s
largest and fifth-biggest solar panel makers, said the country
may install as much as 5 gigawatts of panels in 2012, from about
2.2 gigawatts installed last year. Companies with the best
technology and brands will win out in the streamlining of the
industry, Trina CEO Jifan Gao said in an interview from the
World Economic Forum meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .  “China holds the key to the fate of the industry from a
standpoint of creating demand,” Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an
analyst who covers the Chinese solar industry at Auriga USA LLC
in New York, said in an interview yesterday. “The optimism is
there.”  The nation may add at least four gigawatts of panels,
Suntech’s CEO Zhengrong Shi said separately on Jan. 25.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance predicts China will add 3 gigawatts
this year as global solar demand ranges from 25.5 gigawatts to
32.8 gigawatts.  German Subsidies  China is increasing solar installations on concern that
demand may fall in  Europe  as countries cut subsidies to reduce
 government spending  amid the debt crisis. In  Germany , the
world’s largest solar market, lawmakers proposed cutting
subsidies but failed to reach an agreement to do so at a Jan. 25
meeting.  Spain  said yesterday that it is halting subsidies for
new renewable energy projects in order to trim the country’s
deficit.  “This extra demand from China, from an overall industry
standpoint, I think it still leaves the world in a relatively
flat demand situation,” said  Daniel Ries , an analyst at Collins
Stewart LLC. “I don’t see the rationale to have someone going
long these stocks.”  American depositary receipts of Jiangsu, China-based
Suntech climbed 3.1 percent to $3.34, rising the most since Jan.
18. Changzhou-based Trina jumped 5.9 percent to $8.56, headed
for its strongest close since Jan. 18. LDK Solar,  China ’s
second-largest solar-panel maker, advanced 5.2 percent to $4.89,
the biggest jump since Jan. 11, based on closing prices.  7 Days Advances  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 0.2 percent after
a report showed that the world’s largest economy expanded less
than forecast in the fourth quarter. U.S. gross domestic product
grew 2.8 percent, trailing the median estimate for 3 percent
growth in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1 percent to $39.56.  Guangzhou, China-based budget-hotel operator  7 Days Group
Holdings Ltd.  advanced 6.2 percent to $14.93 as investors bet
that domestic demand will boost the sector even as a slowing
global economy deters tourists.  Home Inns & Hotels Management
Inc. , China’s largest operator of budget hotels based in
 Shanghai , jumped 3.5 percent $30.92.  “The consumer service sector seems to be pretty
resilient,” said  Adam Krejcik , an analyst at  Roth Capital
Partners  in  Newport Beach ,  California  that rates 7 Days a
“buy.” “We’ve become increasingly bullish on a lot of the
names after a pretty dramatic pullback last year. We tend to
believe that the worst is behind.”  Facebook IPO  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 2.7 percent in
the two trading days it was open this week. Mainland Chinese
markets were closed for all five days for the Lunar New Year
holiday.  Chinese  manufacturing  contracted in January for the second
time in three months, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before the purchasing managers’
index’s release on Feb. 1.  Renren, which runs a social networking site, surged as much
as 20 percent after the Wall Street Journal reported that
Facebook, the largest of the sites in the world, may file for an
initial public offering on Feb. 1, citing unidentified people.  Shares in Beijing-based Renren rose 17 percent to
$4.88, while  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which operates a service similar to
Twitter, jumped 11 percent to $69.14.  Facebook may be valued at $75 billion to $100 billion in an
IPO, the Journal reported. A Facebook share issue may increase
investors’ willingness to invest in Chinese companies that offer
similar services, said Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in
 New York .  “It just confirms that a lot of investors are interested
in this type of company,” He said. “People don’t want to be
late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  