-- Spain Halts Renewable Subsidies to Curb $31 Billion of Debts
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-01-27T16:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/spain-suspends-subsidies-for-new-renewable-energy-plants.html
Spain halted subsidies for renewable
energy projects to help curb its  budget deficit  and rein in
power-system borrowings backed by the state that reached 24
billion euros ($31 billion) at the end of 2011.  “What is today an energy problem could become a financial
problem,” Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said in Madrid.
The government passed a decree today stopping subsidies for new
wind, solar, co-generation or waste incineration plants.  The system’s debts were racked up as revenue from state-
controlled prices failed to cover the cost of delivering power.
Costs have swollen in the past five years because of an increase
in regulated payments for the  power grid , support for Spanish
coal mines and subsidies for renewable energy plants.  “It’s clear they have to make major cuts,” said Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores in Madrid. “The
government has already ruled out a significant increase in
prices, so the cuts will fall in many places and the spotlight
is on renewables, but not just on renewables.”  Renewables companies fell on the Spanish action.  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest wind-turbine maker, slid as much
as 2.9 percent in Copenhagen. Abengoa SA, a Spanish engineering
firm specializing in solar mirrors, dropped as much as 2.2
percent in Madrid and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the biggest renewable energy
producer based in Bilbao, declined as much as 1.5 percent.  First Step  Spain’s decision is a “first step” to rein in debts, and
officials are working on a broader package of measures, Soria
said. The nation isn’t planning a levy on hydropower or nuclear
plants, nor will it take on power-system liabilities, he said.  The Spanish action follows  Germany ’s announcement last week
that it would phase out support for solar panels by 2017 and the
U.K.’s legal battle to reduce its subsidies for the industry.  Spain was an early mover in developing renewables plants,
and support for  wind energy  helped Iberdrola become the world’s
biggest producer of clean power, with plants in the U.S. and
 Brazil . The industry sustains about 110,000 Spanish jobs,
according to the Renewable Energy Producers Association.  The government is wrestling with competing priorities as it
struggles to convince investors it can meet a target to cut the
budget deficit to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product this
year, from 8 percent last year, while trying to create jobs in a
country where 23 percent of workers are unemployed.  Horse Bolted  “This is shutting the stable door after the horse has
bolted,” said Peter Sweatman, chief executive officer of
consultant Climate Strategy. “The risk is that Spanish firms
that are recognized global leaders in renewable energy feel
their position undermined by lack of domestic support.”  Generating capacity is about twice  Spain ’s peak demand
following a boom in investment in solar panel installations and
combined-cycle gas-fired plants, while the country is ahead of
its targets for clean power production, Soria said. The
suspension won’t affect operating plants or projects that have
already been approved for subsidies by the government, he said.  “It’s a real positive for the developers, the owners of
assets, because it removes the risk of retroactive cuts,” said
Sean McLoughlin, a renewable energy analyst at HSBC Plc. “The
government could certainly have done that again when you think
of how much it’s costing them but have decided not to. This
suggests that the government is listening to the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  