-- Spanish Unemployment Reaching Highest in 15 Years Pressures Rajoy: Economy
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-27T11:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/spanish-unemployment-rises-to-22-9-.html
Spain ’s  unemployment  rate rose to
22.9 percent, the highest in 15 years, increasing pressure on
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to deliver on his election pledge
to create jobs in a shrinking economy.  The  unemployment rate  rose in the fourth quarter from 21.5
percent in the previous three months, the National Statistics
Institute in Madrid said today. That’s more than twice the euro-
region average and exceeds the median estimate of 22.2 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of seven  analysts .  Unemployment “is the main source of vulnerability of the
Spanish economy and this is something that we hope to start to
fix in the short term,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
today on Bloomberg Television in Davos,  Switzerland . “We have
to take a lot of decisions because there are some things that
don’t work properly in the labor market in Spain.”  Spain is home to a third of the euro region’s unemployed,
according to the European Union’s statistics office, which
estimates that half of young Spaniards are out of work. The
People’s Party government, which won the Nov. 20 election after
a campaign focused on jobs, has promised to overhaul labor and
wage rules in the next two weeks to prompt companies to hire.  The gloomy labor news comes as Rajoy prepares to attend a
Jan. 30 European Union summit that will focus on reviving the
region’s economy. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said on Jan. 24 that a “moderate recession” is
indicated in the first half as governments impose austerity
measures to trim deficits and reduce their debt loads.  Austerity Measures  The Spanish  economy  contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, the Bank of Spain estimated on Jan. 23, and may shrink
1.5 percent this year, pushing the unemployment rate to 23.4
percent.  “In this environment it’s questionable whether massively
increasing austerity measures is the right thing to do,”  Ben May , a European economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said
by telephone. “The key thing for the southern European
economies, the only way you’re going to see growth, is if they
aren’t forced to tighten fiscal policy significantly.”  The economic news from  Europe  isn’t all bad. Italy sold 11
billion euros ($14.5 billion) of Treasury bills today, meeting
its target. The Rome-based Treasury sold 8 billion euros of 182-
day bills at 1.969 percent, the lowest since May and down from
3.251 percent at the last auction of similar-maturity securities
on Dec. 28.  U.S. Growth  This continued a streak of successful short-term debt sales
by Italy, Portugal, Spain, France and Belgium, smoothed by 489
billion euros disbursed by the  European Central Bank  in
unlimited three-year loans to euro-region banks.  European struggles to boost growth while governments cut
spending contrasted with the U.S., where the economy probably
expanded in the fourth quarter at the fastest pace of 2011 as
 consumer spending  picked up and companies rebuilt stockpiles,
economists said before a report today.  Gross domestic product grew at a 3 percent annual pace
after advancing 1.8 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Household purchases, which account for about 70
percent of the economy, may have climbed 2.4 percent, the survey
showed.  ‘Long Slog’  “Confidence picked up to the point where consumers were in
a better mood to spend, but not splurge,” said  Sal Guatieri , a
senior U.S. economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “This
is a marked improvement from the growth we saw in the past four
quarters. It’s a long slog, but we’re gradually improving.”  In Asia, Japan’s retail sales grew at the fastest pace in
more than a year as a rebound in consumer spending propped up an
economy reeling from the March earthquake and a deepening export
slump.  Retail sales rose 2.5 percent in December from a year
earlier, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today, the biggest
advance since August 2010 and exceeding the 2.1 percent median
forecast of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Consumers are gradually regaining their appetite,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist in Tokyo at Itochu Corp.
“But we can’t rule out the possibility that declines in exports
and production due to the global economic slowdown will weaken
employment and incomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  