-- Spanair Halts Flights After Qatar Talks Fail, Government Lifeline Runs Out
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-01-28T16:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/spanair-files-for-bankruptcy-sas-says.html
Spanair SA, the Spanish airline
involved in a crash that killed 154 people in 2008, ceased
operations after  Qatar Airways Ltd. (105701QD)  halted takeover talks and
the regional government refused to provide further funding.  The final flight landed at about 10 p.m. yesterday, the
Barcelona-based carrier said in an e-mailed statement, citing
“a lack of financial visibility for the coming months.” The
closer may affect as many as 23,000 passengers this weekend and
will see 120 flights canceled, spokeswoman Sandra Melendez said.  “We were in a very advanced process of finding a financial
partner, but we were notified by the regional government that it
couldn’t finance our operations anymore and that Qatar wouldn’t
invest,” Chairman Ferran Soriano said on state-owned TVE.
Closing operations was “the most prudent and safe” decision,
he said. Closely held Spanair wouldn’t confirm a statement made
by former owner  SAS AB (SAS)  that it had filed for bankruptcy.  Spanair represents the first failure of a European airline
since the last recession ended in 2009, and follows other
carriers that have stopped operations in recent years, including
Air Madrid in 2006 and Air Comet in 2009. Regional authorities
in Spain are cutting spending to reduce debt as the nation
grapples with the euro area’s third-largest budget deficit.  ‘Stranded Passengers’  Spain’s unemployment rate rose to 22.9 percent in the
fourth quarter, the highest in 15 years. Catalonia, Spain’s
largest and second-most indebted region, has “done all in our
hands to save” Spanair, Artur Mas, the region’s president, said
in an interview on TVE.  Spanair, the fifth-largest airline by passengers in  Spain ,
is legally obliged to take care of travelers affected by the
closure and must produce a plan to help them, the country’s
development ministry said yesterday. Stranded passengers should
be relocated to other flights and have their tickets reimbursed,
Ileana Izverniceanu, spokeswoman for consumer-rights group OCU,
said in an interview on TVE.  Madrid and Barcelona airports are operating as normal and
two rooms have been set up and made available for affected
passengers, said a spokeswoman for airport operator Aena,
declining to be named in line with company policy.  Iberia, the Spanish unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , is offering special fares to Spanair
passengers, it said last night.  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG)  and Air
Europa are providing reduced fares, Spanair’s Melendez said.  ‘Seeking Protection’  Spain’s development ministry has started the procedure of
fining Spanair for two infringements of the nation’s Air
Security Law, it said in an e-mailed statement today. Those
fines could each be of as much as 4.5 million euros ($5.9
million), and the airline could lose its operating license, the
ministry said.  The Spanish airline, which has more than 2,000 employees,
is looking at options “including seeking protection from
creditors or filing for bankruptcy,” though no decision has yet
been made, Melendez said by phone today.  “The  airline industry  has become a game of big players
and Spanair was tremendously weak,” Francisco Salvador, a
Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said today by phone.
“Tough competition from carriers such as Vueling Airlines or
Ryanair and the Spanish economic crisis didn’t help either.”  Spanair, founded in 1986, operated from 15 Spanish airports
and had routes to  Europe ,  Africa  and the  Middle East . SAS, which
 sold  80 percent of the airline in March 2009 and now holds 11
percent, said in a statement it will write down the value of its
remaining stake by 1.7 billion Swedish kronor ($252 million).  Spanair carried 12.56 million passengers in 2011, making it
the fifth largest in a ranking led by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  with
34.17 million passengers, and followed by IAG’s Iberia, Vueling
and Air Europa Lineas Aereas SA, according to  Aena .  “Spanair should have merged with another airline as its
airplanes were too old and its brand image was completely
destroyed after the crash,” Salvador said. “This will be a
respite for Iberia and Vueling as they will gain market share
and avoid competition from Spanair’s price-aggressive
strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  