-- Spanair Considering Its Future as Qatar Airways Scraps Bid
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-01-27T19:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/spanair-considering-its-future-as-qatar-airways-scraps-bid-1-.html
Qatar Airways  Ltd., the second-
biggest Gulf carrier, pulled out of talks about a bid for
Barcelona-based Spanair, prompting it to call a board meeting to
consider its future, a spokesman for the European company said.  The regional government of Catalonia, or Generalitat de
Catalunya, informed Spanair that Qatar had withdrawn from
negotiations, Josep Garriga said today by phone. The government
indicated it may stop financing the business, he said.  “We’ve been in talks with airlines to add a strategic
partner,” Garriga said. “Qatar Airways, one of the companies
interested, isn’t interested anymore, according to Generalitat.”  An official in the economy department of the Catalonia
government said that Qatar Air had ended talks, while declining
to be identified, in line with policy. Current regulations cap
investment from beyond the European Union in a carrier based
there at 49 percent of stock. Qatar Air spokesman Updesh Kapur
declined to comment from the company’s base in Doha.  Spanair’s board is meeting today to decide the future of
the company, Garriga, said while declining to comment on whether
it will cease to operate. The carrier is preparing to inform
 Spain ’s civil aviation authorities of the suspension of
operations, the Efe newswire said in a report on the La
Vanguardia newspaper’s website, citing unidentified people.  SAS Sale  SAS AB (SAS) , the biggest Nordic carrier, sold 80.1 percent of
Spanair in March 2009 to a group of investors led by Consorci de
Turisme de Barcelona and Catalana d’Iniciatives, with a
subsequent capital injection reducing its holding to 11 percent.  Qatar Air Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said Jan.
19 that he had “identified” a European purchase or purchases to
add to an investment in Luxembourg-based Cargolux International
SA, the region’s largest specialist freight airline, last year.  Spain’s Expansion newspaper reported Oct. 27 that Qatar
Airways was mulling a bid for Spanair. Citing people close to
the Catalonian company, it said an offer might consist of cash
or planes to allow it to add long-haul services.  Al Baker  declined to comment further on Qatar’s takeover
ambitions yesterday during a visit to  London ’s  Heathrow airport .  “Whenever we talk about any airline, immediately their
share price rises, so I had better keep very quiet,” he told
reporters. “Options are always available to us and we will
always consider something which would really fit well.”  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways said Dec. 19 that it had
agreed to provide Air Berlin Plc with $350 million in equity
financing and funds for planes while lifting its stake in the
German discount carrier from 2.99 percent to 29.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  