-- Spies Spooking Britain Recall Spanish Inquisition: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/spies-spooking-britain-recall-spanish-inquisition-lewis-lapham.html
Britain has a high-tech surveillance
and data-collection system, with four million closed-circuit
television cameras monitoring activity from perches everywhere
-- in flower boxes, hotels and on roadways.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  According to Cullen Murphy, author of “God’s Jury: The
Inquisition and the Making of the Modern World,” much of the
current security apparatus is a legacy of the highly developed
Inquisition practices of the Catholic Church.  Under a British law passed in 2000, 474 local governments
and 318 agencies are allowed to follow people, listen in on
their phone calls, dig into their e-mail files and secretly
record their actions -- all on their own brief.  In 2008, a Dorset woman faced this kind of inquisition
simply because it was wrongly thought that she was sending her
children to a school outside her permitted district.  Security will tighten even more for the upcoming Olympics:
there will likely be Royal Air Force spy drones cruising above,
bomb-sniffing robots working the crowds and even a high-tech
“tunnel of truth” with facial-recognition software and high-
tech scanners that all participants will have to pass through.  I spoke with Murphy on the following topics:  1. Moral Certainty  2. Tools of Repression  3. Heretics, Jews, Muslims  4. Torture and Confession  5. Modern Security  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 