-- Standard Chartered’s Bindra Sees Hong Kong Hyperinflation Risk
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-27T16:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/standard-chartered-s-bindra-sees-hong-kong-hyperinflation-risk.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s pledge to
keep interest rates low through at least late 2014 creates a
risk of hyperinflation in  Hong Kong , said Jaspal Bindra,
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s chief executive officer for Asia.  Hong Kong’s currency peg to the dollar means it won’t be
able to counter an increase in growth and inflation that’s
already high because of  China , Bindra said in a meeting with
journalists today during the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland.  “It will have a very profound impact in Hong Kong,” he
said. “If you have near-zero interest rates when their
inflation is at over 6 or 7 percent given the China effect, and
their growth is, also thanks to China, at 6 or 7 percent, you’re
looking for hyperinflation.”  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee this week
voted to extend its pledge to keep  interest rates  low until at
least late 2014, compared with a previous date of the middle of
2013. Fed officials lowered their forecasts for economic growth
and price increases this year and in 2013 and set a long-term
goal of 2 percent inflation.  Bindra, who is based in Hong Kong, said that the Fed’s
policy could make dollars scarcer in markets like Indonesia and
South Korea, where local-currency interest rates are higher.  “There will be a higher premium on dollar borrowing from
the clients’ point of view, which will just make the liquidity
even scarcer than it is today in those markets,” he said.  Standard Chartered is based in  London  and earns most of its
profit in emerging markets. The bank trimmed its full-year
revenue-growth forecast last month because of Asian currencies’
depreciation against the dollar and said it planned to hire
2,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in Davos,  Switzerland , on 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Otis Bilodeau at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net  