-- Stanbic Leads Nigerian Banks Higher on Valuation Bets
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-01-27T16:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/stanbic-leads-nigerian-banks-higher-on-valuation-bets-1-.html
Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB) , a unit of
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , led other Nigerian banks higher as
investors bet a decline in stocks of the West African country’s
lenders has been overdone,  Renaissance Capital  said.  The shares gained 5 percent, the most since Dec. 16, to
6.98 naira by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos. “It has fallen to a
level where investors see it as being attractive,” Adesoji
Solanke, Lagos-based Africa bank analyst with RenCap, said by
phone today.  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) , a Nigerian lender that bought
Intercontinental Bank Plc, one of the lenders bailed out by the
 central bank  in 2009, gained 4.9 percent to 5.15 naira, its
highest value since Jan. 4, while Fidelity Bank Plc climbed 5
percent, its biggest daily rise since Dec. 21, to 1.47 naira.  There was “a surge” in demand for bank stocks as
investors are taking positions ahead of release of the lenders’
full-year results from the end of February, Solanke said.
Earnings are rising at Nigerian lenders after the country
implemented a banking reform following a debt crisis in 2008 and
2009 triggered by loans given to stock market speculators. The
central bank fired eight chief executives of the country’s 24
banks and set up the Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria  to buy
the debts and stabilize the banking sector. Amcon has acquired
3.14 trillion naira worth of debts, Chief Executive Officer
Mustafa Chike-Obi said Nov. 28.  The Central Bank of Nigeria introduced a December common
year-end for lenders in Africa’s most populous nation as part of
the reforms in the banking industry.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks the
performance of the 10 most capitalized lenders, gained 2
percent, its biggest daily rise since Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  