-- Sudan and South Sudan End Negotiations on Oil Dispute Without Agreement
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-01-27T17:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/sudan-and-south-sudan-end-negotiations-on-oil-dispute-without-agreement.html
South Sudan ’s president,  Salva Kiir ,
and Sudanese leader Umar al-Bashir failed to reach an agreement
to end an oil dispute between the two countries that led South
Sudan to start shutting down its crude production.  The negotiations are expected to continue at the Jan. 29-30
summit of the 54-nation  African Union  in Addis Ababa, Ethiopian
Prime Minister Meles Zenawi told reporters today in the capital.  “In general terms I believe there is quite a lot of
progress, but not enough for us to be able to clinch a deal
now,” Meles said. The failure of the talks means South Sudan’s
shutdown of oil production will continue, he said.  South Sudan has accused Sudan of seizing oil that passes
through its territory to an export terminal on the  Red Sea  and
has demanded $32 a barrel in transportation fees. South Sudan
offered $1 a barrel. Sudan says it is diverting the crude to
cover unpaid bills. Kiir said on Jan. 23 Sudan has “looted”
$815 million worth of his country’s oil.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
output of 490,000 barrels a day when it gained independence from
its northern neighbor in July. The crude is pumped mainly by
 China National Petroleum Corp. (136) , or CNPC, Malaysia’s  Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. (PET)  and India’s  ONGC Videsh Ltd. (ONGC)   The talks came after the African Union submitted a
proposal, backed by the U.S. and China, to both leaders
suggesting ways to end the dispute.  Chinese Imports  China  imported about 250,000 barrels a day, or more than 65
percent of total Sudanese oil exports, accounting for 5 percent
of the nation’s imports in 2010, according to  data  from the U.S.
Energy Department.  South Sudan said on Jan. 25 that it has stopped output at
more than 300 wells and there is “reduced production” at 600
more, cutting production to about 135,000 barrels per day from
275,000 barrels previously.  South Sudan’s “unilateral decision” to halt production
“can only be stopped if there is an agreement,” Meles said.  The shutdown of output so far in South Sudan may have
halted CNPC-operated production in Unity state, equivalent to
about 150,000 barrels per day, Philippe de Pontet, Africa
Director at New York-based Eurasia Group, said in a research
report yesterday.  South Sudan says its government depends on oil for about 90
percent of its revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  