-- Summers Says Developing Nations Should Educate Girls: Tom Keene
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-27T17:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/summers-says-developing-nations-should-educate-girls-tom-keene.html
Developing countries  seeking to
raise their standards of living should focus on educating girls,
former U.S. Treasury Secretary Larry Summers said.  “The most important investment in the developing world”
is “educating girls,” Summers said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene 
from Davos,  Switzerland .  Empowering women is “smart economics,” the  World Bank 
said in a report released in September. The study, which looks
at the progress of gender equality around the world, says it’s
in countries’ economic interest to increase women’s
opportunities because that in turn raises productivity and
improves children’s futures.  President Barack Obama may nominate Summers to lead the
World Bank when Robert Zoellick’s term expires later this year,
two people familiar with the matter said this month. Asked about
the World Bank job, Summers said today he was “very happy doing
just what I’m doing now, having a chance in independence to
participate in the public debates.”  Summers, who has served as World Bank chief economist and
president of  Harvard University , said that one lesson about
development economics is that “huge amounts of development
comes from the ground up.” Speaking from the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos, Summers also said there is a need for “modern
infrastructure which represents large capital investments.”  Rising Standards  “What should give a great deal of encouragement right now
is that you see more people see their standards of living rise
rapidly over the last decade than any time in human history and
that for some of the most disadvantaged regions of the world,”
Summers said.  Summers was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton
and director of the National Economic Council under Obama until
last year.  After leaving the Obama administration, Summers, 57,
returned to Harvard, where he’s a professor at the John F.
Kennedy School of Government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  