-- Summers Says U.S. Recovery Not Strong Enough to Return to Full Employment
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-27T09:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/summers-says-recovery-in-u-s-is-not-yet-at-escape-velocity.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers  said the recovery in the  U.S. economy  is underway,
though it is not yet at “escape velocity.”  “Recovery is reasonably well established,” he said in an
interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television in Davos,
Switzerland, today. “Is escape velocity -- at a sufficient rate
to get us back to full employment in a reasonable interval --
yet established, I think one would have to say the answer to
that question is no.”  U.S. gross domestic product probably expanded at the
fastest pace in 1 1/2 years as consumer spending picked up and
companies rebuilt stockpiles, economists said before a report
today. Still, Federal Reserve officials said this week they are
concerned about the economy’s lack of vigor two years after the
last recession ended, prompting a pledge to keep  interest rates 
low into 2014.  Summers spoke after data showed Spain’s  unemployment rate 
rose to 22.9 percent and as officials meeting at the World
Economic Forum’s annual conference discussed the prospects for
an end to the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe .  “You’re seeing U.S. growth accelerate even as European
growth is contracting,” Summers said, when asked if the U.S.
economy had decoupled from Europe. “Will our prospects be
better if Europe is able to contain its situation? Absolutely.”  ECB Praise  Summers, who was Treasury secretary under President  Bill
Clinton  and director of the National Economic Council under
President Barack Obama until last year, also said the  European
Central Bank ’s three-year loan program was a “substantial
step” in helping to ease strains in the region.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  “deserves great respect for the
way in which he’s pulled that off. It’s a mistake to lose sight
of the fact that substantial time has been bought,” he said.  The declines in Italian and Spanish bond yields show that
“near-term risks have been substantially contained,” he said.
“Is there a clear road to sustainable growth throughout the
eurozone in a fashion that’s likely to be economically and
politically harmonious? That is not yet in place.”  “It was necessary to stop hemorrhaging,” Summers said.
“Whether that will be sufficient to contain economic decline in
Europe remains very much in doubt. There are very substantial
headwinds from a weakening global economy, a weakening
periphery, fiscal austerity, from problems in the banking
system.”  The Commerce Department in  Washington  is due to publish the
fourth-quarter GDP report at 8:30 a.m. local time. The median
estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News is for the
economy to have grown at a 3 percent annual pace. Growth
estimates ranged from 2.4 percent to 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  