-- Swiss Bank Wegelin Agrees to Sale Amid U.S. Tax Crackdown
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2012-01-27T22:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/swiss-bank-wegelin-agrees-to-sale-amid-u-s-tax-crackdown-1-.html
Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old
Swiss private bank, agreed to a sale to  Switzerland ’s Raiffeisen
Group after coming under investigation in the U.S. for allegedly
helping Americans evade taxes.  The U.S. business, and the risks and responsibilities that
go with it, will remain with the current partners,  St. Gallen ,
Switzerland-based Wegelin said in an e-mailed statement today.
Wegelin, which describes itself as the oldest Swiss bank, didn’t
disclose the sale price.  “The immensely difficult and existence-threatening
situation into which the legal conflict with the U.S.
authorities brought us forces me and my long-term partner Otto Bruderer, together with all unlimited-liability partners, to
take this extremely painful action,” Konrad Hummler, the
managing partner of Wegelin, said in the statement.  Wegelin said earlier this month that three bankers were
charged with conspiring to help U.S. clients hide more than $1.2
billion from American tax authorities. The indictment came amid
U.S.-Swiss talks to resolve a U.S. probe of offshore  tax
evasion . Officials are seeking to reach a settlement with Swiss
banks and resolve criminal probes of 11 of them, including
Wegelin.  The U.S. attorney for Wegelin,  Richard Strassberg  of
Goodwin Procter LLP in  New York , declined to comment.  Tax Talks  “It’s regrettable that the oldest private bank of
Switzerland has to be confronted with the only solution to sell
itself to preserve the interests of its clients,”  Patrick Odier , chairman of the  Swiss Bankers Association , said in an
interview in Davos today.  Switzerland and the U.S. aim to conclude talks on the tax
matters by the end of the year, Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters yesterday in Davos, after a
meeting with her U.S. counterpart,  Timothy Geithner .  “The transaction shows how important it is to reach an
agreement on the untaxed assets soon,” Mario Tuor, spokesman
for Switzerland’s State Secretariat for International Financial
Matters, said by phone. “From the Swiss perspective, the sooner
we have an agreement, the better. Both the U.S. and Switzerland
want a quick solution, but not at any price.”  The majority of Wegelin’s clients and employees will be
transferred today into Notenstein Privatbank AG, which will be
taken over by Raiffeisen, according to the statement. The asset
management business of Wegelin will be transferred into 1741
Asset Management AG, it said.  Wooing U.S. Clients  The Swiss Raiffeisen Group consists of 328 cooperatively
structured Raiffeisen banks with a total of 1,106 branches in
the country, according to information on its website.  Raiffeisen’s purchase will add about 21 billion Swiss
francs ($22.9 billion) of assets under management from Wegelin,
of them at Swiss Bank A,’’ the indictment said. “Swiss Bank A
Chief Executive Officer Pierin Vincenz told journalists in
Zurich today. About 70 percent of the clients are Swiss and the
rest from  Europe , he said.  This month’s indictment, which didn’t identify Wegelin,
referring to ‘‘Swiss Bank A,” said the three bankers wooed U.S.
clients fleeing  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank. UBS avoided U.S.
prosecution in 2009 by admitting it aided tax evasion, paying
$780 million and handing over data on 250 accounts. It later
disclosed information on about 4,450 more accounts.  “In or about 2008, the managing partners affirmatively
decided to take advantage of the flight of U.S. taxpayers with
undeclared accounts by opening new undeclared accounts for many
opened new undeclared accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  