-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Rises
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-27T15:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/u-s-consumer-confidence-rises-to-75-0-from-69-9-in-january-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
more than forecast in January to the highest level in almost a
year, on signs of improvement in the job market.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final index  of
consumer sentiment climbed to 75 from 69.9 at the end of
December. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for 74, which matched the preliminary reading. The gauge
averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  A strengthening labor market and higher stock prices may be
boosting confidence, helping raise the odds that a pickup in
household spending will continue into this quarter. At the same
time, a sustained increase in gasoline prices and limited wage
gains may restrain sentiment.  “Rising equity prices will be the primary catalyst for
consumers’ better moods in the second half of January,”  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before the report. “Retail gasoline
prices and policy uncertainties will limit the increase in
confidence.”  Estimates for sentiment in the Bloomberg survey of 63
economists ranged from 72.5 to 76. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession.  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than forecast in the fourth
quarter as consumers curbed spending and government agencies cut
back, validating the  Federal Reserve ’s decision this week to
keep  interest rates  low for a longer period.  Fourth Quarter  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, climbed at a 2.8 percent annual following a 1.8
percent gain in the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3 percent increase. Growth
excluding a jump in inventories was 0.8 percent.  The Michigan survey’s index of  consumer expectations  for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of  consumer spending , rose to 69.1 this month, the highest since
May, from 63.6 in December.  The index of  current conditions , which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether they
consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
increased to an almost one-year high of 84.2 from 79.6 the prior
month.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.3 percent over the next 12 months, up from
3.1 percent in December.  Over the next five years, the range tracked by Fed policy
makers, Americans expect a 2.7 percent rate of inflation, the
same as in December.  Fed and Inflation  The  Federal Open Market Committee  this week committed to
holding inflation at 2 percent. “An important aspect of policy
transparency is clarity about policy objectives,” Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Jan. 25 press conference. “Clearly
communicating to the public this 2 percent goal for inflation
over the longer run should help foster  price stability  and
moderate long-term interest rates.”  Today’s report is in line with other confidence measures.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 46.4 in
the period ended Jan. 22 from a reading of minus 47.4 the prior
week.  A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline has increased since
falling to a 10-month low of $3.20 in December, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association. The
 unemployment rate  in December fell to 8.5 percent, the lowest
since February 2009, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 4.8 percent so far this year through yesterday.  Sustaining Purchases  Some companies say household sentiment is boosting
purchases.  “In the U.S., retail sales in the quarter were up double-
digits despite the challenging but slightly improving economic
environment,” John Olin, chief financial officer of Harley-
Davidson Inc., told a teleconference this week after the
Milwaukee-based motorcycle maker reported a fourth quarter
profit on stronger demand. “Sales in the U.S. during the
quarter were supported by strong product offerings, improved
 consumer confidence , and improved product availability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  