-- U.S. Asks Court to Affirm $7.2B Picower Deal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-30T16:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/u-s-asks-appeals-court-to-affirm-7-2-billion-picower-deal-over-madoff.html
(Corrects story published Jan. 27 to add “2010” after
“December” in fifth paragraph.)  The U.S. asked a federal appeals
court to affirm a $7.2 billion forfeiture by the Jeffry Picower
estate, to be used to compensate investors who lost money in
Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  A challenge by Adele Fox was “frivolous,” and it wouldn’t
serve justice to let her intervene in a deal that “in no way
impairs Fox’s rights,” the U.S. said in a court filing in  New
York . Fox, a former Madoff investor, sought to overturn the
settlement because it gave Madoff trustee Irving Picard priority
in dealing with the Picower estate, and barred her from suing
the estate herself.  Fox, in addition to making “irrelevant” arguments, is
“single-handedly holding up the distribution of more than $7.2
billion of funds to Madoff’s victims in desperate need of those
funds,” Matthew Schwartz, an assistant U.S. attorney, wrote in
yesterday’s filing. He asked the court to dismiss Fox’s appeal
of a lower-court ruling affirming the settlement.  Fox said she is among the Ponzi scheme’s so-called net
winners, who took out more money than they put in. The trustee
and the government have determined that “not a penny of the
forfeiture” by the Picower estate will go to her and other net-
winner investors, she said in her appeal.  Distributions Blocked  The appeal of the settlement struck in December 2010 means
that most of the $8.7 billion gathered by the trustee for
distribution to investors who lost money with the con man
remains tied up in court.  Picower, one of Madoff’s largest investors, may have
suspected the con man was running a  Ponzi scheme , according to
Picard. Picower drowned in 2009 and his estate forfeited the
money to the U.S. and Picard to settle the trustee’s claims.  Picard, a New York lawyer who filed more than 1,000
lawsuits seeking money for Madoff investors, has estimated
principal lost in the Ponzi scheme at more than $17 billion. He
and his  law firm ,  Baker & Hostetler LLP , have made at least $224
million in fees since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The case is U.S. v. $7.2 billion, 11-2898,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  