-- Mumbai’s Home Sales Decline to Three-Year Low as Record Prices Dent Demand
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-01-27T00:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/mumbai-s-home-sales-decline-to-three-year-low-as-record-prices-dent-demand.html
Mumbai’s residential home sales
dropped to a three-year low in the quarter ended December as
record home prices and higher  interest rates  crimped demand,
according to Liases Foras Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt.  Sales in Mumbai,  India ’s most expensive  property market ,
fell 17 percent from the previous quarter to 7.59 million square
feet, said  Pankaj Kapoor , founder of  Liases Foras . The city’s
unsold inventory, or the number of months needed to clear stock
at the existing absorption rate, climbed to 44 months. A
“healthy market” normally maintains about eight months of
inventory, according to Kapoor.  “The likely scenario looks like we will see a dip in
prices seeing the dismal sales and as liquidity remains tight,”
Kapoor said in a phone interview from Mumbai yesterday.  India’s central bank raised borrowing costs by a record 375
basis points in 13 moves from mid-March 2010 to help curb
inflation, hurting demand and investment. The  Reserve Bank  of
India also cut the nation’s growth forecast three days ago to 7
percent in the year through March from the 7.6 percent predicted
in October, after the economy expanded at the slowest pace in
nine quarters, based on the most recent government data.  The city’s unsold inventory climbed to a record 119.85
million square feet, according to Liases Foras, a Mumbai real
estate research company whose clients include  Housing
Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’s  largest mortgage  lender. The
weighted average selling price in Mumbai climbed to a record
10,558 rupees ($210) a square foot, the data showed.  ‘Sizeable Inventories’  The Mumbai housing market faced the risk of a price decline
last year, said Om Ahuja, chief executive officer of residential
services at the Indian unit of Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “Though developers are saddled with sizeable inventories
of both ready and under-construction stock, they continue to be
hesitant about announcing revised rates,” Ahuja said. Housing
demand in the city has been showing signs of weakness for the
last few quarters and this may continue, he said.  Bangalore and Chennai posted the  largest  sales increases
last quarter. Sales in Bangalore climbed 54 percent from three
months ended September to 14.16 million square feet, Kapoor said.
 Chennai (LIASCHSF)  sold 91 percent more homes at 7.44 million square feet,
he said, boosted by new projects and as buyers rushed to
purchase homes ahead of higher registration charges levied by
the state government. Both cities posted their highest quarterly
sales in at least three years, while prices remained little
changed from the earlier quarter.  Sales in the National Capital Region, which includes  New
Delhi  and its surrounding areas, gained 27 percent to 22.77
million square feet in the quarter, the data showed. The
weighted average selling price rose to 3,394.72 rupees a square
foot, 5 percent higher than the September quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  