-- UniCredit Investors Are Reaping Europe’s Best Return During Rights Offer
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-01-27T08:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/unicredit-investors-during-rights-offer-reap-europe-s-top-return.html
Investors who bought  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
shares and rights during the bank’s 7.5-billion euro ($9.9
billion) offering are reaping the biggest equity return among
the 50 largest companies in the euro region.  The Milan-based bank is the best performer in the  Euro
Stoxx 50 Index  since Jan. 10, gaining 67 percent. UniCredit
rights doubled in their 10 trading days through Jan. 20,
compared with an average gain of 5.5 percent for 1,160 European
securities with a market value above 500 million euros tracked
by Bloomberg.  Investors who bought the rights at the end of the first
day, Jan. 9, may record a 75 percent gain if they convert them
to shares at the Jan. 26 closing price, Bloomberg calculations
show. The bank will give preliminary figures about the outcome
of the offer as early as today after the close of Milan trading.  “It’s been a great opportunity and some investors saw
it,” said Matthias Fankhauser, a  fund manager  at Clariden Leu
in Zurich, which oversees about $100 billion in assets.
“UniCredit was lucky with its timing. It’s been a roller
coaster ride for them but looks like it’ll end well.”  Debt Crisis  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni , 56, bet
investors would recognize that the bank’s valuation, which hit a
23-year low this month, didn’t reflect its potential after
investors’ confidence rose following the European Central Bank’s
record cash injections last month. UniCredit turned to the
market for the third time in as many years after the  European
Banking Authority  in December said it needed to boost capital by
about 8 billion euros.  Italian bond yields traded near a record high on Jan. 4,
when UniCredit announced that it would offer the shares at a 43
percent discount to entice investors. Italian bonds rose
yesterday, pushing 10-year yields to the lowest level in seven
weeks after the country sold its maximum target at an auction of
zero-coupon and inflation-linked debt.  “We bought both shares and rights on the market during the
first days of the offer,” said Stefano Girola, who oversees 3
billion euros at Albertini Syz & Co. in Milan. “The performance
before the offering was a disaster and the stock traded at
depressed multiples, so the valuation was appealing to us. We
were right, the stock rose and now it’s fairly valued.”  Rating Upgrades  UniCredit’s gain was also helped by at least seven upgrades
by analysts during the rights trading period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Most of them cited the shares’ slump in
previous weeks as reason for the recommendation.  Foreign institutional investors including Aabar Investments
PJSC, the Abu Dhabi-based sovereign-wealth fund, and Capital
Research & Management Co., a Los Angeles-based investment fund,
were among firms which bought the shares.  Aabar, which held a 5 percent stake before the offer,
boosted that to 6 percent and announced Jan. 17 it would
increase it to 6.5 percent, making it UniCredit’s biggest
investor, according to the lender’s website. Capital Research
more than doubled its stake to 5.4 percent.  The rights, which entitled holders to buy two new shares in
UniCredit for 1.943 euros each, slumped 65 percent on the first
day of trading on Jan. 9, from their indicative price at the end
of the previous week. They then jumped 477 percent to close at
2.712 euros at the end of its trading period on Jan. 20.  U-Turn  UniCredit’s shares saw a similar U-turn. The stock on Jan.
9 traded at a tenth of the reported value of the bank’s assets
minus liability, a valuation ratio known as price-to-book. That
was the lowest level since at least 1998 and a fifth of the
price of the Stoxx 600 Banks Index, according to Bloomberg data.
The shares then rose 67 percent since the offered started to
3.82 euros yesterday. The bank was down 3.5 percent to 3.69
euros at 9:46 a.m. in Milan.  Ocado Group Plc posted the biggest gain, 51 percent, for
the 1,160 securities with a market value more than 500 million
euros between Jan. 9 and Jan. 20. The average year-to-date for
the group is 7 percent.  The Stoxx 600 has gained 4.4 percent since its 2012 low on
Jan. 9 as  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  offered
unlimited three-year cash to banks at 1 percent and the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it may buy additional bonds to help
stimulate growth.  Cheap Valuation  UniCredit’s cheap valuation also attracted Italian
entrepreneurs. Diego Della Valle, the founder and CEO of luxury
goods company Tod’s SpA, may have bought about 2 percent of
UniCredit during the same period, newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  said
on Jan. 24. A spokeswoman for Della Valle declined to comment on
the report. Alessandro Proto Consulting bought a 0.8 percent
stake and said it may boost the holding to 1.3 percent.  Some existing shareholders in the bank didn’t buy rights
because they’re short of cash following UniCredit’s third stock
sale in as many years. Banco di Sicilia’s foundation, which owns
a 0.3 percent stake in UniCredit, didn’t take part in the sale,
la Repubblica reported Jan. 8, citing Chairman Giovanni Puglisi.  Fondazione Cariverona, which holds 4.2 percent, said last
month that it wouldn’t purchase the full share of its rights,
diluting the holding to 3.5 percent.  Libya ’s central bank also
didn’t buy stock because it wants to invest funds at home, Ali
Shanbish, head of planning at the central bank, said in an
interview Jan. 22. The bank owns 5 percent of UniCredit.  The rights offer is fully underwritten by a group of 26
banks led by  Charlotte , North-Carolina based  Bank of America
Corp.  and Milan-based  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  