-- Tunisia May Sell Debt to Qatar, Needs $5 Billion Financing
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-27T17:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/tunisia-may-sell-debt-to-qatar-needs-5-billion-in-financing.html
Tunisian Central Bank Governor
Mustapha Kamel Nabli said his country may sell $500 million in
dollar-denominated treasury bills to Qatar as it seeks to secure
about $5 billion in external financing this year.  Tunisia, the birthplace of the so-called Arab Spring, will
also rely on assistance from the  World Bank , the  African
Development Bank  and the European Investment Bank to help plug a
balance of payments deficit of about 7 percent of economic
output this year, Nabli said today in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .  “It’s a fragile situation,” he said. “We have a lot of
concerns. We need growth to come back. We need employment to
come back.”  One year after its popular uprising, partly triggered by
unemployment, Tunisia has an  unemployment rate  that Nabli said
was more than 18 percent. While he said he “hopes” economic
growth will accelerate to 3 to 4.5 percent this year, the pace
of growth will only lead to “weak”  job creation , he said.  Tunisia will repay its 7.375 percent $650 million dollar
bond due April 2012, Nabli said, as it seeks to “avoid”
selling international bonds after rating companies lowered its
credit worthiness following the revolt.  The yield on the bonds fell 36 basis points, or 0.36
percentage point, this year to 3.37 percent today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Tunisia’s credit rating was lowered
two levels at  Standard & Poor’s  in March 2011 to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade.  “The international markets aren’t in a good situation
right now,” Nabli said. “Our rating has been downgraded, so
the cost for us will be relatively high, so if we can avoid it,
it would be better.”  Instead, the Qatari government may buy $500 million in a
“private placement” of dollar-denominated treasury bills,
Nabli said. Asked when he expects the sale, he said: “In two to
three months.”  Tunisia relies on tourism, foreign direct investment and
exports to  Europe  for economic growth, which ground to halt last
year, according to International Monetary Fund forecasts.  “There is a lot of uncertainty on the growth rate,” Nabli
said. “We know that the European economy is not doing so well,
which is critical for our exports, our tourism. We know that
International foreign direct investment isn’t very active these
days. We have headwinds in front of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Davos, Switzerland at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  