-- Lira Rallies for Third Day, Bonds Rise on Greek Deal Prospects
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-27T16:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/turkish-lira-appreciates-third-day-in-istanbul-trade.html
The lira advanced for a third day
and bonds gained after stronger prospects of a deal on Greek
debt and a Bank of America Merrill Lynch call to buy Turkish
bonds lifted investor sentiment.  The Turkish currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 1.7841 per
dollar as of 5:01 p.m. in Istanbul, raising its weekly gains to
2.5 percent. A close at this level would be highest since
November 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year benchmark debt fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 9.60 percent, extending yesterday’s 75
basis points drop to a weekly 91 basis fall, the biggest on
record, according to a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index. Yields
declined after the Federal Reserve forecast “exceptionally
low”  interest rates  through 2014 and signaled it may embark on
another round of quantitative easing.  The authorities are “very close” to reaching an agreement
on a private-sector involvement in  Greece  this month, European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.
Italian borrowing costs fell at today’s 8 billion euros ($11
billion), 182-day bill auction.  Turkey  sells roughly half of its
exports to European countries. A stronger lira may help subdue
Turkey’s burgeoning inflation, which at 10.5 percent in December
was the highest in three years and double the central bank’s
target.  “Foreigners are entering our market as the euro rallies
after the good result in Italian auction and Greek deal,”
Burcin Metin, chief currency trader at ING Bank AS, said in e-
mailed comments from Istanbul.  Signal From Fed  Turkish bonds may perform even stronger if the lira
strengthens, Dmitri Barinov, who helps manage about $2.3 billion
in emerging European debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  The lira advanced 0.4 percent to 2.34 per euro today. “If
the lira strengthens to 2.20 or beyond then many will speculate
on disinflation dynamics to speed up.” A stronger lira may push
back inflation to 7 percent, Barinov said.  A signal from the Fed in favour of quantitative easing may
be “decisive” in attracting buyers back to the market, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said, recommending investors buy the
Turkish bonds.  The country’s current-account deficit has already peaked
and will narrow over 2012 as economic growth slows, strategists
including Arko Sen said in a report dated yesterday. The deficit
fell in November for the first time in two years, bringing the
cumulative 12-month total to $77.8 billion, still equivalent to
about 10 percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  