-- Murray Takes 2-1 Lead Over Djokovic in Semifinal of Australian Tennis Open
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-27T12:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/murray-takes-2-1-lead-over-djokovic-in-semifinal-of-australian-tennis-open.html
No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  of Britain
won the third set 7-6 (7-4) over top-seeded Novak Djokovic to
take the lead in their Australian Open semifinal.  Murray is winning 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4). The victor plays
 Rafael Nadal  in the Jan. 29 final.  The third set stayed on serve until 1-1, when Murray broke
Djokovic to take his first lead of the match, which pushed over
the two-hour mark. Djokovic broke right back, and they stayed on
serve, with Murray saving three set points to get it to 5-5. The
6-foot 3-inch righthander broke Djokovic after a long rally, but
was unable to keep his serve, hitting a backhand wide.  The set went to a tiebreak, which Murray won on his second
set point when Djokovic’s forehand return went wide.  Murray lost his serve in the opening game of the second
set, and then broke back in a 12-minute game to make it 2-2. The
24-year-old’s 133-mile-an-hour serve forced a weak return from
the Serb that the British No. 1 was able to slam back. He broke
Djokovic again to go up 4-2 but then double faulted to give the
Serb the advantage, which he took to make it 4-3.  In a game that featured a 41-shot rally and a 28-shot
rally, Murray broke him again and served for the set. He was
down two break points, got them back and won when the 24-year-
old Serb couldn’t return his serve.  In the first set, Murray double-faulted in the fourth game
to give the top-seed a 3-1 lead, and then broke right back with
a backhand that hit the line. Murray then lost his serve at love
to allow the Serb to take a 4-2 lead. The 6-foot 2-inch’s third
ace gave him a 5-2 lead, then Murray held serve. Djokovic used
his forehand to dominate the final game.  Nadal Wins  Nadal defeated  Roger Federer  yesterday to reach the
Australian Open final for the first time since he won the title
three years ago.  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and  Victoria Azarenka 
of Belarus will play for the women’s title Jan. 28.  Djokovic is trying to win his third consecutive Grand Slam
title, after defeating Nadal in the championship matches at
Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open .  Murray, the runner-up in the past two years in  Melbourne ,
has yet to win a Grand Slam title. The Scot, also a finalist at
the 2008 U.S. Open, hired eight-time major winner  Ivan Lendl  as
his coach at the start of the year and promptly won a tune-up
event for the Australian Open in Brisbane.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  