-- Murray Wins Second Set Against Djokovic to Tie Australian Open Semifinal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-27T10:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/murray-wins-second-set-against-djokovic-to-tie-australian-open-semifinal.html
No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  of Britain
won the second set 6-3 to even his Australian Open semifinal
with top-seeded Novak Djokovic.  Djokovic won the first set 6-3. The winner of today’s match
plays  Rafael Nadal  in the Jan. 29 final.  Murray lost his serve in the opening game of the second
set, and then broke back in a 12-minute game to make it 2-2.
Murray’s 133-mile-an-hour serve forced a weak return from the
Serb that the British No. 1 was able to slam back. He broke
Djokovic again to go up 4-2 but then double faulted to give the
Serb the advantage, which he took to make it 4-3.  In a game that featured a 41-shot rally and a 28-shot
rally, Murray broke him again and served for the set. He was
down two break points, got them back and won when Djokovic
couldn’t return his serve.  In the first set, Murray double-faulted in the fourth game
to give top-seed Djokovic a 3-1 lead, and then broke right back
with a backhand that hit the line. Murray then lost his serve at
love to allow the Serb to take a 4-2 lead. Djokovic’s third ace
gave him a 5-2 lead, then Murray held serve. Djokovic used his
forehand to dominate the final game.   Nadal defeated  Roger Federer  yesterday to reach the
Australian Open final for the first time since he won the title
three years ago.  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and  Victoria Azarenka 
of Belarus will play for the women’s title Jan. 28.  Djokovic is trying to win his third consecutive Grand Slam
title, after defeating Nadal in the championship matches at
Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open .  Murray, the runner-up in the past two years in Melbourne,
has yet to win a Grand Slam title. The Scot, also a finalist at
the 2008 U.S. Open, hired eight-time major winner Ivan Lendl as
his coach at the start of the year and promptly won a tune-up
event for the Australian Open in Brisbane.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  