-- Muslims’ Journey to Mecca Traced in London Show: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-01-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/muslims-sacred-journey-to-mecca-traced-in-london-exhibit-martin-gayford.html
The new exhibition at the  British
Museum  in  London , “Hajj: Journey to the Heart of Islam,”
focuses on one of the greatest religious events on earth.  More than 2.5 million people now make the annual pilgrimage
to Mecca. This is an extraordinary and fascinating phenomenon.
It’s also a difficult one to examine in a display such as this.
The result is heavy on information, and visually austere.  There are some wonders for the eye. At the beginning, you
encounter a sumptuous late 19th century “Mahmal,” or
ceremonial palanquin, which was carried on a camel in the
pilgrim caravan. This is like a little square tent, with a
pyramidal roof, made of scarlet silk with a Koranic verse
embroidered around it in gold.  Atmospheric archive film shows it -- or one like it --
being borne in procession from Cairo in the early 20th century.
Some of the most evocative exhibits are old photographs of
pilgrims, their journeys and the sacred structure at Mecca.  Some of these document the Hijaz Railway, built in the last
days of the Ottoman empire, and sabotaged by Lawrence of Arabia
during World War I. It led originally from Damascus, where an
amazing station survives, to Medina, though the final 400-mile
section to Mecca was never completed.  At the center of the exhibition, there are more spectacular
textiles. Among these is a section of the “kiswa,” or outer
covering of the Ka’ba, the ancient, black cuboid structure
around which every pilgrim must walk anti-clockwise seven times
as an essential element of the Hajj.  Sacred Geography  This section of the “kiswa” is itself a lustrous black-
on-black silk, which has -- to those who cannot read the pious
texts it bears in Arabic -- an abstract beauty. The same applies
to some of the titles and paintings of the sanctuary at Mecca
and the Holy Places, more exercises in sacred geography than
representations of real topography.  I can’t help thinking that these things are accompaniments
to the pilgrimage rather than the thing itself, which is a
spiritual undertaking not easily conveyed by objects and images.
Perhaps a closer approach is made by minimalist contemporary
works such as “Magnetism” by the Saudi artist Ahmed Mater.
This consists of a black Ka’ba-shaped magnet, surrounded by
swirling iron filings, a metaphor for the crowds of pilgrims.  The fact is that this is an experience closed, quite
literally, to non-believers. Another contemporary exhibit, “The
Road to Makkah” (2011) by Abdulnasser Gharem, consists of a
painting of a road sign indicating straight-ahead for Muslims,
and an alternative route for others, who have not been allowed
into Medina or Mecca since the earliest years of Islam.  Testing Limits  I salute the BM curators for trying to mount something such
as this, yet I think they are reaching the limits of what an
exhibition can do. Museums are essentially repositories of
objects. Admittedly, much of the collection of the BM was
originally part of the structure or decoration of churches,
mosques and temples. In a museum, however, their primary meaning
changes from religious to artistic and historical.  In a way, it isn’t any of the exhibits that best
communicate what the Hajj is about, but the recorded voices of
pilgrims describing their experience that you hear at the end.  “Hajj: Journey to the Heart of Islam” is at the  British
Museum , London, through April 15. Information:
 http://www.britishmuseum.org .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 