-- Wade’s Third-Term Vote Bid Faces Court Test as Protests Mount
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-01-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/wade-s-third-term-vote-bid-faces-court-test-as-protests-mount.html
Senegal ’s  Constitutional Court  may
rule today on whether President  Abdoulaye Wade  can extend his
term in office as protests against his re-election bid mount.  The Dakar-based court has until Jan. 29 to announce its
decision on the eligibility of all candidates for the Feb. 26
presidential vote, Pape Dieng, spokesman for the presidency,
said in a telephone interview from the city on Jan. 25.  Wade, 85, has fueled criticism in the former French colony
with his bid to stay in power for a third term. The president
has said his tenure between 2000 and 2007 shouldn’t count as
rules on  term limits  weren’t implemented then. The
Constitutional Court is headed by Cheikh Tidiane Diakhate, a
supporter of Wade, according to James Clinton Francis, a sub-
Saharan Africa researcher with Eurasia Group Ltd. in  Washington .  The court “is likely to rule in Wade’s favor,” Francis
said in an e-mailed response to questions on Jan. 25. “I would
be surprised if Diakhate ruled against Wade, given the
increasing politicization of the Constitutional Court.”  The court will also decide on the validity of presidential
contestants including singer Youssou N’Dour, former Wade prime
ministers Macky Sall and Idrissa Seck, and Cheikh Tidiane Gadio,
a former foreign minister.  Political protests have been banned until the outcome of
the court ruling, according to Dieng. An attempt by Wade to
lower the proportion of the vote needed to win a first-round
ballot led to two days of protests in June.  ‘We’re Fed Up’  Alioune Tine, leader of Mouvement 23, a group of political
and social organizations, vowed to defy the ban, calling for
protests in Dakar today. Y’en a Marre, a political grouping
meaning ‘we’re fed up’ in colloquial French, plans to wait for
the court ruling before deciding on protest action, said Fadel
Barro, a member of the group.  Wade said in an interview published by the London-based
 Financial Times  yesterday that he will stand down if the court
rules against him, though “there are millions of people who
support me.”  Under Wade’s leadership, Senegal, which has a $13 billion
economy, has been boosting investment in infrastructure ranging
from power plants to roads. Senegal’s 8.75 percent Eurobonds,
due 2012, rose for a third day, adding 0.6 percent to 99.433
cents on the dollar late yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The economy is mainly dependent on agriculture. Luxembourg-
based  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, is digging
an iron ore mine in Senegal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Johannesburg at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  