-- Wal-Mart Breaks Tradition by Changing Role of Its Greeters
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-28T00:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/wal-mart-to-pull-greeters-from-store-lobbies.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will begin
moving greeters into its stores from the lobbies, ending a long
tradition of having customers see employees as soon as they
enter the building.  The greeters will be moved near the cash registers to
direct shoppers to products or shorter checkout lines,  David Tovar , a spokesman for the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company,
said today in an interview.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has used greeters
since 1980, when founder  Sam Walton  decided they would make his
low-price stores friendly and welcoming. The move shows that
Wal-Mart is rethinking many longstanding practices as it tries
to boost profit margins and same-store sales.  During the past six months, Wal-Mart reassigned greeters at
its 3,000 U.S. supercenters from the third shift, which runs
from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. The company has been looking for ways to
increase productivity and save money to protect margins and keep
prices on its products low.  Greeters at different stores have been told for the past
two days that they will be reassigned, said Janna Pea, a
campaign specialist with the United Food and Commercial Workers
Union, which assists a group of employees called  Organization
United for Respect at Walmart .  Inside the Store  Jerome Allen, a greeter at a Wal-Mart in  Fort Worth ,  Texas ,
said he was told by store management about midday on Jan. 26
that he would be moved inside the store in February. He will be
asked to direct customers around the store instead of greeting
them up front.  “They said we won’t be people greeters anymore,” Allen
said in a phone interview. “We will be in the store helping
people.”  Allen, who is a member of Organization United for Respect
at Walmart, said the company can cut costs by giving greeters
more work inside the stores. At his location, Wal-Mart has been
reducing hours of some associates. By sending greeters into the
stores, they can do some work formerly done my other employees
and save wages, he said.  “I’m going to be doing part of the associates’ work,”
Allen said. “They have been cutting hours left and right.”  Tovar said Wal-Mart is making the move to improve  customer
service . The employees still will be able to greet customers.
They also can help people find products and direct them to an
open register or a shorter line, he said.  “It’s a better position inside the store,” Tovar said.
“The greeters will be able to assist customers in more
effective ways. Whether they are coming in the door or are 15
feet away, they will still be able to greet people.”  Allen said greeters may be doing less greeting. He said he
was told he will be in high-traffic areas like electronics,
which is located far from the main door.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  