-- Corn Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain in 5 Weeks; Soybeans Little Changed
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-01-27T14:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/wheat-drops-on-speculation-global-stockpiles-big-enough-to-absorb-shocks.html
Corn advanced, heading for the
biggest weekly gain in five, as concerns that a renewed heat
wave in  Argentina  may damage crops boosted demand for U.S.
grain. Soybeans were little changed.  The weather pattern known as La Nina has brought hot, dry
conditions to Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, scorching recently
planted crops. Temperatures will exceed 40 degrees Celsius (104
degrees Fahrenheit) in some of Argentina’s corn-growing areas
through Feb. 2, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said
yesterday. Rain will be scarce in most areas, said climatologist
Eduardo Sierra.  “The market is certainly worried,” said Nick Higgins, an
analyst at Rabobank International in London. “In the
$6.40-$6.50 a bushel range the market is accounting for
substantial reductions in the 11/12 corn crop for  South
America .”  Corn for March-delivery advanced 0.8 percent to $6.3925 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade by 1:56 p.m. in London. The
most-traded contract is set for a 4.5 percent gain this week,
the biggest weekly advance since the week to Dec. 23. Futures
rose 2 percent last week.  “U.S. exports sales have started to rebound recently,”
 Tobias Merath , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG’s private
banking unit, said in a report today. “Yesterday’s weekly
numbers confirmed this turnaround, thus easing concerns that
U.S. markets could end up with a sizable surplus.”  Argentina’s corn harvest may be curbed to 21.4 million
metric tons in the year starting March, from a record 23 million
tons a year earlier, Liliana Balbi, an economist at the United
Nations Food & Agriculture Organization, said Jan. 18.  South Korean Tender  Nonghyup Feed Inc.,  South Korea ’s biggest buyer of feed
grains, issued a tender to import as much as 250,000 tons of
corn for delivery in May and June.  Japan  bought 150,191 tons of
milling wheat from the U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia  in a regular
tender today, the lowest volume in two weeks.  Wheat for March delivery was little changed at $6.525 a
bushel in Chicago, set for a weekly advance of 6.9 percent.
Milling wheat for March delivery was 0.4 percent lower at 208.50
euros ($273.20) a ton on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  Ukraine’s winter crops are mostly protected from falling
temperatures by an insulating layer of snow, French farm adviser
Agritel reported. Sub-zero temperatures in Russia and Ukraine
next week may threaten winter-wheat crops, as some areas don’t
have enough snow cover to prevent damage, said David Streit, a
meteorologist at Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Soybeans for March delivery were little-changed at $12.2275
a bushel, set for a 3 percent gain this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  