-- Obama Pushes Payroll Tax Cut as GDP Growth Trails Forecasts
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-27T19:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/white-house-pushes-payroll-tax-cut-as-gdp-growth-rate-slows.html
The White House called anew for
passage of a payroll  tax cut  extension after the government
reported less-than-expected growth in the economy in the fourth
quarter of 2011.  Extending the tax break until the end of 2012 is “the most
pressing matter” on President Barack Obama’s agenda, spokesman
 Jay Carney  said. The break is set to expire Feb. 29.  Obama said that while economic growth needs to improve, the
country is “moving in the right direction.”  “We righted the ship, we did not tip into a Great
Depression,” Obama told Democratic members of the U.S. House at
a meeting today in  Maryland .  Obama has been attacked by his Republican rivals for a weak
economy, including a  jobless rate  of 8.5 percent that must come
down or it will dim Obama’s chances for re-election.  The only U.S. president re-elected since World War II with
a jobless rate above 6 percent was  Ronald Reagan . The
unemployment rate on Election Day 1984 was 7.2 percent, having
dropped almost 3 percentage points in the previous 18 months.  The Commerce Department reported today the economy expanded
2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, less than forecast, as
consumers trimmed spending and government agencies cut back.  Make or Break  “This is a make-or-break moment for the middle class, and
those who are struggling to get into the middle class,” said
Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers, in a statement. “While the continued expansion is
encouraging, faster growth is needed to replace the jobs lost in
the recent downturn and to reduce long-term unemployment,” he
said.  The economy must grow at an annual rate of 2.5 percent or
more to reduce the  unemployment rate , most economists say.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, climbed at a 2.8 percent annual pace following a 1.8
percent gain in the prior quarter, figures showed. The median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 3 percent increase.  The Commerce Department said it was the economy’s 10th
straight quarter of growth.  Obama, campaigning in  Michigan , appealed today to Congress
for action on jobs and job training.  The government should help make sure America is “selling
stuff all around the world, products stamped with those three
proud words ‘Made in America,’” Obama said at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .  Obama was capping a three-day swing through Iowa, Arizona,
Nevada, Colorado and Michigan.  ‘Escape Velocity’  The economy is reviving four years after the start of the
recession, “though we’ve not yet reached escape velocity,”
said Adam Hersh, an economist at the Center for American
Progress in Washington.  The economy is $96 billion larger than December 2007 when
the recession began, he said.  The Fed said Jan. 25 it plans to keep  interest rates  low
through at least late 2014. The central bank is considering more
bond purchases to boost growth, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said.  “We’ve got some momentum but growth is too slow and
there’s still too much fragility and too much slack in the
system,”  Jared Bernstein , former chief economist to Vice
President Joe Biden, said in an interview. “Headwinds persist,
and I worry about an oil-price spike. And stimulus is fading
big-time.”  No Champagne  Risks include  Europe ’s debt crisis, potential shock from an
unforeseen terror attack or natural disaster, confidence of
consumers who account for 70 percent of the economy or political
intransigence in  Washington  over extending the  payroll tax  cut
to the end of the year, he said.  “There’s no question that would hurt near-term growth,”
said Bernstein said. The 2.8 percent is “a decent pop” but
“we shouldn’t get anywhere near the champagne.”  For 2011 as a whole, GDP rose by 1.7 percent, raising the
level of real GDP after inflation 0.7 percent more than where it
was at the start of the recession in the fourth quarter of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  