-- Twitter Gives Itself Added Flexibility to Censor
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-28T01:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/twitter-gives-itself-added-flexibility-in-censoring-messages-1-.html
Twitter Inc. , the microblogging
service, gave itself extra flexibility to censor information in
parts of the world that impose restrictions on self-expression.  Effective yesterday, Twitter added the ability to censor
tweets on a country-by-country basis, rather than globally, the
San Francisco-based company said in a blog  post .  As Twitter expands, it gains a deeper toehold in countries
that have what it called “different ideas about the contours of
freedom of expression.” Twitter said the changes would let it
withhold a posting, or tweet, in a country where a particular
kind of content is banned. It cited France and  Germany , which
ban pro-Nazi propaganda.  “Twitter needs global expansion,” said  Jeremiah Owyang ,
an analyst at Altimeter Group in  San Mateo ,  California .  The shift would let Twitter comply with strictures in one
country without having to pull offending tweets from its entire
audience. Previously, Twitter banned offensive content on a
global basis, rather than for a specific nation. Still, the
decision drew criticism from some users because the service has
been used as an agent of social change around the world,
including the  Middle East .  Twitter will attempt to let the user know if a tweet is
censored and will clearly mark when the content has been
blocked, it said in the blog.  Twitter Blackout  Some Twitter users are calling for a boycott of the service
tomorrow in protest of the decision. They’re using
“#TwitterBlackout” as a hash tag -- a label that lets people
easily find tweets on the same topic.  Reporters Without Borders , an organization that seeks to
defend freedom of information, also said it was disturbed by
Twitter’s decision.  “We urge you to reverse this decision, which restricts
freedom of expression and runs counter to the movements opposed
to censorship that have been linked to the Arab Spring, in which
Twitter served as a sounding board,” the organization said in a
letter to Jack Dorsey, chairman of Twitter. “Twitter is
depriving cyberdissidents in repressive countries of a crucial
tool for information and organization.”  Twitter, with more than 100 million users, is grappling
with more scrutiny about how it handles user content. Twitter
said yesterday it was preparing to add the languages of Arabic,
Farsi, Hebrew and Urdu. The company said it hasn’t yet used the
ability to censor by country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  