-- Woods, McIlroy Two Shots Back of Leader Olesen at Abu Dhabi Golf
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/woods-mcilroy-two-shots-behind-leader-olesen-at-abu-dhabi-golf-tournament.html
Tiger Woods  and Rory McIlroy trail
leader Thorbjorn Olesen by two strokes entering the third round
of the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship.  Olesen, of Denmark, shot a 5-under 67 yesterday and is 7
under for the tournament at Abu Dhabi Golf Club. Italy’s Matteo
Manassero, who had yesterday’s low score of 65, and England’s
Gareth Maybin, with a 70, are one shot back at 6 under at the
midway point.  McIlroy, who shared the first-round lead with Sweden’s
 Robert Karlsson , had a 72 to stay at 5 under. The U.S. Open
champion from  Northern Ireland  took a two-stroke penalty on the
ninth hole for brushing away sand that wasn’t on the putting
surface.  “Just wasn’t thinking,” McIlroy, No. 3 in the  Official
World Golf Ranking , told reporters. “Turned a routine 4 into a
6 there.”  Woods, McIlroy’s playing partner, had five birdies and two
bogeys in a round of 69. He had a chance to tie Olesen after
birdies on the 11th, 12th and 15th holes, but bogeyed No. 16
after driving into the rough.  “I’m only two back,” said Woods, who’s making his season
debut. “We have 36 holes to go and there’s a lot of guys that
have got a chance to win this  golf tournament , so certainly I
need to do my job and progress up that leaderboard and see what
happens.”  Top-ranked Luke Donald of England, playing in the group
with McIlroy and Woods, shot a 72 and is tied for 32nd place at
1 under. Second-ranked  Lee Westwood  of England stayed at even
par with a second 72 and is tied for 40th.  Karlsson is among four others tied with Woods and McIlroy
after a 72. Spain’s  Sergio Garcia , Ireland’s Padraig Harrington
and Masters champion Charl Schwartzel of South Africa are part
of a group at 1 under.  Fourth-ranked  Martin Kaymer  of Germany, the two-time
defending champion, shot a 73 and finished at 6 over to miss the
cut for weekend play by four strokes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  