-- Words Not Spoken in Obama State of Union Speak Volumes Too: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-27T01:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/words-not-spoken-in-obama-state-of-union-speak-volumes-too-view.html
By now, his  critics , his  defenders 
and a few  in between  have had their way with what the president
said Tuesday in his  State of the Union address . But what didn’t
the president say?  This was Barack Obama’s speech, and what he left out is as
revealing as what he put in it. After all, the State of the
Union is a statement of priorities. On this night, the weight or
importance of an issue can actually be measured in words. To our
ears, there were too few about the structural changes, many of
them global, shaping American competitiveness and economic well-
being.  For starters, the crimped discussion of education stood
out. Obama’s own  Race to the Top  initiative is a successful
example of how the federal government has taken the lead on
education policy. There is  a plan afoot  to expand the program to
reward school districts in addition to states. It was not
mentioned. More deeply, what the president didn’t address, at
least not directly, was the ( insufficiently appreciated ) link
between good schooling and social equality and mobility. He
missed a chance to provide some context and insight to an often
abstract debate about income quintiles.  Public pensions are no one’s definition of a sexy issue.
But there may be no more urgent question for every government in
the U.S. In  California , as Steven Greenhut  pointed out  in a
Bloomberg View op-ed article this week, compensation to police
and firefighters -- including pension costs -- accounts for as
much as 80 percent of the budgets of some cities and towns.
States such as  New York  are in the midst of attempts to reform
their retirement systems. (Disclosure: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP,  has testified  before the
state legislature on these efforts.)  The federal government itself, with its health-care and
retirement responsibilities, is often described as an insurance
company with a standing army. Yet this looming crisis was
nowhere mentioned in Obama’s speech.  Foreign policy also got short shrift. Obama’s State of the
Union speeches have generally devoted less attention to foreign
policy than those of  George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton . And
notwithstanding the occasional soaring speech, he’s more of a
pragmatist than his two predecessors, caught up in neither
globalization nor American exceptionalism. Yet the discussion of
how to best deal with emerging economic forces was limited and,
in one big case, wildly off-key.  India , for example, received no
mention, as an increasingly vital strategic partner or as a
vibrant democracy that needs now to shore up its commitment to
economic reform.  Given the emphasis that the administration has put on its
“pivot” to  Asia , though, the speech’s biggest foreign policy
disappointment was its reduction of China, the world’s biggest
rising power, to a duplicitous tire salesman. We heard nothing
about how best to contend with  China ’s growing influence and
strategic reach. Instead, the president told us about how the
administration’s decision to impose punitive tariffs on low-end
Chinese tire  imports  saved 1,000 American jobs -- an assertion
that would be debatable if it weren’t so picayune compared with
the scale of the U.S.-China relationship.  By all means hold China and other countries to the rules
that govern global trade. But let’s not kid ourselves: A new
“Trade Enforcement Unit” will not deliver us from the law of
comparative advantage and the need to compete effectively in the
global marketplace.  To be fair, the president emphasized that theme in his
address. Yet it felt oddly 20th-century, with its protectionist
overtones and emphasis on tax breaks for favored manufacturers.
Yes, the U.S. should make every effort, within reason, to keep
its manufacturing jobs. But the president could also talk more
about challenges such as how to use America’s strengths in
 information technology , and what to do with old manufacturing
sites. Call it post-industrial policy.  Of all the themes and subjects absent from Obama’s speech,
however, the most depressing omission was also the most
unquantifiable: hope. The word itself appeared just once. Obama
as candidate was all about offering hope. Obama as president --
somewhat understandably -- has been more about staving off
despair.  Double-digit unemployment  will do that to a president.  While the  unemployment rate  remains unacceptably high,
other indicators  are improving . The overriding concern of most
Americans for most of Obama’s presidency has been  job security .
But maybe it’s time -- and in an election year, convenient -- to
refocus. The message doesn’t have to be that things won’t get
any worse. It can also be that they will get better. The 91.5
percent of the U.S. workforce that does have a job needs to feel
hopeful, too.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 