-- YPF to Face More Pressure From Argentina to Invest, Itau Says
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-27T17:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/ypf-to-face-more-pressure-from-argentina-to-invest-itau-says.html
YPF SA (YPF) , Argentina’s largest oil
company, will face mounting government pressure to boost
spending on output expansion in exchange for support to charge
more for its crude,  Banco Itau (ITUB4)  BBA SA said.  Ongoing price increases will be necessary to offset higher
spending, Itau analysts including Ricardo Cavanagh and Paula Kovarsky wrote in a report dated yesterday.  “The government is likely to exert increased pressure for
investment commitment in exchange for price improvements,” the
Itau BBA analysts said. “YPF is already undertaking increased
investments to sustain conventional production.”  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said this week
that lack of investment by  oil companies  including Buenos Aires-
based YPF was to blame for the doubling of fuel imports in 2011
from a year earlier to $9.4 billion. The imports eroded a trade
surplus that Argentina, blocked from international credit
markets since a 2001 default, depends on to build central bank
reserves.  Fernandez’s government is probing alleged fuel-price fixing
by YPF,  Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA)  and other companies following a
complaint from the country’s transport association. Late last
year she ordered oil companies to repatriate future export
revenue.  Oil in Argentina was 46 percent cheaper than Brent crude in
the third quarter, with domestic fuel prices 30 percent below
import levels, according to the report. Itau BBA maintained an
“ outperform ” recommendation on YPF.  YPF declined to comment on the Itau BBA report. The company
on Jan. 18 denied it colluded with other companies to fix
gasoline prices.  American depositary receipts of YPF were little changed at
$40.66 in New York at 10:20 a.m. The stock fell 19 percent in
the 12 months through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  