-- Zanaco Says Zambian Government to Investigate Privatization
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-01-27T16:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-27/zanaco-says-zambian-government-to-investigate-privatization-1-.html
Zambia is investigating the partial
sale in 2007 of state-owned  Zambia National Commercial Bank Plc (ZANACO) ,
according to a statement by the Lusaka-based lender.  The government of  Africa ’s biggest copper producer set up a
commission of inquiry on Dec. 20 and this may have a “material
effect” on its share price, the company, known as Zanaco, said
in an e-mail distributed by Stockbrokers Zambia Ltd. today.  Zambian President  Michael Sata , who was sworn into power on
Sept. 23, has said he wants to “spread around” the country’s
wealth. In December Zambia’s antitrust regulator said it would
investigate how mining companies operating in the southern
African country award contracts for the supply of goods and
services. On Jan. 24 Sata dissolved the board of Zambian
Telecommunications Corp., the fixed-line operator that the
government took back from Libyan company LAP Green Network.  Rabobank Nederland (RABO) , based in Utrecht,  Netherlands , bought a
49 percent stake in Zanaco in 2007 and the Zambian lender listed
on the  Lusaka Stock Exchange  the following year after completing
an initial public offering.  Zambian Information Minister Fackson Shamenda said the
investigation was a “routine inquiry” and “aimed at simply
establishing that all procedure was followed when it was sold to
Rabo.”  Zanaco spokeswoman Chana Musakanya said the bank will
“cooperate fully” with the investigating team. “We look
forward to the review of the privatization process of Zanaco,
which was extensive and took place over a period of many
years,” she said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  