-- Australia Caps Tax Breaks to Cut A$2 Billion From Schools
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-13T04:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/australia-caps-tax-breaks-to-cut-a-2-billion-from-schools.html
Australia  will cap school-related
tax breaks as part of more than A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) in
cuts to university support as it seeks to curb spending in next
year’s budget.  The government will end the 10 percent discount students
and parents receive for paying university fees upfront and will
require students to repay scholarships funds, Tertiary Education
Minister Craig Emerson said today at a news conference in
Canberra broadcast on Sky TV.  Emerson said the government expects to recoup A$1.2 billion
annually from the scholarship, and A$230 million by abandoning
the prepayment discount.  Australia’s budget fell further behind projections in
February, taking the deficit to A$23.6 billion for the first
eight months of the financial year, according to Treasury
figures released yesterday. The gap was A$5.7 billion wider than
earlier projected, primarily due to lower  tax revenue  and higher
personal benefit payments, Treasury said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has pledged to restrain
spending with the government scheduled to release its annual
budget on May 14.  “We are keeping a limit on expenditure” and will move to
a surplus over time, Gillard said April 11.  The government also will limit education tax deductions to
A$2,000 a person to prevent large claims at taxpayers’ expense
and save about A$520 million, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said today in
an e-mailed statement. The cap, to take effect in July 2014,
won’t affect the majority of people with expenses for tuition,
textbooks and other items, he said.  ‘First-Class’  “Without a cap on the amount that can be claimed under
this deduction, it’s possible to make large claims for expenses
such as first-class airfares, five-star accommodation and
expensive courses,” Swan said.  A report headed by Australian Future Fund Chairman David Gonski found last year that spending may need to rise by about
A$5 billion a year to improve education at government-funded
schools, particularly in disadvantaged and rural areas.  The  federal government  said last year it planned to spend
A$38.8 billion on higher education over four years. The cuts
next year would help pay for a national school-improvement plan,
the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  