-- MLB Thinks Rodriguez Bought Medical Records, N.Y. Times Reports
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-13T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/mlb-thinks-rodriguez-bought-medical-records-n-y-times-reports.html
Major League Baseball investigators
believe  Alex Rodriguez  purchased medical records from a Florida
anti-aging clinic suspected of providing performance-enhancing
substances to athletes, the  New York  Times reported.  The New York Yankees third baseman bought documents from
Biogenesis of America LLC so they could be destroyed, the
newspaper reported yesterday, citing two unidentified people
briefed on the matter. Biogenesis is being sued by the league
for allegedly helping players obtain banned drugs and damaging
the sport’s reputation.  The news came one day after the newspaper reported that MLB
investigators had purchased documents from a former employee of
the clinic. That report mentioned an unidentified player had
also purchased medical documents.  Terry Fahn, a spokesman for Rodriguez, said in a telephone
interview that Rodriguez “flatly denied” the report. MLB
spokesman Pat Courtney said in an e-mail that “we do not
comment on ongoing investigations.”  Baseball’s lawsuit against Biogenesis says the now-
shuttered clinic induced players to violate contractual
obligations. No current players are named as defendants in the
suit.  The  Miami New Times  in January reported that it had
obtained medical records from Biogenesis that linked banned
substances to current players including Rodriguez and  Nelson Cruz  of the  Texas Rangers . Rodriguez, a three-time American
League Most Valuable Player, and Cruz denied the allegations.  Rodriguez has not played this season as he recovers from
offseason hip surgery.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  