-- China Bird-Flu Deaths Rise to 13 as H7N9 Virus Spreads
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-14T11:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/beijing-confirms-child-s-h7n9-case-first-in-north-china.html
Beijing confirmed that a 7-year-old
girl has H7N9 avian influenza and  Henan province  reported its
first two cases, opening a new front in the spread of the virus
in the world’s most populous nation.  Shanghai said today two people infected with the strain of
bird flu died, taking the country’s death toll to 13. The city
also reported three fresh infections today while the eastern
provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang also confirmed new cases,
raising the national tally to 60 from 49 yesterday.  The cases of the child in Beijing and two men in Henan
widen the geographic spread of H7N9, adding impetus to the
government’s efforts to gauge the magnitude of the infection in
poultry and wild birds. Live-poultry trading has been banned in
some cities and the Ministry of Agriculture last week ordered
local governments to collect tissue samples from birds at
markets nationwide to contain the outbreak.  “There’s no way to predict how this will spread,”  Michael O’Leary , the World Health Organization’s  China  representative,
told reporters in Beijing today. “The good news is we have no
evidence of sustained human-to-human transmission. That’s a key
factor in this situation.”  Looking Intensively  The source of infections remains “under active
investigation,” he said. “We’re still looking intensively for
the reservoir of infection but the suspicion remains in birds,
chicken, ducks and poultry.”  The first three cases of H7N9 in China were announced by
the  central government  on March 31 and until yesterday all of
those infected were in eastern China.  In Henan, central China, the health bureau said today a 34-
year-old male cook living near Kaifeng city in the northeast of
the province is in a critical condition. A 65-year-old farmer in
Zhoukou city, some 130 kilometers (82 miles) further south, who
had frequent contact with poultry, is stable, it said.  Nine of the 13 deaths are in  Shanghai , according to
government data. The two reported in the city today were of a
67-year-old woman diagnosed April 4 and a 77-year-old man
diagnosed April 9, according to a statement on the National
Health and Family Planning Commission website.  The four new cases in Zhejiang today, all in a serious
condition, take the province’s total to 15.      The tally in
Jiangsu rose to 16 today after a 50-year-old man living in the
capital Nanjing and a 26-year-old male living in Yancheng city
were confirmed with the virus. Anhui province has so far
reported two cases.  Early Treatment  The Beijing case is very important, said Nikki Shindo, a
medical officer on the influenza team at the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva. “Theoretically all China’s coastline
provinces are touched by this virus, which means the great
majority of China is at risk,” Shindo said in an e-mail
yesterday, adding that early treatment with an anti-flu medicine
may aid the girl’s recovery.  The child infected with H7N9 is recovering after treatment
at  Beijing Ditan Hospital Capital Medical University , the
official Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing the city’s
disease control and prevention center. Yao’s parents, who live
and sell poultry in the Shunyi district of northeast Beijing,
have been placed under medical surveillance and have not yet
shown symptoms of infection, it said.  The recovery of the 7-year-old shows that early treatment
with proper anti-viral medication can be effective, O’Leary said.
“We know also that the virus when untreated is very serious,”
he said, “so we advocate for early treatment and good medical
care.”  Human Transmission  Shanghai now has 24 human infections. The government said
yesterday a 56-year-old man surnamed Gu, the husband of a woman
diagnosed on April 4, was found with the virus.  There isn’t enough evidence to conclude that Gu, who is in
a critical condition, was infected by his wife and there’s no
evidence that there has been human-to-human transmission among
any of the cases, the National Health and Family Planning
Commission said on its website yesterday.  “We can’t say yet” if the latest Shanghai infection
represents human-to-human transmission, WHO’s O’Leary said today,
adding that each case must be investigated very carefully.  “In cases where there might be two people in close
proximity who both have the disease, it’s also difficult to
determine whether that’s because of human-to-human or because
they were both exposed to the same source, for instance
chickens,” he said. “That’s not so easy to sort out.”  Negative Impact  The spread of the virus may negatively affect insurance,
airlines, consumer staples and retailing, Hong Kong-based
Citigroup Inc. analysts Shen Minggao and Ben Wei wrote in an
April 8 report. It may also spur food-price inflation if
supplies of poultry are cut, they said.  Louisville, Kentucky-based  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , said April 10
that publicity associated with bird flu has had a “significant,
negative impact” on sales at its KFC restaurant chain in China
“within the past week.” KFC offers chicken products including
sandwiches, drumsticks and wings.  Beijing has halted live-poultry trading as part of its
measures to step up prevention of the disease, Zhong Dongbo, a
spokesman with the Beijing Municipal Health Bureau, said in a
news conference broadcast live on China Central Television
yesterday. Shanghai and Nanjing are among other cities to ban
such trade.  Complex Situation  Authorities have yet to order a mass slaughter of birds
across the capital because no H7N9 infections have been detected
in more than 5,600 samples collected from domestic and wild
birds, Xinhua reported, citing Liu Yaqing, deputy director of
the city’s agriculture bureau.  “If we can determine that poultry are major sources of the
infection to people then culling is one of the measures that can
be taken,” WHO’s O’Leary said. “But this is a complex
situation because the virus does not appear to be very lethal or
even serious in animal populations so it’s more difficult to
detect.”  China has enough flu medication to fight the outbreak, and
the government is also preparing a vaccine that it expects will
be ready within seven months, Xinhua reported April 10.  The Beijing Drug Administration has been ordered to stock
up on medicines, including enough Tamiflu for 2 million people,
 Xinhua  said yesterday. Schools in Beijing were told to increase
daily temperature checks and report possible cases to the
education authorities within an hour of their discovery, it said.  --Daryl Loo, Jason Gale, William Bi, Regina Tan. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  or
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  