-- Canada-China Trade to Maintain Rapid Pace of Growth, Fast Says
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-13T07:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/canada-china-trade-to-maintain-rapid-pace-of-growth-fast-says.html
Ed Fast,  Canada ’s international
trade minister, comments on the trade relationship between
Canada and  China  and his country’s drive to export oil and gas
to Asia. He spoke to Bloomberg today in Hong Kong, before
traveling to China tomorrow to meet that nation’s new leaders.  China’s exports to Canada rose 4.3 percent in the first
quarter of this year while imports from Canada jumped 9.3
percent, according to China’s official data.  Canada’s government has approved twice as much liquefied
natural gas export capacity as the U.S., and an LNG shipping
terminal is under construction.  On bilateral trade:  “Over the last 10 years, that trade had tripled. Over the
last two years, we’ve got from $60 billion bilateral trade to
$70 billion at the time when the world economy has been
struggling, yet the Canada-China relationship has been
strengthening. If you look at what happened in the last 10 year
in the Canada-China economic relationship, it’s been dramatic
growth. My guess it’s not going to slow down.  “I am not concerned about China’s trade data. Canada keeps
its own data, which is very accurate, and that data clearly
shows that our bilateral trade relationship continues to grow
very significantly, represents great opportunity for us to grow
that in the future.”  On Canada’s Drive to Export Energy to  Asia :  “Right now, we export very little oil and gas to the Asian
market. I am hoping in the next four, five years, at the very
least we’ll be able to start shipping natural gas to the Asia
Pacific. We know the demand for energy in Asia is going to grow
dramatically, especially as China develops.  “There is a significant amount of foreign investment
including from China,  Japan  and  Korea  that is going into these
projects. Clearly, the Asia-Pacific region is looking into
Canada for  energy security  and for future opportunities for
trade and investment.”  On Talks about Japan’s Joining Trans-Pacific Partnership:  “Canada and Japan are still engaged in technical
consultations.”  On Potential Chicken Exports Amid Avian Flu Outbreak:  “Canadians never like to take advantages of the misery of
other people. However, if in fact, there’s an opportunity for
Canada to supply chickens and chicken products, obviously we’d
like to take advantage of that. Our chicken quality is the best
of the world, and certainly if there’s a demand for chicken from
Canada, we’d love to take that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  