-- Canadian Dollar Gains as Japan’s Stimulus Spurs Demand for Yield
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/canadian-dollar-gains-as-japan-s-stimulus-spurs-demand-for-yield.html
The Canadian dollar touched the
highest level against its U.S. counterpart in almost two months
as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s monetary stimulus measures sent investors
in search of higher-yielding currencies.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, gained before a
Bank of Canada policy meeting April 17 in which the central bank
is projected to lower growth forecasts after economic data
trailed estimates. Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s
announcement April 4 the central bank would step up asset
purchases that devalue the currency prompted investors to sell
the yen against all its major peers.  “The vast majority of moves have been driven by yen
weakness,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president at
CanadianForex Ltd. by phone from Toronto. “The market is just
selling yen wholesale, which feeds into all other currencies
being bolstered by that, which is rather confusing, given all
the fundamentals out there, but that’s what’s happening. When
the yen trade dies down you will see a return to normalcy and
the Canadian dollar should weaken off.”  The loonie rose 0.4 percent this week to C$1.0136 per U.S.
dollar in Toronto, touching C$1.0084 on April 11, its strongest
level since Feb. 18. One loonie buys 98.66 U.S. cents.  Futures Positions  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets that the Canadian dollar will decline against the U.S.
dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
71,133 on April 9, the most since March 16, 2007 and compared
with net shorts of 64,544 a week earlier.  Traders hedging against bets the Canadian dollar would fall
may explain the loonie’s increase this week, said  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA.  “It’s mostly short-covering, people went too bearish,” he
said by phone from  New York . “The market remains CAD short at
least on a speculative basis and if you talk to larger accounts
in Canada they will be waiting to buy CAD at a lower level than
it currently is, I don’t think they’d be comfortable buying CAD
were it is.”  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart has fallen 30 basis points to
6.04 percent since April 8, when it reached its highest point in
three weeks. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to
set option prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Canada’s 10-year benchmark  government bond  rose, with
yields falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.74 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
rose 14 cents to 97.82 cents.  The  Bank of Canada  will announce additional details on
April 18 for a two-year debt sale scheduled for April 24.  Crude oil , the country’s biggest export, fell 2.2 percent
to $90.66 per barrel as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
stocks rose 2.3 percent.  The  discount  Canada faces on its heavy crude oil compared
to the U.S. benchmark increased to $13.75, after starting the
week at $12, the least since Oct. 4. Refinery shutdowns and lack
of infrastructure for reaching market sent the discount to a
record $42.50 Dec. 14.  Economic Data  U.S.  retail sales  contracted in March, data April 12
showed, adding to signs on both sides of the border the North
American economy is slowing. Government reports on April 5
showed  Canada  lost jobs in March and the U.S. added fewer jobs
than economists had forecast.  The data prompted economists to cut two-year yield
forecasts in a monthly Bloomberg survey at the fastest pace in
more than a year as they predict the Bank of Canada will trim
growth forecasts for the year when it meets next week.  Year-end yield forecasts for two-year bonds dropped by 20
basis points in April to 1.2 percent, after falling 15 basis
points in March, the biggest back-to-back revision in the median
of estimates of Bloomberg’s monthly survey since January 2012.  The Bank of Canada will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at
1 percent when it meets April 17, according to all 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Forecast Time  “The question comes down to what growth assumptions are
put on the board,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency
strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London .  The Australian and Canadian dollars will be separately
identified in the International Monetary Fund’s data on official
reserve holdings from the third quarter as demand for the
currencies from central banks increases, the fund said April 12.
More than 75 percent of 60 central banks polled in February are
investing in or may buy the two currencies, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said April 7. The IMF releases quarterly data
on $6.1 trillion in allocated reserve assets in its Composition
of Official Foreign Exchange Reserves report.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 0.7 percent this year
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index, trailing its commodity
exporting peers  Australia  and  New Zealand , whose currencies have
risen 2.9 percent and 5.8 percent this year. The  U.S. dollar  has
risen 1.7 percent this year and the euro has gained 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  