-- China’s Guan, 14, Makes Masters Golf Cut After Slow-Play Penalty
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/china-s-guan-14-makes-cut-at-masters-after-slowness-penalty.html
Tianlang Guan qualified for this
weekend’s final two rounds of golf’s  Masters Tournament  after
receiving a penalty for slow play that jeopardized the 14-year-
old Chinese amateur’s chances of making history.  Guan, the youngest Masters competitor and youngest player
in a major in 148 years, was assessed a one-stroke penalty on
the 17th hole at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia .
He said he understood the call, and other competitors said it
was a valuable lesson to learn.  The penalty moved Guan’s two-round score to 4 over par and
left him waiting until yesterday’s final group finished to learn
his fate. When second-round leader Jason Day missed a birdie
putt at the 18th hole, Day remained at 6 under and set the cut
line at 4 over. The top 50 players, plus those within 10 shots
of the lead, advanced to the weekend.  “It’s an amazing achievement to get to the weekend at
Augusta,” Day said. “It’s unfortunate that he received the
penalty, but he can learn from that and move on and hopefully
can play well over the next two days.”  John Paramor, a rules official on the PGA European Tour,
said he had little choice but to assess the penalty.  “That’s my job,” Paramor told reporters. “That’s what I
do.”  Paramor said age didn’t factor into his decision on the
teenager.  “It’s the Masters competition,” the official said.  It was the first slow-play penalty in a major tournament
since Gregory Bourdy in the 2010  PGA Championship , according to
statistics provided by the U.S.  PGA Tour .  Early Warning  Paramor said he warned Guan and playing partners Ben Crenshaw, a 61-year-old two-time Masters winner, and 19-year-old
Matteo Manassero of  Italy  about their pace on the 10th green.
Guan was timed starting on the 12th tee, received a warning
before his second shot on the 13th hole and was assessed a
penalty after his second shot on 17, when he exceeded the 40-
second time limit to hit his shot by a “considerable margin,”
the tournament said in a statement.  Guan said after the round that windy conditions made shot-
making decisions difficult, leading to slow play. He switched
clubs several times before his second shot on 17.  “I know the rules pretty good,” Guan said. “I respect
the decision. It’s still a wonderful experience for me. I think
I did a pretty good job.”  Before being penalized, Guan’s play drew both admiration
and jealousy among the spectators following the group.  “It just makes me feel more and more like a failure,”
Adam Shaull, 30, of  Dallas  said after watching Guan’s tee shot
on the course’s par-3 12th hole land about 10 feet from the cup.
“He’s so fantastic. I’m cheering for him. I just can’t imagine
being in middle school and playing in the Masters.”  Weekend Play  By advancing to the weekend, Guan topped the mark set by
Manassero, who was 16 years, 2 months, 29 days old when he tied
for ninth at the 2009 British Open.  As one of yesterday’s early tee times, Guan’s gallery
swelled as he made his way around the hilly course. A mix of
veteran Augusta attendees mingled with teenage children, many of
whom appeared both younger than Guan and more awestruck than the
5-foot-9, 135-pound eighth grader hitting the ball.  James Ware, 36, brought his sons, ages 10 and 9, to watch
Guan as he played the 10th hole.  “It’s just not normal,” James Ware, 10, said. “It’s
pretty amazing.”  With tee shots that traveled about 260 yards, Guan found
himself trailing Manassero and about 20 yards ahead of Crenshaw
on most longer holes. His lack of length off the tee forced Guan
to work hard for pars throughout most of the day.  Bogey Trouble  While he recorded bogeys on the par-3 fourth and par-4
seventh holes, Guan avoided potential bogeys on others,
including the par-4 11th, which starts the course’s famed three-
hole “Amen Corner” section. After hitting an approach shot to
the right of the green, Guan’s chip drew arm-waving
encouragement from Crenshaw as his ball slowly rolled toward the
hole. When it stopped within three feet of its target, Crenshaw
pointed his fist in approval toward his youngest playing
partner.  An example of Guan’s slow pace came on the par-4 third
hole, where he had hit his approach shot from about 100 yards
over the back of the shallow green. Faced with a pitch that
required a soft touch over a small ridge to a slick putting
surface, Guan took several minutes to survey the shot as
Crenshaw and Carl Jackson, Crenshaw’s long-time local Augusta
caddie, watched. Guan’s chip came up short and left of the hole,
leaving him with a par putt from about 12 feet that he calmly
rolled in.  Local Caddie  Manassero said Guan repeatedly asked his local Augusta
caddie, Brian Tam, for guidance before hitting shots, slowing
his pace.  “When the caddie pulls the club for him, I think he’s
ready,” Manassero said. “Sometimes he just asks questions that
I think he knows the answer to. We all feel sorry, but this is
the way professional golf goes. It’s going to be a valuable
lesson. He will never forget it.”  Guan will now have another two days of lessons at Augusta
National. He will be paired with Thorjborn Olesen, a 23-year-old
Masters rookie from  Denmark , in today’s third round.  “Being able to play and experience what he’s going to
experience on the weekend, you can’t buy that stuff,” Day said.
“The only way you can do that is get to the weekend, and
obviously he’s got a boatload of talent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  