-- China Agrees to Join U.S. to End N. Korea Weapons Pursuit
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-14T07:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/china-agrees-to-join-u-s-to-end-n-korea-weapons-pursuit.html
The U.S. and  China  pledged to work
together toward convincing North Korea to abandon its nuclear
pursuits in a move that highlighted China’s growing frustration
with a long-standing yet volatile Communist ally.  Appearing in the evocative setting of Beijing’s Diaoyutai
State Guest House, site of President Richard Nixon’s visit
during his 1972 trip to China, Secretary of State John Kerry and
China’s foreign policy chief, Yang Jiechi, took turns expressing
concern about North Korea’s belligerence and their shared goal
to tame the aspiring nuclear country.  “China is firmly committed to upholding peace and
stability and advancing the denuclearization process on the
Korean peninsula,” Yang said late yesterday in comments
translated by an interpreter. “The issue should be handled and
resolved peacefully through dialogue.”  Both nations would have “further discussion to bear down
very quickly with great specificity on how exactly we will
accomplish this goal,” Kerry said with Yang at his side.  While Kerry declined to say what the U.S. might do in
return for China’s collaboration, he floated the possibility the
U.S. could reduce its missile defenses in the region.  If the nuclear threat posed by North Korea recedes, “the
same imperative does not exist at that point in time for us to
have that kind of robust, forward-leaning posture of defense,”
Kerry told reporters in a news conference.  Scaling Back  The top U.S. diplomat is visiting a region that’s been on
edge since February, when North Korea tested a nuclear device in
defiance of the United Nations Security Council and has
threatened to carry out more.  With signs pointing to North Korea potentially preparing a
fourth nuclear test, Kerry headed into back-to-back meetings in
Beijing, including a session with President Xi Jinping, with the
goal of persuading China to “put some teeth” into their
efforts to restrain North Korea.  Kerry said he left those conversations with the impression
that China is “very serious” about trying to bring North Korea
in line.  “I do believe that I have a better sense of what China’s
intentions are here and how they can proceed, but it’s
inappropriate for me to speak for China,” he told reporters
after his joint appearance with Yang. “I am not going to the
specifics, but I can assure you that we left no option off the
table and we had a full discussion about what the possibilities
might be.”  Display of Unity  While scant on details, the joint commitment by the U.S.
and China was a rare display of unity in a symbolically
significant setting between the two economic rivals that have
also been at odds on more than reining in North Korea.  Still, other areas of disagreement, from accusations of
China’s role in cyber attacks on U.S. businesses to its maritime
claims in the South China Sea, were barely touched upon in this
visit given the attention on events in the Korean peninsula.  Instead, Kerry asked Xi to make a greater effort to enforce
UN sanctions and urged China, which provides impoverished North
Korea with fuel and consumer goods, to toughen its message to
leaders in the capital, Pyongyang.  China is best-positioned to mitigate the North Korea
situation, and should take strong action, such as cutting off
fuel and luxury goods flowing into North Korea, said a
Republican member of Congress, who asked not to be named because
he has access to classified information.  ‘Some Teeth’  The North Korea crisis shaped up to be a test for U.S.-
China ties, as Kerry asks China to distance itself from a
relationship with Pyongyang that the late Chinese Communist
leader Mao Zedong decades ago called “as close as lips and
teeth.”  It wasn’t clear whether Kerry was alluding to Mao’s comment
when he told the American Chamber of Commerce in Seoul that he
will tell Chinese officials “you’ve got to put some teeth” in
their North Korea policy.  In what is a complex relationship, China regards North
Korea as a trading partner and strategic buffer with U.S.-backed
South Korea. For instance, China would face a massive flow of
refugees in the event of war or regime collapse.  Still, there are signs that China is developing “nuisance
fatigue” toward North Korea, said Bruce Bennett, a defense
analyst specializing in the Koreas at the Rand Corp., a research
group based in Santa Monica,  California .  Economic Ties  For starters, economic ties are waning.  Chinese exports to North Korea fell 13.8 percent to $720
million in the first three months of 2013, the China customs
bureau reported. From December through February, exports of
crude oil to North Korea rose 3 percent to 102,002 tons, or
$107.7 million, according to Chinese data.  Kerry’s visit to the region may coincide with a new act of
aggression by the young Kim Jong Un, who gained power just over
a year ago, and hasn’t demonstrated the same deft touch of his
late father, Kim Jong Il, in managing relations with China.  North Korea may conduct a weapons test on April 15 to
coincide with the 101st anniversary of state founder Kim Il Sung’s birth, South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said April 11 in  Seoul . A year ago, North Korea fired a
long-range missile that disintegrated shortly after liftoff,
then successfully launched one in December.  In Seoul, Kerry reaffirmed the U.S. will defend South Korea
from its neighbor’s “unacceptable provocations” and
“dangerous” nuclear and missile programs, according to a joint
statement on April 12.  Speaking with South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se,
Kerry said it would be a “huge mistake” for North Korea to
test a missile and that the international community will not
accept North Korea as a nuclear power.  “We have lowered our rhetoric significantly, and we are
attempting to find a way for reasonableness to prevail here,”
Kerry told reporters after meeting with President Park Geun Hye
and Yun. “We are seeking a partner to deal with in a rational
and reasonable way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in London at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  