-- Dish’s T-Mobile Ambitions Seen Avoiding Rules Quagmire
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-04-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/dish-s-t-mobile-ambitions-seen-avoiding-regulatory-quagmire.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which is said
to be interested in a  T-Mobile USA  Inc. merger, is in a position
to usher in the next wave of wireless-industry consolidation
while assuring regulators that competition will be preserved.  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  informally approached  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  about a possible merger with the German company’s T-
Mobile division -- a transaction that would let him bundle
wireless service with his satellite-TV offerings, people close
to the situation said yesterday.  Such a deal would sidestep the concerns that foiled the
last T-Mobile takeover in 2011, when AT&T Inc. failed to
overcome regulatory opposition to the $39 billion deal. That
merger would have unified the second- and fourth-largest
carriers, eliminating one of the market’s top service providers.
Dish, meanwhile, is a satellite-TV company with no mobile-phone
customers of its own, though it does own wireless spectrum.  “The FCC has been clear, as long as there are no customers
involved in the deal and it’s just spectrum, they have been
supportive,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst with  research firm 
Recon Analytics LLC in Dedham,  Massachusetts .  The Federal Communications Commission chairman and the
 Justice Department  lined up against the AT&T deal in 2011,
prompting the carrier to walk away from the merger. The
transaction would have created the nation’s largest mobile-phone
company, surpassing  Verizon Wireless .  Ergen’s Offer  Ergen made his T-Mobile proposal sometime before April 10,
when Deutsche Telekom announced a sweetened bid for  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS) , according to the people. Deutsche Telekom
might consider Dish’s proposal, though only after the
transaction with MetroPCS closes and after verifying that a
separate deal with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  isn’t feasible, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Philipp Schindera, a spokesman for Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom, declined to comment, as did Dish spokesman Bob Toevs
and Sprint representative  Scott Sloat .  Dish’s move is the latest twist in a frenzy of
consolidation for the U.S. wireless industry. Smaller carriers
are seeking out merger partners to help wage a stronger attack
against the two dominant competitors, Verizon and AT&T. Dish and
Sprint both held talks with MetroPCS before that company agreed
to its merger with Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile in October,
people with knowledge of the discussions said last year.  Softbank Investment  Since then,  Japan ’s Softbank Corp. agreed to pay Sprint $20
billion for a 70 percent stake, giving the U.S. carrier more
money to make its own deals. In December, Sprint announced plans
to buy out the remaining shares of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , its network
partner, for $2.97 a share. A month later, Dish made a
counterbid for Clearwire, offering $3.30 a share. The satellite
company faces an uphill fight in that effort because Sprint
already owns more than half of Clearwire’s stock.  Dish shares  rose 2.7 percent to $37.63 yesterday after
Bloomberg reported on Ergen’s outreach to Deutsche Telekom. The
German company’s U.S. stock climbed 2.3 percent to $11.75, while
MetroPCS advanced 1.9 percent to $11.52. Sprint, based in
 Overland Park ,  Kansas , was little changed, closing at $6.22.  Waiting until it completes the MetroPCS transaction to
consider Ergen’s offer would mean T-Mobile would already be a
publicly held company with 42.3 million customers. Deutsche
Telekom is doing a reverse merger with MetroPCS to allow T-
Mobile to start trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange without
an initial public offering. The deal combines the fourth- and
fifth-largest U.S. carriers, though the resulting company will
still rank well behind Verizon, AT&T and Sprint.  Sweetened Bid  That agreement, which was initially reached in October, was
criticized by investors who said it loaded up the new company
with too much debt. Deutsche Telekom sweetened the terms earlier
this week by reducing the debt load. The changes won the support
of MetroPCS’s largest shareholder, Paulson & Co., and other
investors. Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS will hold a vote on
the merger on April 24.  For Ergen, the billionaire founder of Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish, the goal is to break into the wireless business --
part of a plan to decrease its reliance on the slowing
satellite-TV market. Dish has accumulated a record $10 billion
in cash,  partly  by selling bonds over the past year, giving it a
war chest to expand into the new industry. Ergen’s $17 billion
company now has the most money among U.S. television and phone
providers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money Pile  Ergen’s cash stockpile -- about the same size as Exxon
Mobil Corp.’s hoard -- puts a deal for T-Mobile within reach,
said Guggenheim Partners LLC. A smaller purchase, such as buying
Leap Wireless International Inc., also is a possibility,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Sprint, meanwhile, held talks with Deutsche Telekom about a
merger with T-Mobile USA as early as 2011, people familiar with
the discussions said at the time. The two parties couldn’t reach
an agreement on price, the people said.  Another option is for Dish and Sprint to team up. While
that scenario could be attractive to the satellite company, T-
Mobile may be a more willing partner, said  Vijay Jayant , an
analyst at ISI Group in New York.  “It’s tough to be the fourth player in an industry,”
Jayant said. “Sprint has a better outlook than T-Mobile. It’s
easy to be the third player. To be the guy after the third-best
guy isn’t a great position to be in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  