-- EU Affirms Debt-Cut Strategy in Face of ‘Fragile’ Outlook
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-04-13T18:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/eu-affirms-debt-cut-strategy-in-face-of-fragile-outlook-1-.html
The European Union will tell its
counterparts in the Group of 20 nations that a shaky economic
recovery requires renewed commitment to budget cuts and other
structural reforms.  “The situation remains fragile” in the euro area, the EU
said in a planning document prepared for next week’s G-20
meeting in  Washington  and obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
document affirms the EU’s “fiscal consolidation strategy” and
calls on other countries to speed up similar efforts.  One of the main threats facing the world economy is “the
lack of credible medium-term fiscal consolidation plans in the
U.S. and Japan,” according to the EU document. It also sees
risks stemming from a renewed slowdown in emerging-market
nations, political tensions that could boost  oil prices  and the
euro-area’s three-year-old sovereign debt crisis.  The currency bloc is now in its second year of recession,
battered by a debt crisis that so far has forced five of its 17
members to take bailouts. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
last week urged  Europe  to focus more on boosting demand to
balance out its emphasis on fiscal discipline.  Mild Recovery  Mild recovery should take root in the euro region toward
the middle of this year, strengthening through the end of 2013
and into 2014, according to the EU planning document. It says
the EU’s experience shows “the importance of a more ambitious
debt anchor,” such as a target ratio of debt to economic
output. This should be coupled with a “consolidation path that
is carefully calibrated to sustain the recovery.”  The EU said a proposal for G-20 countries to aim to bring
debt levels ”well below” 90 percent of gross domestic product
doesn’t go far enough. It called for a ”more ambitious debt
anchor” of 60 percent of GDP, the limit for countries using the
euro.  On  Japan , the EU noted its risks becoming too dependent on
fiscal and monetary stimulus if current policies continue and
the country doesn’t make progress on structural reforms.  New Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda unveiled
unprecedented stimulus after his first meeting this month, a
move that weakened the yen against the dollar. The U.S. Treasury
Department said in a report on exchange rates yesterday it will
press Japan to refrain from competitive devaluation while
stopping short of accusing it of manipulating the yen.  Fiscal Deficits  EU emphasis has been on reducing public fiscal deficits
while “overlooking” overstretched borrowing in the private
sector, the Brussels-based Bruegel research group said in a
presentation to finance ministers this week. This means that the
U.S. crisis recovery effort has outpaced Europe because of
cutbacks in household and corporate debt, even though U.S.
public debt in has seen bigger increases.  “The U.S. is therefore ahead of Europe in the aggregate
deleveraging process,” Bruegel’s Zsolt Darvas, Jean Pisani- Ferry and Guntram Wolff said. The report said the EU’s
“unsatisfactory recovery from the crisis” and weak economic
outlook are major challenges that require bold action.  The EU will encourage the U.S. to tackle entitlement reform
and find new ways to increase government revenue, according to
the document.  The EU document said  China  should “move rapidly toward a
market-determined exchange rate system in the context of larger
capital account openness.” The U.S. refrained from branding
China a currency manipulator in its report, while pressing the
country to adopt greater exchange-rate flexibility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Dublin at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Dublin at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling in Dublin at  cstirling1@bloomberg.net  