-- Fayyad Quits as Palestinian Premier After Tension With Abbas
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-04-13T20:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/fayyad-submits-resignation-as-palestinian-premier-wafa-says-1-.html
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, the International Monetary Fund economist who sought to
create a stable foundation for statehood, today submitted his
resignation, which was accepted by President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Fayyad, 62, will continue in his post until Abbas assembles
a new Cabinet, according to a text message from the official
Palestinian news service Wafa in Ramallah. The two leaders met
late today at the Muqata government compound in Ramallah, where
Fayyad handed Abbas his letter.  The move follows the resignation last month of Finance
Minister Nabil Qassis and Fayyad’s repeated warnings that the
government’s economic situation is “unsustainable.” The IMF
said in a March 15 report that the  Palestinian Authority ’s
ability to govern was being undermined by its financing
difficulties.  “There was a lot of tension with Abbas, but Fayyad’s
resignation actually preserves the status quo,” said Khalil
Shaheen, director of the Masarat Center for Policy Research in
Ramallah. Since Fayyad will stay until a cabinet is assembled,
“this could go on for a week, a month or even two years,”
Shaheen said.  Fayyad met this week with Secretary of State  John Kerry ,
who returned to the  Middle East  to follow up on President Barack
Obama’s visit in late March. After talks with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in Jerusalem, Kerry said he is
working on a plan to promote economic development in the West
Bank and improve the atmosphere for peace talks.  Rebuilding Relationship  The Obama administration is seeking to rebuild a
relationship with the Palestinians that soured over Abbas’s bid
to secure statehood through the  United Nations . After U.S.
pressure scuttled a 2011 Security Council resolution recognizing
Palestine as a state, the General Assembly voted to give it the
status of a non-member observer state last year.  Abbas appointed Fayyad as prime minister in 2007 after a
five-year stint as finance minister. Fayyad’s experience at the
IMF provided credibility in negotiations with the U.S., the
European Union and other countries that led to billions of
dollars in donations for the Palestinian Authority.  After years of arguing that Israel must ease restrictions
on the movement of people and goods to strengthen the
Palestinian economy, Fayyad presented a plan in 2009 to build
governing institutions aimed at insuring the future stability of
a Palestinian state.  Banker Fischer  Israeli President  Shimon Peres  has compared Fayyad’s
nation-building to the actions of Israel’s first premier, David
Ben-Gurion, who helped build the institutions that then became
the infrastructure of the Jewish state. The Palestinian prime
minister said he often consults with Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer , a colleague from his days in Washington at the
IMF, where he worked from 1987 to 2001. Fayyad earned his
doctorate in economics from the University of Texas at Austin.  The  World Bank  said in a March 12 report that the
Palestinian economy has become less competitive as agricultural
productivity has been cut in half and manufacturing stagnates.
The share of exports in the economy dropped to 7 percent in
2011, among the lowest in world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Bethlehem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  