-- Fed, BOE Officials Don’t See Signs of Emerging Equity Bubbles
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-04-13T20:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/fed-boe-officials-don-t-see-signs-of-emerging-equity-bubbles.html
Policy makers from the  Federal
Reserve  and the  Bank of England  said they see few signs of
equity price bubbles in the U.S. and the U.K., countering
criticisms record stimulus is stoking excessive risk-taking.  “I don’t think we’re in that kind of territory that
obviously makes these asset prices unsustainable and at a bubble
level,” Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said today
during a panel discussion at the Boston Fed. While “this is
something we have to keep monitoring” at the Fed, “I don’t
see” these risks now, Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said to reporters after speaking at the same forum.  Central banks from across developed economies have deployed
unorthodox and little-tested easing to fuel economic growth. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  in March reiterated its plan to
buy $85 billion in bonds every month until the labor market
outlook improves “substantially,” while pledging to monitor
the costs and benefits of unprecedented accommodation.  “We don’t have a lot of experience” with large-scale
asset purchases and “they can entail risks,” Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  said during the panel discussion at the
Boston Fed. “We’ve looked at a lot of things and there’s
nothing in that horizon that causes me great angst.”  Evans votes on monetary policy this year; Kocherlakota does
not.  Since cutting the  benchmark interest rate  to near zero in
December 2008, the U.S. central bank has tried to fuel growth by
expanding its  balance sheet  to $3.23 trillion and providing more
guidance on its policy aims.  Slow Pace  Several Fed officials said the central bank should begin
slowing the pace of its asset purchases later this year and halt
it entirely by year end, according to minutes of the March 19-20
FOMC meeting released this week.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent yesterday
to 1,588.85, retreating from a record high the previous day, as
government data showed retail sales unexpectedly fell in March,
commodities plunged and a gauge of consumer sentiment slipped.
The  S&P 500  has gained 11.4 percent this year.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George said this month
record stimulus for more than four years may create financial
instability that could hurt employment over time.  “We should not underestimate the risk of an extended period
of zero interest rates and the accompanying incentives that may
lead to future financial imbalances,” George said on April 4 in
El Reno,  Oklahoma . “Such imbalances could unwind in a disruptive
manner and cause the labor market recovery to stumble.”  George Dissents  George’s comments reflected her dissents this year in her
first votes as a FOMC member.  The BOE’s Miles, along with  Paul Fisher  and Governor  Mervyn King , voted to increase bond purchases by 25 billion pounds ($38
billion) in March, though were defeated by the remaining six
members of the Monetary Policy Committee, who voted for no
change. The MPC majority said there was a risk of adding to
stimulus at a time when the  inflation rate  remains above the
BOE’s 2 percent goal.  The MPC also kept its bond-purchase target unchanged this
month, at 375 billion pounds ($576 billion). The minutes of that
meeting will be published on April l7, a day after March
inflation data. Consumer-price growth accelerated to 2.8 percent
in February.  The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index has increased 8.3 percent this
year, and last month reached its highest level since 2007. The
index yesterday fell 0.5 percent to 6,384.39.  Lars E.O. Svensson, deputy governor at  Sweden ’s Riksbank,
said the purpose of unconventional policy tools is to lower
yields, bolster asset prices and encourage more risk-taking.
Svensson has argued for deeper rate cuts than his fellow members
of the Riksbank’s executive board, in order to lower
unemployment in the Nordic region’s largest economy.  “There’s probably too much risk-aversion and too little
risk-taking,” he said today at the Boston Fed forum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Jamrisko in Boston at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  