-- Goldman Sachs’s Cohn Takes Pay Lead Among CEO's Deputies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/goldman-sachs-s-cohn-takes-pay-lead-among-ceo-s-deputies.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, has started differentiating
among Lloyd C. Blankfein’s top deputies again after four years
of granting lockstep pay awards.  President  Gary Cohn , 52, was awarded a $19 million
compensation package, 12 percent more than Vice Chairmen J.  Michael Evans  and John S. Weinberg, the New York-based firm said
in an annual proxy. The disparity is the first since 2007, when
Blankfein’s bonus set the record for a Wall Street chief
executive officer.  Cohn’s pay may fuel speculation about which executive will
succeed Blankfein, 58, who sometimes out-earned his own boss
 Henry Paulson . Blankfein, who succeeded Paulson as chairman and
CEO in June 2006, said in a February interview with Bloomberg
Television that he has no immediate plans to depart.  “If somebody gets more money, that could be a sign” that
they’re in the lead to succeed Blankfein, said  Jeanne Branthover , managing director at Boyden Global Executive Search
in  New York . “If somebody gets less money it’s not a good
thing, because they’ve been equals.”  Evans, 55, the vice chairman who oversees the emerging-
markets business, received $17 million, as did Weinberg, 56, a
co-head of  investment banking . David A. Viniar, chief financial
officer until the end of January, was awarded $19 million. The
firm didn’t disclose 2012 pay for Harvey M. Schwartz, who
replaced Viniar as CFO.  Individual Performance  Differences in pay among the named executive officers, or
NEOs, were “primarily to reflect their individual performance,
as well as their roles,” the bank said in the filing. “No
specific individual performance goals were used by the committee
in making these NEO compensation determinations.”  Blankfein, 58, also received a larger bonus than his
deputies for the first time since 2007. None of Goldman Sachs’s
named executives was awarded a bonus for 2008, and each of them
got cash and stock awards of $9 million, $18 million and $10
million over the next three years.  Blankfein’s $21 million award for 2012 was his highest
since 2007, as reported by  Bloomberg News  in January. It
included $13.3 million in restricted stock and a $5.7 million
cash bonus for 2012 in addition to his $2 million salary,
according to the filing.  That made him the highest-paid CEO among those at the 10
largest U.S. banks, exceeding the $9.75 million for  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s  James Gorman  and $11.5 million awarded to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon .  Cash Bonuses  Cohn’s and Viniar’s packages for 2012 each included a $5.15
million cash bonus, while Evans and Weinberg each got a $4.55
million cash award.  Pay is higher for all executives if long-term incentive
plan awards are included. The plan will pay $5 million in cash
bonuses to Blankfein and Cohn, and $4 million to Evans and
Weinberg in three years if the firm meets certain targets. The
same rules apply to last year’s $3 million long-term incentive
and $7 million in 2011, when the plan started.  The cash bonuses shrink or grow depending on whether the
firm achieves a 10 percent average return on equity and 7
percent average increase in book value per share. The board’s
compensation committee, which has been led by former Fannie Mae
CEO James A. Johnson as long as Goldman Sachs has been a public
company, has the power to change the awards. The committee can
give from zero to 150 percent of the amount due, the bank said.  While the Goldman Sachs awards are initially tied to three-
year periods, the board can also opt to extend the measurement
for a further five years. In December, the compensation
committee set the performance period for the 2011 incentive pay
to end in December 2018 instead of December 2013.  Getting Money  “The board’s ability to change the long-term incentive
measures whenever it wants to, and with respect to any
individual it singles out, makes the plan a joke because you can
be sure the adjustments that are made will be to give an
executive a better chance at getting the money,” said  Erik
Gordon , a professor at the University of Michigan’s law school
and business school.  Top executives received payouts from funds managed by the
firm during the year, including profits, return of money
invested, and their portion of the funds’ management fees, known
as overrides. Those payouts during 2012 totaled $31.2 million
for Blankfein, $25.8 million for Cohn, $22.2 million for Viniar,
$21.3 million for Evans, and $9.6 million for Weinberg,
according to the proxy.  Other recipients of such fund distributions included Vice
Chairman Michael S. Sherwood with $18.7 million; General Counsel
Gregory K. Palm, with $29.7 million; and Chief of Staff John F. W. Rogers, with $9.9 million, the proxy showed.  Results Improve  Goldman Sachs reported its first revenue gain in three
years in 2012. Return on equity, a measure of how well the bank
reinvests shareholders’ money, rose to 10.7 percent from 3.7
percent in 2011. Still, it remained at less than one-third of
its 2007 level.  The stock  rose 41 percent in 2012, the first annual
increase since doubling in 2009. While the shares have rallied
17 percent this year to close yesterday at $149.12, they’re
still 11 percent below their level at the end of 2010.  Johnson, head of the compensation committee, was re-elected
to the board with about 84 percent of the vote at last year’s
shareholder meeting, overcoming opposition from investment firm
Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc.  Goldman’s board altered succession planning for top
executives, which it used for Schwartz’s ascension to CFO, lead
director  James Schiro  wrote in his inaugural letter to
shareholders. The new framework is focused on making sure
potential candidates have experience with the board and with
many of the firm’s businesses.  “Our goal is always to be in a position to appoint our
most senior executives from within our firm,” the board said in
the annual proxy statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  