-- Google Enters test Phase
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-04-13T14:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/google-enters-test-phase-after-eu-settlement-deal-ft-says-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the
world’s largest search engine, has reached a draft agreement
with the European Commission over steps it will take to curb
anti-competitive behavior, the Financial Times reported, citing
several people familiar with the deal.  The  Mountain View , California-based firm has agreed to
revamp its results page to include prominent links to rival
 search engines . It will also make users aware when they are
using the company’s own search services such as those for
restaurants, travel and finance, the FT reported.  If the deal is approved, Google would escape a fine for
antitrust abuses, drawing to a close a near three-year
transatlantic probe into the  company . The offer, which is
binding for five years, now enters a so-called ’market test’
phase in which participants, including companies that have filed
complaints against Google, are asked for feedback.  The Initiative for a Competitive Online Marketplace, an
alliance of 70 technology companies and trade associations known
as Icomp, said the proposal may not go far enough.  “As has been publically stated by a number of
complainants in this case, there is concern that Google’s
settlement offer will fail to deliver,” Icomp said in an
emailed statement from April 11. “The opportunity offered by
robust market testing to ensure the delivery of effective and
future-proof remedies must be grasped.”  Android Complaint  Last week FairSearch, a group representing  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , filed an antitrust complaint against
Google over its Android operating system, which FairSearch said
was used in 70 percent of smartphones at the end of 2012. Google
also dominates mobile search advertising with 96 percent of the
market, Fairsearch said.  The U.S. ended an investigation into Google’s search
business in January, saying there was no evidence that the
company’s actions harmed consumers.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , said the Brussels-based regulator
doesn’t comment on leaks.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said April
11 the company “continues to work cooperatively with the
European Commission.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 