-- Google Said to Offer Search Page Change to Settle Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-13T16:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/google-said-to-offer-search-page-change-to-settle-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the
world’s largest Internet search engine, offered to change how it
operates in a bid to settle a three-year European Union
antitrust investigation into whether it discriminates against
rivals, a person familiar with the matter said.  Google submitted a final package of commitments to the
European Commission aimed at creating more distinction in
Internet searches between Google’s own services and those of its
competitors, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the offer isn’t public. Google also proposed to offer
links to rival  search engines , the person said. An EU spokesman
declined to comment on the offer.  Google’s offer this month formalized a package of remedies
it submitted to EU regulators earlier this year after it was
asked to address allegations that it promotes its own specialist
search-services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews,
and has agreements with websites and software developers that
stifle competition in the advertising industry.  “In the last few weeks, the commission completed its
preliminary assessment formally setting out its concerns,”
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia , said by e-mail on April 11. “On this basis,
Google then made a formal submission of commitments to the
commission. We are now preparing the launch of a market test to
seek feedback from market players, including complainants, on
these commitment proposals.”  Market Test  The market test of the remedies could start as soon as next
week, said the person familiar with the offer. Colombani
declined to provide details of the offer, as published in the
Financial Times today. Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in
Brussels, reiterated the company’s usual statement about the
probe that it’s cooperating with the European Commission.  An EU settlement avoids any decision on whether a company
broke antitrust rules. Companies can be fined as much as 10
percent of their annual revenue if they break the terms of a
legally binding settlement. Almunia first told  Mountain View ,
California-based Google in May 2012 that he wanted to settle the
investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Dublin at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  