-- Michigan Lawmakers Oppose U.S. Pact With Japan on Autos
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/michigan-lawmakers-oppose-u-s-pact-with-japan-on-autos.html
Lawmakers from states with auto
factories and an association of U.S. carmakers expressed
opposition to a deal with  Japan  to reduce vehicle tariffs and
enable the Asian nation to join Pacific-region trade talks.  The U.S. and Japan, the world’s first- and third-largest
economies, yesterday announced the deal, a step toward Japan
joining 11 nations forging the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-
trade region. With Japan included, it would create a trading
area worth about $26 trillion, the largest in history.  “This package is not at all adequate as a basis for
Japan’s entry,” Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the
top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, which
oversees trade legislation, said yesterday on a conference call
with reporters. He said the agreement doesn’t offer enough
specific measurements to show that Japan will open its auto
market further to foreign competitors.  The deal affects a U.S. industry that posted higher sales
last year as automakers recover from the financial woes that led
to a government bailout of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC in 2009. Unemployment in Michigan, where U.S. carmakers have
many factories, was 8.8 percent in February, exceeding the U.S.
rate of 7.7 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  ‘Risks Unraveling’  An industry group representing  Ford Motor Co. (F)  of Dearborn,
Michigan, Detroit-based GM and Chrysler, now a unit of Turin,
Italy-based  Fiat SpA (F) , said Japan’s policies to restrict auto
imports and devalue its currency give it an unfair trading
advantage.  “This is why allowing Japan to join the TPP at this time
risks unraveling the entire free-trade agreement and will
certainly delay its completion,” Matt Blunt, a former
Republican governor of  Missouri  and president of the group, the
Washington-based American Automotive Policy Council, said in a
statement.  “We take the concerns of the U.S. auto industry extremely
seriously,”  Michael Froman , President  Barack Obama ’s deputy
national security adviser for international economic affairs,
said on a conference call with reporters. “We think they are
well founded.”  While the agreement is an “important step forward,” U.S.
negotiators will need to make sure they consider the auto
industry’s concerns, he said.  Raising Limits  If a Pacific trade pact is created, the U.S. and Japan
agreed to phase out U.S. tariffs on Japanese autos, and Japan
would expedite certification of American vehicles it accepts.
U.S. automakers will be allowed to export 5,000 autos of each
vehicle type, up from the current limit of 2,000, according to a
fact sheet from the U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  “The administration can’t allow Japan’s entry to the
Trans-Pacific Partnership to undermine the impressive gains made
by the American auto industry,” Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio
Democrat who counts autoworkers among his constituents, said in
a statement.  Michigan  lawmakers, long allies of the state’s automakers,
cast doubt on the ability to finish negotiations swiftly.  “I will not support Japan’s entry into TPP unless we
obtain airtight assurances that Japan’s participation in the TPP
negotiations will neither diminish the comprehensive and
ambitious nature of these negotiations nor delay the goal of
concluding the negotiations this year,” Republican
Representative Dave Camp, chairman of the Ways and Means
Committee, said in a statement.  Insurance, Agriculture  Democratic Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan said in a
statement if Japan doesn’t agree to “stop blocking American
companies from its markets,” she will fight ratification of the
trade agreement.  The two nations also announced yesterday that they would
work toward resolution of trade issues in the insurance and
agricultural sectors. The U.S. trade-in-goods deficit with Japan
in 2012 widened 21 percent to $76.3 billion from the previous
year, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  The agreement announced yesterday doesn’t let Japan join
the TPP negotiations. The 11 nations that are now drafting the
accord must agree to formally invite Japan, and the U.S.
Congress has 90 days to weigh in before official talks can
begin.  “It’s premature to really speculate about timing,” acting
U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said on the
conference call.  11 Nations  The U.S., which endorsed Japan’s entry, accounts for almost
75 percent of the current TPP nations’ economic output. Other
governments in the talks are  Australia , Brunei,  Canada ,  Chile ,
 Malaysia ,  Mexico , New Zealand,  Peru ,  Singapore  and  Vietnam .  Japan and the U.S. will also discuss non-tariff auto issues
including regulations, distribution and new vehicle technology
during talks that will take place alongside the TPP discussions,
according to the USTR.  U.S. negotiators won’t conclude their TPP talks with Japan
until they complete separate talks on autos and non-tariff trade
barriers, Marantis said. For the first time, there will be a
dispute-settlement mechanism allowing the two sides to resolve
their trade differences, he said.  “More work remains to be done before Japan’s full
participation in these talks, but today’s announcement should
lay the groundwork for the eventual addition of a strong U.S.
ally,” Senator Bob Corker, a  Tennessee  Republican, said in a
statement.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  of Aichi, Japan, the world’s
largest automaker, operates a plant in Tennessee.  Japanese automakers want the talks to “dispel any
unfounded misunderstandings on the U.S. side” regarding the
Asian nation’s auto market, Akio Toyoda, chairman of the Tokyo-
based Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association Inc., said in a
statement. He is also Toyota’s chairman.  “We believe it is critical to start taking part in these
talks at the earliest possible time,” Toyoda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  