-- Woods Trails Leaders by Four Shots at Masters After Drop Penalty
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/tiger-woods-gets-two-shot-penalty-at-masters-for-improper-drop.html
Tiger Woods  heads into today’s
final round of the Masters Tournament four shots off the lead
after being assessed a two-shot penalty for taking an improper
drop during the second round.  Woods, a four-time Masters winner who is seeking to end an
eight-year title drought at the event, is 3-under for the
tournament at Augusta National Golf Club, where Brandt Snedeker
and 2009 champion Angel Cabrera share the lead.  Woods has never come from behind in the final round to win
any of his previous 14 Grand Slam titles. His last major victory
came at the 2008  U.S. Open , leaving him four wins shy of  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 titles.  “I’m right there in the ballgame,” Woods told reporters
after the round in Augusta,  Georgia . “I’m four back with a
great shot to win this championship.”  Woods, 37, had five birdies and three bogeys yesterday,
including three birdies over the final seven holes. Because of
the two-shot penalty, he started the day five shots off the lead
after being three back at the end of the second round.  He missed a chance to pull within three of the leaders at
the par-5 eighth, where his 3-foot birdie attempt caught the lip
of the cup, went more than all the way around and stayed out.  “I missed a couple short ones out there,” he said. “I’ve
never seen a horseshoe like that on 8.”  He added birdies at the 12th and 13th before missing a 10-
foot eagle putt at No. 15, the hole where his infraction took
place a day earlier.  Before beginning play, Woods was summoned to the course for
a meeting with Fred Ridley, the competition committee chairman,
to discuss the second-round rules issue.  “I didn’t know what was going on,” Woods said. “I made a
mistake. Under the rules of golf, I took an improper drop and
took the penalty. Once I came to the golf course I was ready to
play.”  Woods said it was fair that he wasn’t disqualified for
signing an incorrect scorecard. The rules committee reviewed the
incident and made its initial determination prior to the finish
of Woods’s second round, Ridley said in a press conference
yesterday.  When the infraction happened, Woods had been in a four-way
tie for the lead. His third shot at the par-5 15th hole hit the
flag stick and ricocheted backward into the pond in front of the
green.  Three Options  He had three options at that point -- to play from the
designated drop area; drop the ball while keeping the point
where it last crossed the margin of the water between the hole
and the spot where it was originally hit; or take a drop as near
as possible to the original spot.  Woods took the third option and video footage showed he
took a drop for his next shot -- his fifth after being assessed
a one-stroke penalty for going in the water hazard -- about two
yards behind the divot from his original shot.  “I was unaware at that time I had violated any rules,”
Woods said on Twitter.  The question was whether the drop that Woods took was as
near to the original spot as possible and whether he’d
intentionally gained an advantage.  “I went back to where I played it from, but I went two
yards further back and I took, tried to take two yards off the
shot of what I felt I hit,” Woods said after his second round.  Woods hit that shot to within four feet of the flag and
made the putt for bogey, which he said could have been a birdie
without the bad bounce off the flag stick. If he had made birdie
and avoided the two-shot penalty, Woods would be tied for the
lead heading into the final day.  Advantage Gained?  “He used that two yards to gain an advantage by breaking a
rule,” said former U.S. PGA Tour player and Golf Channel
analyst Brandel Chamblee, who called for Woods to withdraw from
the season’s first major championship. “And he knows it.”  Masters officials said the rules committee reviewed video
of the shot after being prompted by a television viewer while
Woods was playing the 18th hole.  “At that moment and based on that evidence, the committee
determined he had complied with the rules,” Ridley said in the
statement.  In 2011, golf’s governing bodies announced a new
interpretation of the rules that applies in “limited
circumstances” where disqualifications are caused by scorecard
errors identified as the result of recent advances in video
technologies. That revision may have helped Woods avoid
disqualification.  “The rule is great,” defending champion Bubba Watson said
after completing his third round. “It should protect us. The
people here at Augusta, at the Masters are not going to make a
bad decision. So whatever their decision is, is what we’re going
to stick with.”  Rule Breaches  The U.S. Golf Association and Royal & Ancient Golf Club,
golf’s two governing bodies, said the revision addressed the
situation where a player is not aware he breached a rule
“because of facts that he did not know and could not reasonably
have discovered prior to returning his scorecard.” At the
discretion of the tournament committee, the player still
receives the penalty associated with the breach of the
underlying rule, but isn’t disqualified.  The revised decision from the USGA and R&A in 2011 said the
disqualification penalty would still apply for scorecard
breaches that arise from ignorance of the rules of golf.  Woods in January was assessed a two-stroke penalty for an
illegal drop that forced him to miss the cut for weekend play at
the European Tour’s HSBC Championship in  Abu Dhabi .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  