-- Snedeker, Cabrera Share Masters Lead After Three Rounds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-14T13:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/jason-day-takes-masters-lead-into-third-round.html
Brandt Snedeker and  Angel Cabrera 
are tied for the lead entering the final round at golf’s  Masters
Tournament , while Australians hold the next three spots and
Tiger Woods trails by four strokes.  Snedeker and Cabrera, the 2009 Masters winner, are 7-under
par through 54 holes after rounds of 3-under 69 yesterday at
Augusta National Golf Club. They’ll tee off at 2:40 p.m. local
time in today’s final pairing in Augusta,  Georgia .  The Masters winner has come from the final pairing 19 of
the past 22 years, though the past two years have been
exceptions. The third-round leader or co-leader has gone on to
win in 41 of the previous 76 Masters tournaments.  “I’m mentally fresh and physically fresh, and this is what
I’ve worked my whole life for,” said Snedeker, who was the 2012
U.S. PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup champion. “So I’m really excited
about what (today) holds.”  Adam Scott  is 6 under, one shot ahead of fellow Australians
Jason Day and Marc Leishman as final-round play began this
morning at the season’s first major championship. The Masters is
the only one of the four major tournaments that’s never been won
by an Australian golfer. While Day tied for second in 2011,  Greg Norman  was a runner-up three times in Augusta, most famously in
1996, when he blew a six-shot lead in the final round and was
beaten by  Nick Faldo .  “To win the Masters would be incredible. It would be great
for  Australia ,” said Scott, who also shot 69 yesterday and is
seeking his first major title in 48 tries. “We’ve never looked
better odds-wise going into the final round, other than that one
year in ’96. It’s going to be a great final round.”  Crowded Leaderboard  The Australians are among 15 players within six shots of
the leaders, a group that includes  Matt Kuchar  at 4-under par
and Woods, who is tied with  Tim Clark  at 3-under par.  Woods shot a 2-under 70 yesterday after learning before the
round that he’d been penalized two shots for an improper drop
during the second round. Instead of a three-shot deficit, Woods
started the third round five strokes off the lead for “playing
from the wrong place” when he took his drop after his third
shot hit the flag stick on the par-5 15th hole and ricocheted
backward into the pond in front of the green.  Woods wasn’t disqualified for signing an incorrect
scorecard because the rules committee reviewed the incident and
made its initial determination prior to the finish of Woods’s
second round, competition committee chairman Fred Ridley said.
Woods said he made a mistake and it was a proper ruling that he
was penalized rather than being disqualified.  “I’m right there in the ballgame,” said Woods, who is
seeking his fifth Masters victory and first major title since
2008. “As of right now I’m four back with a great shot to win
this championship.”  Recent Comebacks  Woods is scheduled to tee off with Clark at 2:10 p.m.,
three groups before the co-leaders.  Last year, Bubba Watson overcame a three-shot deficit
entering the final round to win in a playoff. In 2011, Charl Schwartzel birdied the final four holes to rally for the win.  Cabrera had birdies at two of the final three holes
yesterday and will be seeking to become the 17th player to win
multiple Masters titles. Snedeker birdied three of the final six
holes to move into a share of the lead after starting the third
round with 12 straight pars.  ‘Baiting You’  “This is a golf course that’s baiting you into making a
mistake,” Snedeker said after his first bogey-free round at the
Masters in six appearances. “That’s one thing I’ve learned
around here, you have to pick your spots.”  Two-time champion  Bernhard Langer  of  Germany  is 2-under
along with Englishman Lee Westwood and Americans  Steve Stricker ,
 Jim Furyk  and  Rickie Fowler .  Nick Watney  and Bo Van Pelt of the
U.S. and Spaniards Sergio Garcia and Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano
are the only other players below par for the tournament, at 1-
under.  Fred Couples , the 53-year-old former Masters winner, shot a
75 yesterday to slip back to even par after beginning the day
one stroke out of the lead. Defending champion Watson is 2-over
after a third-round 70, while three-time Masters champion  Phil Mickelson  is 8-over after a 77, matching his worst score in 81
career rounds at the Masters.  “I’m just not hitting very good golf shots, missing it in
bad spots and not really knowing which side I’m going to miss it
on,” said Mickelson, who had double bogeys at the 12th and 13th
holes. “So my play has been beyond terrible, and that’s
certainly disappointing.”  McIlroy Slumps  Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland, who is second to Woods in
the Official World Golf Ranking, struggled to a third-round 79
that left him 5-over. Tianlang Guan, the 14-year-old Chinese
amateur who is the youngest player in a major golf championship
in 148 years, is 9-over after a 77 yesterday.  Keegan Bradley, who won the 2011  PGA Championship , has the
worst score among the 61 players who qualified for the final two
rounds at 12-over after an 82 yesterday. He started play today
at 9:20 a.m., with Guan following in a pairing with 55-year-old
Sandy Lyle, the 1988 Masters winner who last year was inducted
into the World Golf Hall of Fame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  