-- Lakers’ Kobe Bryant to Miss 6-to-9 Months With Ruptured Achilles
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-13T20:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/kobe-bryant-suffers-probable-achilles-tendon-tear-lakers-say.html
All-Star guard  Kobe Bryant  will be
out six to nine months after undergoing surgery today to repair
a ruptured left Achilles tendon, leaving the  Los Angeles Lakers 
without the  National Basketball Association ’s third-leading
scorer as they pursue a playoff berth.  Bryant, 34, was injured in last night’s 118-116 win over
Golden State as he tried to drive past the Warriors’ Harrison
Barnes with just over three minutes remaining. Bryant told
reporters after the game that it was a “freak situation” and a
move he’s made a “million times.”  “It’s gone,” Lakers head trainer Gary Vitti said of
Bryant’s Achilles tendon. “It has to be sewn back together.”  Bryant, a 15-time All-Star who has helped the Lakers win
five NBA titles, was averaging 27.3 points a game this season.
He entered today as the NBA’s leader in fourth-quarter points,
with 589, and  Kevin Durant  (558) of the Oklahoma City Thunder is
the only other player with more than 500, according to ESPN.  The Lakers are in the eighth and final playoff spot in the
Western Conference with a 43-37 record, one game ahead of the
 Utah Jazz . With Bryant’s injury, the Lakers’ odds of winning the
NBA title moved to 200-1 from 50-1, according to the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book.  “We know he’s out. We can’t put our heads down about it,”
Lakers center  Dwight Howard  was quoted as saying on the team’s
 Twitter feed . “We’ve got to go and play.”  17th Season  In his 17th NBA season, Bryant was averaging a league-
leading 38.6 minutes per game for the Lakers and was third in
the NBA in  total minutes played . He played a full 48 minutes and
scored 47 points in the win over the  Portland Trail Blazers 
three days ago.  Vitti said he expects Bryant to return next season.  Bryant last night said the injury was the biggest
disappointment of his career.  “I’ve never had to deal with something like this,” Bryant
said. “I worked really hard to get to this point.”  Bryant, who is the fourth-leading scorer in NBA history,
dismissed questions that the injury might end his career.  “It’s fueling me. I can feel it already,” Bryant said.
“It’s just players at this stage of their careers, they pop an
Achilles and the pundits say they never come back the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  