-- Newtown Victim's Mother Gives Obama's Weekly Address
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-04-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/newtown-victim-s-mother-gives-obama-s-weekly-address.html
Delivering the weekly White House
address in place of President  Barack Obama , the mother of a
child killed in the Connecticut school shooting said the nation
needs new gun laws “before our tragedy becomes your tragedy.”  Francine Wheeler, whose 6-year-old son, Ben, was one of the
20 children killed by a gunman Dec. 14 at Sandy Hook Elementary
School in Newtown, is the first person outside the
administration to give the  address  during Obama’s presidency.  “And as a citizen, I’m here at the White House today
because I want to make a difference and I hope you will join
me,” Wheeler said in the recorded audio and video address
released this morning.  Wheeler was part of a group of Newtown victims’ relatives
who traveled to Washington this week to lobby senators
considering legislation to expand background checks for firearms
buyers, increase funding for school safety and set new penalties
for gun trafficking. They flew from  Connecticut  with Obama, who
delivered a speech April 8 in Hartford to urge action on
measures to curb gun violence.  Describing her son’s “love of fun and excitement” and his
prowess at soccer and piano, Wheeler urged citizens to pressure
their senators.  “Please help us do something before our tragedy becomes
your tragedy,” Wheeler said with her husband, David, sitting at
her side. “We have to convince the Senate to come together and
pass common sense gun responsibility reform that will make our
communities safer and prevent more tragedies like the one we
never thought would happen to us.”  Senate Vote  She said that the April 11 vote in the Senate to allow
debate to proceed on the gun legislation was “only a start.”
Supporters overcame opposition from Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and other Republicans trying to keep the
measure, S. 649, from coming to the Senate floor. The bill faces
an uncertain fate in the House, where Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , has said he won’t make a commitment to bring it
to a vote.  “They haven’t yet passed any bills that will keep guns out
of the hands of dangerous people,” Wheeler said. “And a lot of
people are fighting to make sure they never do.”  The Republican weekly  address  focused on the budget.
Representative Jackie Walorski of  Indiana  criticized Obama’s
spending plan, which proposes tax increases on wealthier
Americans and reduces spending on entitlement programs. She said
the Republicans offered a better plan, which she said would
balance the budget in 10 years.  “The president’s budget isn’t a compromise; it’s a blank
check for more spending and more debt,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 