-- Lockhart Calls Unfounded the View That Fed Monetizes U.S. Debt
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-13T20:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/lockhart-calls-unfounded-the-view-that-fed-monetizes-u-s-debt.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart rebutted critics of the central bank
who say its policies are monetizing the national debt or
encouraging more deficit spending.  “I object to the view that the Fed is monetizing the
debt,” Lockhart said today as part of a panel discussion at the
University of  Iowa  in Iowa City.  Fed officials led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke have said
repeatedly they would not try to monetize debts by increasing
money and stimulating inflation. Bernanke has urged Congress and
President  Barack Obama  to put fiscal policy on a sustainable
path.  The “coincidence” of accommodative monetary policy and
increases in the government’s debt “doesn’t mean they are
connected,” Lockhart said at a University of Iowa School of Law
conference entitled “Fiscal Reform, Monetization or Default:
How Will the United State Solve the Problem of its National
Debt?”  “Fiscal reform is the only real option in the title of
this conference,” Lockhart said.  The administration forecasts that the  federal budget 
deficit for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 will be $744
billion, or 4.4 percent of the economy. The Office of Management
and Budget estimates that the shortfall this year will be $973
billion, or 6 percent of the economy.  Government Financing  Lockhart said it’s not true that the Fed is holding
interest  rates  down to reduce the government’s financing costs
and encourage deficit spending.  “The accusation of intentional suppression of government
financing costs is unfounded,” he said. “The Fed has to try to
ease financial conditions” and keep interest rates low “until
the economy improves.”  Growth likely slowed in the current quarter to an
annualized rate of 1.5 percent from an estimated 3 percent in
the first quarter, according to the median forecast among 69
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from April 5 to April 9.
Growth for the year is expected to be about 2 percent, the
survey showed.  “I have been supportive of accommodative policies and I
continue to do so,” he said.  The Atlanta Fed president, who doesn’t vote on monetary
policy this year, has supported the central bank’s monthly
purchases of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities as a means to try to bring down 7.6 percent
unemployment. Fed officials are considering how quickly to slow
purchases amid mixed signs for the labor market, with 88,000
jobs added in March in the smallest gain in nine months.  Cockeyed Policy  Lockhart responded on the panel to criticism from Carnegie
Mellon University professor Allan Meltzer, an economist and
author of a history of the Fed, who called the Fed’s current
stance “a cockeyed policy” and said asset purchases were
having “very little effect” on the economy while potentially
stoking asset price bubbles and inflation.  While the expansion of the Fed’s  balance sheet  creates
“some risk” of rising inflation expectations, “that chemistry
is not at work today and it will take substantial credit growth
to materialize,” Lockhart said.  The Fed “has a variety of tools to counter such
pressures,” Lockhart said, mentioning the central bank’s
ability to pay interest on excess bank reserves. That power
“gives us greater control over monetary policy than before that
tool existed,” he said.  Tapering Purchases  Minutes of the March 19-20 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting released April 10 show that a number of Fed officials
said the central bank should begin tapering its bond buying
program later this year and stop it by year end.  Bernanke said last month the central bank would alter
monthly buying in response to gains in the job market,
underscoring a need for flexibility. He said further gains would
be needed to be sure “this is not a temporary improvement.”  A former Georgetown University professor, Lockhart has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
 Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  