-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Erase Losses on Fed Buying Signal
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-04-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/treasury-10-year-notes-erase-losses-as-data-signals-fed-buying.html
Treasury 10-year notes rallied to
finish little changed as weaker-than-forecast economic data
dashed speculation the  Federal Reserve  might end stimulus
measures anytime soon, driving investors into government debt.  Benchmark  10-year yields  rose early in the week as the
Treasury sold $66 billion in notes and bonds before paring gains
as separate reports showed measures of wholesale prices,
consumer sentiment and retail sales in the U.S. all missed
forecasts. Large speculators raised their net-long positions on
the securities’ futures to the highest level this year. The Fed
will provide a look at U.S. economic growth when it releases its
Beige Book report on April 17.  “We saw a tale of two markets, where supply saw a bit of a
selloff that was quickly reversed with worse data hitting the
market,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12
billion in fixed income assets. “We are locked in a low-rate
regime for some time as central banks are still easing
aggressively.”  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 1.72
percent in New York this week, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 2 percent note maturing February
2023 rose was 102 1/2. Yields on  30-year bonds  rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.92 percent.  Widening Curve  The yield curve, the spread between 10- and 30-year bonds
widened 0.35 percentage points, or 3.5 basis points to 1.20 on
the week, the most since the week ending on November 11, 2012.  “The widening of the curve is a result of Japanese buying
in the intermediate sector,” LeBas said.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on April 4 the
central bank would double its asset purchases, to 7.5 trillion
yen ($76 billion) of bonds a month, in a bid to encourage
inflation.  Japan  held $1.12 trillion of  U.S. debt , Treasury data
through January shows.  Treasuries fell on April 10 as the minutes from the Fed’s
March 19-20 meeting showed that some Federal Open Market
Committee members said the central bank should begin tapering
its quantitative-easing program later this year and stop it by
year end.  The committee, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , decided at
the gathering to press on with $85 billion in monthly bond
buying until the labor-market outlook has “improved
substantially.”  ‘Unchartered Territory’  “As long as the big boys on the block are buying, it’s
going to be hard for asset prices to go down,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo
Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “We are in unchartered
territory. When data worsens, all assets rally because it just
means the Fed will stay the course, and that means stocks and
bonds can rally.”  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  rose to a record, gaining
2.3 percent to 1,588.86 this  week after touching a record
1,597.35.  Ten-year yields will be 2.25 percent by Dec. 31, according
to banks and securities companies surveyed by  Bloomberg News ,
down from 2.32 percent projected in February.  Speculative  long positions  on the benchmark note, or bets
prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 120,779
contracts on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, the most since Dec. 17.
Net-long positions rose by 10,087 contracts, or 9 percent, from
a week earlier, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report.  Boosting Duration  Bond-fund managers are retreating from the most defensive
bets in more than four years on U.S. debt investments as a
sudden slowdown in  job creation  mutes the risk of a rise in
 interest rates .  Fixed-income money managers overseeing a combined $130
billion have increased their asset-weighted duration, a
reflection of how long the debt they own will be outstanding, to
98.6 percent of target benchmark indexes as of April 9 from 97.2
percent on March 19, the least since September 2008, according
to a survey by Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Plainsboro,  New Jersey .  “The economic data is pointing to a weak and weakening
economy, which continues to keep a bid in Treasuries,” said
 Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit in Chicago, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “With such aggressive
global central-bank action, the onus is squarely on good data to
get the market to higher yields, and we just haven’t seen that
yet.”  ‘Ugly Numbers’  The 0.4 percent decrease in retail sales, the biggest since
June, followed a 1 percent gain in February, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday in  Washington , as the median forecast
of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an unchanged
reading.  A separate report showed the  producer price index  dropped
0.6 percent, the biggest since May, following a 0.7 percent gain
in the prior month. A Bloomberg survey called for a 0.2 percent
decline. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 sentiment index  for April fell to 72.3 from 78.6 in March, with
a survey projecting no change from the prior month.  “Those are pretty ugly numbers,” Ira Jersey, an interest-
rate strategist in  New York  at primary dealer Credit Suisse
Group AG. “In an environment where you have very slow jobs
growth and poor sales, the two of those things don’t bode well
for the economy. An early reduction in quantitative easing is
further off the table because of these numbers.”  The U.S. sold $13 billion of 30-year bonds on April 11, at
a yield of 2.998. They sold $21 billion of 10-year debt the day
before at a yield of 1.795 percent and auctioned $32 billion of
three-year notes on April 9 at a yield of 0.342 percent.  The sales will raise $6.7 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $59.3 billion, according to
the Treasury.  The U.S. will auction $18 billion in five-year inflation-
indexed notes on April 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  