-- Siemens Second-Quarter Earnings Dented by Wind, Rail Charges
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-13T11:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/siemens-second-quarter-earnings-dented-by-wind-rail-charges.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s underperforming rail
technology and offshore wind projects will result in additional
charges that will dent earnings in the second quarter, according
to Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser.  Earnings at  Europe ’s biggest engineering company will also
be affected by waning demand from industrial clients in the U.S.
and  Germany  as well as a weaker-than-expected recovery in  China ,
Kaeser was cited as saying by Rheinische Post in an  interview .
Company spokesman Guenter Gaugler confirmed the comments by
phone. Siemens is to release quarterly earnings on May 2.  “From today’s point of view and despite the burdens in the
first half, I continue to expect profit per share for the whole
company in 2013 to reach at least the level of the prior year,”
Kaeser was cited as saying. “It will be tighter on the
operating side, however.”  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is midway
through a program aimed at cutting costs by 6 billion euros
($7.9 billion) by the end of 2014. Profitability at Munich-based
Siemens dropped last year to the levels when Loescher started in
2007, prompting a new restructuring program in November after
the CEO acknowledged he had been too slow to react to falling
demand amid the global economic slowdown.  Kaeser said second-quarter order intake will “clearly
exceed” that of the first quarter and the year-earlier period
because of several large orders.  Unit Disposals  Siemens is  divesting  units that it deems may hinder its
goal of a 12 percent profit margin by the next fiscal year. It’s
spinning off its Osram lighting unit, while seeking buyers for
businesses such as airport luggage systems, mail automation and
water technology. The planned sale of the solar business is
“not easy due to the problematic market environment and its
handling on the balance sheet must be reviewed,” Kaeser was
cited as saying.  The energy division is bearing the brunt of the savings,
contributing 3.2 billion euros, while the industry sector will
eliminate the greatest proportion of jobs, cutting 4,000
positions. Operating profit at competitor  General Electric Co. (GE) 
represented 12.2 percent of sales in the three months to the end
of December, compared with Siemens’ 9.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  