-- U.K. Faces ‘Sluggish’ Growth on Weak Europe, Item Club to Say
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/u-k-faces-sluggish-growth-on-weak-europe-item-club-to-say.html
Britain’s economy will grow less
than previously forecast this year and further bond purchases by
the Bank of England may do little to stimulate the recovery,
according to the Ernst & Young Item Club.  Gross domestic product will rise 0.6 percent, compared with
a January forecast of 0.9 percent, the London-based group will
say in a report to be published tomorrow. Growth will accelerate
to 1.9 percent next year and 2.5 percent in 2015, in line with
previous estimates.  “With the rebalancing of the U.K. economy on hold, we’re
once again relying on the consumer to see us through,” Peter Spencer, chief economic adviser to the Item Club, will say in a
statement. “Unless we see a dramatic turnaround in Europe, U.K.
growth is likely to remain sluggish at best.”  The government’s austerity program and the continuing
recession in the euro area have hurt Britain’s recovery.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne pledged 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.4 billion) in his budget to boost the housing market,
while he revamped the Bank of England’s remit to give it greater
flexibility to add to stimulus.  Item will say that the fiscal changes were “active and
intelligent,” though it will express doubt “about the scope
for a more innovative monetary policy.” It forecasts that the
BOE’s bond-purchase target will be raised by 25 billion pounds
in both May and in August, adding that the stimulus is likely to
be less effective than the Funding for Lending Scheme, set up
last year to boost credit.  The Bank of England has already bought 375 billion pounds
of gilts and kept the program unchanged this month.  “There are increasing signs that the ground is being
prepared for further stimulus,” Item will say. “However, we
feel that this is unlikely to provide much support.”  Osborne’s measures to boost the housing market will likely
help avoid another recession, the group will say.  “Although it’s not a long-term strategy, stimulating the
housing market and the high street will keep GDP growth
positive,” Spencer will say. “Unbalanced growth is better than
no growth.”  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  