-- Wigan Beats Millwall 2-0 to Reach F.A. Cup Final for First Time
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-13T18:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-13/wigan-beats-millwall-2-0-to-reach-f-a-cup-final-for-first-time.html
Wigan defeated Millwall 2-0 to
reach the final of English soccer’s F.A. Cup for the first time
in the club’s 81-year history.  Shaun Maloney and Callum McManaman scored at Wembley
Stadium in London to send Wigan into an all-Premier League final
May 11 against defending champion Chelsea or Manchester City,
who play tomorrow.  “It’s a massive occasion for us today,” Maloney said in
an interview with ESPN. “It will probably sink in in the next
few days what lies ahead.”  Wigan, who are in the three-team relegation zone in the
Premier League, took the lead in the 25th minute as Arouna Kone
lofted a ball over the defense to Maloney, whose side-footed
volley from 12 yards (11 meters) beat goalkeeper David Forde.  McManaman then clinched the victory with 12 minutes left
after he took a pass from Jordi Gomez, went around Forde and
shot into the open goal.  Wigan’s previous best finish in soccer’s oldest domestic
cup competition came when it reached the quarterfinals in 1987.
All five of the Latics’ victories in the F.A. Cup this season
came away from home.  “It means a lot, as you can imagine,” Wigan manager
Roberto Martinez told ESPN. “We had a real togetherness and
feel it’s well deserved to get to the final.”  Millwall was attempting to become the first team from the
second-tier Championship to get to the final since Cardiff in
2008. The Lions reached their only F.A. Cup final in 2004, where
they lost 3-0 to Manchester United.  Today’s game was marred by fights that broke out among
Millwall fans late in the second half. Television images showed
police breaking up the trouble, which left some supporters
bloodied and younger ones crying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 