-- 
‘Cajun Riviera’ Residents Paying Price of Living in Harm’s Way

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/-cajun-riviera-residents-paying-price-of-living-in-harm-s-way.html
Mark Vonbodungen cast a primitive
form against the raging orange glow of a fire pit as he tended
its coals two nights ago in  Butte La Rose ,  Louisiana , where
thousands of residents are fleeing water that could reach 15-
feet high.  Nearby, a rented storage container and a flatbed trailer
held the contents of Vonbodungen’s weekend retreat, including
doors and the water heater. Only the refrigerator and a few
last-minute items were left inside the one-bedroom camp house.
The last of the boudin sausage from the freezer roasted on a
grill. After working 12-hour days since May 12 loading, sand-
bagging and worrying, Vonbodungen, 53, was almost out.  “You’re in the  Atchafalaya River Basin , so you realize
Mother Nature’s going to come get you sooner or later,”
Vonbodungen said, edging close to the fire pit to ward off the
swarming mosquitos.  Butte La Rose is one of dozens of small rural communities
in and around the Atchafalaya River Basin being flooded this
week to spare population centers in  Baton Rouge  and New Orleans.
Officials are slowly opening Morganza Spillway gates to relieve
pressure on the  Mississippi . It’s part of a plan developed in
the decades following a catastrophic flood in 1927 and used now
for only the second time.  The decision by the  Army Corps  of Engineers to open the
nine spillway gates brought the  Mississippi  River’s crest a week
early and several feet lower, sparing the oil refineries and
dense neighborhoods downstream. The lower crest does little to
ease the impact in the Atchafalaya basin, whose surrounding
communities some call the “hidden Cajun Riviera.”  Evacuation Plan  Vonbodungen, who says he long ago accepted the risk of
building in a flood zone, is one of the lucky ones. He has
resources and a well-thought-out evacuation plan, right down to
removable cabinets. He also has his real home to return to in
 New Orleans . For others, this 800-home community about an hour’s
drive from Baton Rouge is their only residence, making the leave
tougher to accept.  On the main highway into Butte La Rose, a homemade sign in
front of an evacuated house vents frustration in orange spray
painted words: “My slice of Heaven force-flooded straight to
hell -- God help us.”  Hard Choices  As this slow-moving disaster unfolds in southeast
 Louisiana,  the surging  Mississippi River  -- swollen with melted
snow and record-rains from the north -- is forcing hard choices
from officials and residents alike. They are made even harder by
the uncertainty of flowing water. How soon will the water
arrive? How high will it go? When will it leave?  About 2,200 residents live in the direct path of the
spillway flow, a few hundred more than were killed in the
 Katrina  disaster in 2005. They live there at their own risk. Ten
times as many face flooding from water that will make a U-turn
at the southern end of the region’s levee system and backflow
north into low-lying areas.  Residents in the spillway and parts of parishes such as St.
Landry are being ordered to leave their homes. Voluntary
evacuation has been suggested in others. Some have rented moving
trucks. Others toss belongings into their fishing boats, hitched
on trailers to their trucks. Some stay put with nowhere to go.  Local Inmates  In Melville on Sunday, 72-year-old Frank Overton spit
tobacco juice as he piled sandbags at the foot of his brick
ranch home on Church Street. A few blocks away, local inmates in
orange jump suits shoveled sand into bags and loaded them onto
the backs of residents’ pickups. Across the street, at town
hall, Louisiana Representative Charles Boustany Jr. held an
impromptu meeting with the town council and residents to answer
questions, mostly with more questions.  The preparations came despite a ring of man-made earthen
levees that protect Melville’s 1,200 residents. During the
storied flood of 1973, the last time water was released from the
Morganza Spillway, Melville’s levees held even as water lapped
at the top. Still, Councilwoman Denise Rose, 53, who made a
living in  Chicago  before coming back home to retire, said there
are no guarantees.  Stamping another bag of sand against the wall, as his wife
recovered from a stroke inside, Overton said he wouldn’t take
any chances. “I’m not going down with the ship,” he said,
spitting. “I can get another ship, I can’t get another me.”  Small-Scale Casinos  Most of the region surrounding the Atchafalaya River
drainage basin is dominated by sparsely populated farmlands,
anchored by modest towns. Oil refineries nearer the coast and
small-scale casino gambling at freeway exits offer much of the
non-farm work. Up and down the region’s backroads, plumes of
smoke rise from freshly harvested wheat fields that have been
set on fire to burn off the stubble and rejuvenate the soil to
make way for soybean crops to be planted.  On one such highway north of Krotz Springs, Danny Wiltz
cradled his young daughter in one arm and held his son’s hand
with the other as they crossed from their home to the nearby
levee. Residents like Krotz own sections of the levee, which
they often use to graze cattle. At the top, Wiltz’s kids threw
rocks into the rising water which had inundated a couple of camp
houses on lower ground within the spillway. Others had yet to be
touched.  Wiltz’s home, protected by the levee, was still at risk
from the coming backwaters. He was betting the waters wouldn’t
reach far enough and planned to stay put. His confidence comes
in part from the design of his house, which his father built two
years after the  1973 flood . The main living area, including the
bedrooms and kitchen, is on the second floor, elevated by metal
supports.  Sandbags and Plastic  A quarter of a mile away, authorities had used sandbags and
plastic to create a tiny levee the size of a minivan around a
small telephone switching station. Wiltz, whose commercial air-
conditioning repair business sits next to his house, dismissed
it as precautionary. “We built in a flood way,” he said.  Downtown  Krotz Springs , meanwhile, looked more like a
military occupation zone than the catfish capital of Louisiana,
as its welcome sign boasts. Humvees lined the road and national
guardsmen moved in and out of City Hall. On patrols at night,
the soldiers were armed with M4 rifles.  Back in Butte La Rose, Mark and Stephanie Vonbodungen
waited to hear when their portable storage container would be
picked up. They started planning this evacuation 10 years ago,
when they bought a garage and started converting into the cabin
it is now.  Removable Cabinets  Vonbodungen, an environmental specialist for the New
Orleans-based power company  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , installed removable
cabinets like those common in  Europe . The floors and other
building materials are mid-grade, so losing them isn’t a huge
financial risk. The appliances all can be moved in and out
easily.  Like others in the region, Vonbodungen has  Hurricane
Katrina  fresh in his mind. The ensuing flood and what he saw
during the cleanup phase informs his plans now. He plans to race
back as soon as possible and hook up his air conditioning unit.  “When it’s over, you have to move pretty fast to re-
establish humidity control so you don’t get mold,” he said.
“The longer you wait, the more issues you are going to have.”  He’ll then rip out any wet sheetrock, spray some anti-
bacterial chemicals and put the place back together. He hopes
the plastic he wrapped around the house, bolstered with sandbags
at the bottom, will keep out at least some of the water. If the
Atchafalaya crests at 27 feet, he thinks he’ll get six inches of
water. Earlier estimates that it would crest at 29 feet, or 8.8
meters, would have meant as many as two or three feet of
flooding.  “The expectation is I’ll come back to a construction
site,” he said. “Now it’s just a waiting game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane Stanford in Butte La Rose, Louisiana at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  