-- 
ABC Adds 13 Series to Next TV Season’s Schedule Under Paul Lee’s Direction

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-17T20:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/abc-adds-8-dramas-5-comedies-to-next-tv-season-s-schedule-1-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network added
eight dramas and five comedies to next season’s schedule, the
first from its new entertainment president, Paul Lee.  A remake of the 1970s “Charlie’s Angels” and “Once Upon
a Time,” from “Lost” producers Adam Horowitz and Edward
Kitsis, join a schedule with “Modern Family” and “Cougar
Town,” ABC said today in a statement. Lee will present the
lineup to advertisers later today at  Lincoln Center  in New York.  ABC will rely more on new shows for the season starting in
September than rivals. Disney charged Lee with rekindling prime-
time ratings at its flagship broadcast network after he
developed popular shows at the ABC Family cable channel. Only
NBC, which is adding 12 new shows, suffered a larger loss of
viewers this season, according to Nielsen Co. data.  “Our goal is to offer more originals and more sustained
originals throughout the year,” Lee said at a press conference.
“My job is to make ABC healthy and to make this brand sing.”  ABC will start a family oriented program block on Tuesdays,
starting with the Tim Allen comedy “Last Man Standing,” Lee
said. “Man Up,” about three men seeking to become more macho,
follows. “Dancing with the Stars” results show will air at 9
p.m. and “Body of Proof” will be at 10 p.m.  The network is also starting two dramas on Sunday night
with the aim of establishing a stronger block of shows, Lee
said. Fairy tales and the real world collide in ‘’Once Upon a
Time,” while the excitement of the 1960s jet age plays out in
“Pan Am,” featuring Christina Ricci.  Sunday Nights  “Sunday nights people are looking to be entertained, they
just want to kick back and watch some television,” Lee said.  ABC is adding “Suburgatory,” with Jeremy Sisto of “ Law &
Order ” and Cheryl Hines from “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” to a
Wednesday night comedy block that also includes returning shows
“Modern Family,” “The Middle” and “Happy Endings.”
“Suburgatory” follows a single dad who leaves  New York City 
for the suburbs to seek a better life for his daughter.  “Charlie’s Angels” will air Thursday at 8 p.m., when the
show won’t face scripted competition from rival broadcast
networks, Lee said. “This show is pure candy,” he said.  The network’s most-watched show remains “Dancing with the
Stars,” where an average 21.8 million watch the competition and
another 18.3 million tune in for the results episode, according
to Nielsen data through May 15.  Second-Half Shows  ABC plans to add six of its new shows in the second half of
the TV season, after December. The network didn’t announce start
dates for comedies “Apartment 23” and “Work It,” or the
dramas “Good Christian Belles,” “Missing,” “The River,”
and “Scandal.”  Disney, the world’s biggest theme-park operator, gained 8
cents to $41.01 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have risen 9.3 percent this year.  Broadcast and cable networks are releasing television
schedules this week ahead of meetings with marketers that will
determine advertising rates.  Advertisers will make about $9.02 billion in advertising
commitments this year, a 5 percent increase from the $8.61
billion made in 2010,  Spencer Wang , an analyst at Credit Suisse,
estimated in a May 9 report.  ABC is expected to garner $2.27 billion in advertising
commitments, a 1 percent gain from the $2.24 billion the network
received in 2010, Wang wrote.  NBC will add six comedies and six dramas, including the
police procedural “Prime Suspect” starring Maria Bello, to its
schedule starting in September, the network said yesterday. Fox
will add eight shows including  Simon Cowell ’s “The X-Factor”
and the special-effects filled “Terra Nova” from  Steven Spielberg . CBS plans to unveil its lineup tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  