-- 
Madoff Estate Lawyers, Advisers Get $318.4 Million in Fees Through March

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T16:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/madoff-estate-lawyers-advisers-get-318-4-million-in-fees-through-march.html
Irving Picard and other advisers to
the Bernard L. Madoff estate received $318.4 million in fees and
expenses through March.  Picard, the trustee liquidating the Ponzi scheme
mastermind’s firm, has personally been paid $3.6 million in fees
since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, according to a filing yesterday in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. His law firm, Baker &
Hostetler LLP, received $145.6 million, plus expenses of $3.4
million.  Objections were filed to five of Picard’s fee applications,
he said in the filing, a report for the period from Oct. 1 to
March 31. Fees tied to the liquidations of Madoff’s firm and the
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  brokerage may deplete the $2.5
billion fund of the Securities Investor Protection Corp.,
according to a March 30 report by the Office of the Inspector
General at the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We should hope and expect that now that the trustee and
his law firm are up to speed, they should incur costs at a lower
rate,” said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy professor at  Seton
Hall University School of Law  in  Newark ,  New Jersey . “If the
creditors get a very high percentage of their claims paid, they
won’t care how much the trustee got paid.”  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Big Lie’  SIPC, created to provide protection for brokerage
customers, receives funding from the brokerage industry. Just
days after Madoff told authorities his business was “one big
lie,” SIPC named Picard as trustee of Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities, making him responsible for unwinding the
fraud. Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in federal
prison in  North Carolina .  Liquidating the Madoff estate to pay customers, Picard has
taken in $2.6 billion in about 27 months, including $47.3
million from October through March. About $1.5 billion came from
investors who settled lawsuits.  From March through October, Picard filed more than 1,000
lawsuits to try to recover $90 billion for the Madoff estate, he
said. A court challenge is holding up $5 billion promised to
Picard by the estate of Jeffry Picower, a Madoff investor who
died in 2009.  Separately, banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are challenging Picard’s right to sue them on
behalf of Madoff customers, saying he was hired only to
liquidate the estate.  In his lawsuits, Picard accused the banks of aiding
Madoff’s fraud. They denied any wrongdoing.  Investor Fund  Earlier this month, Picard said he would allocate the $2.6
billion he had raised to a fund for investors who lost money in
Madoff’s fraud, paying an initial $272 million to those with
approved claims.  Consultants employed by Picard were paid cumulative fees of
$147.7 million through March, plus expenses of $4.8 million.
Through March, Picard received more than $1.1 billion from SIPC
and used 31 percent of the amount for fees, rent and other
expenses.  About $346.3 million of the money advanced by SIPC was
consumed by administrative expenses, while about $779.3 million
was used to pay customer claims, Picard said. Expenses included
rent for the con man’s former office in  Manhattan , the trustee’s
monthly fees and record-keeping, he said.  Office rent in the period was $114,762, while Picard’s
personal fees were $134,240 and “hosting expense” totaled
$487,128.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 