-- 
Maersk, CMA CGM Raided by EU in Shipping Antitrust Investigation

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-17T14:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/maersk-cma-cgm-raided-by-eu-in-shipping-antitrust-investigation.html
AP Moller-Maersk A/S, owner of the
world’s largest container shipping company, and CMA CGM SA are
among companies raided by European Union antitrust officials
over possible collusion.  The European Commission made unannounced inspections at the
premises of companies active in “container liner shipping in
several member states,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.
It didn’t name the companies involved.  EU regulators said they had “reason to believe” that the
companies may have breached EU cartel or monopoly-abuse rules.
The raid doesn’t mean that the companies are guilty of anti-
competitive behavior, the commission said.  The container industry returned to profit last year as
volumes and freight rates recovered. Maersk said on May 11 that
while freight rates will be under pressure in the “short
term,” the market will improve in the second half of the year.  Maersk will “fully cooperate with the Commission’s
employees to investigate the matter thoroughly,” Christian
Kledal, the head of Maersk’s legal group, said in an e-mailed
statement. The company’s “practices are in compliance with EU
competition legislation,” he said.  CMA CGM, the world’s third-largest container shipping
company, is also part of the EU probe, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The closely held Marseille-based company said it’s
cooperating with regulators.  Hamburg Sued was raided by commission officials today and
is fully cooperating with them, Eva Graumann, a spokeswoman for
the Hamburg, Germany-based company said in a phone interview.  Yang Ming Marine Transport Corp. (2609)  and United Arab Shipping
said they weren’t raided.  Vessel Sharing  Maersk Line, which owns or charters more than 500 ships,
has vessel-sharing agreements with CMA CGM and Mediterranean
Shipping Co., the world’s second-biggest container line. Under
such deals, shipping lines can buy space on their rivals’ ships
to reduce costs.  Maersk and CMA CGM are both members of the Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement, which works to “develop voluntary,
non-binding guidelines for rates and charges,” according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 