-- 
African Barrick Says 7 Intruders Shot Dead at Mine; to Probe

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-05-17T16:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/african-barrick-says-7-intruders-shot-dead-at-tanzanian-mine-to-probe.html
African Barrick Gold Plc said police
shot dead seven “intruders” at its North Mara mine in  Tanzania 
after hundreds invaded the project armed with machetes, rocks
and hammers in the latest fatal confrontation at the site.  Police called to the area “came under sustained attack by
approximately 800 criminal intruders who illegally entered the
North Mara mine site and attempted to remove ore,” the London-
based company said in a statement. “According to information
received, a number of intruders sustained gunshot wounds,
resulting in seven intruder fatalities and twelve injuries.”  The violence yesterday follows clashes at the mine that
killed at least seven in the past two years, according to
interviews with 28 people, including victims’ relatives,
witnesses, local officials and human-rights workers, Bloomberg
News reported in December. Charles Chichester, a spokesman for
African Barrick, declined to comment on the matter in response
to an e-mailed query today.  African Barrick is investigating the latest incident as are
the police, who have deployed additional forces in the area, the
company said in the statement, adding that there had been no
“material” effect on production at the site.  Barrick Gold Corp., based in Toronto, and African Barrick,
74 percent-owned by the Canadian miner, have previously paid the
Tanzanian government for federal police protection at the mine
and used private armed guards, according to company documents.
Police carried out the latest shootings, African Barrick said.  Criminal Gangs  Constantine Massawe, regional police commander for the
Tarime-Rorya area, said earlier by phone that five had died and
three were injured during the disturbance at the mine.  African Barrick has faced disruptions since being spun off
by Barrick Gold, the largest producer of the metal, in March
2010. It twice cut forecasts in 2010, delivering 700,934 ounces,
compared with an initial projection of 800,000 to 850,000
ounces.  The company yesterday lowered its second-quarter production
estimate by 10,000 ounces after a fault at a processing plant at
its Buzwagi mine. In October, African Barrick suspended 60
workers at the mine, saying it was “widely infiltrated” by
criminal gangs. The company operates four mines in Tanzania.  African Barrick slumped 28.6 pence, or 5.8 percent, to 469
pence by the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the lowest since it
first sold shares in March 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  