-- 
Air France Black Boxes’ Initial Data Show Nothing Wrong With Crashed Plane

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-17T15:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/air-france-black-boxes-initial-data-show-nothing-wrong-with-crashed-plane.html
Black-boxes from the fatal Air  France  
crash in 2009 revealed no new technical issues with the Airbus
SAS A330 jet on first examination, according to the planemaker,
though investigators said it’s premature to blame human error.  Analysis of voice and data recorders is “just beginning,”
France’s BEA accident investigation bureau said in a statement
after Airbus told airlines that preliminary findings didn’t
warrant changes to equipment or operating guidance. Carriers
were told after the crash to switch speed sensors on the model.  Investigators said yesterday they’d uploaded a complete set
of data from the black boxes, recovered from the Atlantic and
shipped to Paris this month after two years’ immersion at a
depth of 3,900 meters (12,800 feet). The wreck of flight 447 was
found weeks before the second anniversary of the June 1, 2009,
crash, which killed 228 people en route from  Brazil  to Paris.  “The gathering of the entire cockpit audio and flight
parameter data makes it almost certain that this accident will
be fully explained,” the BEA said today. Airbus said separately
in a BEA-approved telex sent to airlines yesterday that it has
“no immediate recommendation” for A330 operators and promised
further updates when “authorized to share more information.”  Paris-based Air France didn’t immediately respond to calls
seeking comment.  Pitot Tubes  Flight 447’s last automated transmissions, minutes before
the crash, had suggested that faulty speed readings from devices
known as pitot tubes could have caused the autopilot to shut
down in bad weather, a situation pilots are trained to handle.  On June 4, 2009 Airbus instructed airlines to remind pilots
how to respond to inconsistent speed readings using the Quick
Reference Handbook and Flight Crew Operating Manual kept in the
cockpit. Two months later it advised A330 and A340 operators to
switch from  Thales SA (HO)  pitot tubes to  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  versions.  Investigators have said that failed sensors couldn’t by
themselves have caused the crash and that an improper response
to the readings or other unrelated elements would be required.
The absence of information on the flight’s final minutes has so
far hindered the development of plausible scenarios.  Air France and Airbus have said they disagree with
manslaughter charges laid against them over the accident, the
worst in the carrier’s history.  Air France Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon
says there’s no evidence that the crash was caused by pitot
tubes. Records in  Europe  and the U.S. document dozens of
incidents where the probes failed and pilots retained control.  Premature  The BEA today dismissed as premature an anonymously sourced
report in French newspaper Le Figaro indicating that early
findings suggest the crash resulted from a mistake by the crew.  “To give way to sensationalism and publish non-validated
information when the data analysis is just beginning shows a
lack of respect for the deceased passengers and crew,” the
agency said. It gave no information on the initial findings.  Airbus said in a statement it “strongly disagrees with any
form of speculation” on the accident’s causes. Air France
pilots also cautioned against assumptions regarding human error.  “We cannot accept that the pilots who died in this
catastrophe should be throw to the lions of public opinion
before a complete analysis of all the causes of the accident,”
the SNPL pilot union said in a statement today. “In no way does
this note from the aircraft maker allow us to conclude that the
accident resulted from an error by the crew.”  The crash investigators have pledged to release an interim
report in July or August, with a final report due in early 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  