-- 
Taiwan Dollar Rebounds From 3-Week Low as Europe Concerns Ease

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-17T02:09:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/taiwan-dollar-rebounds-from-3-week-low-as-europe-concerns-ease.html
Taiwan ’s dollar rebounded from a
three-week low after European finance ministers endorsed a
bailout for  Portugal , easing concern about a regional debt
crisis that bolstered demand for the greenback.  The ministers said they will also consider extending Greek
bond maturities as part of a package including stepped-up sales
of state assets and deeper spending cuts, according to
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker . Government data
this week is expected to show export orders rose 14.8 percent
from a year earlier in April, the most in four months, based on
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “It looks like European governments will find solutions
for their indebted peers; that’s supporting the  Taiwan dollar ,”
said Julie Yu, a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan
Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “Overall, the trend for the Taiwan
dollar to appreciate continues.”  The Taiwan dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NT$28.834 against
the greenback as of 10:01 a.m. local time, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. It touched NT$28.920 yesterday, the weakest level
since April 27.  The local dollar was 0.1 percent weaker one minute before
the end of yesterday’s trading and extended its decline on
suspected intervention by the central bank, according to two
traders who refused to be identified as the authority doesn’t
disclose such details.  Government bonds  were little changed. The yield on the 1
percent note due January 2016, the most-traded government debt,
was 1.109 percent from 1.107 percent yesterday, according to
Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 