-- 
Alberta to Win Chinese Oil-Sands Investment, Minister Says

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T17:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/alberta-to-win-chinese-oil-sands-investment-minister-says-1-.html
Alberta, the Canadian province that’s
home to the world’s third-largest oil reserves, will likely win
investment from Chinese and other Asian companies as they seek
 energy security , Energy Minister Ron Liepert said.  “You’ll continue to see them strategically invest in
minority stakes in companies in order to have some skin in the
game,” Liepert said in an interview today at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. The companies also want to invest in
Alberta “to learn and, in their mind, provide them with some
long-term security” of  energy supply , he said.  Chinese companies including PetroChina Co. have purchased
Canadian energy assets as they search for new resources to feed
growing domestic demand. PetroChina paid C$5.44 billion ($5.57
billion) in February for a 50 percent stake in Encana Corp.’s
natural-gas assets in western  Canada . China Petrochemical Corp.
paid $4.65 billion last year to buy a stake in Syncrude Canada
Ltd., which produces bitumen from Alberta  oil-sands  projects.  Alberta is estimated to have 173 billion barrels of oil
reserves, ranking it behind  Saudi Arabia  and  Venezuela ,
according to the  Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers .
Most of the reserves are in sandy deposits that require heat,
steam or chemicals to separate the bitumen.  Total investment in the oil sands may reach C$15 billion
this year from C$13 billion in 2010, according to the
association.  ‘Hunting for Partners’  “There a number of companies who have major oil-sands
expansion plans in process and are out hunting for partners,”
Liepert said.  China Investment Corp., the nation’s $300 billion sovereign
wealth fund, plans to move a managing director to Canada to
bolster investment bids for natural resources assets, a company
official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Liepert said technological advances may increase production
of oil faster than the targeted 3 million barrels a day by 2020
from 1.5 million barrels now.  “The advancement of technology has been so incredible that
it’s hard to predict even five years out,” he said. The 3-
million-barrel estimate is “low.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 