-- 
Albino Python, 15 Feet Long, Slithers to Stardom in San Francisco Exhibit

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/albino-python-15-feet-long-slithers-to-stardom-in-san-francisco-exhibit.html
An albino python named Lemondrop is
the poster boy for an engaging new show, “Snakes & Lizards: The
Summer of Slither,” in  San Francisco .  The 15-foot, cream-and-yellow reticulated python, whose
parents both carried the recessive gene that causes his lack of
pigmentation, has lived in captivity for his entire life. (He
probably wouldn’t last long in the jungle of his native
 Southeast Asia , standing out against the foliage he ought to
hide in.)  If Lemondrop is the most exotic-looking snake on view at
the  California Academy of Sciences , one of his relatives is the
scariest. The Burmese python, with a brown-and-tan camouflage
pattern to its scales, is huge -- as thick as a grown man’s
thigh.  After it squeezes you to death, the snake will try to eat
you head-first (though it might not make it past your shoulders,
Academy biologists say).  The prize for prettiest snake in the show goes to the
smallish (roughly 2-foot) Campbell’s Milk Snake from  Mexico ,
which sports alternating inch-wide bands of cream, black and
burnt-orange from head to tail. Though it’s harmless, it looks
like the venomous coral snake, which gives it some protection
from predators.  A close runner-up in the beauty contest would be the
skinny, iridescent (and highly venomous) Eastern Green Mamba
from southern Africa.  Frisky Lizards  While the snakes are beautiful, they don’t offer much in
the way of action. Most of the time they just lie there in one
place -- in the leaves or sand on the floor of their glass
cages, or wrapped around an artificial tree limb.  By comparison, some of the lizards can be almost frisky.  The lizards range from the 3-foot-long, brownish-green
Rhinoceros Iguana, which looks like a wrinkled, miniature
dinosaur, to the elegant Giant Day Gecko, bright green with
snazzy red spots on its back. (It’s hardly a giant, though, at
less than a foot long.) The iguana hails from  Haiti  and the
 Dominican Republic , while the gecko is found in Madagascar.  Some of the most remarkable lizards on display are almost
impossible to see. The Leaf-Tail Gecko’s brown scales match the
bark of the tree it clings to so perfectly that it practically
disappears. The first challenge in viewing some of these animals
is discovering where they are in their cages, despite their
disguises.  The reptiles are displayed in sophisticated, climate-
controlled spaces, some of which are like small dioramas,
tricked out with rocks and vegetation in the foreground and a
painted landscape of the reptile’s habitat in the background.
With the explanatory labels and maps and diagrams, there’s
plenty to help you imagine what these creatures would be like in
the wild.  “Snakes & Lizards: The Summer of Slither” runs through
Sept. 5 at the California Academy of Sciences, 55 Music
Concourse Dr., Golden Gate Park, San Francisco. Information: +1-
415-379-8000 or  http://www.calacademy.org .  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 