-- 
Allied Irish Chairman Says Hopes to Find CEO by Year End

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-17T15:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/allied-irish-chairman-says-hopeful-of-finding-ceo-by-year-end.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  Executive
Chairman David Hodgkinson said he is “hopeful” that the lender
will have a new chief executive officer by “late in the third
quarter or early in the fourth quarter.”  While the Dublin-based lender has identified a number of
potential candidates, it has yet to draw up a “short
shortlist,” Hodgkinson said in a phone interview, after it
published details today of a business reorganization and
management team reshuffle. Colm Doherty, the bank’s former
managing director, left the company in November.  Allied Irish, which is 93 percent government-owned, was
ordered in March to raise an additional 13.3 billion euros
($18.8 billion) to shore up its reserves against soaring real-
estate loan losses. The lender today appointed Peter Spratt, a
partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, to oversee for the next
two years the running of a non-core unit that will “house,
manage or dispose of selected assets.”  “We’re still in an early stage of deciding quite how we
manage that virtual process, but there will be appropriate
corporate governance processes,” he said. The bank’s U.K.
business will stay in the core bank, while its 24.99 percent-
owned life and pensions joint venture with Aviva Plc “remains
at the moment” a core business, he said.  The lender, which reported a record 10.4 billion-euro net
loss last year, must sell or run down about  19 billion euros , or
22 percent, of its assets before the end of 2013, the country’s
central bank said on March 31.  ‘More Aligned’  Allied Irish said today its “current divisional
structure” is being replaced by an ‘integrated bank” with
three units: personal and business banking, corporate and
institutional banking, and commercial banking. Its consumer
operations in the Republic and Northern Ireland “will be more
aligned,” it said.  Bernard Byrne, currently chief financial officer at the
group, will head personal and business banking, while Paul Stanley, group financial controller, has been named acting CFO
pending a permanent appointment to the role. Robbie Henneberry,
who was appointed managing director the Allied Irish’s Republic
of Ireland division two years ago, will now become head of the
 Northern Ireland  operation. He will report to Byrne, the bank
said.  Jerry McCrohan, managing director of the capital markets
unit, has been named director of corporate and institutional
banking, it said. “The international businesses” within the
capital markets division “are part of the deleveraging
process,” Hodgkinson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  