-- 
America Movil Reviews Mexico Spending After Regulator Moves

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-18T00:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/america-movil-may-reduce-spending-in-poorer-areas-after-regulatory-changes.html
America Movil  SAB is reviewing its
Mexico network-spending plan and may reprioritize some projects
based on regulatory decisions that have cut the fees it receives
from rivals, Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia Moreno said.  While the company won’t trim its total Mexico network
investment, it may reduce funding to projects that will generate
less revenue because of regulators’ actions, Garcia Moreno said.
He said America Movil may put a lower priority on projects where
it relies on fees from rivals because clients mostly receive
calls and don’t pay to initiate them.  “We’re reviewing whether to change the destination of the
funds to invest less in areas that are less profitable and more
in areas that are more profitable,” Garcia Moreno said today in
an interview in  Mexico  City. “We’re going to optimize the
investments.”  Garcia Moreno said the Mexico City-based company doesn’t
have a specific date by which it plans to decide on changes to
investment plans. He said the “areas” that the company was
reviewing for profitability were company projects rather than
geographic locations.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is
the biggest wireless carrier in Mexico, where phone carriers
operate under a system in which the person who makes a call pays
for the airtime. Mexico’s phone regulator has favored America
Movil’s competitors this year by cutting the fees the company
wanted to charge rivals to connect those calls by more than
half.  Reduced Fees  The company had sought to charge rivals a fee of 95
centavos a minute for incoming calls this year. The Federal
Telecommunications Commission has set the rate at 39 centavos
this year in cases involving three competitors.  America Movil fell 52 centavos, or 1.8 percent, to 29.05
pesos at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading, the lowest
closing price since March 2, 2010. The shares have dropped 18
percent this year, compared with a 9.7 percent decline in
Mexico’s benchmark IPC index.  The tariffs that America Movil charges other carriers
represent less than 1 percent of its overall revenue. The
company, which operates across  Latin America  and the U.S., gets
24 percent of its sales from its Mexican wireless unit, which
has 70 percent of subscribers in the market.  Sole Carrier  There are many parts of Mexico where America Movil is the
only mobile-phone provider, Garcia Moreno said. The company’s
Mexican competitors are  Telefonica SA (TEF) , with 22 percent of
subscribers, and Grupo Iusacell SA and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , each
with less than 5 percent.  America Movil’s share of the market for subscribers who
sign up for long-term contracts is about 50 percent, Garcia
Moreno said. The company had 6.63 million such subscribers last
quarter, compared with 3.44 million for NII and 1.58 million for
Telefonica. Closely held Iusacell, which has about 4 million
total customers, hasn’t disclosed a figure for contract
subscribers for last quarter.  America Movil invested about 8.18 billion pesos ($698
million) last year on its wireless network in Mexico, or about
10 percent of its overall capital expenditure budget. In 2009,
it spent 8.25 billion pesos. For this year, the company has
planned investments of about 10 billion pesos for the wireless
unit in Mexico, Slim said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  