-- 
Hands Says Next Fund Won’t Exceed 3 Billion Euros After EMI

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-17T15:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hands-says-next-fund-won-t-exceed-3-billion-euros-after-emi.html
Guy Hands, founder of private-equity
firm Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., said his next fund will
at least be 44 percent smaller than his current pool after
losing his investment in EMI Group Ltd.  Hands also plans to forbid investments in several funds,
limit the maximum amount the firm can invest in a single deal to
10 percent of the fund and focus on smaller deals as part of the
lessons learned from the British music company, he said.  “We accept that when we seek to raise another fund it will
be significantly smaller, probably in the range of 2 billion
euros ($2.8 billion) to 3 billion euros,” Hands said in the
firm’s 2010 annual report published on his London-based firm’s
 website  today. A fund that size “will allow us to return to the
250 to 500 million-euro initial equity-investment size that is
our hallmark,” he said.  Hands bet and lost almost a third of his firm’s 5.4
billion-euro leveraged-buyout fund on EMI when  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
took control of the music company on Feb. 1. The New York-based
bank may sell the Beatles’ record label after cuttings its debt
by two-thirds to 1.2 billion pounds ($2 billion). BMG Rights
Management GmbH, the Berlin-based music company controlled by
KKR & Co., is among bidders that have expressed interest in
EMI’s publishing and recorded assets.  Terra Firma raised its latest fund, TFCP III, in 2007, and
invested in EMI the same year. The firm’s previous fund, TFCP
II, also held EMI shares.  The firm received “over 3 billion euros of unsatisfied
investor interest” for TCFP III at the time, Hands wrote today.
Had his firm continued fundraising beyond 5.4 billion euros in
late 2008, “we would have avoided doing a huge deal near the
top of the credit cycle,” Hands wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  