-- 
Anschutz Unit Wins Ambassadors Bankruptcy Auction With $39 Million Offer

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-17T22:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/anschutz-unit-wins-ambassadors-bankruptcy-auction-with-39-million-offer.html
A unit of billionaire Philip Anschutz’s Anschutz Corp. won a bankruptcy auction for virtually
all the assets of  Ambassadors International Inc. (AMIE) , operator of
Windstar Cruises, with an offer of about $39 million.  The Seattle-based company selected TAC Cruise LLC’s cash
offer, which also includes taking on certain liabilities, as the
winning bid after conducting a two-day auction that started
yesterday, according to court papers filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Kristopher Hansen, a lawyer representing Ambassadors,
wasn’t immediately available to respond to a phone call seeking
comment.  Ambassadors operates Windstar’s three-ship luxury yacht
fleet, which shuttles patrons to “the hidden harbors and
secluded coves of the world’s most sought-after destinations,”
according to a company statement. The ships carry 148 to 312
passengers to 50 nations in  Europe , the Caribbean and the
Americas. The company listed $87.3 million in debt and $86.4
million in assets as of Dec. 1, 2010, in Chapter 11 documents.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross is scheduled to consider
approving the sale at a hearing set for tomorrow.  Largest Shareholder  Ambassadors entered bankruptcy with an agreement to sell
substantially all its assets to its lender Whippoorwill
Associates Inc.  The Whippoorwill offer would have forgiven debt and assumed
other liabilities in exchange for the assets, which the company
valued at about $40 million, court papers show.  White Plains ,
New York-based Whippoorwill is Ambassadors’ secured lender and
largest shareholder, with about 22 percent of the company’s
equity.  Anschutz, 71, is ranked 124th in the Forbes Magazine list
of world’s richest people, with a net worth estimated at $7.5
billion, according to the  website . He holds ownership interests
in the  National Basketball Association ’s Los Angeles Lakers and
the National Hockey League’s L.A. Kings, and about 44 percent of
Regal Entertainment Group’s common stock.  The case is In re Ambassadors International Inc., 11-11002,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  