-- 
‘Big Four’ Auditors Face Probe by U.K.’s Antitrust Regulator

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T12:47:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/antitrust-regulator-opens-probe-into-provision-of-u-k-accounting-services.html
Britain’s antitrust regulator opened
an investigation into dominance by the “Big Four” accounting
firms, saying the industry is distorted by practices that stunt
competition and block smaller rivals.  The probe by the  Office of Fair Trading  is broader than the
watchdog’s earlier proposal to focus on bank loans that force
borrowers to use the largest auditors -- KPMG LLP, Deloitte LLP,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst & Young LLP, the watchdog
said today in a statement.  “We have been concerned for some time about the extent of
competition in this market, with only four large players and
substantial barriers to entry,” the London-based watchdog’s
executive director, Clive Maxwell,  said in the statement .  The investigation may result in a referral of the case to
Britain’s Competition Commission, which for the first time could
force changes to the industry. Dominance by the four firms,
which audit 99 of the 100 largest U.K. companies, has been under
review by the OFT since 2002, while a U.K. government committee
investigating the financial crisis called for a probe of the
industry in March.  The OFT has said the size of the Big Four’s market share is
propelled by the cost of switching auditors, the ease of
explaining the choice of accounting firms to investors, the
extensive international networks held by bigger auditors and the
risk associated with auditing larger companies.  The inquiry may be the most high-profile for the OFT since
it investigated banks’ equity-underwriting fees -- a probe that
closed in January without any action being taken. While the OFT
usually conducts its own “market studies” before a referral to
the  Competition Commission , the agency said that isn’t required
in this case because it has been reviewing evidence for about
nine years.  Offending Practices  Unlike the OFT, the  Competition Commission  has the power to
ban offending practices. The OFT said it will hold discussions
with companies in the industry through next month before making
a final decision.  “PwC plans to play a constructive and active part in these
discussions,” Richard Sexton, the accounting firm’s head of
audit in the U.K., said in a statement.  Ernst & Young and Deloitte said in separate statements that
they support measures that increase competition and choice in
the industry.  The  Financial Reporting Council , which regulates the audit
industry in Britain, said it previously reviewed competition in
the market and decided an antitrust watchdog was in a better
position to investigate. The probe involves an area of “real
importance to the future success of our capital markets,” said
Stephen Haddrill, the FRC’s chief executive officer.  Cost, Networks  The probe “should include looking at removing any
artificial restrictions that merely serve to reinforce the
status quo,” said Michael Izza, the chief executive officer of
the Institute of Chartered Accountancy in  England  and Wales.  The U.K. plans to merge the OFT and the Competition
Commission amid criticism the OFT is too slow and handles too
few precedent-setting cases. Its biggest fines were slashed by
an appeals court in March and April and its first criminal case
collapsed at trial last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  