-- 
Apotheker Girds for ‘Another Tough Quarter’ at Hewlett-Packard, Memo Says

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-05-17T07:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/apotheker-girds-for-another-tough-quarter-at-hewlett-packard-memo-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Leo Apotheker  told top executives that he’s bracing for
“another tough quarter” in the July period and urged deputies
to “watch every penny and minimize all hiring.”  The company’s existing headcount plans are “unaffordable
given the pressures on our business,” Apotheker wrote in the
May 4 memo to deputies, including  Todd Bradley , executive vice
president of the personal systems business, and Chief Financial
Officer  Cathie Lesjak . The memo was obtained by Bloomberg.  “Q3 is going to be another tough quarter, one in which we
will be driving hard for revenue and profit,” Apotheker wrote.
“We have absolutely no room for profitless revenue or any
discretionary expenditures.”  Apotheker’s e-mail followed a February forecast for second-
quarter sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates.
Hewlett-Packard blamed the shortfall on sluggish demand for
services and consumer products. The memo indicates that the
company continues to come under pressure and suggests job cuts
are in the offing.  “This is a continuation of what we’ve seen recently from
HP -- weakness on the top line, but better cost controls,” said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  Earnings Predictions  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , dropped
4.8 percent to the equivalent of $37.94 at 9:25 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The stock lost as much as 5.1 percent to
$37.76 in extended trading in the U.S. yesterday. The shares had
fallen 61 cents to $39.80 in regular  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading earlier in the day.  Following news of the memo, Hewlett-Packard moved up its
second-quarter earnings report to this morning, rather than the
afternoon of May 18. According to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts, the company is expected to report profit excluding
certain costs of $1.21 a share on sales of $31.5 billion in the
period, which ended in April.  Hewlett-Packard’s disappointing forecast cast a pall over
Apotheker’s first quarter as CEO and underscored the dual
challenges he faces. Hewlett-Packard’s reliance on home-computer
sales leaves the company vulnerable to a consumer slump, while
its services unit needs acquisitions to take advantage of a
shift to cloud computing.  Pursuing Profit  The company is also shuffling its executive ranks. It hired
Martin Homlish as chief marketing officer April 19. Homlish had
overlapped with Apotheker at SAP AG, where Apotheker was CEO
from 2009 until his ouster last February. The previous day, HP
named Jan Zadak as head of business computing sales, replacing
Tom Hogan, who is departing.  Apotheker is stepping up the company’s emphasis on higher-
margin businesses, including servers, storage computers and
software, and lessening its dependence on PCs, said Marshall,
who has a “buy” recommendation on Hewlett-Packard.  Executives led by Lesjak and Tracy Keogh, executive vice
president of  human resources , are “driving a full headcount re-
planning process” aimed at reflecting “the new realities of
the market and our position,” Apotheker wrote. The company had
324,600 employees as of Oct. 31, a company filing shows.  Apotheker, who took over Nov. 1, outlined his strategy for
the first time on March 14, announcing a deeper push into
software and the expanding market for computing delivered via
the Web. The company is starting a cloud-computing service that
will let developers create applications for consumers and
businesses that run on HP servers, Apotheker said at the time.  Hewlett-Packard also plans to put its WebOS mobile software
onto a broader range of products, ramping up output to more than
100 million devices a year, he said. And the company announced a
50 percent increase in its dividend.  Hewlett-Packard’s headcount surged after the August 2008
$13.9 billion acquisition of Electronic Data Systems. Its
employee ranks jumped to 321,000 in October 2008, up 87 percent
from 172,000 the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 