-- 
Apple IPad Poised to Lead Tablet Sales Surge: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T15:37:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/apple-ipad-poised-to-lead-tablet-sales-surge-chart-of-the-day.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other tablets
will cannibalize personal-computer sales “to an extent greater
than we can currently envision,” according to Jefferies & Co.  The CHART OF THE DAY depicts the firm’s annual sales
estimates for tablets through 2014, along with last year’s
total. The figures were provided in a report today by  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies.  Sales will almost quadruple to 70 million devices this
year, according to Misek. In the following three years, the
annual total will more than triple to 246 million.  “China has by far the strongest potential demand for
tablets,” he wrote, citing results of an online survey of 1,400
consumers worldwide who owned the devices or had shown interest
in buying one. About 80 percent of the Chinese respondents said
they would consider making a purchase. This percentage was the
highest among five regions.  While Apple’s dominance of the tablet market will fade as
sales rise industrywide, the Cupertino, California-based company
will sell at least five times as many devices as any competitor
over the next few years, based on Misek’s estimates. Apple is
his top stock pick. He also favors Samsung Electronics Co., the
maker of Galaxy tablets.  Tablets with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system are
currently too costly to compete well with the iPad, the report
said. The cost disadvantage for devices using the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s software prompted Misek to reduce his
industrywide sales forecast for this year from 100 million. The
earlier projection was made six months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  