-- 
Aramco ‘Keen’ to Develop Shale, Tight Gas to Meet Local Demand

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-05-17T16:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/aramco-keen-to-develop-shale-tight-gas-to-meet-local-demand.html
Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest oil
exporter, wants to develop unconventional gas resources such as
shale rock to reduce the burning of crude for power generation,
a company official said.  “We are in the early stages of assessing the kingdom’s
resources of unconventional gas but the company is very keen on
developing it,” Brian Gratto, manager for exploration resource
assessment at the company, said today in Khobar, in the east of
the country.  Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf oil producers are
boosting power supplies to meet the demands of growing economies
and populations. They are also looking for ways to use less of
their valuable crude as fuel for power stations.  “Aramco wants to add 5 billion standard cubic feet per day
of gas,” Gratto said. “This is not something that Aramco want
to do over 10 years time or more because by then we would have
burned more crude oil at power stations that we can sell abroad
for higher gains.”  Saudi Arabia  may need to burn as much as 3 million barrels
of oil a day by 2020 to generate power if it doesn’t improve
efficiency, Ziyad Al Shiha, the executive director of Aramco
Power Systems, said May 15 at a conference in Dhahran. That
compares with about 800,000 barrels of oil equivalent currently
used by the kingdom’s power plants, according to Ministry of
Petroleum and Mineral Resources estimates.  Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco’s senior vice president for
upstream, said May 15 that his company is venturing into
developing tight gas held between rocks. Aramco is now seeking
the help of international partners in order to develop its tight
gas resources, he said.  “We will start with a small scale shale and tight gas
recovery of about 300 million cubic feet per day, and then move
from there to 5 billion cubic feet per day,” Gratto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  