-- 
Archer Capital Acquires V8 Supercars Stake, Valuing Series at $316 Million

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-17T03:18:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/archer-capital-buys-majority-stake-in-v8-supercars-australia.html
Archer Capital , a private equity
firm, agreed to buy a controlling stake in the V8 Supercars
 Australia  auto-racing championship in a transaction that values
the series at about A$300 million ($316 million).  Australian Motor Racing Partners Pty Ltd., funded by
Sydney-based Archer, will take a 60 percent stake with the
racing teams and management holding the remaining 40 percent, V8
Supercars said in a statement.  Archer Capital will take on “a moderate amount of debt”
to become the majority owner of Australian motor sports’ premier
series, said Australian Motor Racing Partners Director  Andrew Gray . Sports and Entertainment Ltd. had held a 25 percent share
in the sport and the teams the other 75 percent.  “We are long-term investors and we’re patient investors,”
Gray said at a news conference in Sydney broadcast on the V8
Supercars website. “The business has grown exponentially over
the last decade. There’s a lot of growth to come.”  V8 Supercars Chairman Tony Cochrane will continue in the
role and oversee the day-to-day management of the sport, which
takes in  races  in Australia,  Abu Dhabi  and  New Zealand  and
attracted an average of 126,000 trackside spectators per race in
2010. The sport’s domestic television deal with Seven Group
Holdings Ltd.’s Seven Network expires at the end of 2012.  Cochrane said the new ownership structure will enable V8
Supercars to proceed with plans to add two to three new events
at international venues from 2013.  “This gives us a strong foundation to move on,” Cochrane
said. “There will be more racing out of this decision today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  