-- 
Shipowners Turn to AK-47s to Halt $2.4 Billion of Piracy Off Africa, India

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-05-17T14:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/armed-guards-fighting-somali-pirates-to-rise-trade-group-says.html
Shipping companies are turning to
guards armed with AK-47 assault rifles to protect vessels from
pirates, a trade group for security professionals said, after
record numbers of attacks last year added $2.4 billion to costs.  About 20 percent of ships in the  Indian Ocean  and Gulf of
Aden will use armed guards within the next 18 months, up from 12
percent,  Peter Cook , spokesman for the Security Association for
the Maritime Industry, said after a presentation yesterday in
London. The group represents a fifth of private security firms
offering services to shipping companies in the region, he said.  Average ransom payments jumped to $5.4 million last year,
from $150,000 in 2005, Louisville, Colorado-based One Earth
Future Foundation estimated in January. Attacks off Somalia were
also at an all-time high, with 49 vessels and 1,016 crew members
hijacked, according to the International Maritime Bureau.  “There is a wish by some shipowners to have armed guards
on board and you can’t dispute the fact they are successful,”
said Andrew Bardot, secretary and executive officer of the
 International Group  of P&I Clubs, which insures 90 percent of
the world fleet against liability claims. There have been no
successful hijackings on ships with armed guards, he said.  Most companies have three to five guards on their payroll
and hire extra staff on a freelance basis, Cook said, adding
that shipowners pay about $100 million a year for the services.
There are between 50 and 80 four-person teams of guards on
vessels at any one time, mostly toting AK-47s, he added.  Vetting Procedures  There have been 145 attacks and 22 ships hijacked by Somali
pirates in the Indian Ocean so far this year, according to the
 International Maritime Organization , the shipping division of
the  United Nations . Somali pirates added at least $2.4 billion
to transportation costs in 2010 as ships were diverted to avoid
attacks off east  Africa , said One Earth, a non-profit group.  The IMO, which had advised shipowners to avoid using armed
guards, will probably approve vetting procedures for security
operators this week, paving the way for their increased use,
Cook said. The organization will discuss guidelines for hiring
private armed guards this week, it said by e-mail on May 9.  “The maritime security industry wants to be regulated,”
said Cook, adding that his newly created trade group for
companies seeking to protect shipping will allow owners to
distinguish “good maritime companies” from “entrepreneurs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  