-- 
Yen Weakens, Pound Rallies as U.S. Stock Index Futures Advance

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-05-17T10:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/asian-stocks-oil-won-decline-on-economic-recovery-concerns-yen-weakens.html
The yen weakened against most major
currencies while the pound rallied on accelerating inflation.
U.S. stock index futures rose and the cost of insuring European
debt against default dropped to a five-week low after  Portugal 
received a bailout.  The yen depreciated at least 1 percent versus the euro and
the dollar at 6:25 a.m. in  New York . Sterling strengthened 0.5
percent against the U.S. currency. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures rose 0.3 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little
changed, and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.2 percent.
Cotton jumped for a third day and gold advanced 0.4 percent.  The Japanese government said it hopes for “flexible”
action by the central bank to support the economy after the
March earthquake. Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the first tranche of Portugal’s aid package is due
by end-May, while European finance ministers for the first time
floated the idea of talks with bondholders over extending
 Greece ’s debt-repayment schedule. U.S. industrial output
probably rose in April, economists said before the  Federal
Reserve ’s report.  “Progress is rather slow but we’re going with the
assumption that they will find a solution” to the European debt
crisis, said  Marcus Hettinger , a foreign-exchange strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  The yen depreciated 1.1 percent versus the dollar and
dropped 1.4 percent against the euro. The pound climbed against
all 16 of its most-traded counterparts after a report showed
U.K. inflation accelerated more than economists forecast in
April to the fastest pace since 2008. The Australian dollar
climbed 1.5 percent versus the yen after the central bank said
it may need to raise borrowing costs “at some point.”  Default Risk  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments dropped three basis points to
172, the lowest since April 13. The yield on the 10-year German
bund rose one basis point, climbing for the second straight day,
while the similar-maturity U.K. gilt yield advanced three basis
points following the inflation report. Short-sterling futures
declined, with the implied yield on the December contract rising
six basis points, a sign investors are adding to bets for higher
borrowing costs.  Greek bonds rose, sending the yield on the two-year note
down 25 basis points. Portuguese 10-year bond yields declined
four basis points, while Irish two-year yields tumbled 30 basis
points, or 0.30 percentage point.  Hewlett-Packard  The increase in S&P 500 futures indicated the U.S.
benchmark index will rebound from two days of losses. Urban
Outfitters Inc. rose in after-hours U.S. trading as the
retailer’s first-quarter revenue beat estimates. Hewlett-
Packard, the world’s largest computer maker, dropped 3.3 percent
in pre-market trading after a memo obtained by Bloomberg said
the company’s existing headcount plans are “unaffordable given
the pressures on our business.”  U.S. reports today may show industrial production increased
for a sixth month, rising 0.4 percent in April, and housing
starts climbed 3.6 percent to a 569,000 annual rate, according
to Bloomberg surveys of economists. Both reports are due at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington . Treasuries slipped, sending the yield on the
10-year note up two basis points  Three shares declined for every two that gained in the
Stoxx 600.  ASML Holding NV (ASML) , Europe’s biggest semiconductor-
equipment maker, slid 1.9 percent on the Hewlett-Packard news.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell for a fifth day, the
longest losing streak in three months.  India ’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index slid 1.1 percent.  State Bank  of India,
the nation’s biggest lender, tumbled 8.1 percent after profit
plunged 99 percent on provisions for bad loans.  The Vietnam Stock Index dropped 1.5 percent before the
country’s central bank raised  interest rates  for a second time
this month. Russia’s Micex Index slipped 0.6 percent, led by OAO
Rosneft falling 1.2 percent after its proposed $7.8 billion
share swap and Arctic exploration accord with BP Plc collapsed.  Cotton rose 1 percent and gold increased to $1,494.15 an
ounce. Billionaire  George Soros ’s sale of most of his physical
gold holdings in the first quarter doesn’t necessarily mean
others will follow, said Bernard Sin, the head of currency and
metal trading at MKS Finance SA in Geneva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at   psillitoe@bloomberg.net  