-- 
Asian Stocks Drop a Fourth Day on Greece Concerns; Commodity Shares Rise

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-05-17T10:25:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/asian-mining-stocks-rise-after-copper-gains-japan-shares-slide-on-tepco.html
Asian stocks fell, driving a regional
benchmark index lower a fourth straight day, as  Greece  sought
more bailout funds and disappointing U.S. economic data fueled
concern about a global recovery. Material and energy shares rose.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
televisions and flat-screen panels, slid 1.2 percent in Seoul
after Moody’s Investors Service said Greek default losses may
“far exceed” bank loans. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1
carmaker, lost 1.1 percent. Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of a
nuclear power plant damaged in Japan’s earthquake on March 11,
plunged 9.5 percent after Moody’s Japan K.K. lowered its ratings.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  climbed 1.5 percent in Sydney as metal prices
rose and amid speculation  China ’s oil demand is set to escalate.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated 0.4 percent to 133.83
as of 7:24 p.m. in  Tokyo . About the same number of stocks
advanced as declined on the gauge, which last week recorded its
second straight weekly drop amid concern China’s anti-inflation
policies may slow global economic growth.  “The European debt issue is reheating and the momentum of
U.S. economic growth may slow,” said Naoteru Teraoka, general
manager at Tokyo-based Chuo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $28 billion. “Investors cannot help avoiding
taking risks.”  Rising Currency  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average and South Korea’s Kospi
Index were little changed.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.7 percent after the Reserve Bank of Australia said a rising
currency is helping to contain inflation.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index slipped 0.3 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
gained 0.1.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4
percent today. In  New York , the index lost 0.6 percent yesterday
as Greece sought additional bailout funds and a report showed
manufacturing growth in the New York region cooled.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-largest mobile phone
maker, fell 0.9 percent to 113,000 won in Seoul and Samsung lost
1.2 percent to 890,000 won. Toyota dropped 1.1 percent to 3,305
yen in Tokyo.  Authorities stepped up pressure on Greece to sell assets
and deepen spending cuts to win an increase of its 110 billion-
euro ($156 billion) aid package and more time to repay the loans.
In deliberations clouded by the absence of arrested
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn,  Europe ’s rich countries also weighed whether to make
holders of Greek bonds assume some losses.  ‘Highly Destabilizing’  A Greek default would be “highly destabilizing” for banks,
causing losses that “far exceed” the size of their loans and
investments there, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  European banks would lose 34.4 billion euros in a worst-
case scenario, less than the total 95 billion euros of
outstanding Greek assets they hold, Moody’s said in a note
yesterday, citing public and non-public data for 97 lenders.  Stocks also declined as manufacturing in the New York
region expanded at a slower pace than anticipated in May as the
cost of raw materials surged.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York’s general economic
index fell to 11.9 from a one-year high of 21.7 in April, the
central bank reported yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected it would drop to 19.6, according to the median
forecast. Readings greater than zero signal growth.  ‘Financial Issues’  “Optimism on the  U.S. economy  is receding and Greek
financial issues remain uncertain,” said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, a
strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co. “Investors
will likely keep shifting their funds to safe bonds or cash from
risk assets like stocks.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 5.7 percent by the  S&P
500  and 1.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500 and 11.2 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Tokyo Electric Power tumbled 9.5 percent to 380 yen in
Tokyo. Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters
today that all stakeholders should share the financial burden of
compensation from the nuclear-plant disaster.  “Our basic stance is to get cooperation from every
stakeholder as we try to minimize the burden for the Japanese
public,” Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda said at a news
conference in Tokyo today. “Tepco and financial institutions
should discuss this with these principles in mind.”  Utilities Decline  Tepco’s shares also fell after Moody’s  Japan  K.K. yesterday
lowered its ratings and kept them on review for a further
possible downgrade, and  Kyodo News  said the company will report
a net loss of more than 800 billion yen ($9.9 billion) for the
fiscal year ended March 31. Tepco, which said it wasn’t the
source of the speculation, is scheduled to report earnings on
May 20.  Other Japanese power companies also retreated, leading
utilities on the MSCI Asia-Pacific gauge to the biggest decline
among its 10 industry groups.  Kansai Electric Power Co., the nation’s second-largest
utility, lost 3.7 percent to 1,452 yen and Chubu Electric Power
Co. slipped 5.5 percent to 1,339 yen after Japan’s Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said it’s possible the country’s power
companies will have to split off their distribution networks.  Some stocks in the Asia-Pacific region fell after receiving
notice that they will be deleted from MSCI country indexes at
the end of the month.  Australian Inflation  Sapporo Holdings Ltd., Japan’s fourth-largest brewer, and
Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., the nation’s No. 1 zinc producer,
declined in Tokyo after MSCI Inc., the index compilers,
announced the changes in a statement yesterday.  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG)  and Goodman Fielder dropped in Sydney after
they were deleted.  Separately, Australia’s central bank said the nation’s
rising currency is helping to contain inflation that may need to
be slowed “at some point” by higher  interest rates , minutes of
its May 3 meeting showed.  BHP Billiton , Australia’s largest oil producer, climbed 1.5
percent to A$44.15 in Sydney after copper traded in  London  rose
for the third straight day yesterday. Rio Tinto Group, the
second-biggest mining company by sales, gained 1.5 percent to
A$80.25.  China’s oil demand this year may rise 6.7 percent to 482.96
million metric tons, Zhang Fuqin, deputy chief engineer at China
National Petroleum Corp.’s petroleum and petrochemical
engineering institute, said at a conference in Tianjin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 