-- 
AstraZeneca Reflux Drug Nexium Matches Surgery, Study Finds

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-05-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/astrazeneca-reflux-drug-nexium-matches-surgery-study-finds.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Nexium is as
effective as surgery for patients with gastroesophageal reflux
disease, according to a five-year study published in the Journal
of the  American Medical Association .  The study, funded by the London-based drugmaker, followed
372 patients at hospitals in 11 European countries between
October 2001 and April 2009. After five years about 85 percent
of the patients who had surgery remained in remission, according
to the study, compared with 92 percent taking esomeprazole, the
chemical name for Nexium. Remission means they didn’t suffer a
relapse in the disease, where stomach acid flows into the
esophagus, causing heartburn and ulcers.  “The beauty of the study is that in the end the treatments
are both comparable,” Jean-Paul Galmiche, of Nantes University,
in Nantes,  France , said in an interview. There were no
statistical differences between the two, and side effects
varied, said Galmiche, who led the study.  Nexium, which is also known as "the purple pill" and
generated $4.97 billion in sales last year, faces competition
from generic drugs in  Europe  and will lose patent protection in
the U.S. by 2014. It also exists in injectable form, though
pills were used in the study.  There was a “significantly worse” rate of acid
regurgitation at five years among those who took Nexium than
among those who got laparoscopic anti-reflux surgery, the study
said. Difficulty swallowing, bloating and flatulence were more
common among patients who had the surgery than those on Nexium,
the study said. Both groups had similar levels of heartburn,
abdominal pain and diarrhea.  ‘Adverse Events’  “Doctors can use the study to inform patients of the
advantages and disadvantages” of each treatment, Galmiche said.  Patients who had surgery experienced a slightly higher rate
of “serious adverse events” than those on Nexium, with 28.6
percent and 24.1 percent respectively. Such events include  bone
fractures  and cardiovascular disease, Galmiche said.  “We are confident in the positive benefit-risk profile for
Nexium,” Abigail Baron, a spokeswoman for the drugmaker who
hadn’t seen the study, said in an e-mailed statement before the
article was published.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 