-- 
Aureos Capital to Hit $100 Million Africa Health Fund Target This Month

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-05-17T09:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/aureos-capital-to-hit-100-million-africa-health-fund-target-this-month.html
Aureos Capital Ltd. expects to
surpass its $100 million target by the end of May for a two-
year-old, private-equity fund focusing on African hospitals and
health companies and counting the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation  among its investors.  The  Africa Health Fund , which opened June 5, 2009, for
investments in “financially sound businesses” providing
Africa’s mass market with affordable medical services, has so
far raised $75 million, according to Chief Executive Officer Sev Vettivetpillai. The private-equity firm has about half of its
$1.3 billion of assets under management in Africa, and the rest
in  Asia  and  Latin America .  “We have two institutional investors who we expect to
finish closing the legal agreements by the end of this month to
take us to $104 million,” Vettivetpillai said in a May 13 phone
interview from  Washington . “That will be the final size.”  Buyout firms are increasingly looking to emerging markets
to take advantage of growing populations and incomes outside of
developed countries. Private-equity funds in sub-Saharan  Africa 
raised $156 million in the first quarter, after attracting $1.5
billion in 2010, according to the Emerging Markets Private
Equity Association. Developing-nation funds worldwide raised
about $23 billion last year, according to EMPEA.  The Aureos fund has invested in Kenya’s  Nairobi Women’s
Hospital  and C&J Medicare, based in Ghana’s capital, Accra.  Awaiting Approval  An investment in a hospital group and another in a medical-
devices manufacturing facility in East Africa have been
approved, Vettivetpillai said. Two more, for health-service
businesses in West Africa, are being considered, he said.  “We need to get to the bottom of the pyramid because a
large proportion of the population of Africa lives on less than
$2 or $3 a day,” he said.  Other investors include the  African Development Bank  and
the International Finance Corp., the private lending arm of the
 World Bank .  Aureos was  spun off  in 2001 from London-based CDC Group
Plc, a U.K. government-owned development fund that was founded
more than 60 years ago to invest in former British colonies.CDC
continues to back Aureos as a private equity fund-of-fund
manager with a goal of reducing poverty by boosting investment,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  