-- 
Australian Dollar Advances Versus Yen on Prospects for Interest-Rate Boost

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-17T16:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/australian-dollar-snaps-four-day-drop-on-bet-central-bank-will-raise-rates.html
The Australian dollar rose against
the yen, snapping a four-day drop, after the  Reserve Bank  said
in minutes that it may need to raise borrowing costs “at some
point,” outweighing concern  interest rates  won’t be increased
as the currency’s strength curbs price pressures.  The Aussie advanced after Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson said it will likely track the nation’s terms of trade
and stay persistently high for some time. The currency erased
gains versus the greenback as stocks and commodities fell. New
Zealand’s dollar rose for the first time in three days versus
the yen after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said mild autumn
weather may help milk production reach a record this season.  Reserve Bank of Australia minutes released today “look
reasonably upbeat in terms of the economy, in terms of
expectations and in terms of potential rate hike,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign-exchange strategy in  Hong Kong 
at Credit Agricole CIB, a unit of  France ’s second-biggest bank.
“Overall, this is good news for the Aussie dollar. Nothing in
here says the RBA is not going to hike rates.”  The Aussie appreciated 0.6 percent to 85.78 yen at 12:18
p.m. in  New York , from 85.28 yesterday. It slipped 0.1 percent
to $1.0550, from $1.0556, after earlier rising as much as 0.6
percent to $1.0618.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, strengthened 0.6
percent to 63.35 yen. The kiwi declined 0.1 percent to 77.88
U.S. cents.  RBA Minutes  “If economic conditions continued to evolve as expected,
higher interest rates were likely to be required at some point
if inflation was to remain consistent with the medium-term
target,” according to the minutes of the RBA’s May 3 meeting,
when officials kept borrowing costs unchanged at 4.75 percent
for a fifth straight time. “Members viewed the current mildly
restrictive stance of monetary policy as remaining
appropriate.”  New Zealand ’s milk output is more than 4 percent ahead of a
year ago, Auckland-based Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy
exporter, said today in a statement.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
fell 0.57 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  