-- 
Australian Dollar Maintains Gain on Speculation Wage Growth Accelerated

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-18T00:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/australian-dollar-maintains-gain-on-speculation-wage-growth-accelerated.html
The Australian dollar held onto
yesterday’s gains versus the greenback before a government
report today that economists said will show wages grew at a
faster pace in the first quarter.  The so-called Aussie was also supported as traders added to
bets the central bank will raise  interest rates  over the next 12
months. New Zealand’s dollar advanced earlier after a government
report showed prices paid by the nation’s farms increased in the
first quarter.  “While wage growth is well below what the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia considers a dangerous rate, pressures are slowly
building,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP
Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker.
“This is supportive of the Aussie.”  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0621 as of 10:19 a.m. in
Sydney from $1.0627 in  New York  yesterday, when it gained 0.7
percent. The Aussie was at 86.47 yen from 86.52 yen. New
Zealand’s currency bought 78.53 U.S. cents from 78.49 cents,
after earlier advancing 0.2 percent. The so-called kiwi was at
63.93 yen from 63.90 yen.  Australia ’s wage price index, which measures hourly pay
rates excluding bonuses, rose 1.1 percent last quarter from the
prior three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the statistics bureau report.  The RBA will raise its 4.75 percent benchmark interest rate
by 36 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse
Group AG index based on swaps showed. The prediction yesterday
was 34 basis points.  Aussie Boost  “A high wages result would shorten the odds of a rate hike
sooner rather than later, which would give the Aussie a boost in
the near term,” said Besa Deda, chief economist at St. George
Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “However, the Aussie is most likely still
going to take much of its direction from offshore influences,
including global risk appetite.”  New Zealand ’s dollar gained for the first time in four days
versus Australia’s currency after  Statistics New Zealand  said
today producer input prices gained 2.2 percent in the first
three months of the year from the prior quarter, and output
prices advanced 1.7 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NZ$1.3527 per
Australian dollar today.  “The kiwi-Aussie showed choppy trading overnight, with the
kiwi creeping higher relative to the Aussie in the early hours
of this morning,” Kymberly Martin, markets strategist in
Wellington at Bank of New Zealand Ltd., wrote in a research note
today. “All eyes, however, will be on tomorrow’s budget and to
a much lesser extent the ANZ-RM consumer confidence indicator.”  New Zealand may cut pension subsidies and review other
social payments to return the fiscal position to a surplus.
Prime Minister John Key has said he may lower contributions to a
workplace savings program and review entitlements to family
payments in the budget, a four-year plan starting July 1.  The ANZ-Roy Morgan confidence index was 101.4 in April,
Wellington-based ANZ National Bank Ltd. said on April 21. The
bank is scheduled to release May data tomorrow. A number of more
than 100 shows that optimists outnumber pessimists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 