-- 
Australia Needs Carbon Price Over A$40, Greens Senator Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-17T02:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/australia-needs-carbon-price-over-a-40-greens-senator-says.html
Australia  needs a price of more than
A$40 ($42) per ton on  carbon emissions , Greens Senator Christine Milne said, setting up a potential conflict with the ruling
party as lawmakers negotiate details of a trading plan.  The fee proposed by the Greens party is higher than that
suggested by Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet , who told ABC
radio today the starting price would be “well south” of A$40.
Milne, a member of the government’s Multiparty Climate Change
Committee that is meeting in Canberra today, said the group had
not yet agreed on a starting price.  “I certainly recognize that you are going to need a price
at A$40 or more to shift from coal to gas and then a higher
price still for gas to renewables,” Milne told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio. The lawmakers involved need to agree
on “a combination” of measures, she added.  The committee is working to agree on details of the plan
before July 2012 to allow full trading to begin as early as
2015. Ruling Labor Party Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 5 percent by 2020
and has set a target of generating 20 percent of the country’s
energy from renewable sources like wind and solar.  Today’s meeting comes after a Newspoll opinion survey on
May 4 said some 60 percent of voters opposed the government’s
plan to implement carbon trading. Companies including  BlueScope
Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Rio Tinto Group and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have
called for changes to the plan and warned of job losses.  Opposition Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott  has vowed to
fight the law, saying it will increase electricity prices in an
economy where families are already struggling with high living
costs.  The government has said more than 50 percent of revenue
from the carbon plan would be used to aid households cope with
rising costs associated the transition to cleaner energy, with
the rest to assist companies and fund clean energy projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  