-- 
Australia Central Bank Foresees Need for Higher Rates to Contain Inflation

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-17T07:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/australia-central-bank-sees-likely-need-for-higher-rates-to-beat-inflation.html
Australia ’s Treasury secretary said
the local currency will stay elevated “for some time,” a rise
the central bank signaled would help contain inflation spurred
by the nation’s biggest mining-investment boom.  “The Australian dollar, which is currently at record
levels, can be expected to move roughly in line with the terms
of trade over the longer term,” Martin Parkinson, the
Treasury’s top bureaucrat, said in a speech today in Sydney,
referring to a measure of export income. “It is therefore
expected to also remain persistently high for some time.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens has kept
the benchmark interest rate at 4.75 percent after seven
increases in the overnight cash rate target from October 2009 to
November last year, moves that contributed to a 21 percent gain
in the currency in the past 12 months.  “If economic conditions continued to evolve as expected,
higher  interest rates  were likely to be required at some point
if inflation was to remain consistent with the medium-term
target,” RBA policy makers  minutes  said in minutes of their May
3 meeting released in Sydney today.  The Australian government forecasts mining investment of
A$76 billion ($81 billion) next fiscal year as companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company,
expand output to meet demand from China and  India . The buildup
has spurred hiring and prompted the RBA to predict the
 unemployment rate  will fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  Australia recorded its biggest annual job growth on record
last year before hiring cooled.  China, India  Parkinson, whose first speech as secretary came a week
after the government handed down its budget, said Australia will
feel a “significant” impact from the emergence of India and
 China , two economies that account for more than a third of the
world’s population and are growing rapidly.  As secretary to the Treasury, Parkinson chairs the advisory
panel of the Australian Office of Financial Management.  “There is nothing pre-ordained about these growth paths,
and size does not automatically confer economic or strategic
weight,” he told the Australian Business Economists forum.
“But these transitions -- whether smooth or rocky -- have
important implications for Australia. Indeed, they constitute
probably the most significant external shock Australia has ever
experienced.”  A government report last week showed employers shed a net
22,100 workers in April, the most since 2009, including 49,100
full-time jobs, the most in two years. The jobless rate held at
4.9 percent.  Slower Spending  Household spending accounts for 54 percent of Australia’s
economy, and a government report this month showed retail sales
unexpectedly fell 0.5 percent in March, the first decline in
five months, and sales adjusted to remove inflation stagnated in
the three months through March from the previous quarter.  “The recent appreciation of the  exchange rate  and a
continuation of the relatively high saving ratio by households
would help to contain some of the inflationary pressures coming
from the resources boom,” RBA policy makers said in the
minutes.  An “important influence” on the strength of the
Australian dollar “had been purchases by other central banks
seeking to invest their official reserve assets,” policy makers
said in the minutes.  Australia’s government said in its May 10 budget that it
will end 23 years of spending growth to ease inflation from the
mining-investment boom. Parkinson said today the tightening was
as much as the economy could weather.  Fiscal Tightening  “My own sense is that doing significantly more to tighten
fiscal policy in the short run would inject another risk -- that
of slowing the economy excessively -- and could undermine the
prospects for achieving the promised fiscal consolidation,” he
said.  The RBA, in a May 6 policy statement, forecast growth in
the year through to the final quarter of 2011 at 4.25 percent,
unchanged from its February estimate. Consumer prices will rise
3.25 percent over the period, from a previous prediction of 3
percent, and  core inflation  will quicken to 3 percent from 2.75
percent, it said.  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases helped
Australia’s currency surpass $1.10 this month, the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983. In contrast, the U.S.
Federal Reserve has kept its main interest rate near zero since
December 2008.  June Meeting  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest bank,
is among 15 of 24 institutions surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecasting the RBA will extend its pause next month.  Economists at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., the
nation’s three other top lenders, predict Stevens will increase
rates by a quarter percentage point to 5 percent on June 7.  Matthew Johnson, an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in
Sydney, said the last time the RBA introduced the phrase “at
some point” to signal the timing of a rate change was in
September 2010. Borrowing costs were increased two months later.  “While the RBA doesn’t have code words -- like the
 European Central Bank  is supposed to have -- it does tend to
deliver tightening once the need for tightening has been
identified,” Johnson wrote after the minutes. “Thus, with the
RBA now having made the case that rates need to rise, it seems
almost assured that the overnight policy rate will rise at one
of the next three meetings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  