-- 
Aviva’s First-Quarter Revenue Falls on European Division

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-17T15:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/aviva-s-first-quarter-revenue-falls-on-italy-north-america-1-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, said first-quarter sales fell 14
percent as European economic growth slowed and the firm focused
on higher-margin products.  Revenue from long-term savings declined to 8.8 billion
pounds ($14 billion) in the three months to March 31, from 10.2
billion pounds in the year earlier period, the London-based
company said today in a statement. It forecast sales of 8.6
billion pounds to 9.2 billion on April 11.  “We have to applaud the increase in profitability,” said
 Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. with a “buy” rating on the stock. “But
they had said the reduction was purely down to the U.S. and
 Italy . We were a bit surprised at the double-digit reductions we
saw in France, Poland and Spain.”  Aviva has prioritized sales in  Europe  under its “quantum
leap” strategy announced in October 2009, when the insurer said
an aging population burdened by sluggish economic growth would
boost savings rates in the continent. Rival European insurers
 Prudential Plc (PRU)  and  Axa SA (CS)  have preferred to invest in Asia,
which they say has more long-term potential than their home
region.  Revenue from Aviva’s European division dropped 24 percent
to 3.2 billion pounds as sales fell more than 10 percent in
France, Italy, Spain and Poland. The insurer intentionally
reduced sales of so-called with-profit products in Italy and
 France  because they have lower profit margins, Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Moss said on a call with reporters.  Economic Challenges  “Despite near-term economic challenges people have money,
they do save money and they need to save more of it,” Moss
said. “We believe absolutely we will be the beneficiary of
that.”  Aviva’s profit margin on new life-insurance policies rose
to 2.5 percent from 2.3 percent. The insurer raised profit
margins in  North America  causing sales to fall 21 percent to 786
million pounds.  Moss in March said he will prioritize 12 markets in Europe,
the U.S. and Asia and consider selling assets in some of the
other 18 countries in which the insurer operates. He reduced
Aviva’s stake in Dutch insurer  Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  last month after
saying Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg were not on his
list of 12 key markets.  Aviva’s combined ratio was 97 percent in the first quarter,
meaning for every pound it takes in premiums, it pays out 97
pence in claims. That improved from 102 percent in the first
three months of 2010.  “The general insurance result, albeit helped by better
weather conditions should be taken positively,” Flanagan said.  The stock climbed 0.4 percent to 435.6 pence a share in
London trading, valuing the firm at about 12.3 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  