-- 
Baidu, Tencent Best Investment Bets to Ride China Internet Boom, CLSA Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/baidu-tencent-best-bets-to-ride-china-internet-boom-clsa-says.html
Baidu Inc.,  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
and Sina Corp. offer the best returns for investors seeking to
profit from growth in  China ’s Internet market as consumers
increase online spending, according to brokerage CLSA Ltd.  China’s online commerce transactions will almost double in
value to 904 billion yuan ($139 billion) next year, from 463
billion in 2010, according to a presentation by Elinor Leung,
CLSA’s head of Asia telecommunications and Internet research.
The brokerage topped Institutional Investor magazine’s latest
annual poll for Asian equity strategy.  “E-commerce is shooting up,” Leung, who is scheduled to
speak in a briefing today in Beijing, said in the presentation.
“Online advertising is the best way to play China’s e-commerce
boom.”  Companies including Baidu, owner of China’s most popular
search engine, and Tencent, the country’s largest Internet
company, are boosting spending on technology and stepping up
investment as they seek a greater share of the spending by the
country’s 477 million Web users, the world’s largest online
population.  Baidu has “a near monopoly” in online search after  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  effectively exited the market at a time when search
advertising has yet to reach its “golden age,” according to
the presentation.  Sina, owner of China’s third-most visited website, is
moving beyond its portal to become a “top brand advertising
platform,” driven by electronic commerce, while Tencent is “a
strong newcomer” in online advertising, Leung said in her
presentation.  Stock Performance  Sina’s shares have risen 54 percent this year in New York
trading, compared with 32 percent for Baidu and 26 percent for
Tencent. That compares with the 4 percent advance by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2011.  China’s online population will rise 19 percent to 542
million users this year and reach 637 million next year, Leung
projects. The proportion of the country’s 1.34 billion people
that have  Internet access  will climb to 55 percent in 2013 from
40 percent this year, she estimates. The current number of
China’s Internet users exceed the combined populations of the
U.S. and  Japan .  Online advertising will be “the first beneficiary” of the
growth in Internet use and e-commerce, as most business-to-
consumer Web site operators continue to incur losses this year
because of investment and marketing expenses, according to
Leung’s presentation.  China’s online advertising revenue will likely maintain a
12 percent compound annual growth rate for the next five years,
spurred by rising domestic consumption and industry competition,
the presentation showed.  Baidu Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Li said April 29
that the company is interested in buying more Chinese e-
commerce, mobile and social networking assets. The company’s
stock has more than tripled since Google announced plans in
January 2010 to pull its search engine out of China.  Tencent said this week it bought a 16 percent stake in
online travel company  ELong Inc. (LONG)  to expand beyond online games
and social networking.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  