-- 
Banks Failing Stress Tests Should Tap Private Investors, EU Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-17T16:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/banks-failing-stress-tests-should-tap-private-investors-eu-says.html
Banks and regulators should aim to
find private investors to reinforce the capital of lenders that
fail this year’s round of  European Union  stress tests, the
region’s finance ministers said today.  Public money should be used “only as a last resort, in
case of need and subject to strict conditionality,” the finance
ministers said in an e-mailed statement. Any funding support for
banks must comply with the region’s rules on state-aid, they
said.  “Any public support will be contingent on the submission
of a restructuring plan,” the finance ministers of the 27-
nation EU said today after a meeting in Brussels.  Ninety banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the  European Banking Authority , which is carrying out
the tests, said earlier this month. This year’s exams will
include a review of how lenders would handle a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011 as well as a 15
percent drop in European equity markets.  The results will be published in June, Hungarian Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told journalists in Brussels today.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services “currently does not
expect the results will lead to rating changes” for banks, the
debt-ratings company said in a statement.  The EBA tests will also examine the effect of a 75 basis-
point-jump in  interest rates  on European sovereign bonds and an
increase in short-term inter-bank financing costs of 125 basis
points.  “We need concrete and decisive actions, including the
appropriate backstops in place, a timeline and a monitoring
process so that we are ready for the moment” when the results
are published,”  Olli Rehn , the EU’s economic and monetary
affairs commissioner, said after today’s meeting in Brussels.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 