-- 
Banks Boosting Agency Mortgage Bond Purchases: Credit Markets

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-05-17T04:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/banks-boost-agency-mortgage-bond-buying-as-lending-weakens-credit-markets.html
U.S. banks are accelerating purchases
of government-backed mortgage securities as declining interest
rates and weakened loan demand push financial firms to put cash
to work in the bond market.  Commercial banks’ holdings of mortgage bonds guaranteed by
Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  or Ginnie Mae climbed to a record $1.16
trillion in the week ended May 4, a rise of $42.7 billion since
March 30 and $57.1 billion from year-end, according to Federal
Reserve data. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries have shrunk
to 3.14 percent from this year’s high of 3.74 percent on Feb. 8.  Banks are favoring so-called agency mortgage bonds over
lower-paying government debt as they seek to bolster earnings
with lending contracting 1.7 percent this year and cash holdings
reaching unprecedented levels. That’s further suppressing yields
in the $5.3 trillion market as banks invest in the bonds rather
than wait for higher potential returns when rates rise.  The mortgage bonds are “viewed as liquid placeholders that
can be later replaced with loans,” said Glenn Schultz, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based head of residential-mortgage
bond research at  Wells Fargo & Co .’s securities unit. “They’re
one of the assets with the best carry out there right now,” he
said, referring to yields over short-term borrowing costs.  Yields on Fannie Mae’s 30-year mortgage securities trading
closest to face value have fallen to 3.97 percent, from 4.5
percent on Feb. 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gap between yields on the bonds and 10-year government notes has
narrowed to 82 basis points, or 0.82 percentage point, from 84
basis points at year-end.  JPMorgan’s Holdings  While banks are ramping up investments in home-loan
securities, most are decreasing holdings of those without
government backing, the type that fueled the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was alone last quarter among the 10
U.S. banks with the biggest mortgage-bond holdings to post an
increase in its portfolio of non-agency securities. The New
York-based lender added 10 percent, regulatory data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Google Inc. made its first
foray into the bond market with a $3 billion offering. JPMorgan,
Wells Fargo and Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group Plc are marketing
$2.9 billion of debt in two transactions backed by commercial
mortgages. The cost to protect against a default by R.R.
Donnelley & Sons Co. jumped to the highest level since September
2009 as its debt was cut to non-investment grade.  The extra yield that investors demand to own corporate
versus government debt from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia  was
unchanged at 148 basis points yesterday, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields fell 1 basis point to 3.779 percent, the data show.  NewPage  Bonds from NewPage Corp., the coated paper maker owned by
Cerberus Capital Management LP, were the most actively traded
U.S. corporate debentures by dealers, with 112 transactions of
$1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Its $806 million of 10 percent second-lien notes due May
2012 fell 0.5 cent to 40 cents on the dollar in  New York 
yesterday, Trace data show. The debt has dropped from 58 cents
on May 11, the day before the Miamisburg, Ohio-based company
reported earnings that were lower than analyst expectations.  Google, the world’s largest Internet search company, sold
$1 billion each of three-, five- and 10-year notes, Bloomberg
data show. Its 1.25 percent, three-year notes yield 33 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, 2.125 percent,
five-year debt pays a spread of 43 basis points and 3.625
percent, 10-year bonds pay 58 basis points above benchmarks,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Google  Proceeds will be used to repay outstanding commercial paper
and for general corporate purposes, Aaron Zamost, a spokesman
for the  Mountain View , California-based company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Dallas-based  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the biggest analog-
chipmaker, and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Burlington Northern
Santa Fe LLC also were among borrowers marketing or selling at
least $7.59 billion in the U.S. yesterday, Bloomberg data show.
Sales followed the $36.3 billion issued last week, the most
since the period ended April 1, when $36.4 billion was issued.  The JPMorgan offering of commercial mortgage securities
consists of 42 loans on 84 properties, said a person with
knowledge of the sale who asked not to be identified because
terms aren’t public. Retail properties account for 41.1 percent
of the pool, while office buildings make up 35.6 percent. Wells
Fargo and Royal Bank of Scotland are marketing $1.45 billion of
debt tied to retail, office and hotel properties.  R.R. Donnelley Swaps  Top-rated securities linked to commercial real estate yield
186 basis points more than Treasuries, down from 228 on Dec. 31,
according to a Barclays Plc index. About $4.5 billion of new
offerings are in the pipeline for the next two weeks, according
to a May 13 report from JPMorgan.  Credit-default swaps on R.R. Donnelley climbed 7.2 basis
points to a mid-price of 312.2 basis points, the highest since
reaching 317.2 on Sept. 7, 2009, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  R.R. Donnelley contracts have soared from 241.2 on May 3,
the day before the commercial printer founded in 1864 said it
will buy back $1 billion of shares and consider acquisitions.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings cut the Chicago-based company’s debt level to
speculative-grade yesterday, citing the buybacks and resulting
increase in debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  Credit-Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on company debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.6 basis point to a mid-
price of 90.1 basis points as of 5:32 p.m. in New York yesterday,
the highest since May 6, according to Markit Group Ltd. data.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed for three of
the past four sessions from 88.5 on May 10.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was at 108 basis points as of 8:53 a.m.
in  Hong Kong , according to Credit Agricole CIB.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  Leveraged Loans  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
was unchanged at 95.73 cents on the dollar. The index, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, has declined from 96.48 cents on Feb. 14, which was the
highest since November 2007.  High-yield, high-risk bonds and leveraged loans are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  In emerging markets, relative yields widened 6 basis points
to 278 basis points, after narrowing 8 basis points last week,
according to JPMorgan index data. The index has ranged from 217
on Jan. 5 to 290 on March 16.  The decline earlier this year in bond yields “may have
convinced domestic banks that the backup in rates they were
expecting may not come any time soon,” Nomura Securities
International analysts Ankur Mehta, Dhivya Krishna and Ohmsatya Ravi wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  The lenders may have started to invest faster in agency
mortgage bonds once reaching that decision “because they were
holding onto elevated levels of cash,” the New York-based
analysts wrote.  Cash Holdings  Commercial banks’ cash holdings climbed to $1.56 trillion
from $1.16 trillion at year-end, Fed data show. The level
reached a record $1.62 trillion in the week ended April 20 as
the central bank pumped money into the financial system to
bolster the economy by buying $600 billion of Treasuries in its
second round of so-called quantitative easing, a program that
will expire in June.  U.S. banks’ holdings of agency mortgage securities have
risen this year even as their investments in lower-yielding U.S.
Treasuries and agency corporate debentures have declined to
$518.1 billion, from $528.5 billion on Dec. 29, according to the
most-recent weekly Fed data, which was released May 13. The Fed
doesn’t disclose banks’ Treasury holdings on a standalone basis.  In March, overseas investors added $4 billion of U.S.
agency mortgage bonds, after accounting for  paydowns , according
to Treasury Department data released yesterday, the analysts
wrote in a separate note.  Overseas Investors  That was the largest increase since the department in March
2009 began differentiating between agency mortgage securities
and other agency debt in its monthly data releases, they said.
Foreign investors’ holdings declined by about $21 billion in the
first two months of this year.  “For the next few quarters, we expect the bank bid for
agency MBS to remain strong as cash flows into the financial
system remain elevated, loan growth looks set to remain modest,
and deposit growth should remain robust,” wrote New York-based
analysts at Barclays led by Ajay Rajadhyaksha.  Agency mortgage-bond holdings at the top 50 U.S. commercial
banks increased $30.6 billion in the first quarter, according to
the Barclays report, which cited data released last week by the
Fed-supervised  National Information Center . The analysts’ tally
excluded trading assets and accounted for the debt at
“amortized cost.”  Holdings increased to $888.9 billion on March 31, while the
50 banks’ investments in non-agency residential mortgage
securities fell $8.6 billion to $158.3 billion, the analysts
said. Non-agency debt lacks guarantees from government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac or federal agency Ginnie Mae.  Agency Mortgage Bonds  From a year earlier, the agency mortgage-bond holdings grew
by $83.9 billion, while non-agency mortgage securities fell $19
billion and 1-to-4 family residential loans dropped $29.1
billion to $1.17 trillion, they wrote.  In the first half of 2010, banks were shedding agency
mortgage bonds “while increasing their positions in Treasuries
and cash equivalents on the expectation of higher rates, the
removal of excess reserves, and implementation” of new
international regulatory guidelines requiring lenders to hold
pools of liquid assets, Barclays said.  JPMorgan’s portfolio of non-agency residential-mortgage
securities expanded $6 billion last quarter to $58.7 billion,
according to a May 13 report by bond analysts at the bank. That
helped to boost holdings in the category at the 20 largest U.S.
banks in the mortgage- bond market  by $744 million amid
contractions at 16 of the lenders, according to the report.  JPMorgan’s investments in the debt have soared from about
$19 billion at the end of 2009, according to a regulatory filing
available via the National Information Center website. The
bank’s holdings of agency mortgage bonds fell during the first
quarter by $7.8 billion to $155 billion.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  