-- 
Banning Lewis Ranch Files Bankruptcy Plan, Seeks June 28 Asset Auctions

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-17T19:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/banning-lewis-ranch-files-bankruptcy-plan-seeks-june-28-asset-auctions.html
Banning Lewis Ranch Co. , developer of
a master-planned community in  Colorado , filed a liquidation plan
that would pay creditors through two asset auctions.  The company seeks a judge’s permission to hold the auctions
on June 28, according to the proposal filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  One sale would be for the assets of Banning Lewis Ranch,
including more than 17,700 acres of mostly undeveloped land, and
the other would auction a unit that owns about 2,700 acres of
developed real estate, according to court documents.  “Confirmation of the plan provides the best opportunity
for the maximum recoveries” for creditors, the company said in
court papers. “Creditors will receive significantly more value
under the plan than any available alternative.”  The company, based in  Newport Beach ,  California  listed debt
of more than $100 million and assets of more than $50 million in
court documents filed Oct. 28. Banning Lewis blamed the
bankruptcy on “the severe decline in residential real estate”
in court papers.  Greenfield BLR Finance Partners LP and BDL Investors LLC,
which provided the company with a $3.5 million loan in
bankruptcy, would act as the initial bidder for the Banning
Lewis assets at the auction, according to court documents. A
Greenfield affiliate and Farallon BLR Investors LLC together own
85 percent of Banning Lewis’s equity. They are owed about $255
million for mezzanine and so-called special member loans.  Senior Loan  The proposed buyers would forgive payment of the bankruptcy
loan and take on the obligations of a $23.6 million senior
secured  term loan  as payment for the Banning assets. As part of
the purchase agreement, the terms of the loan would be modified
and the maturity would be extended to September 2019, court
papers show.  No lead bidder has yet been selected for the assets of the
development company and the company will cancel the auction if
no offers are received.  Banning Lewis Ranch is a master-planned community in
 Colorado Springs , according to court filings. The project was
envisioned as a community of about 76,000 residential units with
about 79 million square feet of commercial space.  The first section built, the 350-acre Northtree Village,
opened in September 2007 with about 1,000 homes planned, priced
from the high $100,000s to the mid-$300,000s, according to its
 website .  Deferred Cash  Under the liquidation plan, senior secured term lenders
would get deferred cash payments from the proposed buyer of the
Banning assets in conjunction with the modified loan. If the
Greenfield and BDL group are outbid at the auction, the lenders
would get proceeds from the sale.  KeyBank NA, as agent for revolving lenders to the
development unit owed about $67.8 million, would get the
proceeds generated by the unit’s auction. KeyBank is also a
lender under the term loan.  The case is In re The Banning Lewis Ranch Company LLC, 10-
13445, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 