-- 
Barclays Will Pay 7% Interest to Senior Employees on Deferred Cash Bonuses

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-05-17T14:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/barclays-pays-top-investment-bankers-7-interest-on-deferred-cash-bonuses.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  will pay 7 percent
interest annually to senior employees on cash bonuses deferred
for at least five years under the bank’s plan to link
compensation with long-term performance.  The final cash payment would be forfeited if the bank’s
core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
falls below 7 percent or if the staff member leaves, Simon
Hodges, a director in the bank’s compensation and benefits team,
said in a speech in London today. The bank’s highest return for
customers is a 4.25 percent rate on a four-year bond.  The program started in February and is “targeted only at
very senior people,” Hodges said. The so-called contingent
capital plan features instruments that behave like bonds which
convert into a bank’s ordinary shares when a specific trigger
event occurs.  European Union  regulators approved rules to curb incentives
for excessive risk-taking last year, imposing limits on cash
payouts and the size of bankers’ bonuses. As much as 60 percent
of a bonus payout for risk-takers and senior managers must be
deferred for at least three years, and half of the remaining
amount must be in the form of shares.  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets, said
earlier this year that it was awarding its Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  a 6.5 million-pound ($10.5 million)
bonus, pushing his total compensation to 10.1 million pounds.  ‘Higher Interest’  “This is how they sell CoCos in the market,” Darren Fox,
a financial services lawyer at  Simmons & Simmons LLP  in London,
said in a telephone interview. “They carry a higher interest
rate because of the risk they could turn into nothing.”  The interest paid on the deferred cash bonuses exceeds the
highest rate paid on customer deposits, according to Barclays’s
website.  A four-year fixed rate savings bond currently on deposits
of 50,000 pounds to 1 million pounds pays 4.25 percent interest.
The bank’s Golden ISA pays 2.22 percent, according to the
website. The bank paid investors a dividend of 5.5 pence a share
last year, a yield of about 2 percent on its shares.  A spokesman for Barclays wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 