-- 
Belgium’s Di Rupo to Focus on Spending Cuts, Not Coalition

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-17T16:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/belgium-s-di-rupo-to-focus-on-spending-cuts-not-coalition-1-.html
The leader of Belgium’s Socialist
Party, appointed by  King Albert II  to find a way out of an 11-
month political deadlock, said he’ll seek proposals on how to
cut spending before attempting to form a governing coalition.  “The positions are still very far apart,” Elio Di Rupo
told reporters in parliament in Brussels today. “All of us must
strive to join in with fresh determination and to have the
courage to compromise as if this mission was our last chance.”  Di Rupo, 59, said he’ll hold separate meetings with the
nine political parties involved in talks on how to balance the
budget by 2015. He’ll then compile a report and ask the parties
if they want to proceed with talks on forming a new government
on that basis.  Belgium  has had a caretaker government since inconclusive
elections last June. By focusing on the budget, Di Rupo seeks to
steer clear of the regional divisions that have led to the
longest post-war political deadlock in western  Europe  and driven
up the cost of servicing the euro region’s third-highest debt
load as of December while a credit-rating cut by Standard &
Poor’s looms.  “It’s a good method, but whether it will fundamentally
change things is another question,” Dave Sinardet, a political
scientist at Antwerp University, said on RTBf television.  Extra Yield  Belgium will need to raise taxes or cut spending by 17
billion euros ($24 billion) a year to balance its budget in
2015, according to the latest estimates from the Federal
Planning Bureau, which forecasts the  budget deficit  will start
widening again next year because of rising borrowing costs.  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 14 it may lower Belgium’s AA+
ranking as early as next month should the political impasse
prevent the government from stabilizing its debt. The extra
yield investors demand to hold 10-year Belgian bonds instead of
similar German debt has more than doubled from a year ago.  The political standoff pits Bart De Wever’s Flemish
nationalist N-VA party, the top vote-getter in the elections
with 27 parliamentary seats, against French-speaking parties
that have resisted the transfer of powers to the regions.  N-VA looks forward to seeing Di Rupo’s proposals and seeks
cuts in welfare spending and stricter laws on asylum and
migration, the party said in an e-mailed statement.  Di Rupo today declined to say whether he will seek to
become Belgium’s first prime minister from French-speaking
Wallonia since Edmond Leburton in 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  