-- 
Benmosche 9% Yield Hunt May Mean AIG Got Junk, Mortgage Bonds

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/benmosche-getting-9-yields-may-mean-aig-got-junk-rmbs-in-leap-of-faith-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
hunt to boost investment income may have steered the bailed-out
insurer toward  junk bonds  and securities backed by home loans.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is working to lift
annual returns on AIG’s portfolio by as much as $700 million as
he seeks capital in a public share offering after posting
insurance underwriting losses. Benmosche is getting yields of 8
percent to 9 percent on about $5 billion invested this year
after the  Federal Reserve  rejected AIG’s bid to repurchase
mortgage bonds turned over in its bailout, he said last week.  “He’s either going out really long duration or really
buying some suspect stuff,” said  Paul Howard , director of
research at Solstice Investment Research in Glastonbury,
 Connecticut . Benmosche’s target may have required buying high-
yield corporate debt or mortgage-backed bonds in a “pretty big
leap of faith” that higher interest rates won’t erode returns.  AIG needs to attract private investors to a stock offering
that will reduce the U.S. Treasury Department’s 92 percent stake
in the company. The New York-based insurer and Treasury plan to
sell 300 million shares, according to a regulatory filing last
week. AIG has dropped 36 percent this year through yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Yields on corporate bonds, which comprise more than half of
AIG’s $238.3 billion fixed-income portfolio, are near record
lows as the Fed keeps benchmark  interest rates  in a target range
of zero to 0.25 percent. That’s forcing investors to buy lower-
rated or longer-duration bonds to maintain returns.  ‘Diverse Mix’  Warren Buffett , who competes against AIG selling insurance
through his Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said in March that
investors should avoid long-term, fixed-income bets in U.S.
dollars as inflation may erode the value of returns.  AIG is buying a “diverse mix of assets to achieve
attractive risk-adjusted rates of return in relation to
insurance liabilities,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for the company,
said in an e-mail without providing specifics on the purchases.
The holdings are typically rated among the safest by the
insurer’s regulators, he said.  AIG had about $21 billion in investible cash available as
of Dec. 31 and had to broaden its search for investments after
the Fed rejected Benmosche’s $15.7 billion offer to buy back a
pool of mortgage bonds called  Maiden Lane II . The Fed chose in
March to auction the securities in blocks, rather than sell the
entire pool back to the insurer, which had expected a yield of
as much as 9 percent on the bonds.  ‘Many Other Sources’  “We are, in fact, making very good progress investing”
funds that had been earmarked for Maiden Lane II, Benmosche said
May 6 in a conference call with analysts after AIG announced
that first-quarter profit fell 85 percent on earthquake claims.  “Some of the investment is bidding on aspects of ML II,”
Benmosche said. “However, we’ve found many other sources, and
so approximately a third of that money has now been invested.
Generally, the yields are between 8 percent and 9 percent.” He
reiterated the yield range at AIG’s annual meeting on May 11.  The average high-yield bond, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s ,
yields 7.19 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. That compares with about 15 percent two years ago.  In order to achieve a yield of at least 8 percent on a
corporate bond, an investor would typically have to move below
BB, the highest-rated tier of junk, the index data show.  “In this world, there’s just no way he gets 8 or 9 percent
without taking on significant risk,” said Marc Gross, a  money
manager  in  New York  at RS Investments who helps oversee $3
billion in fixed-income funds. AIG was forced to take a bailout
in 2008 after bets on mortgages brought the company to the brink
of collapse.  ‘More Business Risk’  The only corporate bonds yielding 8 percent or more are
“crappy things,” said Lon Erickson, a money manager at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico ,
who oversees $9 billion. “You’re getting some goofy structures
as well with more business risk with some of the companies.”  About 7 percent of AIG’s bond portfolio was rated below
investment grade as of March 31, according to a regulatory
filing. That compares with 4.7 percent at Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. and about 5 percent at Lincoln National
Corp., the other two insurers to take U.S. bailouts. Both have
repaid their rescue funds. AIG said about 3 percent of its
portfolio was unrated.  AIG added corporate bonds and residential mortgage-backed
securities, while cutting state and municipal debt in the first
quarter. Corporate holdings increased to $131.2 billion on March
31 from $126.4 billion three months earlier, while the RMBS
portfolio expanded to $25.9 billion from $19.8 billion. AIG also
scaled back investments in the debt of European nations whose
ratings have been downgraded or placed under review.  Maiden Lane  AIG said it expects a 4 percent to 5 percent return on the
larger pool of $21 billion in cash it had as of Dec. 31,
including Benmosche’s higher-yielding bets.  The Fed’s decision to auction the Maiden Lane II bonds was
a “huge problem” for AIG, Benmosche told the New York Times in
March.  AIG may need to focus on boosting investment returns after
taking charges related to its underwriting, said  Meyer Shields ,
an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. The company put aside more
than $4 billion in the fourth quarter to bolster reserves for
policies sold in prior years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  