-- 
Berkshire Purchases MasterCard Shares After Buffett Hires Combs

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-17T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/berkshire-takes-mastercard-stake-after-buffett-hires-money-manager-combs.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  reported a stake in  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
payments network, after the billionaire chairman hired money
manager Todd Combs to handle part of his company’s portfolio.  Buffett’s firm owned 216,000 shares of MasterCard on March
31, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said in a regulatory filing
listing its U.S. stock portfolio. The stake is valued at $60.3
million, based on the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday, when the filing was released.  Buffett, 80, is reshaping his company’s $63.2 billion
equity portfolio after the retirement of Lou Simpson, who had
picked stocks at the Geico unit. Combs, 40, joined Berkshire
last year and will oversee $1 billion to $3 billion of the
company’s holdings, Buffett said in February. MasterCard was the
second-biggest investment at Combs’s Castle Point Capital
Management LLC as of Sept. 30, before he joined Berkshire.  “He’s going to get into the mix, and if he’s had some
success or a lot of knowledge on MasterCard, then he’s bringing
that to the table,” said Gerald Martin, a finance professor at
American University’s Kogod School of Business in  Washington .  James Issokson, a spokesman for Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard, declined to comment. Buffett, who is also
Berkshire’s chief executive officer, didn’t respond to an e-mail
sent to an assistant.  The size of the investment suggests that the MasterCard
stake was picked by Combs, said  David Kass , a professor at the
University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business, who
has accompanied students to meet Buffett in Omaha.  “Warren Buffett, when he makes an investment, it would
typically be hundreds of millions of dollars and up,” Kass
said.  Debit-Fee Caps  Rising consumer spending and a continuing shift from cash
and checks to plastic is spurring growth for MasterCard.
Household purchases in the U.S., which account for about 70
percent of the economy, rose at a 2.7 percent pace in the first
quarter, the Commerce Department said last month.  MasterCard and larger rival  Visa Inc. (V)  are fighting proposed
U.S. caps on debit-card “swipe” fees amid investor concern the
rules may damage the firms’ business model. The regulation,
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, is weighing more on San
Francisco-based Visa, which processed $1.05 trillion in U.S.
debit-card purchase transactions last year, more than triple
MasterCard’s $333 billion, company data show.  ‘More to Gain’  MasterCard CEO Ajay Banga said his company may take market
share, depending on how the  Federal Reserve  crafts the final
rules. The company has “more to gain than to lose,” Banga said
in a May 3 conference call with analysts after MasterCard
reported a 24 percent increase in first-quarter profit.  Buffett has made some of his largest investments in
companies that are among the top two in market share in their
businesses and have what he believes are competitive advantages
that limit the emergence of rivals.  Buffett told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission last
year that he held stock in  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  because the company’s
leading share, along with that of rival  Standard & Poor’s , a
subsidiary of McGraw-Hill Cos., gave the two firms flexibility
in setting prices.  Berkshire is the top investor in  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s
largest soft-drink maker,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, and  American Express Co. (AXP) , the largest credit-card
issuer by customer spending. AmEx also operates the world’s
fourth-biggest payments network after Visa, MasterCard and China
UnionPay Co.  Combs’s top holding as of Sept. 30 at Castle Point was U.S.
Bancorp. Buffett’s firm was the fourth-largest shareholder in
the lender as of March 31.  Berkshire’s filing omits information about some
transactions because Buffett was granted temporary permission to
keep them confidential. The Securities and Exchange Commission
sometimes allows companies to withhold data from the public to
limit copycat investing while a firm is building or cutting a
position.  “It would definitely suggest accumulation,” Kass said of
the omissions. “It certainly implies the purchase of one or
more new issues to his portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  