-- 
Billionaire Burman’s Dabur Sees Africa as Growth ‘Epicenter’

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-05-18T10:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/billionaire-burman-s-dabur-sees-africa-as-epicenter-for-growth.html
Dabur India Ltd. (DABUR) , a maker of packaged
honey, traditional medicine and hair oil, plans to set up two
new factories and introduce more products in Africa as part of a
goal to almost double profit in three years.  The factories in Johannesburg and Nairobi will start
production by June next year, Chief Executive Officer Sunil Duggal said in an interview. Expanding overseas may help Dabur
boost profit to 10 billion rupees ($221 million) by March 2014,
he said in Ghaziabad near  New Delhi , where the company is based.  Dabur, controlled by billionaire Anand Burman, also plans
to add a factory in Sri Lanka to make beverages as it seeks to
pare reliance on  India , where inflation and competition from
 Unilever Plc (ULVR)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  are squeezing profits. The
maker of Vatika shampoo aims to increase the share of overseas
sales to 28 percent in three years from the current 22 percent.  “It makes sense to move, spring out to other emerging
markets, because competition these days is very hard in India,”
Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based  fund manager  with FIM Asset
Management Ltd. said. “It’s easier for Dabur to go to emerging
markets than developed markets because there you have Unilever,
Procter & Gamble and L’Oreal.”  Dabur rose 0.1 percent to 103.7 rupees at the close of
trading in Mumbai today. The stock has risen 3.4 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive
Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Profitable Growth  “The  Africa  market is the epicenter of our growth
prospects for the future,” Duggal said May 13. “The upsides in
some of these markets are as much, if not bigger than India. I’m
talking about not just revenue growth, but profitable growth.”  Dabur’s profit for the year ended in March gained 13
percent to 5.7 billion rupees, after rising an average 21
percent in the previous three years, according to Bloomberg
data. Sales may expand 71 percent to reach 70 billion rupees by
March 2014, Duggal said. He didn’t disclose the value of the
company’s investments in the new factories.  Consumer spending  in Africa may double to as much as $1.8
trillion by 2020 as infrastructure improves and farm output
increases, McKinsey & Co. said in a  report  last year. The
continent’s gross domestic product, which expanded 4.9 percent a
year from 2000 to 2008, will rise to $2.6 trillion by 2020 from
$1.6 trillion in 2008, according to the report.  Still, inadequate infrastructure in many African nations
may pose challenges to consumer product makers, said Naveen Kulkarni, a Mumbai-based analyst with MF Global Sify Securities
Pvt., who has a “sell” rating on Dabur.  ‘Difficult to Distribute’  “There are markets where for another 20 years there may
not be a significant growth,” Kulkarni said. “You’d find it
very difficult to distribute products.”  To tap the demand in Africa, Dabur has built two factories
in  Egypt  and one in  Nigeria  that make products such as hair oil
and toothpaste. Last year, the company acquired Turkey’s  Hobi
Kozmetik Group , which makes skincare and hair care products, and
U.S.-based  Namaste Laboratories LLC , a maker of hair products.  As much as a third of Namaste’s sales come from Africa,
Byas Anand, a company spokesman, said. Dabur also sells bath
gels, shampoos and skin creams in the continent under the Hobby
brand, which came with the purchase of Hobi Kozmetik.  Marico Ltd. (MRCO)  and  Godrej Consumer Products Ltd. (GCPL) , Indian
competitors of Dabur, are also expanding in Africa through
acquisitions. Marico has purchased the consumer division of
Durban-based Enaleni Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and South African
health-care brand Ingwe. Godrej bought a hair-color company in
 South Africa  and a soap and body-lotion maker in Nigeria.  “Growth in Africa may not be driven by acquisitions in
Africa,” Duggal said. “We’ll have to do things the hard way.
We’ll have to buy companies outside Africa and then seed the
markets with those products or develop our own products.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  