-- 
Bond Market Not Focused on Debt-Limit Deadline, Cantor Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-17T17:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/bond-market-not-focused-on-debt-limit-deadline-cantor-says.html
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
said Wall Street investors monitoring Congress’s debt-limit
negotiations are more focused on spending cuts than on whether
lawmakers raise the government’s borrowing authority before Aug.
2.  “The markets are smarter than to think a date is what
makes a difference,” the Virginia Republican said today on
CNBC. Investors are “really” concerned about “whether there
is going to be movement on actual reform” of budget and
entitlement spending to reduce the deficit, he said.  House Republicans  are demanding trillions of dollars in
spending cuts and budget savings as a condition for raising the
debt ceiling. The $14.3 trillion borrowing limit was to have
been reached yesterday, though Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  says he can juggle accounts to continue borrowing until
Aug. 2.  Cantor said he wasn’t concerned about a negative reaction
by the  bond market  if talks between congressional leaders and
President Barack Obama continue closer to the date Treasury says
it can no longer borrow money to pay U.S. obligations.  “As long as we are being focused and smart about the
proposals we’re focusing on, I believe the markets will respond
positively,” Cantor told reporters during a visit in  Chicago  to
the Global Command Center of  CME Group Inc.,  the world’s largest
futures market.  ‘ Double Dip ’  Geithner last week warned that failure to raise the debt
limit risks triggering a “double-dip” recession.  “Even a short-term default could cause irrevocable damage
to the American economy,” Geithner said in a May 13 letter to
Democratic Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado.  “I hope that we can get it done before the day comes where
Secretary Geithner says the alarm bell goes off,’ Cantor, one of
the congressional negotiators meeting with Vice President  Joe Biden  on the issue, said in the CNBC interview.  Still, Cantor said statements by hedge fund manager  Stanley Druckenmiller  that a technical default by the U.S. wouldn’t
necessarily trigger market chaos “were something we need to
heed.”  Druckenmiller, in a Wall Street Journal interview published
May 14, said a “technical default would be horrible, but I
don’t think it’s going to be the end of the world. It’s not
going to be catastrophic.” The investor said that “what’s
going to be catastrophic is if we don’t solve the real
problem.”  ‘That Day Is Gone’  Cantor said on CNBC the size of the increase in the debt
limit “all comes down to how much we can affect reform, because
we are not interested in kicking the can down the road.” He
said, “That day is gone.”  Based on his own conversations, Cantor said “what
investors are looking at” is “are we going to get our act
together, are we going to reduce spending” and “reform those
entitlement programs to manage down the debt.”  Congress will only vote to raise the debt ceiling “if
there is at least a commensurate, if not more, reduction in
spending through the reforms we are offering,” he said.  Amid debate on the deficit in  Washington , yields in the
U.S. are lower now than when the government was running a  budget
surplus  a decade ago. The 10-year note yields dropped two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.13 percent at 1:10 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
1913 or  jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
   Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 