-- 
BP Defeat Puts Arctic Trove Back in Play for Shell, Exxon

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-18T11:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/bp-s-russian-defeat-puts-arctic-oil-trove-back-in-play-for-shell-exxon.html
The collapse of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s alliance
with Russia’s state-run oil company brings one of the world’s
largest untapped drilling opportunities back onto the market.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
are potential candidates should OAO Rosneft look for a new
partner to explore the Kara Sea in Russia’s Arctic, a person
with knowledge of the company’s plans said, declining to be
named because the matter is private. Rosneft will start talks
with replacements immediately, another person said yesterday.  BP’s four-month battle to salvage the Rosneft deal, which
included a $7.8 billion share swap, was driven by the chance to
unlock as much as 15 billion barrels of oil, equal to more than
five years of U.S. crude production. The biggest  oil companies 
are competing for a diminishing number of drill sites as foreign
governments deny access to resources and existing fields are
depleted.  “It isn’t difficult to find partners for the Arctic,”
said Valery Nesterov, an oil industry analyst at Troika Dialog
in Moscow. “There is competition.”  Rosneft received new proposals during talks with BP and its
Russian billionaire partners that went “beyond the scope” of
the earlier agreement. They make it possible to continue
discussions on “further cooperation beyond the framework of the
expired agreements,” Rosneft said today in a statement.  “There are contacts between BP and Rosneft but we aren’t
going into any specific details,”  Robert Wine , a London-based
spokesman for BP, said by phone.  More Technology  Russia , the world’s largest crude oil producer, has sought
deals with international oil companies to exploit offshore
fields that require more technology and capital to drill than
deposits on the Siberian mainland.  Rosneft would probably favor U.S. and European companies
over Asian peers because of their experience in offshore
drilling and superior technology and personnel, said Brian Gallagher, an analyst at Dolmen Securities Ltd. in Dublin.  “It has to be a supermajor because you have to bring a
certain amount of political clout,” he said. “You need to have
enough capital to operate in these waters, and not that many
companies have the experience.”  Shell Interest  Shell Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said yesterday
his company, which already has projects with Russian gas
exporter OAO Gazprom, is interested in expanding in Russia. He
declined to comment specifically on the Kara Sea.  Exxon and Chevron have both reached offshore deals with
Rosneft in the past year. Exxon agreed on Jan. 27 to explore the
deepwater Tuapse Trough in the  Black Sea , where Chevron signed
an accord last year for a separate area.  “Chevron continues to work with Rosneft on opportunities
to collaborate in business ventures,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a
spokesman for the  San Ramon , California-based company, said in a
telephone interview. Glaubitz declined to specify what
prospects, assets or locations within Russia are under
discussion.  Patrick McGinn, an Exxon Mobil spokesman, sent an e-mailed
statement declining to comment on commercial matters.  BP and Rosneft had agreed to explore 125,000 square
kilometers (48,000 square miles) of the Kara Sea, north from
Russia’s largest developed fields in West Siberia. The area may
have as much as 50 billion barrels of oil in place, of which 12
billion to 15 billion is recoverable, a person with knowledge of
the matter said in January when the BP deal was signed.  Book Reserves  Under the January accord between BP and Rosneft, the
exploration venture was to be two-thirds held by the Russian
company and one-third by BP, which agreed to carry the first $1
billion of exploration costs. BP would have been able to book
reserves from any discoveries made.  The two companies still have an agreement to explore off
Sakhalin Island in Russia’s Far East and are partners in a
German oil refining venture.  BP’s deal with Rosneft collapsed after the U.K. producer’s
billionaire partners in its existing TNK-BP venture used a legal
challenge to block the alliance. TNK-BP is Russia’s third-
largest oil company, and BP’s 50 percent share in 1.7 million
barrels a day of production makes it the biggest foreign
producer in the country. BP agreed it would cede its place in
the Arctic venture to TNK-BP. Rosneft declined, saying TNK-BP
didn’t have the knowhow.  The failure of a deal blessed by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  risks weakening BP’s position in the country. It also
damages CEO Bob Dudley, who took the helm last October, charged
with leading BP’s recovery from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  “The market perception of Bob Dudley’s personal
credibility could have likely been damaged by the situation,”
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Kim Fustier said in a note to
clients. BP “should have been fully aware of the provisions in
the TNK-BP shareholder agreement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 