-- 
BP-, Shell-Backed ETI Opens Contest for Bigger Offshore Turbine Blades

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-05-17T08:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/bp-shell-backed-eti-opens-contest-for-bigger-offshore-turbine-blades.html
The Energy Technologies Institute,
whose backers include  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and the U.K.
government, started a contest to make bigger, more cost-
effective offshore turbine blades.  The ETI, which is also formed of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , EDF
Energy Plc, EON AG and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , said today in a
statement that it will ask developers to submit proposals for
how they’d develop blades larger than 90 meters (295 feet) for
the next generation of bigger  wind turbines  at sea.  Developers will be asked to design, build and test the
blades for turbines with capacities of as much as 10 megawatts
as the U.K. seeks to reduce costs of the technology it hopes
will help meet a European Union target of deriving 15 percent of
energy for power, heat and transport from renewables in 2020.  The blades will be almost as tall as  London ’s landmark Big
Ben, according to the ETI, which will invest about 10 million
pounds ($16 million) in the project. Blades currently used on
offshore wind farms are 40 to 60 meters long. Clipper Windpower
Ltd. is among the companies developing a 10-megawatt turbine.
Clipper is building a prototype for deployment off
Northumberland in the U.K. and is seeking funding under a
European Union contest for the  Blyth Britannia  project.  The Clipper 10-megawatt machine will be 175 meters high and
is expected to displace the use of two million barrels of oil
over its lifetime, according to the company.  Cost-Effective Blades  “Groundbreaking innovation is needed today to help create
a low-carbon future,” U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said in
the statement. “Improving turbine performance will increase
output and drive down costs, making it more economical to
generate ‘green energy.’” That size with the larger blade has
been identified as the most cost-effective, the ETI said.  The contest aims for the first blades to be made and tested
by the end of 2014, followed by production scale-up, the ETI
said.  The U.K. government last year awarded offshore wind
developers licenses to the seabed, paving the way for a further
32 gigawatts to be built in projects starting later this decade.
It’s targeting 13 gigawatts of wind off Britain by 2020,
according to its  renewable energy action  plan submitted to the
EU last year.  The U.K. could host more than one-third of  Europe ’s total
potential offshore wind resources, according to the ETI. “That
is enough to power the country nearly three times over but it
needs to be harnessed efficiently and affordably if we are to
make the most of that natural resource,”  David Clarke , chief
executive officer of the ETI, said in the statement.  The Loughborough-based ETI will issue a request for
proposals tomorrow and the deadline for developers to express
intent to enter is June 17 followed by a July 27 closing date.  “Increasing the rollout of offshore renewable energy means
improving the commercial case for investors by reducing costs
and increasing energy yields,” Clarke said.  The  ETI  is a public-private partnership between the U.K.
government and the six companies that seeks to develop
technologies at mass-scale to aid in meeting Britain’s targets,
according to the institute. It’s 50 percent funded by the
private-sector members. Each commits 5 million pounds a year
that’s matched by the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  