-- 
Brazil Job Market Continues to Tighten, Stoking CPI Concern

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-05-17T17:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/brazil-job-market-continues-to-tighten-stoking-cpi-concern-3-.html
Brazil ’s  job creation  rose in April
at its second-fastest pace in almost a year, adding to concerns
that full-employment conditions in  Latin America ’s biggest
economy will make it harder for policy makers to bring back
inflation to within the government’s target range.  Brazil generated 272,225 registered jobs in April, the
second-most since September, up from a revised 102,758 jobs
created in March. The April figure compares with a revised
349,361 jobs created in the same month last year. Brazil will
create 3 million jobs this year, Labor Minister Carlos Lupi
forecast today.  Today’s jobs number reinforces the view that Brazil’s
economy has already passed the point of full employment, meaning
the labor market is so tight that it is stoking inflation in
wages and services, said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo . This reduces the
chances of the central bank meeting its goal of slowing
inflation to 4.5 percent next year, Serrano said.  “Real incomes are likely to keep growing at a strong pace,
so service price inflation is unlikely to recede,” Serrano said
in a telephone interview. A jobs figure of 200,000 would have
been “neutral,” Serrano said.  Service Prices  Brazil’s “robust” domestic demand is pressuring service
prices, central bank President Alexandre Tombini told lawmakers
May 5. Inflation peaked at 6.51 percent in the year through
April, the fastest pace since 2005 and above the upper limit of
policy makers’ target range. The central bank targets inflation
of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil is relying on a mix of higher borrowing costs,
measures to slow credit growth and spending cuts to cool the
economy. Tombini raised the benchmark Selic rate by 25 basis
points to 12 percent on April 20 after 50 basis-point increases
in January and March.  Brazil will increase borrowing costs for a “sufficiently
prolonged” period of time to ensure inflation slows to target
by the end of next year, Tombini said May 12.  Consumer prices will rise 6.2 percent this year and 4.8
percent in 2012, Serrano forecasts.  Price increases for services, which make up 24.1 percent of
Brazil’s benchmark inflation index, outpaced all other
categories in the past two months, according to data released
May 11 by the central bank. They rose 8.57 percent in the year
through April, the fastest pace in at least 15 years.  ‘Stronger May’  “The Brazilian economy continues to grow in practically
all sectors and all regions,” Lupi said to reporters after the
figure was published. “I see a strong April, and an even
stronger May.”  Services, retail, agriculture, civil construction and the
buildup for the 2014  World Cup  will help job creation accelerate
through the end of the year, Lupi said.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded today, fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 12.48 percent, at 1:29 p.m. New York
time. The real appreciated 0.5 percent to 1.6265 per dollar.  Government-registered job creation is a balance of posts
created minus jobs eliminated. Registered jobs, so-called formal
work, assures employees a range of benefits such as  unemployment
insurance , bonuses and retirement payments by the government.  Brazil’s unemployment rate reached a record low of 5.7
percent in December before rising to 6.5 percent in March, the
lowest ever for that month. The economy is near full employment,
President  Dilma Rousseff  said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  