-- 
Bribery Defendants Were Eager to Join Corrupt Gabon Deal, Jury Is Told

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-17T18:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/bribery-defendants-were-eager-to-join-corrupt-gabon-deal-jury-is-told.html
Four security industry executives
knew they were joining an illegal business deal by agreeing to
make payments to a Gabonese official, a prosecutor said at the
start of the biggest prosecution of individuals for bribery of
foreign officials.  “This was a corrupt pay-to-play business deal and they all
jumped into it,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Haray said
today in opening statements in U.S. District Court in
Washington.  The four executives are part of a 22-defendant kickback
conspiracy case resulting from a government sting operation and
a fake $15 million weapons deal.  Prosecutors allege the defendants sought to provide guns,
grenades and uniforms for the presidential guard of Gabon in
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and laws against
 money laundering .  The defendants -- John Wier III, Andrew Bigelow, Lee
Tolleson and Pankesh Patel -- have denied any wrongdoing.
Lawyers for the men accused the government of engineering the
conspiracy and breaking FBI rules about handling informants.  “The FBI’s zeal to make arrests in this case compromised
this investigation,” said Eric Bruce, a lawyer for Patel.  The charges stem from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case,
recorded telephone calls and videotaped meetings with  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents posing as representatives of
Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-biggest oil producer.  Kickback Allegation  The government said the defendants agreed to pay $3 million
in kickbacks for the business, half of which they were told
would be paid to the African nation’s defense minister.  Also arrested in what the government said was the biggest
prosecution for foreign bribery by number of individuals were
Amaro Goncalves, a former sales executive for  Smith & Wesson
Holding Corp. (SWHC) , based in Springfield,  Massachusetts , and R. Patrick Caldwell, a former U.S. Secret Service official who was
chief executive officer of Protective Products of America Inc.,
based in Sunrise, Florida. The two men pleaded not guilty.  The FCPA prosecution has been nicknamed the “Shot Show
case” because the FBI arrested 21 of the defendants while they
were attending the annual  Shooting, Hunting, Outdoor Trade Show
and Conference  in  Las Vegas  in January 2010.  Prison Sentences  They were charged in a 44-count indictment of FCPA
conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy and violating the FCPA.  The FCPA conspiracy and bribery charges carry maximum five-
year prison sentences. The maximum sentence for money laundering
conspiracy is 20 years in prison.  Three of the defendants pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate. U.S. District Judge Richard Leon has grouped the
remaining 19 defendants into four trials.  The government’s case was put together through Richard Bistrong, a former executive from Armor Holdings Inc. He pleaded
guilty last year to bribing officials of the  United Nations  and
the Netherlands to obtain contracts for body armor and pepper
spray, according to court papers.  BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s largest arms company, bought
Armor Holdings in 2007 for $4.53 billion. Bistrong, who said his
conspiracy took place from 2001 to 2006, began cooperating with
prosecutors in 2007, according to court records.  Bistrong identified possible targets for the government,
according to court papers. Working with the FBI, he recorded
telephone and in-person meetings with the defendants. He also
introduced them to Pascal Latour, an FBI agent posing as a
representative for Gabon’s defense minister.  Shared Cigars  Defense lawyers said the lead FBI agent shared cigars,
gifts, and meals with Bistrong, compromising the government’s
investigation.  “Richard Bistrong was such a scoundrel that they want to
pretend he never existed,” Bruce told the jury, adding that it
is unlikely the government will use Bistrong as trial witness.  The government did not say today whether it will call
Bistrong to the witness stand.  Patel, 45, of the U.K., is managing director of
Quartermaster’s Ltd., a company that sells military and law-
enforcement uniforms, according to court papers. Bigelow, 42, of
 University Park ,  Florida , was the managing partner and director
of government programs for Heavy Metal Armory, a Sarasota,
Florida, company that sells machine guns, grenade launchers and
other firearms.  Military Equipment  Tolleson, 27, of Mountain Home,  Arkansas , was director of
acquisitions and logistics for ALS Technologies, a company that
sells law-enforcement and military equipment. Wier, 48, sold
tactical and ballistic equipment through his company in  St.
Petersburg , Florida, according to court papers.  Joseph Passanise, a lawyer for Tolleson, described his
client as a home-schooled man from a small town in Arkansas who
was working for a business owned by the family of Daniel
Alvirez, who earlier pleaded guilty in the case.  “The government says he’s some international arms dealer
and a partner,” said Passanise, referring to Tolleson. “He’s an
employee.”  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington federal court at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 