-- 
Broadbent Says He Agrees Broadly With BOE Interest-Rate Policy

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-17T10:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/broadbent-says-he-agrees-broadly-with-boe-interest-rate-policy.html
Ben Broadbent, the  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  economist nominated to join the  Bank of England , said
he agrees broadly with the bank’s monetary policy since the
financial crisis.  “The broad thrust of policy, I think I would have followed
pretty much what the bank have done,” Broadbent said at a
parliamentary committee hearing in London today. “If I’ve had
any difference with the middle, it’s been about the
communication.”  Data today showed inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent,
more than twice the central bank’s 2 percent goal. Broadbent,
who will replace  Andrew Sentance  on the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee next month, said he hasn’t “followed every
number” and couldn’t say for sure what he would have done in
recent months. Three officials, including Sentance, have called
for an increase in  interest rates  to tame price growth.  “You only have to look at the split of the vote across the
committee over the last several months to see there are strong
arguments on both sides,” he said. “There’s clearly a
respectable case to be made” on upside inflation risks, but
“there are huge risks in both directions I think, and that is
why you have had a split vote for quite a long time.”  Asked by U.K. lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie  whether he is “nearer
to the doves or the hawks,” Broadbent said, “sometimes one,
sometimes the other. I don’t think I’ve always been the same
direction.”  “I really don’t see the upside in my pre-committing to a
point of view before I join the committee,” he said.  Flexibility  Broadbent also said the central bank has flexibility in
meeting its 2 percent inflation target and that much of the
surge in prices this year is due to tax increases and
commodities.  “If you strip both those things out, you’re a lot closer
to the target,” he said. “There’s every reason to expect that
once those things have dropped out of the annual inflation rate
in 2012, you will be much closer.”  “This is not a target to be met at all times,” as that
may have undesirable effects on the economy, he said. “The
Monetary Policy Committee does actually have some flexibility.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  made similar comments
today in a letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
a requirement when inflation deviates from the bank’s target for
three months.  “The Monetary Policy Committee judges that attempting to
bring inflation back to the target quickly risks generating
undesirable volatility in output and would increase the chances
of undershooting the target in the medium term,” King said.  Broadbent was also asked about the central bank’s response
to the financial crisis and the recession and said easing policy
“aggressively” was the right thing to do at the time.  “The big decision was very aggressively to ease monetary
policy in late 2008 and into 2009 and on that front I’m very
much in agreement,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  