-- 
BTA Bank Seeks U.K. Arrest of Ex-Chairman Ablyazov Over Assets

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/bta-bank-seeks-u-k-arrest-of-ex-chairman-ablyazov-over-assets.html
BTA Bank, the Kazakh lender suing
former executives for alleged fraud during the credit crunch,
said it asked a U.K. judge to jail ex-Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov
for failing to fully disclose his assets to the court.  Kazakhstan’s third-biggest lender, which seeks $4 billion
in the case, said it filed the request with the  High Court  in
London on May 16, after forensic accountants found evidence of
more than 600 shell companies used by Ablyazov to hide his
wealth in violation of a U.K. order freezing his assets.  “Mr. Ablyazov has not complied with numerous orders
requiring full disclosure of all his assets,” BTA said today in
a statement. It wants him to “comply with the court’s orders
and unwind the improper transactions that he has carried out.”  BTA, whose creditors include  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , claims Ablyazov and ex-
Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko conspired to siphon
money from the bank before fleeing from Kazakhstan to London.
The lender was nationalized in 2009 and later defaulted on $12
billion of debt held by some of the world’s biggest banks.  “Mr. Ablyazov is meeting all the conditions of the
freezing order,” his spokesman, Locksley Ryan of London-based
 RLF Partnership Ltd. , said in a phone interview. “There’s
absolutely no suggestion of him not meeting the court order.”  $5 Billion  Ablyazov was previously accused of violating the freezing
order by failing to reveal his ownership in a Moscow skyscraper
project. The earlier dispute prompted the judge overseeing the
case in August to place an estimated $5 billion in Ablyazov’s
assets into receivership by KPMG LLP during the case.  Judge Nigel Teare earlier this month rejected Ablyazov’s
claim that the case is a veiled attempt by Kazakhstan President
Nursultan Nazarbayev to eliminate political rivals. Nazarbayev
was re-elected last month with 95.5 percent of the vote, adding
five more years to his two-decade rule.  Almaty-based BTA last year issued 10-year “recovery
notes” to creditors for about $5 billion of bad loans as part
of its debt restructuring. The lender will share with creditors,
on a 50-50 basis, recoveries from impaired assets, including
damages from the U.K. lawsuits.  Other creditors that stand to benefit from the case include
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Standard Chartered
Plc,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which in July 2009
quit as BTA’s restructuring adviser.  Kazakh prosecutors issued arrest warrants for Ablyazov and
Solodchenko in March 2009, on suspicion they embezzled money and
laundered it through loans to fake companies. Both men denied
the charges.  The case is: JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 