-- 
Bullpen Bonfire Kept Pitchers Warm During 33-Inning Game

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-05-17T22:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/bullpen-bonfire-kept-pitchers-warm-during-33-inning-baseball-game-books.html
One thing baseball fans love about
the game is that it runs by its own rhythms, with no time clock.
In “ Bottom of the 33rd ,” Dan Barry has written a lovely book
about the longest professional game ever -- a forgotten event in
an obscure place that he has rendered unforgettable.  The game took place in 1981 between the  Rochester Red Wings 
and the  Pawtucket Red Sox . Minor-league ball is no pastoral
idyll. Barry portrays its limits and frustrations, as well as
its pleasures, with more verve and vividness than a score of
writers who have preceded him.  “For all the childhood charms of  baseball, for all the
grassy frolics and the sandlot puffs of dust and the relief that
comes from swinging a bat instead of a pick or sledge,” Barry
writes, “bitter reality intrudes upon the baseball fields of
the Triple-A.” That reality was even starker in a contest that
lasted 8 hours and 25 minutes in a concrete shell in  Rhode
Island .  The evening was so cold that a Rochester pitcher offered
balls to local kids who contributed wood for a bullpen bonfire.
By the time dawn broke, there were 19 fans in the crowd.  You have almost certainly heard of two of the principals in
this game, Wade Boggs (4 for 12 that night) and Cal Ripken (2
for 13), who went on to the Hall of Fame. But many of the other
players who contributed to the 219 at-bats have gone to
Cooperstown only if they included it on a family vacation.  They stuck with this game, and with the game of baseball
itself, because of its mystical, spiritual pull, never clearer
than on a night that was different from all other nights,
beginning on the day between Good Friday and Easter in 1981.  Celebrating Communion  Why stick with it? As Barry summarizes: “Because we are
bound by duty. Because we aspire to greater things. Because we
are loyal. Because, in our own secular way, we are celebrating
communion, and resurrection, and possibility.”  The spine of this book is a game hardly anyone watched and
hardly anyone cared about. And yet Barry, a  New York Times 
reporter, makes it matter, capturing the mix of hope and despair
that animates minor-league ball, “an American opera whose cast
included sons from the east and the west, the north and the far,
far south; children of farmers and mill workers, bus drivers and
truck drivers, firefighters and aerospace engineers, soldiers
and toy-store owners and gospel singers, all trying to get
someplace else.”  No one who reads this book will forget what happened that
night. (Harper, $26.99.)  Tim Wakefield  Now to books about two of baseball’s longest careers.
“ Knuckler ” is the memoir of Tim Wakefield, who at age 44 is in
his 17th season with the  Red Sox . He has pitched more innings
and started more games than anyone in franchise history.  Wakefield’s signature pitch is the knuckleball. Together
with his co-author, Tony Massarotti, he gives the clearest
explanation I’ve ever seen of why that pitch is so befuddling:  “When the knuckleball is thrown properly, air deflects off
the laces and slides around the ball to the top, bottom, and
sides.” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $26.)  And then there’s “ In the Time of Bobby Cox ,” in which an
ardent fan, Lang Whitaker, seeks to understand the great success
of the former Atlanta Braves manager.  The answer: Cox had a combination of intelligence and
patience, two characteristics rarely joined on the diamond.  “He always gives his players every chance to be
successful,” Whitaker says. Good lesson off the field, too.
(Scribner, $24.)  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 