-- 
California Cash Crisis May Loom Even as Brown Adds $6.6 Billion to Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/california-cash-crisis-may-loom-even-as-brown-adds-6-6-billion-to-budget.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
revised budget with $6.6 billion more revenue may not avert a
cash crisis looming in July that may force the most-populous
U.S. state to pay bills with IOUs for the first time since 2009.  Brown yesterday proposed asking lawmakers to keep $9.1
billion of taxes and fees from expiring, then having a
referendum to validate the extension in November or later, when
a statewide ballot can be arranged.  The state won’t be able to borrow cash from  Wall Street  in
July or August with that validation vote pending unless Brown
and lawmakers agree on spending cuts that would be activated if
voters turn down the tax plan, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  “My office will not be able to complete a cash-flow
borrowing transaction unless the final adopted budget includes
real, inescapable, quickly-implemented spending cuts that would
be triggered if voters reject the taxes,” Lockyer said
yesterday.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, took office in January on a
pledge to fix the fiscal malfunctions that left California with
the lowest credit rating of any state from  Standard & Poor’s .
The governor yesterday revised his budget proposal for the
fiscal year that begins July 1, saying the state’s improving
economy would drive  tax revenue  $6.6 billion higher than
forecast through June 2012.  That narrowed California’s projected deficit to $9.6
billion from about $15.4 billion. Budget cuts and other measures
in March reduced the general-fund gap from as much as $26.6
billion. Brown said the additional revenue lessens the need for
higher taxes he proposed in January. His new plan postpones
seeking a 0.25 percentage-point increase in personal income-tax
rates until next year.  Need for IOUs  California, which accounted for almost 15 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product in 2009, may run out of money by July if
lawmakers and Brown can’t agree on how to erase what’s left of
the deficit, according to Controller John Chiang.  The state may be forced to pay bills with IOUs for the
second time in three years, potentially driving down the state’s
credit rating and pushing borrowing costs higher, Chiang has
said. The state issued $2.6 billion in IOUs in 2009 while
waiting for lawmakers to pass a spending plan.  The tax extensions will require approval by a two-thirds
vote of the Legislature. Democrats are four votes short of that
margin. Republicans, who blocked Brown’s proposal to put the tax
extension before voters in June, welcomed the governor’s
concession that he would consider a spending cap tied to
inflation and population change.  ‘Right Direction’  “The governor’s budget clearly moves in the right
direction,” said Senator Bob Huff, co-chairman of the Senate
Budget and Fiscal Review Committee. “He’s now talking about
some of the reforms that Republicans have been asking for and
clearly there are more revenues that what was anticipated, which
is good, so the last thing we want to do throw rain on the fire
and put out this kindling recovery.”  Brown wants lawmakers to agree to keep in place a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25
percent, and a 0.5 percentage-point increase in auto
registration fees to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value.  The governor has also proposed extending a reduction of the
annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309. The temporary tax and
fee increases were put in place in 2009 and are to expire by
July 1. Brown’s initial plan in January asked lawmakers to put
the tax extensions directly before voters in June. Republicans
have so far opposed prolonging the measures.  ‘Finances in Order’  “This is not the time to delay or evade, but to put our
finances in order,” Brown said yesterday in a Sacramento press
conference.  Brown’s budget calls for limiting the amount of general-
obligation borrowing by California during the next 12 months to
$3.9 billion instead of $9 billion that was planned. California,
the largest U.S. issuer of municipal bonds, sold $10.5 billion
of long-term bonds in 2010.  The state will sell $1.53 billion of debt late this year
and $2.37 billion early next year and $2 billion of lease-
revenue bonds during that time, Lockyer said. To finance
infrastructure projects during the next 12 months, the state
will draw from $11 billion of bond proceeds now parked in
department accounts.  California’s Extra Yield  The extra yield that buyers want for 10-year bonds from
California issuers compared with top-rated municipal debt rose
to 117 basis points yesterday, from a one-year low of 107 on
April 15. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Budget proposals don’t really impress the marketplace
very much at this point,” said Bud Byrnes, the chief executive
officer of Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp., which
trades about $100 million in bonds each month. “We’ll take it
seriously when and if something gets passed. In the meantime,
traders tend to have a very short time horizon.”  Brown’s plan also seeks to pay down $29 billion of an
estimated $35 billion in debt accrued “by borrowing from future
generations” to close previous deficits, such as money the
state owes schools, the governor said.  “They seem to be putting up front in this budget document
the future payment obligations and highlighting the extent to
which the state has borrowed,” said Gabriel Petek, senior
director of credit market services at Standard & Poor’s in  San
Francisco . “The governor’s approach seems to be more structurally
oriented and that could be favorable for the state’s credit.”  California’s constitution requires lawmakers to approve a
budget by June 15 and for the governor to sign it by July 1. A
new law approved by voters in November allows the budget to be
passed by a simple majority vote and strips lawmakers of their
pay when a budget is late.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  