-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: International Securities Transactions Released

-- B y   D a v i d   S c a n l a n
-- 
2011-05-17T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/canada-daybook-international-securities-transactions-released.html
Canada releases March figures for
international securities transactions, and  Canaccord Financial
Inc. (CF)  reports quarterly results.  ECONOMY: * Statistics Canada  reports securities transactions for
March at 8:30 a.m. Foreign investors probably bought C$5 billion
($5.1 billion) worth of assets, based on a Bloomberg survey of
five economists.  EVENTS: *AbitibiBowater Inc., the world’s largest maker of
newsprint, is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings before
the Toronto market opens. Profit, excluding one-time items, will
be 40 cents a share, according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
* Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s largest uranium producer, is
scheduled to hold its annual meeting at 1:30 p.m. in Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan.
*Richard Gelfond, chief executive officer of Imax Corp., the
maker of giant-screen movie-projection systems, is to address
the J.P. Morgan Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference
at 3:50 p.m. in  Boston .
*TransForce Inc. is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings.
The average profit estimate among six analysts in a Bloomberg
survey is 9 Canadian cents a share, excluding certain items.
*Canaccord Financial, the country’s largest non-bank owned
brokerage, will report fourth-quarter earnings after markets
close. The Toronto-based firm is expected to have adjusted
profit of 38 cents a share, according to five analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Canaccord will hold a conference call
tomorrow at 8 a.m. Toronto time.  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX rose 14.19 points, or 0.11 percent, to 13,391.35.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell two basis
points to 1.67 percent as of 4 p.m. yesterday. *The Canadian
dollar weakened to 97.58 cents per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 