-- 
Canada March International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-17T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/canada-march-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international transactions report for March
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities increased to
$6.3 billion in March, with acquisitions equally split
between bonds and stocks. In contrast, Canadians removed
$1.7 billion from their holdings of foreign securities in
March, all debt instruments.  Foreign investors acquire Canadian bonds on the secondary
market  Foreign investors added $3.2 billion of Canadian bonds
to their holdings in March. Foreign investment on the
secondary market of $8.0 billion was the largest amount
since May 2010, and was concentrated in federal government
and corporate bonds. This was partially offset by a record
high in retirements of federal government enterprise bonds
in the month.  Non-resident investment in federal  government bonds 
rebounded to $3.8 billion and was concentrated on medium
term-to-maturity bonds, following significant activity in
short-term bonds over the previous two months. Purchases
of corporate bonds on the secondary market remained robust
in March and were focused in Canadian mortgage backed
securities.  Non-resident investor holdings of Canadian money market
instruments were down $209 million in March. This resulted
from sizeable retirements of provincial government paper,
which more than offset foreign investment in new Canadian
US dollar denominated corporate paper.  Strong foreign acquisitions of Canadian equities continue  Foreign investors added a further $3.3 billion of
Canadian equities to their portfolio in March, with
investment over the quarter reaching its highest level
since the third quarter of 2009. Shares of Canadian
financial and mining firms attracted the bulk of foreign
investment in March. By month end, Canadian stock prices
stood at levels last seen in the first half of 2008.  Canadians reduce their holdings of US government debt
securities  Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign
bonds by $2.3 billion in March, more than offsetting the
acquisitions of the previous month. This activity was
largely accounted for by US government short-term bonds.
Resident investors also removed $701 million from their
holdings of foreign money market instruments in March. The
divestment was all in US government T-bills and completely
offset the investment accumulated over the previous two
months. In March, US short-term  interest rates  fell to
their lowest level in more than a year.  Canadians acquire foreign stocks for a third straight
month  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  