-- 
Canada April Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-17T13:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/canada-april-existing-home-sales-text-.html
Statistics released today by The
 Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), reveal that national
resale housing activity softened in April when compared to March
2011.  The decline in April sales activity reflects changes to mortgage
regulations that came into effect previously. As anticipated,
the changes pulled forward some sales activity that would have
otherwise occurred at a later date.  Seasonally adjusted national home sales activity was down 4.4
per cent in April 2011 compared to the previous month. As
expected, declines were largest in some of Canada’s more
expensive and active markets, including Toronto, Vancouver, and
the Fraser Valley.  Changes to mortgage regulations and other transitory factors
also boosted transactions in April last year at the expense of
activity in subsequent months. This also contributed to a
broadly based decline in sales activity in April 2011 compared
to year-ago levels.  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) activity was down 14.7 per cent
from levels reported last April.  “Although down nationally, sales activity in April this year
compared to April last year was up in a number of local housing
markets,” said Gary Morse, CREA’s President. “Housing market
trends often evolve and diverge from national trends due to
local factors, so buyers and sellers should consult their local
REALTOR to understand how the housing market is shaping up where
they live.”  “Last April, several transitory factors artificially boosted
sales.  This included the impending tightening of mortgage
rules, speculation about higher  interest rates  and the looming
introduction of the HST in some provinces.  This year,
additional measures to tighten mortgage rules were implemented
in March and the other transitory factors were absent,” said
Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist. “This makes it difficult
to compare the two months in order to reliably gauge the impact
of the latest round of mortgage rule changes.”  The number of newly listed homes edged up 1.3 per cent in April
from the previous month on a seasonally adjusted basis, but
remained well below levels in January and February, when
impending changes to mortgage regulations were announced.  With fewer sales and an increase in newly listed homes, the
national housing market moved further into balanced territory in
April. The national sales-to-new listings ratio, a measure of
market balance, stood at 52.5 per cent in April, down from 55.7
in March.  More than two-thirds of local markets in  Canada  were balanced in
April. Almost half of the remainder could be classified as
sellers’ markets based on a ratio of sales to new listings above
60 per cent.  The number of months of inventory represents the number of
months it would take to sell current inventories at the current
rate of sales activity, and is another measure of the balance
between housing supply and demand. The seasonally adjusted
number of months of inventory stood at six months at the end of
April on a national basis, up from 5.7 months in the previous
month.  The national average price for homes sold in April 2011 was
$372,544, up eight per cent from the same month last year. April
marked the third consecutive month in which the national average
price was up by eight per cent from year-ago levels.  The national average price has been skewed in recent months due
to surging multi-million dollar property sales in selected areas
of Greater  Vancouver . Demand for these properties moderated in
April from the previous month. A reduction in this source of
upward skewing for the national average price was offset by
fewer sales of lower priced properties.  “Changes to mortgage regulations that took effect in April 2011
likely sidelined a number of first-time homebuyers,” said Klump.
“By contrast, higher end home sales in Greater Vancouver and
Toronto had their best April ever.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales information
from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by Canada’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at:
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  