-- 
Carrefour Says Dia Spinoff Is Best Option After Approaches Come to Nothing

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-17T16:11:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/carrefour-s-dia-discount-unit-aims-for-7-percent-annual-growth.html
Carrefour SA (CA)  said listing its Dia
discount chain is the best way forward for shareholders after
approaches by possible buyers of the unit came to nothing.  “If we propose a quotation, it’s because it’s the best way
for shareholders to profit from Dia’s full value,” Chief
Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said today at a presentation in
Paris. “The other alternatives are less interesting.”  The retailer, based in Boulogne-Billancourt, intends to
list Dia, the world’s third-largest discounter, in  Madrid  on
July 5, pending approval. The move is part of a plan, which
includes spinning off 25 percent of Carrefour’s property assets
in  France , Italy and  Spain  as it focuses on the Carrefour brand.  Carrefour repeated in a statement today that it expects
sales and operating income to rise this year, boosted by
expansion in  China  and higher sales in  Brazil . Western  Europe 
remains difficult and soaring raw-material prices are limiting
the ability to negotiate with suppliers, Carrefour said.  Carrefour rose 13 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 30.40 euros in
Paris trading today, giving the company a market value of about
20.6 billion euros ($29.1 billion).  Olofsson, who took direct control of Carrefour’s French
business this month after it had an “unsatisfactory” start to
the year, is trying to improve the retailer’s performance in its
biggest market after a decade in which sales barely grew. He is
betting a 1.5 billion-euro revamp of Carrefour’s superstores in
western Europe with lower prices and more own-label products
will boost sales and profit through 2015. That rollout is “on
track” and generating faster sales growth, the company said.  ‘Encouraging Results’  “The very encouraging results we are seeing from Carrefour
Planet, our new hypermarket concept, and the continued execution
of our transformation plan, underpin our confidence that we are
on track to achieve our goals,” Olofsson said.  Though Italy remains tough, there are encouraging signs in
Belgium and Spain, the CEO said. Growth is “solid” in  Latin
America  and  Asia , he also said.  Carrefour needs a more coherent promotional strategy in
France, where it raised prices in March and April because of
cost inflation, the CEO said. While Carrefour is committed to
price competitiveness, it won’t “start a price war,” he said.  Dia expects to lift annual sales by 7 percent through 2013
as it opens 450 to 750 new stores a year, Carrefour said. To do
so, Dia will have capital expenditure of 300 million euros to
350 million euros a year, Carrefour said. In a separate
presentation, Dia forecast revenue of 9.97 billion euros in 2011
and adjusted operating profit of 265 million euros.  Property Spinoff  Carrefour said it continues to prepare for a future listing
of its property unit, after this month delaying a plan to spin
off the business after investor opposition. Shareholders led by
Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC called for the company to
reconsider the plan.  Carrefour Property generated about 700 million euros in
rent last year and has a pipeline of 100 projects to be
completed over a five-year period, it said today. The unit aims
for net rental income of 820 million euros in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  