-- 
Champagne Cinemas Target Big Spenders

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-05-17T23:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/champagne-cinemas-target-big-spenders-in-london.html
At the  Everyman Cinema  in  London ’s
Hampstead, an area where celebrities such as Ricky Gervais and
 Ridley Scott  are often seen, quiche and cocktails are replacing
bucket-sized popcorn and all-you-can drink soda as some theaters
aim for bigger-spending customers.  Cristal champagne, stylish décor and valet parking are some
of the luxury provisions being offered by cinemas for a few
dollars more. Theaters are increasingly competing with video-on-
demand services such as Netflix Inc., as well as catch-up TV and
a shorter delay before DVD releases. U.S. motion picture ticket
sales declined 14 percent through May 1, and attendance dropped
15 percent, according to researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office.  “Film these days has to be a complete night out,” said
Andrew Myers, chief executive officer for Everyman Media Ltd.,
which runs a chain of theaters in London and south  England  that
offers bars, lounges, table service and plush sofas. “We have
to battle hard to provide our customers with a diverse range of
films and events.”  Customers are willing to pay a premium for the service. A
ticket for a leather armchair at the Everyman Hampstead this
week for an evening show of spy thriller “Hanna” is priced at
16 pounds ($26), according to the theater’s website. That
compares with 9 pounds to see the same film at the Cineworld
multiplex at London’s West India Quay.  Cinemas are also building bigger screens and spending
$70,000 per auditorium to install digital equipment to show 3-D
films, live concerts, plays and opera. As the industry gathers
at the  Cannes Film Festival  this week and the summer movie
season gets under way, a deal between DirecTV and some Hollywood
studios for earlier DVD releases also threatens ticket sales.  Dinner at a Movie  “It’s no longer just dinner and a movie, but dinner at a
movie,” said John Fithian, president of the  National
Association of Theater Owners , or Nato, in the U.S. “The cinema
industry is trying to improve its competitive posture.”  Though global box office revenue totaled $31.6 billion last
year, video-on-demand movie sales grew quickly at $3 billion,
according to Richard Broughton, a senior analyst at  IHS Screen
Digest , a media research firm, in London.  Consumer spending  on
DVD rentals was $13 billion while DVD retail amounted to $28
billion, he said.  “Video-on-demand has the convenience factor going for it,
and more people are staying at home, especially if you have
children,” he said. “Still, there is a range of technologies
that haven’t yet hit the TV or computer, like 3-D.”  James Cameron   Universal Pictures ,  Warner Bros. , Sony Corp. and Twentieth
Century Fox are releasing some films in the U.S. two months
after the date of their theatrical release for $29.99. Sony’s
“Just Go With It,”  Warner Bros .’s “Hall Pass” and
Universal’s “The Adjustment Bureau” have all been released
under this program, according to Nato.  The plan has been criticized by cinema owners in the U.S.
as well as filmmakers including James Cameron and  Peter Jackson .  In January, The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  trialed the early release
of the animated film “Tangled” in  Portugal  through media
company Zon Lusomundo, according to a Disney spokesman. The film
was shown through video-on-demand six weeks after its 
theatrical release, at a baseline price of 24.99 euros ($35).  Disney didn’t give results of the early release, though the
company made waves last year in the U.K. when some cinemas
threatened to boycott Tim Burton’s “Alice in Wonderland” after
Disney proposed cutting the DVD window to 12 weeks from 17
weeks. Disney eventually reached an agreement with the cinemas.  ‘Gatekeepers’  “We are not the gatekeepers for film,” said Tim Richards,
CEO of  Vue Entertainment Ltd. , which has more than 650 screens
in the U.K. “All we ask is studios respect the window of four
months or it could wipe out the majority of cinemas.”  Vue is converting 40 of its screens to “extreme screens,”
the height of four double-decker buses, Richards said. While
some Vue locations also offer champagne and reclining seats,
they’ve generally proved unpopular.  “I think food service during a film is disruptive,”
Richards said. “We’ve tried and customers weren’t crazy about
it.” Vue has decreased the number of screens offering luxury
service to about 30 from 70.  Cinemas owners say they aren’t just competing with at-home
entertainment. Sporting events, live concerts and opera are all
seen as threats.  “The public has never had so many leisure choices like
today and arguably people have so much more pressure on their
time,” said Phil Clapp, head of the Cinema Exhibitors’
Association in London. “The cinema must stay steps ahead.”  ‘Fork & Screen’  In the U.S., the two biggest cinema chains,  Regal
Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC Entertainment Inc. are offering
premium services. AMC offers a dinner program called “Fork &
Screen” at some cinemas, while Regal offers beer, wine, pizza
and homemade desserts at locations under its joint venture
Cinebarre LLC.  In the U.K., theater chain Cineworld Plc plans to open a
boutique cinema with a bar, leather seats and three auditoriums
holding 39 people each at the end of June in Cheltenham.  Everyman Cinema is seeking planning permission to build a
cinema inside a former restaurant in west London.  “The cinemas who will do well in the marketplace will look
at the industry with a fresh view,” CEO Myers said. “We don’t
have the financial power or muscle to influence the studios’ DVD
window so we have to keep evolving to attract as well as
maintain loyalty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  