-- 
China Trims U.S. Bond Holdings for Fifth Month as Debt Approaches Ceiling

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T15:55:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/china-trims-u-s-bond-holdings-for-fifth-month-as-debt-approaches-ceiling.html
China, the biggest foreign owner of
 U.S. government debt , trimmed its holdings of Treasuries for a
fifth straight month in March as lawmakers debate how to expand
borrowing after reaching a statutory threshold.
     The Asian nation owns $1.145 trillion of the debt, down $9
billion, or less than 1 percent, from the previous month,
according to Treasury data released yesterday. The holdings
reached a record $1.175 trillion in October.  China’s concern that U.S. government securities may become
more risky because of the nation’s deficits and debt burden
prompted its call this month for President Barack Obama’s
administration to lay “a solid fiscal foundation” for long-
term growth. Former Chinese central bank adviser Yu Yongding
said last month that  China  should stop buying Treasuries because
of the risk that the U.S. may eventually default.  China may “gradually cut its  U.S. Treasuries  as it seeks
to diversify its foreign-exchange holdings,” said Yao Wei, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA. She said
“China is probably routing trades through other places such as
London,” meaning U.S. data may not give a full picture.  Treasury data show holdings of U.S. government debt in the
 United Kingdom  have increased $53.6 billion, or 20 percent so
far this year, to $325.2 billion.  In the U.S., Republicans and Democrats have been arguing
over when and how to raise a $14.3 trillion debt limit. Obama
has said that a failure to act may disrupt the global financial
system and plunge the nation into another recession.  Conflicted History  China has offered critiques of U.S. fiscal and monetary
policy while continuing to buy the debt. When the Fed announced
in March 2009 it would buy $300 billion of Treasuries, the
decision was called “irresponsible” by Li Xiangyang, of the
government-backed  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences , because it
could weaken the dollar.  “We have lent a massive amount of capital to the  United
States , and of course we are concerned about the security of our
assets,” Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March 2009 after
Obama signed his $787 billion stimulus package into law. “To
speak truthfully, I do indeed have some worries.”  After the Fed announced its plan to purchase $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to stoke inflation expectations and
boost employment, China’s vice foreign minister, Cui Tiankai,
said Nov. 5 “many countries are worried about the impact of the
policy.”  China increased its Treasury position 23 percent to $894.8
billion in 2009 and 30 percent to $1.16 trillion in 2010,
revised Treasury data show.  U.K. Impact  Year-end revisions to Treasury data on foreign holders of
its debt led to a $268.5 billion increase in China’s position in
the debt to $1.16 trillion and a $271 billion reduction in the
holdings in the U.K. to $272.1 billion.  The discrepancy comes in part from the different
methodology used in the monthly statistics and the annual
revisions. The monthly figures collect holdings data based on
the location of the counterparty at the time of purchase while
the revised totals reflect the identity of the owner.  “A lot of central banks have operations in  London ,” said
Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed. “A lot of transactions are based in London even
though the beneficial owner might be a Middle Eastern central
bank or an Asian central bank. That happens quite frequently.”  Debt Ceiling  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday
that he has used accounting measures to extend the deadline
until Aug. 2.  “China has kept on lending money to the U.S. to keep its
export machine going, and to prevent losses” on its holdings of
Treasuries, Yu said last month. “Perhaps it is too late to do
anything about the existing stock without causing a serious
political and financial backlash. But at least China should stop
continuing building up its holdings.”  Officials including central bank adviser Li Daokui have
urged diversification of the nation’s foreign exchange reserves
away from  U.S. debt .  Japan , the second-largest holder of Treasuries, increased
its holdings by $17.6 billion to $907.9 billion in March from
$890.3 billion in February.  Hong Kong , counted separately from
China, reduced its holdings by $2.5 billion to $122.1 billion
from $124.6 billion.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance by  Daniel Kruger  in  New York .
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Dave Liedtka  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  