-- 
Exploding Chinese Watermelons May Be Caused by Growth-Promoting Chemicals

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T07:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/chinese-watermelons-explode-maybe-from-growth-chemical-xinhua-says.html
The use of a chemical that prompts
plant growth may have contributed to overripe watermelons
bursting in their fields in eastern  China , the official Xinhua
News Agency reported.  More than 700 mu (47 hectares or 115 acres) of melons in
the city of Danyang in Jiangsu province were ruined when they
burst open, Xinhua reported yesterday. The chemical
 forchlorfenuron  may have caused some of the watermelons to burst,
the news service reported, citing Wang Liangju, a professor at
Nanjing Agricultural University. Heavy rainfall after a recent
drought may have also contributed, according to the report.  “I have never seen this phenomenon,” said Bob Morrissey,
executive director of the U.S. National Watermelon Association
in Lakeland,  Florida . “Watermelons do not burst only from
rainfall.” The U.S. allows forchlorfenuron to be used for
growth of grapes and kiwifruit and the chemical isn’t classified
in China as an illegal food additive.  The bursting watermelons are the latest in a series of
 food-safety  scares in China that have included tainted pork,
chemicals in steamed buns and milk tainted with the chemical
melamine. China has increased inspections and made food safety a
metric for grading the performance of local government officials
in an effort to prevent the scandals from fueling social unrest.  Tainted Dairy  Six children were killed and thousands were sickened by
melamine-tainted dairy products in 2008, prompting the
government to execute two people involved in the scandal and
form a food-safety commission led by Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  Reports of food safety issues this year have also included
toxic fish, tainted bean sprouts and Sichuan peppercorns dyed
with a red coloring. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month
the incidents reflected a “severe” lack of integrity.  Liu Mingsuo, one of the farmers in Jiangsu whose
watermelons burst, said this year was the first he had planted
the fruit and used forchlorfenuron, Xinhua reported. Liu used
the chemical too late in the season, Xinhua cited Nanjing
Agriculture University’s Wang as saying.  Watermelon prices in China this year have gained about 20
percent from 2010, the Chongqing Morning Post newspaper reported.  Consumers are concerned that supersized fruit contains
chemical residues and is unsafe to eat, Xinhua reported. Nanjing
Agricultural University’s Wang suggests starting a produce-
tracking system that shows consumers the amount of pesticides
and fertilizers used on their foods, Xinhua reported.  Weather Effect  About 10 percent of watermelons burst normally, with the
rate at which they do so depending on variety and weather,
Xinhua reported, citing Xu Jinhua of the Jiangsu Academy of
Agricultural Sciences.  The U.S. watermelon association’s Morrissey said rain only
causes mildew and cosmetic cracks inside melons. The problem was
likely caused by forchlorfenuron, he said.  The chemical  forchlorfenuron  is classified by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency as “not likely to be a human
carcinogen” or cancer risk. Exposure to forchlorfenuron
residues in food and drinking water “will not exceed the
agency’s level of concern for chronic dietary aggregate exposure
by the general  U.S. population  or any population subgroup,”
according to the environmental agency.  China’s  Ministry of Health , which updated its food safety
guidelines on April 17, didn’t include forchlorfenuron on its
list of 47 illegal food additives or its list of 22 additives
that are likely to be abused.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at   bruceg@bloomberg.net  