-- 
China Electricity Cuts Unlikely to Affect Big Steelmakers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T10:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/china-power-cuts-unlikely-to-affect-big-steel-mills-clsa-says.html
China ’s electricity cuts probably
won’t be extended to bigger steel makers in northern provinces
such as Hebei and Shandong, CLSA Asia Pacific analyst Scott Laprise said.  “This time, we have power cuts that are more regionally-
based,” he said today in Beijing, where he is based. The
government is limiting power supply in Jiangxi, Zhejiang,
Guizhou, Hunan and Chongqing provinces, which account for 9
percent of the country’s total steel output, Laprise said in
slides presented at a forum.  China may face a summer shortage of 30 gigawatts of power
as supply lags behind demand growth, the China Electricity
Council said on April 29. Hunan Valin Steel Co., partly-owned by
the world’s biggest steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT) , and smaller mills
in China’s south cut output because of local power shortages.  “Currently, we don’t see a big impact,” Laprise said.
There may be “seasonal impact” on steel output in the summer,
he said.  Hebei Iron & Steel Group, China’s biggest steelmaker, and
Shandong Iron & Steel Group, China’s seventh-largest, haven’t
reported any power shortages.  Mandatory power cuts to meet energy-saving targets in the
fourth-quarter last year forced steel and aluminum producers to
reduce output or close mills. The cut affected  steel mills  in
provinces including Hebei and Jiangsu, which account for 59
percent of national output, CLSA’s Laprise said.  Lower Demand  Power shortages also hampered the industrial sector and
eroded demand for steel, he said, without providing figures.  Aluminum producers in the power-rationing provinces account
for roughly 10 percent of the country’s production, and the
impact has been “very marginal,” said Ian Roper, a Shanghai-
based commodities strategist at CLSA. He didn’t name any
smelters that have been affected.  A disruption in aluminum supplies may occur in June or July
when power shortage is expected to worsen because of rising
demand for air-conditioning, said Andrew Driscoll, head of
metals research in  Hong Kong . Supply shortages may boost
international prices of the lightweight metal, he said.  --Xiao Yu. Editors: Keith Gosman, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 