-- 
Chrysler Seeks $3.5 Billion in Largest High-Yield Bond Offering Since 2009

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-17T17:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/chrysler-group-said-to-reduce-term-loan-by-1-billion-increased-pricing.html
Chrysler Group LLC is turning to the
 bond market  for the biggest high-yield offering in two years
after lenders pushed back against the automaker’s proposed loan.  The company cut a $3.5 billion term loan by $1 billion and
increased the bond offering by that amount to $3.5 billion,
according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler, run by  Fiat SpA (F) , also had to
raise interest rates on the six-year loan, the people said.  “The loan deal simply wasn’t going very well,” said Marc Gross, a  money manager  in  New York  at RS Investments who helps
oversee $3 billion in fixed-income funds. The changes “should
stabilize the deal.”  Chrysler was marketing as much as $7.5 billion of debt to
repay borrowings from the U.S. and Canadian governments, which
provided financing in 2009 to prevent the company’s collapse.
While the automaker will have to pay higher  interest rates  on
the notes than the proposed loans, shifting the balance toward
bonds allows it to take advantage of record low speculative-
grade yields and obtain longer maturities.  Eileen Wunderlich, a Chrysler spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The bond offering is split between eight- and 10-year notes
that may price as soon as May 19, said the people, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. The eight-year
securities may yield 7.75 percent to 8 percent and the 10-year
notes may offer an additional 25 basis point premium above that,
the people said.  ‘Turnaround Story’  The average B rated bond yields 7.36 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The average absolute
yield on  junk bonds  fell to a record low of 7.19 percent
yesterday from 7.85 percent at year end.  The offering “is going very well on the bond side,” Gross
said. “It’s above market yield. If you’re buying the turnaround
story and you don’t think the collateral pool’s great, you’d
rather just be in the bonds, which has better carry and
upside.”  Speculative-grade, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s . Moody’s assigns a B2 rating to Chrysler and S&P grades
it a step higher at B+, according to notes from the credit-
rating companies.  Increasing Rate  The company increased the rate it will pay for its $2.5
billion  term loan  to 4.75 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate from initial guidance of between 4
percentage points to 4.25 percentage points, the people said.  The term loan will have a floor on the benchmark of 1.25
percent to 1.5 percent and be sold at a discount of 99 cents on
the dollar. Three-month Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to
each other, was set today at 0.26 percent.  Chrysler was also seeking a $1.5 billion revolving line of
credit, the people said.  Morgan Stanley is arranging the term loan, Bank of America
Corp. is managing the bond offering and Citigroup Inc. is
leading the  credit line . Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is also
helping arrange the deal, the people said.  The $3.5 billion junk-bond offering will be the biggest
sale since  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK) , the Vancouver-based metals
producer, sold $4.23 billion of bonds in May 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  