-- 
CIC to Move Ma to Canada for Natural Resources Bids, Fund Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T09:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/cic-to-move-ma-to-canada-for-resources-bids-official-says-2-.html
China  Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, plans to move Managing Director Winston Ma to Canada to bolster investment bids for natural resources
assets, said a company official with direct knowledge of the
matter.  Ma, who is part of the special investments department at
CIC, was appointed deputy head of the fund’s only office outside
the Greater China region this month, according to the executive,
who declined to be identified as the information is confidential.  Chinese companies have bid $25 billion this year for
overseas assets ranging from natural gas to copper in a bid to
secure the energy and raw materials needed to feed the world’s
fastest-growing major economy. Central bank adviser Xia Bin last
month advocated using China’s more than $3 trillion of foreign
exchange reserves, some of which have been directed to CIC, to
secure the resources the nation needs.  Ma’s move will “help CIC to collect more information on
the ground from  Canada , where natural resources from commodities
to water are becoming increasingly popular among global
bidders,” Nick Zeng, chairman of the China Mining Association
of Canada, said by phone today from Beijing. “But the major
barriers to get deals done could be the different cultural
backgrounds and growing competition from U.S. bidders.”  A CIC press official, who refused to be identified because
of the fund’s rules, declined to comment.  Overseas Assets  CIC is the world’s fifth-biggest country fund with $332.4
billion of assets, according to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute . China’s SAFE Investment Co. manages $347.1 billion,
the fourth-largest, the research company said.  Ma, 37, will report to Felix Chee in Toronto and to CIC
officials in Beijing as he seeks investments in energy assets
and agricultural commodities, the executive said. Chee, who was
a special adviser to CIC’s chief investment officer, was named
chief representative of the $300 billion fund’s Canadian office
in January, according to a statement on its website.  CIC’s special investments department was involved in
energy-related deals including a $1.5 billion investment in
Canadian mining company  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK)  in July 2009 and
$1.58 billion in U.S. power company  AES Corp. (AES)  in November 2009,
according to the fund’s website. CIC in November said it set up
a subsidiary in  Hong Kong , making that its first unit outside
the mainland.  The fund was set up in 2007 with $200 billion in initial
capital. China’s Ministry of Finance raised money by selling
yuan-denominated bonds, which it used to purchase foreign
currency from the nation’s foreign exchange reserves that was
then injected into the fund.  CIC’s Chairman  Lou Jiwei  said last month that the fund may
get more capital to invest in foreign markets, China National
Radio reported. The fund invested all its cash and cash
equivalents last year and is awaiting the government’s decision
on additional funding, Executive Vice President Jesse Wang told
a forum in Beijing on Jan. 15.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  