-- 
Griffin’s Citadel Said to Make Withdrawals Easier for Hedge-Fund Clients

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-05-17T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/citadel-said-to-make-withdrawals-easier-for-hedge-fund-clients.html
Ken Griffin ’s Citadel LLC will allow
clients to withdraw their money more quickly from its two
biggest hedge funds as the firm attempts to attract new
investors, according to a letter.  Starting in July, clients in the Chicago-based firm’s
Kensington and Wellington funds will be able to take out 10
percent of assets every quarter, meaning they can exit the funds
entirely over two and a half years, Griffin said in a May 16
letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Currently, withdrawals are limited to one-sixteenth every
quarter, requiring four years for investors to get out.  Citadel, which has seen its assets under management fall by
almost half since a 2007 peak of $21 billion, is relaxing
investor terms that are among the most restrictive in the
industry, as it seeks to win clients that have allocated money
to rivals. The firm’s biggest funds lost 55 percent in 2008 as
global markets tumbled in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy, spurring investors to pull their money.  “Since the financial crisis, to have significant
restrictions -- even if they are less than before -- is somewhat
puzzling,” said  Geoff Bobroff , an  East Greenwich , Rhode Island-
based consultant who advises money-management firms. Typically,
hedge funds that restrict redemptions do so for no longer than
one year, Bobroff said.  ‘Tremendous Stability’  Citadel said in the letter that its withdrawal terms,
introduced in July 1998, created “tremendous stability in our
capital base” and “allowed us to maximize our returns across
numerous market cycles.”  The firm will raise the portion of the funds’ assets that
it allows clients to pull to 5 percent from 3 percent, according
to the letter. Citadel is reducing penalty fees for excess
withdrawals to a range of 4 percent to 7 percent from 5 percent
to 9 percent.  Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined to
comment.  The $7.5 billion Kensington and Wellington funds climbed 62
percent in 2009, 10 percent last year and 9 percent through May
16. Citadel still needs to return an additional 15 percent to
make investors whole and be able to charge a 20 percent
performance fee.  Citadel has also told clients that it’s considering
changing its fees. It’s among a handful of hedge funds that pass
along all expenses to clients rather than charging the industry-
standard 2 percent annual management fee. Expenses at the firm
have reached as much as 8 percent of assets, and typically range
from 4 percent to 6 percent.  Fee Structure  Citadel has told potential investors it may change its fees
to 3 percent of assets, and raise its percentage of profits to
30 percent. The industry charges an average 20 percent
performance fee.  Separately, Citadel agreed to sell Omnium LLC, its hedge-
fund servicing business, to  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  yesterday for
at least $100 million. Griffin, who founded Citadel as a hedge
fund in 1990, started Omnium in 2007 to provide other funds with
administration and monitoring services.  He has also expanded Citadel by starting a securities
business to advise corporations on mergers and acquisitions,
underwriting and trading stocks and bonds. That group has been
subject to 10 high-level executive departures since it was
created at the height of the financial crisis in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  