-- 
Citigroup Sold by Hedge Funds Eton Park, Viking as Banking Revenue Slumps

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-17T14:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/citigroup-sold-by-hedge-funds-eton-park-viking-as-bank-revenue-slumps.html
Eton Park Capital Management LP and
Viking Global Investors LP were among at least five  hedge funds 
that exited their  Citigroup Inc. (C)  stakes in the first quarter as
investors shied away from U.S. banks facing revenue declines.  Eton Park, the hedge fund run by  Eric Mindich , sold 80.5
million shares in the quarter and Viking, co-founded by Andreas Halvorsen, liquidated its holding of 151 million shares,
according to filings yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The stakes were valued at $381 million and
$714 million, respectively, at the end of last year.  The firms eliminated their holdings before Citigroup
imposed a 1-for-10 reverse stock split earlier this month. Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, announced the split in
March as a way to make the bank’s shares more attractive to
investors. Citigroup shares peaked at $51.30 a share on Jan. 14
before tumbling 14 percent over the rest of the quarter amid
concerns over financial firms’ revenues and market uncertainty
due to the tsunami in  Japan  and unrest in the Middle East.  “Citi peaked in mid-January and it’s been downhill ever
since,” said  Gary Townsend , president of Hill-Townsend LLC in
 Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , who manages about $1.4 million of
Citigroup shares. “Revenues seem to have been a particular
concern in the first-quarter numbers. While most of the
financials outperformed, there was dissatisfaction.”  Citigroup fell 6.6 percent in the first quarter after
surging 43 percent last year, compared with a 22 percent gain
for the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  Citigroup rose 35 cents to
$41.54 at 9:45 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Tudor Investment Corp.  Eton Park and Viking were joined by Tudor Investment Corp.,
AQR Capital Management LLC and Daniel Loeb’s Third Point LLC in
cutting their investments in the New York-based lender.  Tudor, the $11.5 billion hedge fund founded by  Paul Tudor Jones  and based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , sold 3.94 million
shares in the quarter, according to a regulatory filing. AQR,
the fund run by Clifford Asness, disposed of 11.3 million
shares, while Third Point sold all of its 7 million, according
to a filing.  Other investors pared their Citigroup holdings without
exiting their investments completely. Moore Capital Management
LP, the $15 billion hedge fund run by Louis Moore Bacon, sold
35.2 million shares in the first quarter, while Appaloosa
Management LP shed 40.9 million shares, filings show. Lone Pine
Capital LLC, the hedge fund run by Stephen F. Mandel Jr.,
disposed of 51.7 million shares.  Dividend to Resume  Citigroup said March 21 that it would resume paying a
dividend of 1 cent a share in the second quarter after the
reverse stock split. The first day of trading after the split
was May 9. Jon Diat, a bank spokesman, declined to comment.  First-quarter profit dropped 32 percent to $3 billion from
$4.43 billion in the same period last year, Citigroup said in an
April 18 statement. Revenue declined 22 percent to $19.7
billion, the company said. Net revenue at the six largest U.S.
lenders, including Citigroup, fell 13.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  Also in the first quarter, Eton Park purchased 107.7
million Citigroup warrants expiring in January 2019 that convey
the right to buy common stock at $106.10, and another 34.5
million warrants expiring October 2018 with a strike price of
$178.50. The warrants were given to taxpayers as part of the
bank’s $45 billion U.S. bailout, and auctioned off by the
government in January.  Investors Increase Stakes  Other investors, including billionaire  George Soros ,
increased their Citigroup stakes. Soros Fund Management LLC
bought 18.7 million shares, Highbridge Capital Management LLC
added 21.9 million and  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital
Management LLC purchased 21.3 million, filings show.  Kingdon Capital Management LLC, the hedge fund founded by
Mark Kingdon, took an initial stake of 17.5 million shares
valued at $77.4 million as of March 31.  “The outlook continues to be pretty good for Citi, partly
because of their international exposures, continuing credit
improvement and rationalization of structure,” according to
Townsend. “Earnings continue to improve and actually
accelerate.”  Separately, Wellington Management Co. added to its holdings
of New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the first quarter, and
sold 5.5 million shares of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according
to a regulatory filing. Wellington’s stake of 89.7 million
shares in JPMorgan was valued at $4.13 billion as of March 31.  Money managers overseeing more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 