-- 
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Hires Former Tesco Chief Leahy

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-05-18T08:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/clayton-dubilier-rice-hires-tesco-s-leahy-as-senior-adviser.html
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, the
private-equity firm whose investments include Hertz Global
Holdings Inc., hired former  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Leahy  as a senior adviser.  Leahy, 55, will be based at Clayton Dubilier’s London
office, the firm said in a statement yesterday. He left Tesco,
the U.K.’s biggest retailer, in March after a 32-year career at
the Cheshunt, England-based company.  Private-equity firms routinely use former executives of
large companies to provide advice to companies they own by
sitting on boards or consulting with executives on operational
matters. New York-based Clayton Dubilier counts former General
Electric Co. CEO Jack Welch among its advisers.  Stuart Rose , the
former CEO of U.K. clothing retailer Marks & Spencer Group Plc,
became an adviser to Bridgepoint Capital Ltd. last year.  Tesco more than quadrupled sales and profit during the 14
years that Leahy ran the company. Under his leadership, the
supermarket company entered Japan, Malaysia, Thailand,  South
Korea  and the U.S., increasing the proportion of sales from
outside the U.K. to about a third from 6 percent when he took
control. Leahy was succeeded as Tesco CEO by Phil Clarke, who
had headed the company’s operations in Asia and Europe.  Private-equity firms are hiring executives from industry as
they seek to invest some of the $470 billion of capital they
raised before the credit crisis. They have led $147 billion of
takeovers this year, up from $79 billion in the same period a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Clayton Dubilier’s investments include U.S. Foodservice,
the second-largest U.S. food-service distributor, which it
bought with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. from Royal Ahold NV in
2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Jarvis in  London  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  