-- 
Senate’s ’Gang of Six’ Deficit-Cutting Talks Suffer Blow as Coburn Departs

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-18T21:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/coburn-will-take-break-from-gang-of-six-u-s-deficit-talks-amid-impasse.html
Chances that a bipartisan group of
six U.S. senators would agree on a long-range deficit-cutting
plan diminished yesterday when a Republican abandoned the talks,
saying they were at an impasse over how to cut entitlement
programs such as Medicare.  The decision by Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  to leave the
“Gang of Six” meetings elevates the importance of a separate
group of Republican and Democratic lawmakers working with Vice
President  Joe Biden  on a debt-reduction deal.  Coburn said he and his Gang of Six colleagues are “just
too far apart on basic issues.” After the group met yesterday
in Washington, he said “there’s no reason to sit and talk about
the same things over and over.” He said that “right now,” he
doesn’t plan to attend any more of the group’s meetings.  The group’s five remaining members met today, and afterward
Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, termed the session
“very constructive.” Asked by reporters if the group should now
be considered the “Gang of Five,” Conrad said, “I don’t think
you should make any conclusion about what the number might be.”  Tough Choices  Coburn’s departure underscored the difficult choices facing
President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders over issues
such as tax increases and cuts in popular entitlement programs
in the effort to reduce the government’s long-term deficits.  A deal has become viewed in Washington as a prerequisite to
raising the government’s $14.3 trillion debt limit later this
year. Many Republicans, though, balk at increasing tax revenue,
while many Democrats reject significant changes to entitlement
programs.  Other Gang of Six members said they still hope to reach an
agreement on a plan that would include spending cuts with
increased federal revenue.  Coburn said yesterday the main impasse was over cutting
spending for entitlement programs, which have their budgets set
by formulas rather than through Congress’s annual appropriations
process. “There’s mandatory spending that was not addressed to
my satisfaction,” he said. “It’s got to be balanced, and I
didn’t perceive where we were was balanced.”  “I am discouraged, I will put it at that,” he said.  Seeking ‘Movement’  He left open the possibility today that he could rejoin the
group if there was “movement” in the right direction. “I’m
not going into details,” he said when pressed on what it would
take to bring him back to the negotiating table.  Coburn was pushing for cuts to Medicare, the government
health-care program for Americans 65 and older, that would have
gone beyond what leaders of Obama’s debt-cutting commission
proposed last year, according to people familiar with the
discussions who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Coburn sought an additional $130 billion in Medicare cuts
over 10 years -- on top of the $400 billion suggested by the
commission -- and second-ranking Senate Democrat  Dick Durbin  of
Illinois rejected the proposal as unacceptable, one person
familiar with the talks said.  “We’ll see if we can find a way to re-engage him,” Durbin
said in an interview after yesterday’s meeting. “We’ve done an
awful lot of work, and he helped us reach this point and I hope
we can finish the job.”  ‘Disappointed’  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , the group’s Republican leader,
said yesterday the six senators won’t reach an agreement without
Coburn. “Obviously, I’m disappointed,” he said. “We’re going
to continue the effort. I would hope that eventually we’ll
still, as a group of six, be able to come together on some long-
term resolution of the issue, but it looks like that’s not going
to happen short-term.”  After today’s session, Chambliss said, “We’re going to
continue the dialogue.”  The group plans another meeting tomorrow.  Conrad, who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee,
plans to continue to work with the group, as well as “others,”
on a deficit-reduction plan, his spokesman, Stu Nagurka, said in
an e-mail yesterday.  Idaho Republican  Mike Crapo , also a member of the group,
“remains hopeful that a resolution can be reached; the group is
facing tough issues, but it has faced tough issues before,”
spokeswoman Susan Wheeler said in an e-mail.  ‘Good Faith’  Senator  Mark Warner  of  Virginia , the Democratic co-leader
of the Gang of Six, said in a statement, “I intend to keep
working in good faith on these issues because we have made too
much progress to stop now.”  The group has been working privately for months to achieve
an agreement on a combination of tax increases and spending cuts
to reduce the deficit. Its negotiations have been closely
followed, in part because its members come from across the
Senate’s ideological spectrum.  The group’s momentum has flagged in recent weeks even as
debate heated up over what sort of budget cuts to attach to an
increase in the federal debt ceiling. Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, has repeatedly said he
believes that the group led by Biden is more likely than the six
senators to agree on a deficit-reduction plan. That group began
meeting this month.  August Deadline  The Treasury Department has said it will run out of options
for avoiding a government default of its debts by Aug. 2. Many
lawmakers say the debt-limit vote will be their best chance this
year to force significant changes in  government spending .  Crapo disagreed, saying there is no “magic date by which
everything evaporates if we haven’t made a deal by that point.”  Coburn was a member of the administration’s debt commission
and surprised many of his colleagues last year when he endorsed
recommendations by the panel’s leaders -- Democrat  Erskine Bowles  and Republican  Alan Simpson  -- that included increased
taxes. While the full panel ultimately failed to endorse the
recommendations, they formed the basis of the Gang of Six talks.  Coburn was criticized by  Americans for Tax Reform , an
advocacy group in  Washington , which accused him of reneging on
promises to oppose tax increases. Yesterday he said that “the
only way we get out of this problem is increase the revenues to
the federal government.”  The Bowles-Simpson plan would have overhauled the  tax code ,
cutting rates while junking individual tax breaks and imposing
big cuts in spending in entitlement and other government
programs. Its goal was to slash about $4 trillion over a decade
from the nation’s deficits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  