-- 
Conde Nast Publications Is Nearing Deal to Move to One World Trade Center

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-17T22:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/conde-nast-publications-is-nearing-deal-to-move-to-one-world-trade-center.html
Conde Nast  Publications Inc.,
publisher of magazines including the  New Yorker  and  Vanity Fair ,
said it is near an agreement to move its headquarters to
downtown  Manhattan ’s 1 World Trade Center.  “We are close to concluding lease negotiations, and are
hopeful that a move to 1 World Trade Center will be a catalyst
for transforming downtown,” Chief Financial Officer John Bellando said in a statement today.  A deal would make Conde Nast an anchor tenant in the 1,776-
foot (541-meter) skyscraper, under construction at the Ground
Zero site and scheduled for completion in 2013. The publisher’s
presence may galvanize the lower Manhattan office market, which
has struggled since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks destroyed the
original trade center and the 2008 credit crisis damaged the
area’s financial industry.  Developer Douglas Durst, who oversees leasing at 1 World
Trade Center, in November expressed confidence in demand at the
property, saying “the building will definitely make money.”
 The Port Authority  of  New York  and New Jersey is building the
skyscraper, which would be the nation’s tallest.  Conde Nast, now at the Durst-owned 4 Times Square tower in
Midtown, has been in talks to rent space at the new building
since last year. It will lease about 1 million square feet, the
New York Times reported earlier today. The deal, under which the
publisher would pay about $2 billion over 25 years, is to be
voted on by the  Port Authority  on May 26, the newspaper said.  Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the Durst Organization,
declined to comment. A call to John Kelly, a spokesman for the
Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey , wasn’t immediately
returned.  Durst last year agreed to invest at least $100 million into
what was then a $3.2 billion project as an equity partner with
the agency. That deal hasn’t yet been completed.  -- Editors: Kara Wetzel, Christine Maurus  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  