-- 
ConocoPhillips Outlines Proposal for Gas Exploration Off Australian Coast

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-17T06:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/conocophillips-outlines-proposal-for-exploration-off-australia.html
ConocoPhillips and partner  Karoon Gas
Australia Ltd. (KAR)  aim to start drilling in the Browse Basin off the
coast of northwest  Australia  in the second or third quarter to
evaluate the potential of a natural gas discovery.  Conoco seeks government approval to drill as many as eight
wells and expects the exploration campaign to last about two
years, the third-largest U.S. oil company said in a  proposal 
submitted to the Australian Environment Department today.  The partners previously expected to begin drilling in March,
according to documents lodged with the environment department
last year. The 2009 Montara oil spill in the  Timor Sea  and last
year’s BP Plc disaster in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  have prompted
calls for tougher controls of the oil and gas industry.  In response to the two incidents,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  has
“undertaken a comprehensive review of its drilling and well-
control practices and procedures, as well as its global oil
spill contingency plans, to ensure any lessons learned are well
understood and incorporated,” the documents show.  The Australian government expects to decide by June 15
whether the latest drilling proposal requires further evaluation,
the environment department said today.  If the government decides that the new plan doesn’t require
further review, the campaign can begin, the department said.
Conoco withdrew the prior proposal after the government provided
feedback on ways of minimizing the environmental impact,
according to the department.  Possible Delays  Karoon fell 4.4 percent to A$6.09 at the 4:10 p.m. close in
Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.7 percent.  Conoco and Karoon plan to drill in an area about 7
kilometers (4.4 miles) east of the Seringapatam Reef and 12
kilometers northeast of Scott Reef, the documents lodged with
the government today show. The drilling is unlikely to “have
significant impacts” on the reefs, the companies said.  In the original proposal, Conoco planned to drill in an
area about 2.9 kilometers from the Seringapatam Reef, the
documents show.  The companies asked the federal government earlier this
year to reconsider a decision to subject the drilling plan to a
more detailed review that would likely lead to delays, Mount
Martha, Victoria-based Karoon said on Jan. 21.  Karoon may spend A$450 million ($477 million) drilling
exploration wells in Australia and  South America  in the next two
years, Executive Chairman Robert Hosking said in April.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  was cleared in February to
keep operating in Australian waters after satisfying the
government it had taken steps to prevent a repeat of the Montara
blowout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net . 