-- 
Cordish Defamation Suit Over Maryland Gambling Held Up by Bankruptcy Judge

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-17T19:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/cordish-defamation-suit-over-maryland-gambling-held-up-by-bankruptcy-judge.html
Cordish Co., a real-estate developer
trying to build a casino near Baltimore, must temporarily halt a
defamation lawsuit against the chief executive officer of one of
its business partners, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon, in
Wilmington, Delaware, granted a request by Indianapolis Downs
LLC to suspend legal action against CEO Ross J. Mangano, saying
the lawsuit would disrupt the company’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  Cordish in February sued claiming it was defamed by
competing casino companies and their executives, including
Mangano, casino owner  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  and horse-track
owner Frank Stronach.  Mangano and Stronach allegedly were “part of an ongoing
campaign designed to smear, defame and otherwise falsely portray
the Cordish Entities for the purpose of harming them
economically and influencing both the Maryland State legislature
and lottery commission.”  Baltimore-based Cordish needs the support of the commission
and state lawmakers to open its proposed casino. The company is
fighting horse-track owner Indianapolis Downs in bankruptcy
court in Wilmington over a  management contract  between the
companies.  Indianapolis Downs, based in Shelbyville Indiana, filed for
bankruptcy in April after failing to pay interest on time on
$375 million in second lien notes, the company said in court
papers. It owns  Indiana  Downs, a casino with 2,000  slot machines 
and a racetrack that is about 25 miles from Indianapolis.  Allegations Denied  Indianapolis Downs denied Cordish’s allegations in court
papers. In a statement in February, Stronach’s company, MI
Developments Inc., called the suit meritless.  Shannon’s order doesn’t prevent Cordish from pursuing its
case against Stronach and the other defendants who are not
involved in the bankruptcy.  The temporary restraining order case is Indianapolis Downs
LLC v. Power Plant Entertainment Casino Resorts, Indiana, LLC
11-51996. The bankruptcy case is In re: Indianapolis Downs LLC.
11-11046. Both are in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 