-- 
Oil Drops for Second Day on Economic Growth Concern; China Demand May Slow

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-17T07:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/crude-oil-rises-in-new-york-trading-recovering-from-earlier-declines.html
Oil traded near the lowest in more
than a week on concern Greece’s debt crisis will curb European
growth and analysts predicted U.S. fuel inventories will rise,
signaling lower demand in the world’s biggest crude-consumer.  Crude fell as much as 0.6 percent in  New York .  Europe  will
consider extending Greece’s debt-repayment schedule as part of a
package including deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in Brussels yesterday. An
Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. oil stockpiles
rose for a fourth week.  “The concerns in Europe are going to create a lack of
confidence again,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicted oil will
average $100 this year. “People will pull the horns in from
spending. That feeds back into the demand prospects for crude.
We’ve also still got a fair few barrels in the U.S.”  Crude for June delivery was at $96.83 a barrel, down 54
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:35 p.m. Singapore time, after earlier sliding to $96.76. It
fell 2.3 percent yesterday to $97.37, the lowest settlement
since May 6. Prices are 38 percent higher in the past year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $110.38 a barrel, down
46 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
June contract expired yesterday, losing $1.10, or 1 percent, to
$112.73.  China Demand  Chinese oil demand growth may slow this year, according to
an official at a unit of the nation’s biggest crude producer.
Demand may rise 6.7 percent to 482.96 million metric tons,
slowing from 9.6 percent growth in 2010, Zhang Fuqin, deputy
chief engineer at China National Petroleum Corp.’s petroleum and
petrochemical engineering institute, said at a conference in
Tianjin today.  European finance ministers for the first time suggested
talks with bondholders on “reprofiling”  Greece ’s debt
repayments, saying last year’s 110-billion euro ($156 billion)
rescue has failed to restore the country to financial health,
according to Juncker. His comments suggest ministers’ views are
closer to the 85 percent of international investors who, in a
Bloomberg poll last week, said Greece is likely to default.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels from 370.3 million
barrels, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies may increase 1 million
barrels, the survey shows.  U.S. homebuilding probably held near recession levels,
while production at factories, mines and utilities may have
increased for a sixth month in April, according to separate
Bloomberg News surveys of economists before data released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  