-- 
Oil Rises From Three-Month Low as Supplies of Cushing Crude, Gasoline Drop

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-18T05:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/crude-oil-rises-from-three-month-low-in-electronic-trading-in-new-york.html
Oil rose from a three-month low in
 New York  after an industry-funded report showed U.S. gasoline
stockpiles dropped and crude inventories at Cushing declined the
most since June in the world’s biggest consumer of the fuel.  Futures gained as much as 1.1 percent today. Gasoline
supplies last week fell 676,000 barrels, the  American Petroleum
Institute  said. An Energy Department report today will show they
increased 950,000 barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the benchmark West Texas Intermediate grade, slid 1.5 million
barrels, the API said.  “The API data set quite a bullish platform,” said Serene Lim, an energy and commodity strategist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “It’s going to be a
light day on the data front. We’ll just be watching out for the
Energy Department inventory.”  Crude for June delivery rose as much as $1.09 to $98 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $97.70 at 1:52 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday lost 46 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $96.91, the
lowest since Feb. 22. Prices are up 41 percent the past year.  Brent oil for July settlement climbed 61 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $110.60 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract yesterday declined 85 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $109.99.  Brent Premium  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $12.86 a
barrel to U.S. futures, compared with $13.08 yesterday. The
difference between front-month contracts in  London  and New York
surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the
Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles climbed at Cushing.
The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S. fell to 208.8 million
barrels, according to the API report. The decline in crude
inventories at Cushing was the biggest since the week ended June
25. Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 2.8 million barrels.  Total U.S. crude stockpiles increased 2.67 million barrels
to 369.9 million, the API report showed. The Energy Department
report may show they climbed 1.7 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  The API collects information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey. Oil-supply totals from the API
and the department have moved in the same direction 75 percent
of the time over the past four years.  Libya  Defection  Unrest in the Middle East, coupled with the impact from
 Japan ’s worst nuclear crisis, will have a “significant” effect
on long-term energy prices, Ray Eyles, chief executive officer
of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s commodities business in  Asia , said in
an interview in Singapore.  Libya’s top oil official,  Shokri Ghanem , defected from the
regime of  Muammar Qaddafi , a spokesman for the rebel group at
war with the country’s leader said yesterday.  Brent has climbed 17 percent this year as unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to Libya, Algeria, Bahrain,  Iran , Syria, Oman
and Yemen. Syrian protesters kept up demonstrations following
reports of the discovery of a mass grave containing the bodies
of anti-government activists.  Crude in New York fell yesterday after reports showed U.S.
housing starts dropped and industrial output stalled in April,
stoking speculation fuel demand will falter.  Mississippi  River  Mississippi River water pouring through 15 gates on
 Louisiana ’s Morganza floodway has greatly reduced the risk of
flooding to oil refineries that account for about 14 percent of
U.S. capacity.  The diversion means the Mississippi has crested at about 17
feet in New Orleans, 2.5 feet below the forecast, and is
expected to top out at 45 feet in Baton Rouge, below a record
47.5 that was expected by May 22, according to the U.S. Lower
Mississippi River Forecast Center’s website.  Oil options volatility rose. Implied volatility for at-the-
money options expiring in July, a measure of expected price
swings in futures and a gauge of options prices, was 36.6
percent as of 2 p.m. in New York, up from 35.8 percent
yesterday.  Options on oil for June delivery expired yesterday. The
most-active contract for July was the $70 put, which gives
investors the right to sell crude oil for delivery that month at
$70 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  