-- 
Cukurova Holding Said to Be in Talks With KKR, TPG on Sale of TV Assets

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-05-18T11:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/cukurova-said-to-be-in-talks-with-kkr-tpg-over-tv-asset-sale.html
Cukurova Holding AS, the Turkish
company seeking to retain control of Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS., the country’s biggest mobile-phone operator, may
sell assets to pay about 1.7 billion liras ($1.1 billion) in
back taxes and fines.  Cukurova is in talks with private equity funds KKR & Co. and
TPG Capital on the sale of as much as half of its entertainment
and news television channel Show TV, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Istanbul-based Cukurova would aim to
retain control of the channel’s management after any sale, the
person said, declining to be identified because the talks are
confidential.  Show TV is valued between $800 million and $1.1 billion,
based on a multiple of 12 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the person said. Cukurova has no
comment, an official at the company’s Istanbul headquarters
said. A spokesman for TPG in  London  declined to comment, and an
official from KKR’s New York office also declined to comment.  “An Ebitda multiple of 12 is good for a minority owner,”
said Hasan Sener, an analyst at Oyak Securities in Istanbul.
“Peers in the global market are valued at multiples of eight or
nine.”  Cukurova owner Mehmet Emin Karamehmet on April 21 fought
off an attempt by TeliaSonera AB and  Russia ’s Altimo, co-owners
of Turkcell, to oust that company’s chairman, Colin Williams,
and change the structure of its board. Turkish tax authorities
in the past week ordered the “precautionary seizure” of about
1.7 billion liras of Cukurova’s Turkcell assets against the tax
debt.  Cukurova may also consider selling stakes from digital
broadcaster Digiturk, oil production unit Genel Enerji AS or
maritime assets to finance the tax payment, the person said.
Those sales depend on the company’s ability to reduce the size
of the tax bill through settlement negotiations or by making use
of a government offer to restructure tax debts, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 