-- 
Dell Rises as Corporate Sales Provide Company Edge Over HP

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-05-18T20:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/dell-s-first-quarter-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-corporate-spending.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  rose as much as 6.7 percent
after its profit topped analysts’ estimates, marking the second
straight quarter that the company’s results outshined those of
rival  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Net income surged to $945 million, or 49 cents a share,
from $341 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier, Dell said
yesterday. Excluding certain costs, earnings were 55 cents in
the period, which ended April 29. Analysts estimated 43 cents on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dell’s emphasis on business customers, bolstered by an
expansion into corporate data centers, is helping it withstand a
slump in consumer demand. A slowdown in home-computer sales has
roiled industry leader Hewlett-Packard, which cut its annual
sales forecast earlier yesterday. While Dell also saw its
consumer revenue drop, the company said it was able to squeeze
more profit out of each sale.  “They executed much better than expected despite strong
headwinds,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. in  San Francisco . Dell gets about 20 percent of sales from
consumers, compared with about 30 percent at Hewlett-Packard,
said Wu, who has a neutral rating on Dell shares.  Dell, based in  Round Rock ,  Texas , gained 85 cents, or 5.4
percent, to $16.75 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading. The shares have risen 24 percent this
year.  ‘Role Reversal’  Dell’s gain compares with a 1.1 percent decline for
Hewlett-Packard shares in New York Stock Exchange trading today,
after a 7.3 percent plunge yesterday. HP lopped $1 billion from
its full-year sales forecast, predicting revenue of $129 billion
to $130 billion. Excluding some costs, earnings will be at least
$5 a share,  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard said.
Analysts had estimated sales of $130.3 billion and earnings of
$5.24 on average.  The divergence in performance is a turning point for Dell,
which has lost personal-computer market share to Hewlett-Packard
and suffered a worse stock performance every year from 2005 to
2009.  “Dell a few years ago was a gross underperformer,” Wu
said. “You’re seeing a role reversal here.”  Dell said operating income will increase 12 percent to 18
percent this year. When the company last reported its earnings
in February, it predicted a range of 6 percent to 12 percent.
Dell reiterated its full-year sales growth forecast of 5 percent
to 9 percent, indicating revenue of at least $64.6 billion.  Consumer Slowdown  Dell’s February results also pleased investors, sending the
stock up 12 percent. Shares of Hewlett-Packard, meanwhile,
declined 9.6 following its previous report.  Sales last quarter rose less than 1 percent to $15 billion,
Dell said. Analysts had estimated $15.4 billion on average.
Consumer revenue declined 7.5 percent to $3 billion.  “Revenue’s light in general,” Chief Financial Officer
Brian Gladden said in an interview. “Consumer demand was a bit
weaker than expected. But we’ve dramatically improved the
profitability of the consumer business.”  Dell also is seeking acquisitions in an effort to tap the
market for cloud computing, which delivers software and data
over the Internet. It bought data-storage company Compellent
Technologies for about $800 million in February.  “We’re moving much more into the core of IT and the  data
center , increasingly with our own intellectual property,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Dell  told analysts on a conference
call yesterday.  The company also has benefitted from businesses replacing
older PCs with new ones running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 7
operating system.  The broader PC market declined last quarter. Global
shipments fell 3.2 percent, hurt in part by some consumers
buying tablets instead, research firm IDC reported last month.
In the U.S., shipments dropped 10.7 percent from a year earlier
to 16.1 million.  Dell had 12.8 percent of the global PC market last quarter,
ranking behind Hewlett-Packard and ahead of Acer Inc., according
to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  