-- 
Delphi Automotive Said to Appoint Goldman, JPMorgan to Lead $1 Billion IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/delphi-said-to-hire-goldman-jpmorgan-to-lead-1-billion-initial-offering.html
Delphi Automotive LLP hired  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to lead an initial
public offering that may raise more than $1 billion, a person
with knowledge of the plans said.  Delphi, once the largest U.S. auto-parts maker, also hired
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  as underwriters, said two people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private. The offering is
planned for the third quarter, the people said. The filing may
come next week, one of the people said. The IPO may value the
Delphi at about $10 billion, the other person said.  Delphi, based in Troy, Michigan, exited bankruptcy
restructuring in October 2009 with four classes of shares.
Lenders including private-equity firms Elliott Management Corp.
and Silver Point Capital LP bought most of the original Delphi
and still hold a controlling interest after Delphi bought back
stakes from former parent  General Motors Co. (GM)  and the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. in March.  “Delphi is mostly owned by private equity and they’re not
going to hold it forever,” David Whiston, an equity analyst
with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “They’re going to sell at a reasonable profit and
monetize their investment.”  Spokeswomen for Goldman, JPMorgan, Bank of America and
Barclays declined to comment, and spokesmen for Deutsche Bank
and Citigroup didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Stock Buybacks  Delphi paid $3.8 billion to GM and $594 million to the PBGC
to buy back the stakes and simplify its  capital structure . GM’s
class of shares in Delphi was valued at $2.08 billion as of Dec.
31, according to Delphi’s year-end financial statement on its
website. The Class C membership interest, which was held by the
PBGC, was valued by Delphi at $646 million at that time,
according to the statement.  The maker of fuel-injection systems and other parts said
profit in the three months that ended March 31 jumped 35 percent
to $291 million, from $215 million a year earlier. Revenue
climbed 17 percent to $4 billion. Delphi reported profit of $631
million last year on revenue of $13.8 billion.  Delphi’s Chapter 11 filing in October 2005 was the biggest
U.S. auto-related bankruptcy at that time. Lenders including New
York-based Elliott and Greenwich, Connecticut-based Silver Point
won an auction for Delphi in July 2009 by bidding the value of
debt they were owed by the parts supplier. The loans totaled
$3.3 billion, according to court documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Lee Spears} in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
{Mark Clothier} in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  