-- 
BP, ConocoPhillips Halt Proposed $35 Billion Alaska Gas-Pipeline Project

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-05-17T20:49:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/denali-discontinues-gas-pipeline-project.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and ConocoPhillips dropped
plans for a $35 billion  Alaska  natural-gas pipeline, once
proposed to be the largest private construction project in U.S.
history, because they didn’t get enough customer interest.  The companies will withdraw an application seeking federal
approval to build  a pipeline  to bring gas from Alaska’s North
Slope to U.S. and Canadian markets, according to a statement
today. More than $165 million has been spent on the Denali
project and the decision to end it comes amid changing North
American markets including the rise of unconventional gas
supplies, the companies said.  The project, estimated to cost $35 billion in April 2010,
would’ve stretched 1,750 miles (2,800 kilometers) from  Prudhoe
Bay  to  Alberta  and been in service in 2020. Halting Denali
leaves one  competing pipeline proposal , backed by  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to bring 4.5 billion cubic feet of
gas a day from Alaska’s North Slope.  “We cannot spend the billions of dollars necessary to
advance the project unless we have binding agreements with
shippers,” Bud Fackrell, Denali’s president, said in the
statement. “Although we have been in discussions with potential
shippers for nearly a year and a half, we have been unable to
secure financial commitments necessary to advance the project.”  Exxon and TransCanada said in January 2010 that their
pipeline would cost $32 billion to $41 billion. TransCanada,
based in Calgary, won state government support for its pipeline
in 2008 and Irving, Texas-based Exxon later agreed to help
finance and build the pipeline in exchange for a minority stake.  ‘Significant Interest’  The companies plan to file an application seeking
permission from the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to
build the pipeline in October 2012, said Tony Palmer, vice
president for Alaska business at TransCanada.  “We have had significant interest from customers, but you
never know how many customers you’ll get until the end of the
day,” Palmer said.  New techniques to get gas from shale-rock formations in the
lower-48 states have boosted U.S. reserves and caused the price
of the fuel to fall from a high of $15.378 per million British
thermal units in 2005 to $4.182 on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange today.  The economics make the Alaska pipeline a difficult project,
said Mark Gilman, an analyst at the Benchmark Co. in New York.  Not ‘Financially Feasible’  “A pipeline to move North Slope gas to the lower-48 states
-- I don’t care who the sponsor is, given the new realities of
the natural-gas market -- is not likely to be financially
feasible anytime in the foreseeable future,” said Gilman, who
doesn’t rate TransCanada, has “sell” ratings on  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
and Exxon and a “buy” rating on BP’s American depositary
receipts. Gilman doesn’t own any of the companies’ shares.  Larry Persily, the U.S. government’s  federal coordinator
for Alaska gas transportation projects , said in a statement that
he hopes BP and ConocoPhillips can someday work with Exxon and
TransCanada on a pipeline project.  “There could be a place in the market for North Slope gas
in the 2020s and beyond, and the gas line is too important to
Alaska’s economy not to keep trying,” Persily said.  The two pipeline projects are not the only ways to sell
North Slope gas, said  Steve Rinehart , a spokesman for BP Alaska.
Other options include liquefying the gas for transport to other
markets by tanker, he said.  “There’s a lot of gas and the market is evolving and we’re
going to keep a very close eye on that,” Rinehart said in a
telephone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  