-- 
Derwent Raises 175 Million Pounds in Convertible Bond Sale

-- B y   T o m   B i l l   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-05-17T15:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/derwent-london-aims-to-raise-175-million-pounds-in-bond-sale-1-.html
Derwent London Plc (DLN)  raised 175 million
pounds ($285 million) in the first convertible bond sale by a
U.K. real estate investment trust.  The five-year bonds, which will pay a coupon of 2.75
percent, can be handed over for stock when the shares rise 30
percent to 22.22 pounds, adjusted for a planned dividend,
London-based Derwent said in a statement today. The developer of
mid-priced office buildings in central London said the proceeds
will help pay for projects and acquisitions.  “We are seeing increased opportunities to add to our
portfolio and, underpinned by the capital raising we have
announced today, will continue to pursue these,” Chief
Executive Officer  John Burns  said in an earlier statement.  Derwent sold 208 million pounds of real estate in 2009 and
Burns used the proceeds and bank loans to pay for development
projects and make acquisitions, including two buildings for 76
million pounds in March. The company today announced in a
separate statement the sale of five properties in Covent Garden
to Capital & Counties Plc for 68 million pounds.  Derwent has an option to increase the bond sale announced
today to as much as 200 million pounds.  Derwent “has a fantastic development pipeline and sees
more acquisition opportunities, so the capital raising makes
sense,” said Osmaan Malik, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
with an “overweight” rating on the stock. Malik said this was
the first convertible bond sale by a U.K. REIT.  JPMorgan Cazenove and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
managed the transaction, helped by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Bill in London at 
 tbill2@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 