-- 
Deutsche Bank Counts on Ackermann Testimony in Kirch Lawsuit

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-05-17T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/deutsche-bank-counts-on-ackermann-testimony-in-kirch-lawsuit.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  is scheduled to testify tomorrow to
rebut judges’ preliminary view that the lender may have tried to
pressure  Leo Kirch  to hire it to restructure his media group.  Ackermann, Chairman  Clemens Boersig  and other executives
will testify in Kirch’s 2 billion-euro ($2.8 billion) suit at a
Munich appeals court. Deutsche Bank asked to call the men to
rebut Kirch’s claim the bank intentionally tried to hurt Kirch’s
company. The judges called Kirch’s version of events “not
unlikely” in a preliminary opinion obtained by Bloomberg News.  The case is part of a dispute over a 2002 Bloomberg
television interview by  Rolf Breuer , the Frankfurt-based bank’s
CEO at the time. In the interview, Breuer said “everything that
you can read and hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t
prepared to provide further” loans or equity to Kirch. Four
months later, Kirch Holding GmbH filed the country’s biggest
bankruptcy since World War II.  “The possible damage the interview caused could be that a
free restructuring wasn’t possible anymore” had Kirch declined
to hire the bank, the court said in the March 24 opinion. The
bank’s “liability can be earnestly considered,” the court
said.  The bank and Breuer deny wrongdoing. Deutsche Bank
spokesman Christian Streckert said the lender won’t comment on
the court documents. Kirch is happy that the court is
scrutinizing what actually happened, according to a spokesman
who declined to be identified.  ‘Protective Shield’  In the March 24 opinion, the judges said “it doesn’t seem
unlikely” that Breuer “with his interview wanted to stress
Kirch’s lacking creditworthiness in order to exert pressure on
Kirch to move under the protective shield” of Deutsche Bank
under terms determined by the lender.  The judges wanted to “send a message,” said  Mario Wegner ,
a litigation partner at law firm  Wegner Ulrich Mueller-Helle  in
Berlin.  “Ouch -- that’s pretty tough language,” said Wegner.
“While all of this is preliminary, Deutsche Bank’s situation in
that court isn’t exactly comfortable.”  German courts issue “indicative rulings” to summarize how
the judges see a case at a certain stage, said Wegner, who isn’t
involved in the litigation. The March 24 opinion was preliminary
and could change after the presentation of all the evidence.  Sometimes judges use strong language in preliminary rulings
to pressure the parties to settle, he said. Deutsche Bank
rejected a 775 million-euro settlement proposed by the judges as
part of the March 24 opinion.  ‘Crucial’ Events  The court cited a sequence of “crucial” events in early
2002. A Jan. 27, 2002, meeting with  Gerhard Schroeder ,  Germany ’s
chancellor at the time, who discussed Kirch’s fate and was
attended by Breuer. That was followed by a Deutsche Bank
management board meeting on Jan. 29, 2002, where Kirch’s 40
percent stake in  Axel Springer AG (SPR) , held by the lender as
collateral, was an issue. The Breuer interview was broadcast
Feb. 4, 2002.  At a Feb. 9, 2002, one-on-one meeting, Breuer told Kirch
that Deutsche Bank could act as a “protective shield,” which
Kirch rejected, the court said. Five days later the lender
scheduled a meeting with the media group’s banks “even though”
Deutsche Bank wasn’t one of Kirch’s so-called pool banks, the
court said.  Approach Questions  Ackermann and Boersig will testify about the Jan. 29, 2002,
management board meeting. The court summoned the men at Deutsche
Bank’s request to back its claim that the executives didn’t
decide to actively approach Kirch. Breuer had also told the
judges at a February hearing that Deutsche Bank wanted to accept
a mandate by Kirch “if we would have been approached.”  In an April 9 ruling, where the court set the schedule for
hearing evidence, it said that statement isn’t in line with the
minutes of the board meeting. It asked Deutsche Bank to clarify
that “possible” contradiction. It also gave the bank a list of
facts to clarify.  Management-board member Hermann-Josef Lamberti is also
scheduled to testify tomorrow. Juergen Fitschen, another board
member, will be heard at a later date. The judges scheduled
another three hearings to questions witnesses.  The court rejected a contractual claim at a March 25
hearing after testimony from Kirch and former Deutsche Bank co-
head of investment banking Michael Cohrs. The judges are now
reviewing the claim that the bank intentionally tried to hurt
Kirch’s media group.  The case is: OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  