-- 
Dimon’s Annual Meeting Brings Apology

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-05-17T18:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/dimon-s-annual-jpmorgan-meeting-brings-apologies-protesters-on-mortgages.html
Jamie Dimon ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said he was sorry for
foreclosure mistakes as hundreds of protesters at the annual
meeting demanded he do more to help homeowners and small
businesses recover from the financial crisis.  For any errors that were made, “we deeply apologize,”
Dimon, 55, said today at the  shareholders’ meeting  in a 2-
million-square-foot office building in Columbus,  Ohio . “We are
doing everything we can to keep people in their homes that
should stay in their homes.” Dimon said he especially regretted
the bank’s mistakes in foreclosing on active-duty military
personnel and for fumbling paperwork on other home seizures.  JPMorgan and other large U.S. banks are feeling the
backlash from the housing bust, with mortgage losses and related
litigation suppressing earnings and regulators investigating
industry practices. The U.S.  Justice Department  is suing
Deutsche Bank AG for more than $1 billion, and has said it may
go after other lenders for filing false claims for federal
 mortgage insurance  on faulty loans.  JPMorgan’s record $5.56 billion in profit during the first
quarter was tempered by “extraordinarily high losses we still
are bearing on mortgage-related issues,” Dimon said last month.
JPMorgan’s $17.4 billion in net income last year made it the
most profitable bank in the U.S.  “Everyone is hurting, it seems like, except for  Wall
Street  and its executives,” said Jordan Estevao, who helped
lead demonstrations outside the meeting for National People’s
Action, a non-profit consumer advocacy group.  One Arrest  Protest organizers said about 850 attended, while the bank
put the figure at 350. Attendees were screened at four security
check points to get into the meeting.  Robin Acree, a 50-year-old community activist from  Mexico ,
 Missouri , said police sprayed her with mace while she was
protesting outside the facility.  “So many of our folks are getting screwed by these big
banks,” Acree said. “A lot of people are angry. I’m angry. We
see economic stress on our families, no jobs and foreclosures.”  Protesters shouted “No more diamonds for Dimon” and other
slogans, and one was arrested, according to the advocacy group.  “They’re not doing their part to aid a recovery,” Estevao
said in an interview yesterday. “Instead they are lining their
pockets. They’re making massive profits, still giving themselves
massive bonuses and doing too little to help spur recovery for
the rest of America.”  Bank of America  Fourteen of the largest mortgage servicers, including
JPMorgan and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank by
assets, signed an agreement in April with the  Federal Reserve ,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency to refund costs to homeowners for foreclosures that
were mishandled and to overhaul procedures for seizing homes.  JPMorgan took a $1.1 billion charge in the first quarter
and may add as many as 3,000 employees to comply with the
consent decree. The Department of Housing and Urban Development,
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  and state attorneys general also
are investigating the industry’s foreclosure practices.  General Counsel  Stephen Cutler  said at the meeting that the
bank’s litigation costs were higher than expected in “every
area.” He said expenses for outside legal advice last year were
more than $700 million.  JPMorgan agreed in April to pay $56 million to settle
claims that it overcharged military personnel on their
mortgages. Dimon has previously apologized, saying the bank
erred in handling certain mortgages covered by the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.  Military Foreclosures  Cutler said the bank mistakenly foreclosed on 27 active-
duty military personnel who were protected by the law. JPMorgan
is “making amends on every single one of those” by either
paying off their mortgages or giving them their houses back for
free, he said.  Dimon said the military foreclosures were the worst mistake
the bank has ever made.  “We deeply apologize to the military, the veterans, anyone
who’s ever served this country and we’re trying to go way
beyond,” he said. “We’re sorry,” he added, drawing a round of
applause.  A shareholder proposal requiring the bank to adopt and
disclose uniform foreclosure policies failed with 6.4 percent of
the vote. None of the other investor proposals were approved
either, with one to allow shareholder action by written consent
winning the most support with 48.99 percent of the vote.  Investors also re-elected JPMorgan’s board of directors and
reappointed PricewaterhouseCoopers as its auditor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Columbus at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 