-- 
Do-Nothing Congress After Record Lawmaking Session Shows Budget Paralysis

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/do-nothing-congress-after-record-lawmaking-session-shows-budget-paralysis.html
Following a Congress that passed laws
affecting more Americans than any since the “Great Society”
legislation of the 1960s, U.S. lawmakers by comparison this year
are taking a breather.  Since the newly seated, divided 112th Congress began in
January, 13 measures have been signed into law by President
 Barack Obama . Four of those cut spending and keep the government
funded through this fiscal year. A couple of bills named federal
courthouses, and the remainder were mostly temporary extensions
of existing programs.  “Perhaps after gorging itself in the 111th Congress, the
112th is a time for fasting,” said  Ross Baker , a political
scientist at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick , New Jersey.  The reasons include fundamental policy differences between
a Republican-run House and a Democratic-controlled Senate in
Washington. Within weeks of convening, the House passed a repeal
of the health-care overhaul that is Obama’s major domestic
achievement. The repeal was defeated in the Senate. In April, a
House-passed bill to stop federal funding for Planned Parenthood
similarly lost in the Senate.  There is also a group of freshman  House Republicans  elected
on promises to limit the scope and reach of the federal
government. The House has passed 41 bills this year and about 80
resolutions, according to the Library of Congress.  Spending Cut  The most significant legislation enacted this year cut
federal spending by $38.5 billion to avert a government shutdown
in a last-minute budget deal among House Speaker John Boehner,
an Ohio Republican, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, and Obama.  Lawmakers are now consumed with reaching bipartisan accord
on cutting long-term deficits as part of a plan to raise the
U.S. debt limit. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of
 Kentucky  said his party wants “significant” cuts in spending
and no tax increases as a condition for lifting the limit.  The government reached the $14.3 trillion debt limit
yesterday and will run out of options for avoiding default by
early August, according to projections by Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner .  That battle is crowding out progress on other issues, said
James Thurber, director of the Center for Congressional and
Presidential Studies at American University in  Washington , D.C.  ‘Very Slow’  “It’s going to be hard to get that done, and it’s hard to
get them to focus on something outside of that,” said Thurber.
“The politics of cutting the budget is really tough and it’s
very slow.”  By comparison, the last time the U.S. had divided
government in 2007 and 2008, when Democrats controlled both
houses of Congress and Republican  George W. Bush  was president,
there were  460 bills signed into  law over the two-year period,
according to the Senate website.  The last time House and Senate control was split between
the two parties for an entire year was under Republican
President  Ronald Reagan  in the 99th Congress in 1985 and 1986,
when Democrats controlled the House and Republicans had the
Senate. In the first 12 months of that Congress,  240 bills  were
signed into law, and another 424 were enacted the next year.  Among that Congress’s accomplishments was passage of the
1985 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act that set annual targets for
reduced deficits over five years and required automatic spending
cuts if the goals weren’t met.  Health Care Overhaul  In the most recent Congress, when Democrats controlled both
Houses, lawmakers worked with Obama to revamp the nation’s
health-care system, spend more than $1.67 trillion to revive an
economy on verge of a depression and end an almost two-decade
ban against openly gay men and women serving in the military.  Over the  two-year session , more than 380 bills were signed
into law.  “With the caveat that we’re not very far into the 112th,
Congress doesn’t have much to show for itself, beyond the
delayed enactment of government spending bills,” said  Sarah Binder , a senior fellow at The  Brookings Institution  in
Washington whose research focuses on Congress.  “Ideological disagreements between the parties and purely
partisan incentives seem to be putting compromise out of
reach,” Binder said.  Corporate Tax Overhaul  Asked about potential agreement in Congress on legislation
outside the debt limit, Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York
Democrat, said there could be compromises on energy legislation,
trade and a corporate tax overhaul “where you lower the rate
and cut the loopholes.”  Whether this Congress is shaping up as a do-nothing group
is a matter of perspective, said  Julian Zelizer , professor of
history and public affairs at  Princeton University  in  New
Jersey .  “If you don’t think that focusing on debt and  deficit
reduction  in the middle of a recession is a good thing, it would
be hard to conclude that this has been a successful Congress,”
he said.  On the other hand, “if you believe these are the top
issues of the day, even with limited legislation you could
conclude that Congress has shifted the terms of debate and
pushed Obama to focus on a very different agenda than where he
started,” Zelizer said.  Senate Republican leader McConnell sounded a note of
optimism about what can be accomplished in a divided government.
He cited legislation to strengthen Social Security under Reagan
and to overhaul the welfare system under Democratic President
 Bill Clinton , when each presided over a divided government.  “Look, divided government, when neither party controls the
entire government, is the best time, the best time, and some
would argue the only time when you can do really big stuff,”
McConnell said at a May 12 news conference after Obama met with
Republican senators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  