-- 
Drug-Resistant Germs Lure Biotechs to Lead Antibiotics Effort

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-17T20:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/drug-resistant-germs-lure-biotechs-to-lead-antibiotics-effort.html
Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) ’s
Dificid is on track to lead as many as five new antibiotics onto
the market over the next three years as a surge in drug-
resistant germs stokes the need for new medicines.  The biotechnology industry is starting to fill a critical
public-health niche being mostly shunned by larger drugmakers.
Since 2006, only  three of 111 drugs  cleared in the U.S. were
antibiotics. Optimer, a  San Diego  company with no marketed
products, may win U.S. approval by May 30 to sell Dificid, a
drug that fights stomach infections, the company has said.  “Pharma abandoned the antibiotic space because they didn’t
think there was enough of a revenue opportunity,” said Alan Carr, a New York-based analyst with Needham & Co. “A smaller,
more manageable product with revenue under $1 billion is fine
for a biotech company.”  Dificid may generate $500 million a year in sales, Carr
said in a telephone interview. Other companies in final testing
of drugs that may gain U.S. marketing approval by 2014 are:
 Trius Therapeutics Inc. (TSRX) , based in San Diego; The Medicines Co.,
of Parsippany,  New Jersey ; Boston-based Paratek Pharmaceuticals
Inc.;  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) , of Lexington,  Massachusetts ;
and closely held Durata Therapeutics of Morristown, New Jersey.  The first antibiotic-resistant germs appeared in the 1940s.
Since then, at least  13 strains of bacteria  impervious to some
antibiotics have emerged, with one called MRSA the most common,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, in Atlanta.  100,000 Killed Yearly  Germs resistant to one or more drugs kill 100,000 U.S.
hospital patients a year and cost the health-care system more
than $34 billion, according to the  Infectious Disease Society of
America , based in Arlington, Virginia.  “We desperately need drugs that can treat bugs that are
resistant to everything, or almost everything, available,” said
 Brad Spellberg , an associate professor at the David Geffen
School of Medicine at the University of  California ,  Los Angeles ,
in a telephone interview.  Antibiotics have changed the world since 1928, when
 researchers learned  by accident that penicillium mold had an
antibacterial effect. By the 1940s, penicillin was treating
soldiers wounded in World War II and saving the lives of people
with pneumonia, syphilis and diphtheria. Bacterial meningitis no
longer killed 90 percent of infected children.  From 1942 to the mid-1970s, drugmakers rolled out 10 new
types of antibiotics, each with unique targets and modes of
action, a  report  by the Federation of American Scientists found.  Two Drugmakers  Since then, most new antibiotics have been modifications of
old ones and, today, only two of the top six drugmakers by
market value are developing antibiotics, spokesmen said.  That’s because the drugs are used for only weeks at a time,
compared with years for medicines that treat chronic diseases.
U.S. sales of the top five antibiotics were a combined $6
billion in 2010, according to IMS Health Inc., a Norwalk,
Connecticut-based research company.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s cholesterol
pill Lipitor, designed to cut the chances of a heart attack,
generated $5.3 billion in U.S. sales on its own.  Additionally, doctors are advised to limit antibiotic
treatment because of concerns that overuse can spur resistance,
actions that have an unintended effect on sales, said Hank McKinnell, who retired as chief executive officer at  New York- 
based Pfizer in 2006, and now serves on Optimer’s board.  “It takes the incentives away to do the research and get
them approved to then not have them used,” McKinnell said in a
telephone interview.  Open Field  This lack of interest has left the field open for biotech
companies, such as Optimer.  The company’s Dificid, backed unanimously by an FDA
advisory panel April 5, would be the first drug in 25 years
approved to treat  Clostridium difficile , a bacterium linked to
intestinal infections often caught in hospitals.  In trials, Dificid was as effective as existing medications
at controlling infections, giving doctors a new option when
resistance strikes. It was better at preventing recurrences.  Other biotechnology companies conducting late-stage testing
on new antibiotics are likely to submit applications for
approval about 2013, said Juan Sanchez, an analyst with
Ladenburg Thalmann & Co. in  New York .  Trius is  studying  its antibiotic torezolid to treat skin
infections, said Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Stein. It will
compete with Pfizer’s Zyvox, an 11-year-old drug with $1.2
billion in 2010 sales, and may generate $600 million a year by
2020, said Sanchez, who sees approval in 2014.  More Potent  In early trials, torezolid was shown to be more potent and
faster-acting than Zyvox, Stein said. While both are so-called
 oxazolidinones , the Trius drug has a different chemical
structure that leaves it unaffected by a mutation that can
enable bacteria to resist Zyvox, Sanchez said.  Optimer gained 22 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $13.65 at 4
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Cubist gained 22
cents, less than 1 percent, to $34.39. Trius dropped 33 cents,
or 4 percent, to $7.95.  A visit to the skin infections clinic at  San Francisco
General Hospital  shows the need for new drugs.  On a recent morning,  David Young , the clinic’s director,
was involved in a case in which the patient had a red, swollen
abscess on his cheek. The patient, whom Young couldn’t identify
because of federal privacy laws, previously had infections on
his chest, neck and face, Young said.  While the man’s infections respond to the clindamycin, an
oral generic antibiotic, “the bacteria will grow back” after
each treatment, Young said. It becomes infected with any break
in the skin, from a spider bite to a shaving nick, he said.  “It is akin to pulling all the weeds out of a field,” he
said. “When you stop weeding, the weeds will always return.”  20% Won’t Heal  Today, about 20 percent of patients won’t heal with
clindamycin or Bactrim, another antibiotic, Young said. For
them, the hospital faces a choice: a 10-day course of Pfizer’s
Zyvox at a cost of about $1,000, or use of an intravenous drug,
vancomycin, which requires a hospital stay.  Cubist expects to start final trials by year’s end for CXA-
201, which targets pneumonia, abdominal and urinary tract
infections caused by gram-negative bacteria, said Steve Gilman,
executive vice president for research and development.  Durata Therapeutics, a two-year-old closely held company,
is testing dalbavancin, one of two so-called lipoglycopeptides
in late-stage trials. The drugs are modified versions of an
older class of antibiotic that breaks down the cell walls and
membranes of bacteria.  Durata hopes to gain approval to market the drug in early
2014, CEO Paul Edick said in an e-mail.  Medicines Co. (MDCO)  Treatment  The other similar treatment is oritavancin from Medicines
Co., which plans to complete its trials in 2012 and file for
approval in 2013, said  Michael Mitchell , a company spokesman, in
a telephone interview. Analysts expect it to have sales of as
much as $300 million for skin infections, Mitchell said.  Paratek Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s omadacycline, licensed to
 Basel , Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN) , is in late-stage trials
for skin infections. The drug is an injectable derivative of
tetracycline to be followed by pill forms. Further studies are
planned in community-acquired pneumonia and drug-resistant forms
of staph and strep bacteria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 