-- 
Dry Weather Could Hurt Yields in 20% of U.K. Sugar Beet Crop

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-17T10:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/dry-weather-could-hurt-yields-in-20-of-u-k-sugar-beet-crop.html
About 15 to 20 percent of the U.K.’s
 sugar beet  crop could suffer if it doesn’t rain in the next two
to three weeks, according to John Hoyles, a member of the sugar
board at the National Farmers Union.  The U.K. had about 61 percent of the normal amount of rain
in the last three months, the Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs said. Last month was the hottest April in at
least 352 years as measured by the Central England Temperature
series, according to the  Met Office . Soil-moisture deficits were
the highest for England and  Wales  in at least 50 years, the
Centre for Ecology and Hydrology said on May 12.  “The main problem of the crop at the moment is just lack
of moisture,” Hoyles said by phone. Yields could suffer if it
doesn’t rain now, he said, adding that the 15 to 20 percent of
the crop planted in lighter, sandier soil is more likely to be
affected by the dry weather.  Sugar beet planting in the U.K. was ahead of schedule by at
least a week, according to Hoyles. “The majority of the sugar
beet looks extraordinarily well, but it’s very thirsty now,” he
said, adding that 30-40 millimeters (1.2-1.6 inches) of rainfall
were needed.  Yields could still be “very good” if rain falls over the
producing regions, he said, adding it’s too early to give crop
projections. “We are still in the position that if we got a
nice and steady rain now, we could have very good yields this
year,” he said.  The sugar beet crop in  France , the world’s largest grower
of the root, has escaped drought damage so far, Alain Jeanroy,
director general of the French sugar-beet growers’ federation,
said on May 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 