-- 
Dubai Shares Advance Most in a Week After Dubai Bank Rescue; Emaar Climbs

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-17T13:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/dubai-shares-advance-most-in-a-week-after-dubai-bank-rescue-emaar-climbs.html
Dubai shares rose the most in a week
after the emirate’s government rescued Dubai Bank PJSC, a lender
part-owned by  Emaar Properties PJSC. (EMAAR)   Emaar, which held a 30 percent stake in the Islamic bank,
rallied 1.9 percent.  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC, the only Gulf
Arab stock market to sell shares to the public, gained the most
in a week. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 1 percent, the most
since May 10, to 1,578.08 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai.  Dubai’s government will inject capital “to ensure that
Dubai Bank’s business continues uninterrupted,” its media
office said yesterday. Dubai Holding LLC, a company owned by the
emirate’s ruler, held a 70 percent stake in Dubai Bank. The
takeover, aimed at protecting depositors’ interests, will
“effectively dilute the complete” stake of Dubai Holding and
Emaar, the statement said.  Investors may “like the show of commitment by the Dubai
government of rescuing struggling entities,” said Ibrahim Masood, who helps manage about $400 million at Mashreqbank PSC.
Emaar’s “investment was more of a hanging sword due to the
health of the bank and lack of strategic connection with Emaar’s
core business, so shareholders should welcome this clarity.”  Emaar, the company with the heaviest weighting in Dubai’s
benchmark index, gained the most since May 10 to 3.16 dirhams.
Dubai Financial jumped 3.3 percent, also the most since May 10,
to 1.26 dirhams.  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased 0.3
percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and  Kuwait ’s measure rose
0.4 percent while Oman’s gauge slipped 0.2 percent. Qatar’s QE
Index dropped 0.6 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  