-- 
Lehman to Pay ‘Saphir’ Derivatives Investors in Australia A$98.5 Million

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T01:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/lehman-to-pay-saphir-derivatives-investors-in-australia-104-million.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  will
pay investors A$98.5 million ($104 million) to settle a
derivatives dispute that divided courts in the U.S. and the
U.K., according to an Australian trustee who sued on behalf of
investors.  Lehman agreed to pay holders of credit-linked notes issued
by  Mahogany Capital Ltd.  as much as 85 cents on each dollar
invested in Series I notes that were backed by an  Australia  and
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. bond and as much as 69 cents on
the dollar for a Series II note backed by a Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc bond, said Chris Green, group executive at
Perpetual Corporate Trust in Sydney.  “Those were the assets we were fighting over,” Green said
today in a phone interview, referring to the bonds backing the
notes. “The question was who got first dibs.”  Lehman had argued it was entitled to the assets, while
Perpetual maintained the money should be returned to investors.
Courts in the U.K. ruled against Lehman, which is seeking money
to pay creditors, while a U.S. bankruptcy judge last year ruled
in Lehman’s favor. Allowing an appeal, a U.S. district judge
said Lehman had used the lower-court decision as “leverage” in
talks with other parties over billions of dollars of similar
transactions.  Divided Rulings  The divided court rulings mean there is still no consensus
on who has priority in derivative transactions in which a
counterparty defaults, Green said. Billions of dollars with
multiple counterparties remain in dispute in the Lehman
bankruptcy, he said.  About 1,000 retail investors including Australian charities
and local councils will be getting checks within the next month,
Green said. Details of the settlement were reported earlier by
 The Australian  newspaper.  A Lehman entity known as Saphir Finance Plc sold
A$121 million in the two series of Mahogany notes to Australian
investors. Money raised from the Mahogany sale was used to buy
further Saphir notes, according to Perpetual.  Ralph Miller, a lawyer for Lehman, declined to comment.
 Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, also declined to
comment.  The main bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  