-- 
Elong Surges on Tencent, Expedia Stakes

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-17T20:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/elong-surges-on-tencent-expedia-stakes.html
Elong Inc. (LONG) ,  China ’s second-biggest
online travel company, surged to a record after the nation’s
largest Internet company bought a stake and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) 
increased its holdings.  Elong’s American depositary receipts jumped 57 percent to
$26.58 at 4 p.m. in New York. The ADRs earlier rose as much as
75 percent to $29.60.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , which says it has more than 674
million users of its instant-messaging software, bought a 16
percent stake in Elong for $84.4 million to become its second-
biggest shareholder behind Expedia, the companies said in a
joint statement yesterday.  “The partnership is beneficial to both companies,
especially Elong, which is focused on hotel growth,” said Fawne Jiang, an equity analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in  New
York . “Tencent’s users will definitely drive up the traffic
volume for Elong. Its solid hotel growth in the past five
quarters has already outperformed its main competitor.”  Expedia, the biggest online travel agency by revenue in the
U.S., increased its stake because “it remains positive in China
and wants to stay in control of the company as a new big
shareholder joins,” Jiang said. Expedia paid $41.2 million to
add about an 8 percent stake to its holdings, bringing the total
to 56 percent, according to the joint statement.  Elong’s “significant” price increase “speaks to the
perceived potential associated with the news that came out
today,” said  Scott Kessler , head of technology equity research
at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York. “U.S. companies are still
committed to investing in Chinese Internet companies, and there
still is great potential there.”  First-Quarter Earnings  Elong’s first-quarter net income rose 30 percent from a
year earlier to 7.7 million yuan ($1.2 million), it said
yesterday in a separate statement. The company forecast 15
percent to 25 percent growth in its net revenue for the three
months ended in June, to as much as 149 million yuan.  The estimate is “reasonable” given its “strong” growth
in April, said Jiang, who maintained a “buy” rating and raised
the 12-month price target to $20 from $17. The target doesn’t
factor in the potential earnings growth from the Tencent
partnership, she said.  Elong allows users to book rooms at 19,200 hotels in 700
cities in China and offers airline ticket services, according to
its statement yesterday.  Tencent, based in Shenzhen, China, fell 2.7 percent to
HK$213.20 in Hong Kong trading. Expedia rose 2.4 percent to
$25.56 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The ADRs of  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s biggest
online travel agency and Elong’s rival, dropped 4.7 percent, the
most in three months, to $44.18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  