-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall to 2-Month Low on Greek, Rate Concerns

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-17T22:16:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/emerging-market-stocks-fall-to-march-low-on-economic-concerns-inflation.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, driving
the benchmark index to the lowest level in almost two months, as
 Greece  sought more bailout funds and investors speculated rising
 interest rates  may sap economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.3 percent to
1,133.39 as of 4:31 p.m. in  New York , the lowest close since
March 23. The gauge has dropped for five straight days, its
longest losing streak since Feb. 10.  India ’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index retreated 1.1 percent as the country’s
biggest bank reported lower-than-forecast profit amid rising
borrowing costs. Both  Russia ’s Micex Index and  Mexico ’s IPC
index fell 0.9 percent.  Europe  would consider “re-profiling” Greek bond
maturities as part of a package that includes stepped-up sales
of state assets and deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters late yesterday after
chairing a meeting of euro-area finance chiefs in Brussels.
Introducing that prospect marks a break in Europe’s crisis-
fighting strategy, with governments potentially shifting some
costs to bondholders.  “Markets will remain preoccupied by sovereign-debt issues
of the Euro zone periphery,”  Bartosz Pawlowski , BNP Paribas
SA’s London-based head of foreign-exchange and fixed-income
strategy for Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa,
wrote in a note along with colleagues.  There were also concerns about talks among U.S. lawmakers
to boost the country’s debt ceiling and over the global economy
in general, creating the “possibility of another leg down by
the end of the week,” they wrote.  State Bank of India (SBIN)   State Bank of India tumbled 7.7 percent after India’s
biggest lender said fourth-quarter profit plunged 99 percent due
to higher provisions for bad loans. Lending this year is likely
to be curtailed after the central bank increased interest rates
to curb inflation and capital ratios shrank during the quarter.  Vietnam ’s benchmark index slid 1.5 percent. The State Bank
of Vietnam raised the repurchase rate to 15 percent from 14
percent, effective today. The increase was the second this
month.  OAO Rosneft fell 0.9 percent. BP Plc’s proposed $7.8
billion share swap and Arctic exploration accord with Rosneft
collapsed after BP wasn’t able to persuade the Russian
billionaires in its existing joint venture to back the deal.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index reversed earlier losses to gain 1.3
percent as oil companies rallied. Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, gained 1.9 percent, the
biggest in almost a month, after Chief Financial Officer Almir
Barbassa said the company is considering a cut in capital
expenditure budget as it revises a $224 billion business
investment plan.  OGX Soars  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , surged 7.8
percent as the company said two onshore natural-gas fields can
be developed commercially.  Companies set to be removed from MSCI Inc.’s global
standard indexes retreated.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB, Mexico’s biggest home builder,
fell 7.4 percent to a two-year low as MSCI Inc. said the company
will be removed from its benchmark index for the country on June
1 and put on the MSCI Mexico Small Cap Index. Taiwan’s  Mitac
International Corp. (2315)  declined 4 percent, and  PixArt Imaging Inc. (3227) 
dropped 5.7 percent.  OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s dominant long-distance carrier,
slumped 7.1 percent after the stock wasn’t included in MSCI
Inc.’s Russia Index yesterday.  Turkish Stocks  International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT) , the
Philippines’ biggest port operator, surged 13 percent after MSCI
said the stock will be added to the MSCI Philippines Index. The
changes will take place as of the close of May 31.  Turkish stocks have fallen for eight out of the last 10
days. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it was “cautious” on
Turkish equities in the near term.  The country’s current-
account deficit means Turkey’s central bank needs to tighten
policy, Goldman said in an e-mailed report.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was little changed at 304 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  