-- 
Emerging Markets Might Name Strauss-Kahn Heir: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T18:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/emerging-markets-might-name-strauss-kahn-heir-simon-johnson.html
Even before the shocking events of the
past few days, the international policy community had been
contemplating a successor to  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  at the
International Monetary Fund.  Strauss-Kahn, the IMF managing director, was expected to
begin campaigning soon for the presidency of France. Now,
whatever happens in the New York legal system as he defends
himself against attempted rape allegations, it seems likely that
the  IMF  will be searching for a new head sooner rather than
later.  The idea that the job has become an attractive sinecure
with nice fringe benefits should have been laid to rest by
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s preemptive strike earlier this
week, when she said there are currently “good reasons” for the
European Union to have a candidate. That produced similar
expressions from other leading European politicians, although
not all of them are willing to say that Strauss-Kahn is
finished. Yesterday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry pronounced
that the selection process must emphasize “fairness,
transparency and merit.” Translation: China is pushing back
against the idea that Europe necessarily gets to name Strauss-
Kahn’s heir.  The managing director has a great deal of discretion over
the policies and resources of the fund. The managing director
needs to bring along the 187 member countries, particularly
those with the most votes. Voting is based on a formula that
broadly reflects economic size and is weighted heavily toward
Western Europe for historical reasons.  Judicious Thumb  A judicious thumb can be placed on the decision-making
scales -- tilting the balance, for example, in favor of more
generous bailouts or toward less onerous lending conditions, as
has been the case for euro-zone countries. (Full disclosure: I
was the IMF chief economist from March 2007 through August 2008,
before it began lending to Western Europe.)  Through more than six decades of informal agreement, a West
European has always headed the fund while the president of the
World Bank has always been an American. West Europeans want to
keep it that way. That makes it easier for them to name the
terms of loans to bail out Greece, Ireland, Portugal and anyone
else who may be in trouble.  It also makes it possible for the Europeans to protect
their banks from potential losses. If they can overcome the
political inclination to rotate the job across countries, the
Europeans’ most likely candidate will be  Christine Lagarde ,
France’s Minister of Finance. The name of  Axel Weber , former
head of the Bundesbank, was also circulating yesterday.  Other Ideas  The world’s big emerging markets have other ideas. They
have waited a long time for an opportunity to compete for the
IMF job. Events since the financial crisis of fall 2008, and
Strauss-Kahn’s legal problems, now conspire to throw the
succession process wide open.  The communique from the April 2009 London summit of the
Group of 20 nations was interpreted as signaling that Europe
should give up its guaranteed hold on the IMF’s top position.
But even as the U.S. and the rest of the world turned the
economic corner, Europe slid deeper into crisis -- with first
Greece, then Ireland, then Portugal, and now Greece again in
need of bailouts.  Led by Strauss-Kahn and armed with additional resources
approved at the G20 London summit, the IMF helped make possible
a sequence of bailouts for euro-zone countries. The fund handled
this well -- prodding the Europeans to take action despite the
tendency to procrastinate in Berlin, Paris and Brussels.  No Way  But, emerging markets grumble, the standards here are
double: there is no way that one of them would have gotten such
generous terms from the fund. And there is increasing skepticism
over whether the new “softly, softly” approach of the fund will
produce results. All eyes are currently on Greece in this
regard.  There are at least seven strong emerging-market candidates
for managing director and all of them would likely be tougher on
troubled European countries than would Lagarde.  All of these
candidates have had hands-on experience running tight policies
under difficult circumstances while working hard to sustain
growth.  The current front-runner is  Kemal Dervis , former economic
affairs minister of Turkey and former head of the United Nations
Development Program. He should be able to draw on broad
international support, including perhaps from the U.S.   Trevor Manuel , former minister of finance in South Africa and former
head of the World Bank Development Committee, one of the bank’s
supervisory panels, also has potential to break away from the
pack.  Latin America  From Latin America,  Agustin Carstens , now the governor of
the Bank of Mexico and a former IMF deputy managing director,
would be a smart choice.  Arminio Fraga  of Brazil has a track
record of brilliance, including as head of the central bank
during a turbulent time, from 1999 to 2002, but not everyone may
appreciate his hedge-fund connections. Fraga used to work for
 George Soros  and just sold his own hedge fund, Gavea Investments
Ltd., to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Asia has three strong names:  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , a
long-term top Indian official with deep international
experience;  Tharman Shanmugaratnam , minister of finance in
Singapore and current chairman of the IMF’s oversight panel, the
International Monetary and Financial Committee; and  Min Zhu , a
top Chinese official who is a special adviser to Strauss-Kahn.  The big political question is whether the largest emerging
markets -- Brazil, China, India, South Africa, Turkey and
perhaps Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Russia, Indonesia and Mexico
-- can unify behind one candidate. That would be a breakthrough
but it’s still not clear who will provide the diplomatic
initiative to organize them into a coalition that speaks with a
single voice. This is what the French excel at within Europe.  Presumably any contender, at least for now, would need to
placate the Europeans with a promise to continue generous
bailouts for a while. Still, such a change at the top of the
fund might open the way to more even-handed policies over a
longer period of time. Whether that means less generosity for
Europe or more generosity for everyone else remains to be seen.  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown” and a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  