-- 
Biggest Investment Boom in Two Decades Spurs 4% Growth on Emerging Markets

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T17:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/emerging-markets-outpace-developed-ones-as-investment-boom-fuels-4-growth.html
Investment spending in emerging
markets is outpacing expenditures in developed economies for the
first time, as a surge in infrastructure supports global growth
and profits at companies from  Siemens AG (SIE)  to  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   The “biggest investment boom of recent decades” will help
boost expansion worldwide about 4 percent this year and next,
compared with a long-run average of just below 3 percent,
according to  Michael Saunders , Citigroup Inc.’s chief European
economist. International Monetary Fund data show investment will
top 24 percent of global gross domestic product in 2012, the
most in more than two decades, and then rise above 25 percent,
the highest since records began 30 years ago.  Saunders calculates that developing nations will probably
secure the largest share of it this year. That’s showing up in
the bottom line of Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering
company. The Munich-based business predicts profits will rise
about 75 percent to at least 7.5 billion euros ($10.6 billion)
in the year ending Sept. 30.  “The growth momentum from the emerging economies is fully
intact,”  Peter Loescher , Siemens chief executive officer, told
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with Francine Lacqua on
May 4. “We have refocused the company on a broad-based
infrastructure portfolio, on sustainability solutions, and we
see the need for it all around the world.”  Caterpillar, the world’s biggest manufacturer of
construction equipment, last month lifted its full-year earnings
forecast to between $6.25 and $6.75 a share from “near” $6
amid higher demand from emerging markets.  Emerging Market Demand  Investors can take advantage of the “megatrend” for
infrastructure expenditure by buying the stocks of building-
material suppliers China National Building Material Company Ltd.
and France’s Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, said Giles Keating,
Zurich-based global head of research for private banking and
asset management at Credit Suisse Group AG, which manages the
equivalent of about $1.5 trillion.  Credit Suisse’s emerging-market infrastructure index
advanced 36 percent between the start of 2010 and the end of
last month, compared with a 19 percent rise in the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index of developed nation equities.  Demand for copper, steel and other commodities used in
construction also may “provide a floor” beneath raw-material
prices, said Bob Baur, chief global economist at Des Moines-
based Principal Global Investors, which oversees about $235
billion. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities has
fallen by about 10 percent this month.  China Copper  Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the
world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, said April 5 it
is confident the need for Chinese cooper will continue to grow
even if the country’s economy slows.  Global fixed investment will reach $23.2 trillion by 2016,
an increase of 61 percent from last year, according to Saunders’
calculations based on IMF data, as urbanization prompts
developing countries including China and  India  to plow cash into
roads, power stations and water systems.  Foreign direct investment in China climbed 15 percent to
$8.5 billion in April as companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  expanded, the Ministry of Commerce said
yesterday. Builders broke ground for a $4.4-billion Shanghai
Disney Resort on April 8, the company’s first theme park in
mainland China.  The number of people in cities worldwide will grow by 1.5
billion in the next two decades, according to the research
division of  McKinsey & Co,  a consulting firm. Outlays on
railways and other basic structures may rise to $3.7 trillion in
2030 from $1.6 trillion in 2008 as spending on residential real
estate more than doubles to $4.9 trillion.  Another New York  Richard Dobbs, a Seoul-based director at the McKinsey Global
Institute, reckons China, the world’s No. 2 economy, would need
to add residential and commercial floor space equivalent to
building  New York City  every two years, to keep pace with
population growth. India would need to add the footprint of
Chicago each year.  China  also will lengthen its rail network to 120,000
kilometers (75,000 miles) from 86,000 by 2015, and its roadway
capacity will surpass that of the U.S. within five years, from
70 percent of the size today, Morgan Stanley analysts project.  The country’s urbanization ratio is rising toward the level
of developed nations, to 63 percent longer-term from 47 percent
now, the analysts said in an October study.  The investment required to meet such needs is helping
companies around the world, providing a buffer against weakness
elsewhere in the global economy. U.S. expansion decelerated to
1.8 percent in the first quarter of this year after a 3.1
percent increase in the previous quarter.  Stronger Elsewhere  “We don’t see the demand in the U.S. being near as strong
as the opportunities that we have elsewhere, particularly the
Asia-Pacific region,” David Rosenthal, vice president of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , said on an April 28 conference call.  Siemens said May 4 that orders from emerging markets
totaled $7.48 billion euros in the quarter ending March 31, an
increase of 52 percent. Zurich-based  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s
largest maker of power-transmission gear, identified “positive
signs” of recovery in its infrastructure-related businesses
when it said April 27 that first-quarter profit rose 41 percent.  In the U.S.,  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s biggest maker of farm
equipment, said April 27 it plans to spend $100 million to
expand manufacturing in India, where it expects an increase in
mechanization. Caterpillar says it aims to deliver earnings of
$8 to $10 a share in 2012 as demand for excavators, trucks and
wheel loaders increases with construction of roads and buildings
in China, India and Brazil.  ‘Great Position’  “Companies like Caterpillar and Deere are going to benefit
continually from the infrastructure build,” said Nick Calamos,
who helps to manage $39.1 billion in assets as co-chief
investment officer at Naperville, Illinois-based  Calamos Asset
Management Inc.  The companies “are in a great position,” he
told Bloomberg Television’s ‘Street Smart’ on May 3.  Not every country will benefit, said Saunders at Citigroup
in  London . While Germany and Sweden should gain from greater
demand for their products, Greece, Spain and the U.K. may not do
as well, even as they need higher exports to offset fiscal
austerity. The reason is that they have less trade with the
countries that are driving spending, he said.  The investment boom may end up raising borrowing costs by
reducing the amount of capital, said Nobel laureate Michael Spence, an adviser to  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s largest bond
fund. Real U.S.  interest rates  are currently about 150 basis
points below their 3.3 percent average of recent decades,
McKinsey estimates.  Awash With Money  “It’s reasonable to expect a fairly sharp rise in interest
rates in the relatively near future,” Spence said.
“Investment’s going to go back up to at or near post-World War
II levels.”  The chase for capital still may take time to trigger higher
borrowing costs because “the world is awash with money,” said
 Axel Merk , president of Merk Investments LLC in  Palo Alto ,
California. The 10-year Treasury yield has fallen to 3.11
percent from 3.61 percent at the start of this quarter on signs
of a U.S. slowdown and continued purchases by the  Federal
Reserve  of $600 billion in government debt.  The next stage may be for emerging nations to accelerate
their investment abroad as they look to reinvest their newfound
riches. The United Nations last month reported that developing
and transition economies accounted for 28 percent of such
spending flowing elsewhere in 2010, up from 15 percent in 2007.  China will invest more than $1 trillion abroad by 2020,
according to estimates in a  report  published this month by the
Asia Society and Woodrow Wilson Center for International
Scholars.  “There’s a new reality out there that the growth economies
are the emerging markets and that they need infrastructure
investment,” said Richard Threlfall, head of infrastructure,
building and construction at KPMG LLP in London. “It creates an
opportunity for countries to invest in those markets, but it
also creates the opportunity for China, India and others to
invest elsewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  