-- 
Tencent Buys ELong Stake to Expand in Online Travel Market, Follows Google

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-05-17T02:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/tencent-expedia-invest-in-elong-to-tap-rising-china-online-travel-demand.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
biggest Internet company, bought a $84.4 million stake in  ELong
Inc. (LONG)  to expand in online travel, following  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
purchase of ITA Software Inc.  Tencent acquired a 16 percent stake in ELong to become the
online-travel company’s second-biggest shareholder behind
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , the companies said in a joint statement yesterday.
Expedia paid $41.2 million to increase its stake in Elong to 56
percent, according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Ma Huateng is accelerating
Tencent’s pace of investments to add applications and services
for the company’s more than 300 million users beyond online
games, social networking, and Internet shopping. Google last
month completed the $700 million purchase of ITA, boosting the
global search-engine leader’s ability to parse travel data.  “Tencent and Google both realize they need to go outside
their core competencies to ensure they keep growing,” said
Billy Leung, who rates Tencent shares “buy” at OSK Securities
in  Hong Kong . “It’s a good deal for ELong because it gives them
access to Tencent’s big user base.”  Tencent, based in Shenzhen, China, fell 2 percent to
HK$214.80 as of 10:15 a.m. in Hong Kong trading. ELong surged 13
percent to $16.96 in U.S. trading yesterday.  Online Travel  ELong is China’s second-biggest online travel company
behind  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , according to OSK’s Leung.
The Beijing-based company allows users to book 19,000 hotels in
700 cities in China, and also offers air ticket services,
according to yesterday’s statement.  Tencent, with more than 674 million active user accounts
for its QQ instant-messaging software, will help market ELong’s
services, according to the statement. More than 300 million
people in China use QQ, with some maintaining multiple accounts,
according to OSK’s Leung.  Tencent increased its share of China’s online games market
to 29.1 percent in 2010, from 21.1 percent a year earlier,
according to research company IResearch. Second-ranked
NetEase.com boosted its market share to 15.3 percent from 12.5
percent, the Shanghai-based researcher said.  Tencent will increase spending this year on services
including social media, Internet search and e-commerce, Ma said
in March. The company, the leading provider of instant-messaging
service in China, will also step up efforts to expand overseas,
he said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  