-- 
Epilepsy Drug Study Showing Little Risk May Help Vivus

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-19T19:23:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/epilepsy-drug-study-showing-little-risk-may-help-vivus-pill.html
(Corrects topiramate spelling in story published May 17.)  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  said its effort to win
regulatory approval for weight-loss pill Qnexa may be helped by
a study showing little risk of birth defects in children of
women who took one of the medicine’s ingredients.  The study, published today in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association , reviewed the outcomes of about 838,000
births in Denmark from 1996 to 2008 and found that new anti-
epileptic drugs including topiramate, one of the two medications
that combine to form Qnexa, didn’t significantly increase birth
defects. Topiramate is used to control seizures and migraine
headaches and marketed by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  as Topamax.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration declined on Oct. 28
to approve Qnexa, citing concerns it may cause  birth defects  and
increase heart rate. Vivus is now conducting a trial using
information in available databases to evaluate children whose
pregnant mothers took topiramate. The Danish results are
encouraging, said Peter Tam, president of the  Mountain View ,
California-based company.  “This is really the first population-based study reporting
on the risk” from the anti-epileptic treatments that entered
the market in the late 1990s and early 2000s, Tam said today in
a telephone interview. “The author found that none of these
drugs including topiramate were shown to cause major birth
defects when taken during the first trimester.”  If the analysis now being conducted by Vivus reaches
similar conclusions, the company may be able to market the drug
to all obese and overweight people without warning women of
child-bearing age not to take it, Tam said. About 28 million of
the 108 million adults potentially eligible for the medication
are women who might become pregnant. Women who know they’re
pregnant will be advised not to take the drug in any case just
to be safe, Tam said.  Qnexa combines topiramate with the appetite suppressant
phentermine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 