-- 
Merck, Roche to Work Together on Hepatitis C Treatments

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-05-17T19:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/merck-roche-to-work-together-on-hepatitis-c-treatments.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and Merck & Co. will
work together to market treatments for hepatitis C in the U.S.,
promoting Merck’s new boceprevir with an older drug from Roche
in a market estimated to reach $15 billion annually by 2019.  The two drugmakers’ researchers will work together to
develop drug cocktails to fight hepatitis C, a virus that may
linger in the body for decades, destroying the liver. Financial
details of the agreement weren’t disclosed in a statement today.  The deal gives Basel, Switzerland-based Roche access to the
first new hepatitis C treatment in almost a decade. U.S.
regulators approved  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck’s
boceprevir on May 13. The drug is likely to compete with
telaprevir, a Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Johnson & Johnson
medicine that’s awaiting Food and Drug Administration approval.  “In essence, the Merck-Roche agreement effectively tries
to shut telaprevir out of the market to some degree,”  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.,
wrote in a note to investors today. Scannell rates Roche’s
shares “market perform.”  Boceprevir and telaprevir are so-called protease inhibitors
that work by blocking an enzyme used by the hepatitis C virus to
copy itself. Both are used together with the current standard of
care, a combination of the generic antiviral pill ribavirin and
interferon, an injection sold by Merck as PegIntron and by Roche
as Pegasys.  Market Share  Under today’s agreement, Roche will include boceprevir in
its marketing on the use of Pegasys, the companies said. Pegasys
has about three-quarters of the market for interferon in
hepatitis C, Scannell said.  “Triple combination therapy for hepatitis C marks a major
change in the way this disease is treated,” Pascal Soriot,
Roche’s chief operating officer for pharmaceuticals, said in
today’s statement. The companies said they aim to extend their
cooperation beyond the U.S. market.  Revenue from boceprevir may surpass $725 million by 2013,
according to the average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The drug will be sold under the name Victrelis.  The FDA is scheduled to decide by May 23 on whether to
approve telaprevir.  Jefferies International Ltd. estimates the market for
hepatitis C drugs may total $15 billion a year by 2019.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  