-- 
Ericsson Said to Weigh Entering Contest for Nortel Patents

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T16:58:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ericsson-said-to-consider-entering-competition-for-nortel-patent-portfolio.html
Ericsson AB is considering an offer
for some of the patents being auctioned off by Nortel Networks
Corp., increasing the number of potential bidders to at least
four, said two people familiar with the plans.  Ericsson hasn’t made a final decision on whether to make an
offer or which patents it’s most interested in, said the people,
who wouldn’t be identified because the company’s plans aren’t
yet public. The Stockholm-based company is considering teaming
up with another company on the bid, and has approached  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , one of the people said.  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in January 2009, has already attracted several
potential bidders for its portfolio of wireless and technology
patents. Google, whose Android software runs phones made by
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.,
offered $900 million last month in what Nortel said was a
starting point for an auction.  RPX Corp., a San Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is
considering a bid, an attorney for the company said this month.
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is also weighing an offer, two people
familiar with the company’s plans said last month.  The growing interest may boost the price for Nortel’s
patents to more than $1 billion, said Rich Ehrlickman, president
of  Boca Raton , Florida-based patent broker IPOfferings.  Patent Portfolio  Ericsson “absolutely” makes sense as a bidder since it
would give the company patents key to expanding in the U.S.,
said Ehrlickman. “The bigger question Ericsson faces is does it
want to go it alone or join a consortium given the cost and
magnitude of those patents.”  “Ericsson has a large patent portfolio and is always
looking to expand it,” said Patricia MacLean, a spokeswoman for
Ericsson in  Canada . She declined to comment further.  Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman, and Chuck Malloy, a
spokesman for Intel, said they don’t comment on rumors. Leonardo
Ortiz Villacorta, director of corporate communications for
Microsoft, said the company has royalty-free rights to all
Nortel patents because of a 2006 cross-licensing agreement, and
wouldn’t elaborate further.  The Nortel patents cover telecommunications technology,
used in wireless handsets and networks, as well as Internet
search, semiconductors and social networking. Specific patents
on new touchscreen and conferencing technologies help to explain
what has attracted such a range of companies, said Akshay
Sharma, an analyst with Gartner Inc.  Value of Patents  The patents may also help protect companies in legal
disputes or generate licensing revenue, said Sharma.  Google may want the patents to protect mobile-phone makers
that use the Android operating system, after companies such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  have sued several of them alleging patent violations.  Ericsson fell 3.05 kronor, or 3.2 percent, to 93.20 kronor
today in Stockholm trading. The stock has climbed 19 percent
this year.  Ericsson is most interested in the non-telecom-related
patents, and may split up the portfolio with another company
that wants the phone patents, said one person familiar with the
company’s plans.  Ericsson may have approached Google to try and negotiate a
side deal that would allow it to buy some patents from the
 Mountain View , California-based company, while allowing Google
to retain licenses for the patents, said Ehrlickman.  Ericsson has outbid rivals for Nortel assets in the past.
The Swedish company acquired Nortel’s wireless equipment
business in 2009 for $1.13 billion after six rounds of bidding
that included Nokia Siemens Networks and MatlinPatterson Global
Advisers LLC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 