-- 
Merkel Predecessor Schroeder Says Her Leadership Deficit Fans Greek Crisis

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-05-17T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/merkel-predecessor-schroeder-says-her-leadership-deficit-fans-greek-crisis.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  has failed
to lead during Europe’s debt crisis and must now rise above
German public opinion to offer more help for troubled euro-area
states, former Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  said.  Merkel acted too slowly when the crisis unfolded last year,
pandering to the “yellow press,” Schroeder said in an
interview. Schroeder said the chancellor, who defeated him in
2005, should press for banks and other bondholders to take
losses and give euro countries more time to cut budget deficits.  Schroeder’s comments may jibe with a change that’s emerging
in Europe’s crisis-fighting strategy, as finance ministers in
Brussels indicated they may shift some costs to bondholders in a
“soft restructuring” of Greek debt. Merkel, as the leader of
 Europe ’s largest economy, holds the key to Greece’s chances of
escaping a restructuring.  “There’s a lack of leadership right now,” Schroeder said
at his legal practice in the western German city of Hanover
yesterday. Germany’s policy has been “too hesitant,” he said.
“Someone has to say ‘that’s enough’ more often.”  Schroeder, 67, the Social Democratic chancellor who ruled
for two terms as the head of a coalition with the Greens,
oversaw the debut of the euro in Germany on Jan. 1, 1999, less
than three months after he came to power. During his election
campaign in 1998, he compared the euro to a “premature birth,”
a judgment he now says was wrong.  ‘Complete Nonsense’  The euro has been a boon for  Germany  and is worth
defending, he said. All talk of countries leaving the currency
union is “complete nonsense,” said Schroeder, who no longer
holds elected office and is chairman of Nord Stream AG, a 7.4
billion-euro ($10.5 billion) Russian-controlled Baltic Sea gas
pipeline that’s being built from Vyborg,  Russia , to Lubmin in
Germany.  To end the debt crisis that forced Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  to seek outside aid, so-called haircuts involving
compulsory losses for banks and other investors including the
 European Central Bank  are “absolutely essential,” however
uncomfortable they may be for vested interests, Schroeder said.  “In the long run, the government can’t justify aid
programs to their voters unless they force creditors that have
made a lot of money on the enormous  interest rates  for Greece
and the others to share the cost,” he said. “That risk is
already priced in.”  Merkel has repeatedly said her refusal to be rushed into
aiding Greece last year was needed to force the Greek government
to cut its  budget deficit . Greece has the euro area’s biggest
public debt relative to economic output. Greece’s debt will
balloon to 157.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2011.  ‘Better Job’  Schroeder contrasted Merkel’s position with that of her
finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who he said had called for
“solidarity” with debt-laded countries early on. “He’s
actually doing a better job,” Schroeder said.  Former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, a  Christian Democrat 
like Merkel, said on May 16 that the European Union must stand
by  Greece  as it goes through a difficult period.  “We are going forward with the Greeks,” Kohl said in a
speech in Berlin that was attended by Merkel. “Those who say
today that we have to break everything down and start from
scratch are wrong.” Kohl, who served as chancellor from 1982 to
1998, was German leader when the treaty creating the euro was
negotiated.  Schroeder criticized the “very unhelpful” warnings by
lawmakers in Merkel’s coalition that they might reject the
permanent rescue fund for indebted euro members. For all the
misgivings over the post-2013 European Stability Mechanism,
Schroeder predicted that lawmakers will back down and pass the
ESM after the summer recess.  Don’t Spook Markets  Speaking to high-school students in Berlin yesterday,
Merkel said that restructuring the debt of euro-area countries
before the ESM rules take effect risks spooking financial
markets. Changing the rules of the current bailouts would
“create incredible doubt about our credibility as governments”
and undermine sovereign-bond markets, she said.  Schroeder echoed the government line that solidarity
“cannot be a one-way street,” with aid recipients compelled to
reduce their bloated budget deficits. At the same time, he said
that “weaker economies” need time to cut debt.  “You can’t kill them by forcing them to make so many
savings that the economy can’t grow anymore,” he said. “Greece
can’t turn around decades of undisciplined policy in a few
months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  