-- 
Ethiopia Expects Seven Offers for Former Petronas Oil Blocks

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T06:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ethiopia-expects-seven-offers-for-former-petronas-oil-exploration-blocks.html
Ethiopia ’s government expects seven
foreign and domestic companies to bid for oil and natural gas
concessions in the restive Ogaden basin previously held by
Petronas Nasional Bhd, a government official said.  A tender for the concessions closes this week and the
results are expected to be announced by early June, Ketsela
Tadesse, head of petroleum licensing and administration in the
Mines Ministry, said in an interview yesterday in  Addis Ababa ,
the capital. One of the eight blocks on offer has proven gas
deposits of 2.7 trillion cubic feet, according to Ketsela.  “We shortlisted the companies and they have taken bid
documents,” Ketsela said. “After evaluation, the results will be
disclosed. We hope to finish in two or three weeks.”  Petronas, based in  Kuala Lumpur , sold the assets in October
as part of what it said was a “rationalization exercise.” In May
2010, British geologist Jason Read, who was working for a
subcontractor of the Malaysian company, was killed in an ambush
in the region. The rebel Ogaden National Liberation Front, which
has been fighting for self-determination in the area since 1984,
denied responsibility for the attack.  In April 2007, the ONLF attacked an exploration site in the
Ogaden operated by  China ’s  Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration
Bureau , killing nine Chinese workers and 65 Ethiopians.  Talks with Petronas about its exit were “amicable” and the
state-owned company’s decision to leave Ethiopia had nothing to
do with security concerns, Ketsela said.  ‘No Problems’  “Companies are currently working in the area with no
problems,” he said. “There is a good relationship between them
and the local people.”  On May 13, a World Food Programme worker was shot dead in
the Ogaden region in an attack the government blamed on the
ONLF. One person was injured and two workers are still missing
after the attack, Judith Schuler, WFP’s spokeswoman in Ethiopia,
said by phone from the capital yesterday.  The ONLF said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that
government security forces carried out the attack to cover up
atrocities in the region.  “This is a government that has enshrined basic human rights
in the constitution and has been working tirelessly to implement
them in every part of the country,” Communications Minister
Bereket Simon said by phone from Addis Ababa today. “So I don’t
think these accusations from terrorists hold water.”  Companies currently prospecting for fossil fuels in
 Africa ’s second-most populous nation include Afar Exploration
Co., based in  Oklahoma ; Ontario-based Epsilon Energy Ltd.;
Calgary-based  Calvalley Petroleums Inc. (CVI/A) ; Denver-based  Falcon Oil
& Gas Ltd. (FOLGF) ; Texas-based Pexco Inc.; SouthWest Energy (H.K.)
Ltd.; Vancouver-based  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) ; and London-registered
Tullow Oil Inc., Ketsela said. Some of those companies are
likely to submit bids for the former Petronas blocks, he said.  Hong Kong-based SouthWest had announced on Oct. 6 it had
taken over the concessions before the government approved the
deal. The tender is still “open” for the company, Ketsela said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  