-- 
EU Consensus Builds on Retaining European Leadership of IMF

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-05-17T17:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/eu-consensus-builds-on-retaining-european-leadership-of-imf-1-.html
Spain ,  Sweden  and the Netherlands
followed Germany and  Belgium  in calling for any replacement for
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn to come from  Europe  as the euro region contends with a
sovereign-debt crisis.  Finance ministers Elena Salgado of Spain, Anders Borg of
Sweden and Jan Kees de Jager of the Netherlands today said
Europe should retain its traditional right to name the IMF
chief, while the U.S. picks the head of the World Bank.  “We are in a very difficult European situation and it’s
quite natural that we would have a strong European influence in
the IMF,” Borg told reporters in Brussels. “There has been no
indication that the Americans are backing down from the managing
director of the  World Bank  or their deputy managing director
position at the fund. If there should be some dancing here,
there should be at least two who are part of the tango.”  Speculation about a replacement for Strauss-Kahn began
after his May 14 arrest in  New York  on sexual-assault charges. A
Manhattan judge yesterday ordered him held without bail.
Strauss-Kahn, a 62-year-old former French finance minister,
stands accused of sexually assaulting and attempting to rape a
hotel housekeeper. He has denied the accusations and will plead
not guilty, his lawyer said.  Debt Crisis  Strauss-Kahn had been scheduled to attend a meeting of EU
finance ministers in Brussels devoted to tackling the euro
area’s debt crisis. Ministers yesterday approved a 78 billion-
euro ($110 billion) bailout for  Portugal  and stepped up pressure
on  Greece  to narrow its deficit and sell assets to win improved
aid terms.  “We as Europe, especially taking into account the current
crisis, would really benefit from a European” in charge of the
IMF, de Jager told reporters. Salgado said Spain “would like it
to continue being a European.”  Asked if an EU consensus was building that a European
should head the IMF, Hungarian Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said it was too early to say.  “The role of the IMF seems to be vital to solve all of our
problems,” said Matolcsy, whose country holds the rotating  EU
Council presidency . “As a European, the answer might be yes,
but it’s still too early to comment on that.”  ‘Indecent’ Question  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said it’s inappropriate to ask who
might succeed Strauss-Kahn.  “The question is indecent,” Juncker told a conference
today in Brussels. “Strauss-Kahn hasn’t resigned. I don’t know
if he’s guilty. Why are half the European governments now in the
process of asking who could be the successor?”  Juncker yesterday said he had been “deeply saddened” to
see his friend Strauss-Kahn in handcuffs on television. “I have
the feeling to be in a bad movie.” If some European governments
had shown as much zeal building Europe as they have considering
a successor for Strauss-Kahn, Europe would be in “much better”
shape, Juncker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Brussels at  markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Brussels at  areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  