-- 
EU Rapeseed Output May Take ‘Alarming’ Plunge, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-17T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/eu-rapeseed-output-may-take-alarming-plunge-oil-world-says.html
European Union rapeseed, or canola,
production may decline by “alarming proportions” next year to
the lowest in three years as frost and dry weather curb yields,
Oil World said in a report today.  Output of the oilseed may fall to 19.5 million metric tons
in the year that starts on July 1, down 5.2 percent from a year
earlier, the researcher said. Stockpiles will drop 16 percent to
1.08 million tons, according to the report. Dry weather in
France and  Germany , the biggest European producers of rapeseed,
will hurt output, Oil World said.  “The deterioration of rapeseed production prospects is
about to reach alarming proportions,” Oil World said. “We have
received new information about larger-than-expected damage from
frost and dryness as well as about poor crop conditions.”  Rapeseed futures for July delivery gained C$1.80, or 0.3
percent, to C$556.60 ($572.35) a ton at the close yesterday on
ICE Futures Canada in Winnipeg. The price, already up 47 percent
in the past year, will outpace soybeans in the “medium term,”
Oil World said.  Processing of rapeseed also will decline 2.7 percent to a
three-year low as users will face limited supplies and “have to
struggle to cover their requirements,” Oil World said. Imports
from  North America  or Eastern Europe may be required to make up
for the shortfall, according to the report.  Wet weather delayed seeding of EU winter rapeseed in August
and September, mostly in Germany and  Poland , Oil World said. In
the past six weeks, dry weather contributed to “irreversible
damage to the rapeseed crops in several parts of the European
Union,” according to the report.  Moisture Deficits  Germany’s crop is expected to decline 17 percent to 4.75
million tons, according to the report. Rainfall in March was
about a third of normal, causing plants to develop poorly, the
researcher said.  “Severe soil moisture deficits are reported and more than
200 millimeters (7.9 inches) of rainfall is required in the next
six to eight weeks, which is quite unlikely to occur,” Oil
World said. “On an estimated 8 percent of the area, farmers
used irrigation facilities to limit losses.”  Wet weather in  Canada  also is delaying planting of crops
including rapeseed, which may further limit supply, the
researcher said.  Exports of soy oil to  China  may resume as the Asian country
may buy 600,000 tons from  Argentina , Oil World said, citing the
Chinese Commerce Ministry. Argentina’s Foreign Minister Hector Timerman said on May 13 that the South American country agreed
to sell 500,000 tons of soy oil to China.  Soybean oil  futures
have gained 50 percent in the past year.  China Dispute  China restricted shipments from Argentina, the largest
exporter, in April last year because of trade disputes ranging
from textiles to kitchen products.  “We assume that the trade conflict has thus been resolved
and that the decision of the Argentine government to reduce or
eliminate  import taxes  on Chinese  consumer goods  will now
facilitate increased exports of soybean oil to China,” Oil
World said. “Lower-than-expected exports resulted in higher-
than-expected soya oil stocks in Argentina,  Brazil  and the U.S.
as of early May.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 