-- 
European Stocks Fall to Lowest in Four Weeks as U.S. Housing Starts Drop

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-17T16:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/european-stock-futures-drop-as-eu-finance-ministers-add-to-greek-pressure.html
European stocks retreated for a
fourth day for its longest losing streak in two months as a
report showed an unexpected drop in U.S. housing starts.  Bouygues SA (EN)  led a selloff in construction-related companies
after the French builder reported a slump in profit. Technology
shares also declined as Hewlett-Packard Co. lowered its profit
forecast.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  limited losses after posting
better-than-estimated earnings.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 1 percent to
277.28 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London to its lowest level in
four weeks. The gauge has retreated for the past two weeks after
a selloff in commodity producers and renewed sovereign-debt
concern outweighed company profits.  “Corporate news flow seems to have been taken rather
positively to help steady the ship, but profound macroeconomic
uncertainties remain very much in evidence,” said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles Stanley & Co. in
 London .  European finance ministers for the first time floated the
possibility of extending  Greece ’s debt repayments, saying that
last year’s 110 billion-euro ($155.7 billion) rescue has failed
to restore the country to financial health.  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said Europe
will consider “reprofiling” Greek bond maturities as part of a
deal that includes faster sales of state assets and deeper
spending cuts.  Portugal  Bailout  Officials also endorsed a 78 billion-euro bailout for
Portugal. The meetings in Brussels were clouded by the absence
of International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  who was sent to  New York ’s Rikers Island jail after
being charged with sexually assaulting and trying to rape a
hotel housekeeper.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. Greece’s ASE Index rose 1.3 percent. France’s
 CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slid 1.2 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost
1.1 percent and  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 1.8 percent.  European indexes extended declines after a report showed
housings starts in the world’s largest economy unexpectedly fell
in April as home builders continued to struggle almost two years
into an economic recovery. Separate figures showed U.S.
industrial production unexpectedly stalled in April.  In Europe, U.K. data today showed inflation accelerated in
April more than economists had forecast to the fastest pace
since 2008. A report in Germany showed investor confidence
declined for a third month in May as rising prices threatened to
curb  consumer spending .  Bouygues Sinks  Bouygues slumped 4.5 percent to 32.44 euros, its largest
decline in two months, after the French building, television and
telecommunications company reported an 81 percent drop in first-
quarter profit to 34 million euros, hurt by a lower contribution
from its stake in Alstom SA. Analysts polled by Bloomberg had
predicted net income of 129 million euros, according to the
average of six estimates.  Spain’s Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA
retreated 2.5 percent to 31.92 euros, while Cie. de Saint-Gobain
SA, Europe’s biggest supplier of building materials, lost 2.6
percent to 44.13 euros.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  slumped 4.6 percent to 555.5 pence, as a
gauge of technology shares was among the worst performing
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  declined 2.4
percent to 27.81 euros and  SAP AG (SAP)  slid 1.8 percent to 43.60
euros.  Hewlett-Packard Co. cut a billion dollars from its sales
forecast for the year as consumers hold back buying personal
computers. The world’s biggest PC maker predicted that it will
make full-year sales of $129 billion to $130 billion.  Vodafone Rallies  Vodafone climbed 0.9 percent to 169.7 pence after the
world’s largest mobile phone company reported a smaller-than-
estimated decline in full-year earnings helped by demand for
smartphone data services. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization slid 0.4 percent to 14.7 billion
pounds ($23.8 billion), beating the average analyst estimate of
14.6 billion pounds.  Vodafone was one of four companies on the Stoxx 600 to
report earnings today. Of the 305 that have reported results
since April 11, 58 percent have beaten analysts’ estimates for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  surged 4.3 percent to 4.88 euros
as investors speculated that the Mediterranean country’s lenders
will make smaller losses if the EU extends the repayment
schedule for Greek sovereign debt.  Babcock Jumps  Babcock International Group Plc surged 4.4 percent to 680
pence, its largest advance in five months, after the U.K.
defense and engineering contractor reported a 50 percent jump in
full-year revenue to 2.89 million pounds.  Liberum Capital Ltd. today recommended that investors buy
Babcock’s shares, citing an “attractive” valuation. Sales and
profit before taxes beat Liberum’s estimates, according to a
report from London-based analysts William Shirley and Joe Brent.  OMV AG (OMV)  lost 1.6 percent to 29.47 euros after central
 Europe ’s biggest oil company announced a 900 million-euro share
sale to finance acquisitions in Turkey and Tunisia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  