-- 
Hewlett-Packard Cuts Full-Year Forecasts as Consumers Hold Back Buying PCs

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-17T20:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hewlett-packard-to-miss-third-quarter-estimates-as-consumers-hold-back.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the biggest
personal-computer maker, cut a billion dollars from its sales
forecast for the year and missed analysts’ profit projections as
consumers shunned PCs and services margins narrowed.  Full-year sales will be $129 billion to $130 billion and
earnings excluding some items will be at least $5 a share,  Palo
Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard said in a statement
today. Analysts estimated sales of $130.3 billion and earnings
of $5.24, the average projections in a Bloomberg survey. Third-
quarter forecasts from HP also missed analysts’ estimates.  The projections came a day after Bloomberg News reported
Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  sent a memo warning of
“another tough quarter” in the July period. The CEO’s second-
straight disappointing forecast reflects rivalry from tablets
such as Apple Inc.’s iPad and lower margins in services.
Apotheker may be hard pressed to find savings after his
predecessor,  Mark Hurd , eliminated more than 48,000 jobs.  “The Street was willing to give Apotheker a get-out-of-
jail-free card the first time,” said Pat Becker Jr., principal
of Portland, Oregon-based  Becker Capital Management Inc. , which
holds Hewlett-Packard as part of its $2.5 billion in assets.
“There was a belief on the Street that Hurd had pulled the
expense-cutting string about as taut as you could pull it and
the next guy had to come in with some vision and strategy.”  ‘Watch Every Penny’  Hewlett-Packard dropped $2.89, or 7.3 percent, to $36.91 at
4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  In February, HP predicted full-year sales of $130 billion
to $131.5 billion and earnings of at least $5.20 a share.  In his May 4 message, Apotheker urged deputies to “watch
every penny and minimize all hiring.” Following news of the
missive sent via e-mail, Hewlett-Packard moved up its earnings
report to this morning, rather than tomorrow afternoon.  For this quarter, earnings excluding some items will be
$1.08 a share, the company said. That missed the $1.23-a-share
average projection, the second straight quarter the company’s
forecasts fell short. Revenue will be $31.1 billion to $31.3
billion, compared with analysts’ $31.8 billion average estimate.  Purchases of smartphones and tablets are crimping demand
for PCs, said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities in  Portland ,  Oregon .  PC Substitution  The industry’s shipments declined 3.2 percent last quarter,
research firm IDC reported in April. Tablet sales will almost
triple this year, IDC projected in January.  Hewlett-Packard also needs to prove that its technology-
services business can tackle companies’ transition to cloud
computing, the delivery of applications and data through the
Internet, said Bracelin, who rates the stock “sector perform.”  The pressures facing Hewlett-Packard “aren’t going away
soon,” he said.  Earnings at the services business fell to $1.36 billion in
the quarter that ended April 30 from $1.4 billion a year
earlier. Sales increased 1.5 percent to $8.98 billion.  “They need to fix the services business,” said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group
in New York. “The issue in services, where Apple is not really
hurting them, that’s kind of isolated to HP.”  The company plans to hire a new executive to manage its
enterprise-services unit, reporting to the CEO, Apotheker said.  Push for Margins  Hewlett-Packard is also speeding efforts to offer customers
more profitable technology services. The company has been
signing information-technology outsourcing deals that hurt
profit margins because the projects are labor-intensive. It
needs to bulk up in services that help customers create software
applications or outsource  customer service , he said.  “We have overinvested operationally and underinvested
strategically,” he said. “It is my top focus going forward.”  Sales in the personal systems group fell 5.4 percent to
$9.42 billion as revenue from consumer PCs dropped 23 percent.  Second-quarter earnings, excluding some items, were $1.24 a
share, while revenue was $31.6 billion. Analysts had estimated
$1.21 a share and sales of $31.5 billion.  Net income rose to $2.3 billion, or $1.05 a share, from
$2.2 billion, or 91 cents, the year earlier.  Apotheker, who joined as CEO on Nov. 1, gave his initial
quarterly report in February, which was marred by a forecast
that missed estimates. The shares fell 9.6 percent the next day.  “HP is a large company and for Leo to kind of make changes
very quickly is going to be tough,” Lamba said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  