-- 
Ex-Gartmore, GLS Managers to Raise Money as Hedge Fund Outperforms Peers

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-17T22:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ex-gartmore-gls-managers-to-raise-money-as-hedge-fund-outperforms-peers.html
Canning Park Capital, founded by
former Gartmore Group Ltd. and GLS Capital UK LLP managers,
plans to cap the size of its equity hedge fund at $100 million
as it seeks to raise assets after outperforming peers.  The CCP Asian Opportunities Fund, which trades the equities
of large-capitalization companies in  Asia , has risen about 20
percent since it started trading on Sept. 15, said David
Thompson, its portfolio manager who previously managed
Gartmore’s European and Asian  hedge funds . The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index gained 8 percent during the same period, while equity
hedge funds rose 1.8 percent this year, after returning 7.9
percent in 2010, according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  “We’re much smaller, lighter more nimble, which means
correlations with the markets are lower too,” Thompson said.  Canning Park is seeking to tap money that’s going into
Asian hedge funds. Capital invested in the region’s hedge funds
rose by more than $4.6 billion in the first quarter to about $88
billion, the highest since peaking in the second quarter of
2008, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Canning Park, which is targeting institutional investors,
will stop accepting money from new clients for 12 months once it
reaches $100 million, Thompson said. The manager is marketing
the long-short fund, which bets on rising and falling stock
prices, after it started trading with the partners’ money,
Thompson said, declining to provide details on the current size
of the fund.  Coal Stocks  The Singapore-based firm, which has an office in Sydney,
profited from investments in thermal coal stocks in  Australia 
and  Indonesia , Thompson said.  Some Chinese banking stocks are also cheap as “we’re
getting close to the point where  China ’s tightening cycle is
peaking ahead,” he said. Policy makers will raise borrowing
costs only once more this year, after four increases in the past
seven months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG
predicted on May 12.  The manager is “cautious” about Australia’s prospects in
the second half of the year as unemployment is set to rise,
Thompson said. This will likely hurt companies that provide
 mortgage insurance , he said.  “We are seeing a lot of opportunities, both long and
short,” Thompson said. “We are positioned for a pullback in
markets.”  China, Australia  The fund focuses on liquid stocks with a market value of at
least $500 million in  Hong Kong , China, Australia, Singapore,
 South Korea  and  India , he said. It targets annual returns of 15
percent to 20 percent and seeks to change the direction or
holdings in its portfolio quickly to adapt to the volatility in
Asian markets, according to the firm.  Commodities plunged the most since 2009, and stocks posted
the biggest three-day drop since March on May 5, on concern
global economic growth is faltering. The euro plunged on that
day after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled he will wait until after June to raise  interest rates 
again, wrong-footing some investors who had expected a quicker
move to fight inflation.  “All of these asset classes are highly correlated,”
Thompson said. “In a market like that, it’s quite hard to have
a conviction, but there aren’t many other things to buy that
offer you either value or yield beyond equities.”  Canning Park has partnered with Regal Funds Management, a
long-short equity manager in Sydney which sold a 30 percent
stake to a unit of Westpac Banking Corp. in July, according to
the Singapore-based firm. Canning Park uses Regal’s risk-
management system and back-office support, allowing the
principals to focus on returns, Thompson said.  Jason Rich, Canning Park’s chief investment officer, was
previously a portfolio manager at London-based GLS Capital, an
emerging markets hedge-fund firm, and subsequently Bennelong
Asset Management, a multistrategy hedge fund firm in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Idayu Ismail in  Singapore  at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  