-- 
Ex-Taylor Bean’s Farkas Sues AIG Unit for Unpaid Legal Bills

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-17T21:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ex-taylor-bean-s-farkas-sues-insurer-over-legal-expenses-for-fraud-trial.html
Lee Farkas , the ex-chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. who was found guilty in
April of what prosecutors said was a $3 billion fraud scheme,
sued a unit of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  over $2 million
in legal bills.  Farkas accuses National Union Fire Insurance Co. of
Pittsburgh of breaking a contract that he said covers the costs
of his trial defense, according to a complaint filed today in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia.  “National Union’s refusal to advance defense costs has
resulted in Farkas’s criminal defense counsel, experts, and
support service providers not being paid for work performed
prior to the conclusion of the criminal trial,” Farkas claims
in the complaint.  Prosecutors said Farkas, 58, orchestrated one of the
largest and longest-running bank frauds in the U.S. that duped
some of the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted
the federal bank bailout program and contributed to the failures
of Taylor Bean and Montgomery, Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  A federal jury in Alexandria found him guilty April 19 of
14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud 
after a two-week trial. Farkas, who was taken into custody after
the verdict, is set to be sentenced on June 27.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment.  Farkas said he received a letter from National Union on
April 28 stating that that due to his conviction, the company
wouldn’t reimburse his defense costs. Farkas, who says he had
more than $4 million available on the policy, says he owes about
$2 million in trial costs. He alleges the policy was supposed to
cover his costs for the trial and appeals.  Farkas’s lawyer, William Cummings of Alexandria, declined
to comment.  The case is Farkas v. National Union Fire Insurance Company
of Pittsburgh, 11-cv-00529, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  