-- 
Exelon’s Constellation Bid Not ‘Troublesome’ for EDF

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-17T19:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/exelon-s-constellation-bid-not-troublesome-for-edf-ceo-says.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s offer to buy
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  won’t change Electricite de
France SA’s strategy in the U.S., according to  Henri Proglio ,
chief executive officer of the French utility.  “It will raise liquidity,” Proglio said in an interview
following a  shareholders’ meeting  in Paris. “It’s not
troublesome technically or strategically. It won’t fundamentally
change things.”  EDF owns about 7.3 percent of Constellation, the company
said.  Exelon, the largest operator of U.S. atomic plants, agreed
to buy Constellation for about $7.9 billion in stock, adding
stakes in five reactors and becoming the largest U.S. power
marketer. The deal needs approval by regulators in Maryland, New
York and Texas, in addition to shareholders of both companies
and federal regulators. It may close early in 2012.  EDF, the world’s biggest operator of nuclear plants, bought
Baltimore-based Constellation’s share of a new reactor project
at Calvert Cliffs in  Maryland  last year after the U.S. utility
backed out of the expansion. Relations between the two companies
had soured over the possible use by Constellation of an option
to sell $2 billion of power plants to EDF.  EDF has said building the reactor at current prices is
unprofitable and has asked state officials for help. Under law,
the U.S. can’t grant a reactor operating license to an entity
that’s “owned, controlled or dominated” by a foreign company.  “There is no impact, either positive or negative,” from
the Exelon offer on the Maryland project, Proglio said today.
“Our strategy in the U.S. isn’t limited to nuclear.”  Constellation operates three nuclear plants in Maryland and
New York that the utility and EDF jointly control.  EDF, seeking a foothold in the U.S. to build reactors
designed by Paris-based  Areva SA (CEI) , defeated a $9.5 billion offer
in 2008 for all of Constellation from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. The next year, EDF bought a minority stake in
Constellation’s nuclear plants for $4.5 billion in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  