-- 
Mexico Stepping Up Natural Gas Imports as Pemex Focuses on Oil Production

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-17T17:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/mexico-stepping-up-natural-gas-imports-as-pemex-focuses-on-oil-production.html
Mexico , which is building about six
new  power plants  this year, is likely to step up natural-gas
imports because slumping prices for the fuel are deterring
state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos from developing its own fields.  Domestic supply isn’t sufficient to cover the needs of
Comision Federal de Electricidad, the country’s state power
company, Sergio Alcocer, Mexico’s deputy energy minister, said
yesterday in an interview in  La Jolla ,  California . Pemex isn’t
planning to exploit as much as 1 trillion cubic feet of gas
reserves it recently found to focus on oil output, he said.  “We anticipate that the country will keep importing more
gas as long as it’s cheaper than producing it,” Alcocer said.
“Pemex maximizes its profit when it produces and exports crude
oil, and as a company, that’s where its interests lean.”  CFE, as the utility is known, is expected to start the
construction this year of “about a half-dozen” power
generation plants using fossil fuels, Alcocer said. Increased
demand for gas may boost sales from U.S. companies, such as
Apache Corp. and Cheniere Energy Inc., which are building
liquefied natural gas export terminals betting they can find
more foreign buyers.  Pemex, as  Latin America ’s largest oil producer is known,
has primarily found gas in nine deep-water wells it successfully
explored since 2004. The Mexico City-based company hasn’t
developed plans to exploit the deposits that could boost gas
reserves by almost 1 trillion cubic feet.  Balanced Market  Proved reserves are those that have a reasonable certainty
of being recoverable under existing economic and political
conditions with current technology.  “The ministry has been in talks with CFE and Pemex seeking
a balance for the gas market,” said Alcocer, who was named
deputy minister on April 6.  On March 23, Pemex said it found enough shale gas in the
northern state of Coahuila to estimate that the region has the
potential to produce 300 million cubic feet a day of shale gas
and 40,000 barrels of oil a day. Plans to develop those fields
will depend on the U.S. gas futures market,  Carlos Morales ,
Pemex’s head of production and exploration, said last month.  Natural-gas futures traded in  New York  averaged $4.20 per
million British thermal units during the first quarter, a 16
percent decline from a year earlier, as new wells from Wyoming
to Pennsylvania created excess supply in the North American
market. Natural gas for June delivery dropped 13 cents, or 2.9
percent, to $4.191 per million British thermal units at 12:57
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  U.S. Shale Growth  U.S. shale gas production increased by an average of 48
percent a year from 2006 to 2010, according to the Energy
Department in  Washington . Output will rise almost threefold from
2009 to 2035, the department predicted in its Annual Energy
Outlook release on April 26.  Last year, the U.S. Energy Department approved a natural-
gas terminal in  Louisiana , operated by Cheniere, to export LNG
to countries  with U.S. free trade agreements .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  