-- 
Factories in U.S. See Bigger 2011 Sales Gains, ISM Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-17T15:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/factories-in-u-s-see-bigger-2011-sales-gains-ism-says.html
Manufacturers in the U.S. have a more
optimistic outlook for sales and spending in 2011 than they did
at the end of last year, according to a survey by the  Institute
for Supply Management .  Purchasing managers at U.S. factories anticipate sales will
grow 7.5 percent this year, up from a 5.6 percent December
forecast, according to the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
semiannual  forecast  issued today. By contrast, service providers
estimated revenue will rise 2.1 percent this year, less than the
3.4 percent forecast in December.  “Much of manufacturing has emerged from the economic
downturn and is experiencing significant growth,”  Norbert Ore ,
chairman of the group’s factory committee, said in a statement.
“The positive forecast for revenue growth and improved
employment will drive the continuation of the recovery” in the
industry, he said.  Companies like  Corning Inc. (GLW)  may continue to profit from
growing emerging economies as well as increased capital
investment, keeping manufacturing at the head of the economic
rebound. Growth among service providers, which by the ISM’s
accounting make up more than 90 percent of the economy, may fail
to keep pace as American households struggle with 9 percent
unemployment.  Manufacturers projected employment will increase 2.9
percent for the rest of this year, while service companies
predicted a 0.9 percent increase.  More Investment  Factory managers also estimated they will boost spending on
new equipment by 18 percent in 2011, up from the 14.5 percent
increase projected in December, today’s report showed. Service
providers forecast a 1.4 percent gain in investment, less than
the 3.7 percent gain predicted at the end of last year.  “Indications are that non-manufacturing will continue on
the path of slow and sustainable growth for the balance of
2011,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of the ISM’s services
committee, said in a statement. “Price increases and slow
employment growth are prominent areas of concern.”  A report today showed manufacturing cooled last month,
reflecting a drop in auto making after supplies of parts were
disrupted by the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.  Production Disruption  Output at factories, mines and utilities was unchanged
after a 0.7 percent gain in March, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed. Manufacturing fell 0.4 percent, led by an 8.9
percent slump in production of automobiles and parts.  In response to a special question, 23 percent of
manufacturers surveyed by ISM said they will experience delays
in U.S. operations due to supply shortages caused by the
disaster in  Japan . Fifteen percent of those in services
projected disruptions.  Factory leaders see the cost of raw-materials rising 7.4
percent this year and believe they can pass along 34 percent of
that increase to customers, the report showed. Service providers
see a 4.7 increase in input costs this year, with 27 percent of
the gain being passed through.  Earlier this month, the ISM reports showed manufacturing
expanded faster than expected in April, driven by gains in
exports and inventories. At the same time,  service industries 
grew at the slowest pace in eight months as companies cut back
in response to higher energy costs.  ISM Gauges  The ISM’s factory index fell to 60.4 in April from 61.2 the
prior month, figures showed May 2. The measure has exceeded 60
for four consecutive months, the best performance since 2004.
For both indexes, readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Corning, which makes glass for flat-panel televisions, said
it expects sales will grow to $10 billion by 2014, helped by
demand from  China .  “We’re off to a great start in 2011,” Wendell Weeks,
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement after
the Corning, New York-based company’s annual meeting last month.
A significant portion of growth will come from China, which is
currently the world’s largest market for several of Corning’s
major products, he said.  Two days after the factory gauge was released, the ISM
reported that its index of non-manufacturing companies declined
to 52.8 in April, lower than the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 57.3 in March.  Climbing gas prices have strained earnings at service
providers like  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest U.S. railroad by
sales, which posted a quarterly profit on April 20 that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Omaha, Nebraska-based Union Pacific utilized commodity-
shipping volume growth “despite spiking fuel prices and winter
weather challenges across most of the nation’s rail network,”
Chief Executive Officer Jim Young said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  