-- 
FBI Agent Charged With Making False Statements About Source

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-17T23:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/fbi-agent-charged-with-making-false-statements-about-confidential-source.html
A  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agent was indicted by a grand jury in New York and accused of
making false statements about his use of a confidential source
in a mortgage-fraud case, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said.  Adrian Busby, 37, appeared today in federal court in El
Paso,  Texas , and was granted $10,000 bond secured by $1,000 in
cash, said Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office. He
was also ordered to surrender his travel documents, Rivera said.  Larry Berger, a lawyer in New York who represents federal
law enforcement officers, didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment about Busby.  Beginning in late 2007, Busby, who has been with the bureau
since June 2006, was the case agent in a fraud investigation
being conducted in  New York .  He obtained authorization to use an unidentified woman as a
confidential source in January 2008 and began an intimate
relationship with her that year, the government said.  In February 2008, the woman was arrested by New York police
and prosecuted for  identity theft . The U.S. said today that
Busby “actively assisted with her criminal defense” and
provided her defense lawyer with confidential federal law-
enforcement reports.  Agents are prohibited from disclosing FBI material without
authorization, prosecutors said.  ‘Numerous False Statements’  Busby allegedly made “numerous false statements regarding
the confidential source and the steps he took to assist her in
connection with her trial,” the  Justice Department  said.  Busby falsely stated that she wasn’t the subject or target
of any criminal investigation by police or prosecutors when he
knew she was, the U.S. alleged. He also falsely stated in an
official FBI report that he hadn’t intentionally provided her
defense attorney with the official reports, authorities said.  The woman was convicted in December 2009, prosecutors said.  If convicted, Busby faces as long as five years in prison,
prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Busby, 11-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 