-- 
Finance Ministers Back IMF as Discussions Turn to Strauss-Kahn Successor

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r
-- 
2011-05-17T07:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/finance-ministers-back-imf-as-discussions-turn-to-strauss-kahn-successor.html
Finance ministers sought to bolster
confidence in the  International Monetary Fund  as they began
discussing a successor to Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn, who was jailed on charges including attempted rape.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said he is
“absolutely confident” the IMF will “carry on with its
business” under Acting Managing Director  John Lipsky . French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said the 187-member lender to
governments is “solid.”  Kaoru Yosano ,  Japan ’s economy minister,
said the flap won’t compromise the fund’s mission.  Germany and Belgium said they prefer another European as
head of the agency, responding to a push by  developing countries 
to throw open its leadership. There are “good reasons” for
Europe to keep the post amid the euro area’s debt crisis, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters in Berlin. A European
has always run the lender, which has helped bail out Portugal,
Greece and Ireland, while an American heads the  World Bank .  The IMF’s executive board, meeting in Washington, agreed to
seek contact with Strauss-Kahn about his intentions, according
to an official briefed on the deliberations. Strauss-Kahn, a 62-
year-old former French finance minister accused of sexually
assaulting a hotel housekeeper, was sent to  New York ’s Riker’s
Island prison yesterday after being denied bail.  Emerging Markets  The choice of the next IMF leader “should be absolutely
merit-based,” said former Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge.
“I would argue that, all other things being equal, it would be
very nice to have someone who has at least deep roots in, if not
necessarily a current representative of, one of the major
emerging-market countries.”  The process to select Strauss-Kahn’s replacement should be
“fair, transparent” and aimed at finding the best person for the
job,  China ’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said at a
regular briefing in Beijing today.  Strauss-Kahn would have been the overwhelming favorite if
he had chosen to enter next year’s French presidential race,
public opinion polls say. He was taken off an Air  France  flight
about to leave John F. Kennedy International Airport for Paris
on May 14. He will plead not guilty, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman
has said. He faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious charges.  IMF spokeswoman  Caroline Atkinson  told reporters yesterday
that the fund is “fully operational” and working on matters
for its member countries around the world. She said IMF business
is continuing “uninterrupted.”  Potential Successor  Still, much of the talk in Washington and in European
capitals focused on who would replace Strauss-Kahn if he leaves
office before the scheduled end of his term more than 17 months
from now.  Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders said  Europe  and
the U.S. should maintain the arrangement, dating to the end of
World War II, of dividing the IMF and World Bank leadership
between them.  “It would be preferable if we continued to hold these
posts in the future,” Reynders told reporters in Brussels.
Robert Zoellick, a former U.S. deputy secretary of state, is the
World Bank’s president.  Policy makers such as Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega say the choice should be based on merit, and that
candidates from developing economies should also be considered
for the posts.  Potential candidates to succeed Strauss-Kahn include
Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, former South
African Finance Minister Trevor Manuel and Kemal Dervis, who was
Turkey’s minister of economic affairs at a time his country got
IMF aid, according to Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in  Washington  and a former IMF official.  Brown Support  Former U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown has told friends
that he has global support for his candidacy for the top job at
the IMF that could prevail over Prime Minister David Cameron’s
opposition, the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified
colleagues.  France’s Lagarde, speaking to reporters in Brussels
yesterday after a meeting of European Union finance ministers,
said the events surrounding Strauss-Kahn’s arrest were
“painful,” and she declined to comment on speculation that she
may be a candidate to succeed him.  “To see Dominique Strauss-Kahn in handcuffs on television
this morning has deeply saddened me,” Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters in Brussels. “It was deeply
sad and traumatic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  