-- 
Foreign Investment in China Rises 15% as Consumers Lure Starbucks, Disney

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T02:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/foreign-investment-in-china-rises-15-as-consumers-lure-starbucks-disney.html
Foreign direct investment in China
climbed 15 percent in April as companies including  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and Walt Disney Co. expand to tap rising incomes in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Investment rose to $8.5 billion,  the Ministry of Commerce 
said in a statement in Beijing today. The increase compared with
a 33 percent gain in March. For the first four months, the total
was $38.8 billion, a gain of 26 percent.  Foreign companies are targeting consumers in the most
populous nation as earnings rise and families move to cities
from rural areas. Inflows of capital add to the nation’s record
$3 trillion foreign-exchange reserves, complicating central bank
efforts to limit gains in the currency and curb inflation.  “Global investors are still attracted by  China ’s growth
story,” Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe
Generale SA, said before today’s release. “The question is what
the Chinese government is going to do about the capital inflows
which are putting pressure on the yuan.”  China is aiming to increase urban and rural per capita net
income by more than 7 percent a year in real terms over the next
five years, the  National Development and Reform Commission  said
on March 5. Premier Wen aims to shift economic growth to a model
that is more driven by consumption and less reliant on exports
and investment.  Reserves Pressure  Builders broke ground for a $4.4 billion Shanghai Disney
Resort on April 8, its first theme park on mainland China.
Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator, is planning
to expand its presence to 70 Chinese cities from 35, Chief
Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said in an interview April 26.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves rose by the second-
highest amount on record in the first quarter. People’s Bank of
China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last month the holdings may
have led to excessive liquidity and are putting pressure on
central bank operations that withdraw money from the financial
system.  The PBOC raised banks’ reserve requirements for the fifth
time this year on May 12, taking the level for the nation’s
biggest commercial lenders to a record 21 percent.  The central bank has raised  interest rates  four times since
mid-October. The PBOC has also allowed the yuan to appreciate at
a faster pace against the dollar to help contain inflation
that’s exceeded the government’s 4 percent target each month
this year. The currency climbed 0.9 percent in April, the most
this year.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from  Jay Wang . Editor: Nerys
Avery, Paul Panckhurst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  