-- 
France Wins Right to Host 2018 Ryder Cup Golf Competition Against U.S.

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-17T14:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/france-wins-right-to-host-2018-ryder-cup-golf-competition-against-u-s-.html
France was chosen to host the 2018
Ryder Cup, becoming the second country from continental  Europe 
to hold the golf competition between Europe and the U.S.  France beat out bids from  Spain ,  Germany ,  Portugal  and
Holland to stage the 42nd edition of the men’s competition at Le
Golf National on the outskirts of Versailles near Paris.  “We received five outstanding bids and any one of those
five could have successfully hosted the Ryder Cup,” Richard
Hills, Europe’s Ryder Cup director, said during today’s
announcement at Wentworth Golf Club, outside  London . “No doubt
the status of the Ryder Cup is enhanced by the spectacular
background of Paris and Versailles.”  Spain was the first European country outside of Britain and
Ireland to host the event, at Valderrama in 1997, where the late
Severiano Ballesteros captained Europe to victory. Pascal
Grizot, who headed the French bid, called his country’s
selection a “real honor.”  There were no French players in last year’s European Ryder
Cup team, and the country has no golfers ranked in the world’s
top 50 men.  “I truly believe that the success of the French bid is a
success for all of continental Europe,” he said at a press
conference. “We fully intend for the Ryder Cup  France  to be a
celebration of continental European golf.”  Each of the nations had to outline plans for a legacy of
the competition as part of their bids and France has proposed
building 100 urban golf courses.  Results of the voting by the European Ryder Cup board
weren’t announced. George O’Grady, chief executive officer of
the  European Tour , said it was “very close.”  “When we evaluated all of them together, France was a
clear but narrow winner,” he told reporters. “Their bid was
just exceptional.”  Existing Courses  The French and Dutch bids were the only ones to feature
existing courses, while the other three bids were based on
facilities yet to be built. Le Golf National will next month
host the  French Open  for the 10th straight year and the 19th
time since it started in 1991.  The family of Ballesteros, who died at the age of 54 on May
7, recently called for Spain’s bid, which would have played the
matches in  Madrid , to be chosen. In addition to captaining in
1997, Ballesteros played in eight Ryder Cups, winning three, and
last year spoke by phone with the European team in preparation
for their successful attempt to win back the trophy.  France’s selection was not a missed chance to honor the
five-time major winner, according to O’Grady.  “We have been aware of the legacy of Severiano Ballesteros
right from the beginning of this bidding process,” he said.
“Everything we do as the European Tour is to honor him. I don’t
think this is the last Ryder Cup that will be played in most of
our lifetimes. It’s just at the moment, the French bid was
outstanding on the guidelines we laid down.”  The Ryder Cup matches teams of European and U.S. golfers
every two years. The 2012 competition will be played at Medinah
Country Club outside  Chicago  in  Illinois , followed by Gleneagles
in  Scotland  in 2014 and Hazeltine National in  Minnesota  in 2016.  Europe won the Ryder Cup last October at Celtic Manor in
Wales and the local economy was boosted by more than 82 million
pounds ($133 million), according to a study by the organizers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in Wentworth, England at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  