-- 
France’s Drought to Continue on Anticyclone, Forecaster Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-17T15:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/france-s-drought-to-continue-on-anticyclone-forecaster-says.html
France , the European Union’s largest
grower of wheat, barley and sugar beets, is expected to have
drought conditions for at least another 10 days as a high-
pressure area off the country’s Atlantic coast remains in place,
weather bureau  Meteo France  said.  Rain fronts coming in from the Atlantic Ocean are being
blocked and pushed north of the British Isles by the atmospheric
system, according to forecaster Frederic Nathan at the weather
bureau.  “We’ll probably have one of the driest springs on
record,” Nathan said. “There hasn’t been any major disturbance
that could break up this system, this anticyclone, and re-
establish the more classic flow of air from the west.”  France had its second-hottest April since 1900 and one of
the driest since 1953, according to the  Agriculture Ministry .
Soils in the country’s northern half, which grow 80 percent of
French wheat, were the driest in 50 years at the end of April,
the  Environment Ministry  said yesterday.  “If there is no major precipitation in the coming weeks,
the situation will be very serious,” Nathan said. “I’m
thinking of agriculture in general. The soils are very dry.”  The country’s soft-wheat harvest will drop below 35 million
metric tons, the smallest crop in at least four years, as the
drought devastates yields, farm adviser Offre et  Demande
Agricole  said.  The 10-day forecast is for warm weather, according to the
forecaster. Temperatures in the Paris region will rise to 28
degrees Celsius (82 Fahrenheit) by the end of this week, Meteo
France said yesterday.  “For the start of next week, there could be some more
showers, but it doesn’t look like it will be very rainy,”
Nathan said. “The problem of drought in France is mainly the
lack of rain, but in addition it was very warm in April and also
in May, so there’s lots of evaporation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 