-- 
French Wheat Crop to Slide Below 35 Million Tons, Adviser Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-17T08:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/french-wheat-crop-to-slide-below-35-million-tons-adviser-says.html
France ’s soft-wheat harvest will drop
below 35 million metric tons, the smallest crop in at least four
years, as a drought in the country devastates yields, farm
adviser Offre et  Demande Agricole  said.  Production will drop below last year’s 35.6 million tons,
even as farmers planted the most soft wheat in three years,
Alexandre Marie, a wheat analyst at Bourges, France-based Offre
et Demande, said via telephone late yesterday.  “It’s already clear we have irreversible damage due to the
drought,” Marie said. “We’ll have a catastrophe.”  Soils in France’s northern half, which grows 80 percent of
the country’s wheat, were the driest in half a century at the
end of April, the  Environment Ministry  said yesterday. France’s
wheat crop, the European Union’s largest, is in a “danger
zone” because of the drought, the national crops office said
May 11.  Soft-wheat planting in France for harvesting this year
climbed 2 percent to 5.02 million hectares (12.4 million acres),
crops office FranceAgriMer estimates.  A lack of rain since the start of the year means nitrogen
fertilizer hasn’t been washed into the soil, resulting in “very
bad” absorption of the nutrient by wheat plants, according to
Marie. French deliveries of nitrogen fertilizer from July to
February rose 18 percent to 1.61 million tons, France’s
fertilizer-industry association said last week.  Dry April  France just had its second-hottest April since 1900 and one
of the driest since 1953, according to the  Agriculture Ministry .
The heat and lack of rain mean wheat crops are now about three
weeks ahead of normal development, Marie said.  “What is certain is that there are people who will receive
harvest insurance because of the drought,” the analyst said.  Marie said some French farmers with mixed production of
livestock and grains have started cutting their immature grain
for use as silage, green fodder that’s stored in silos or stacks
for  animal feed .  French livestock farmers face a shortage of forage for
their animals as drought threatens to reduce production of straw
and grass, farm lobby FNSEA said last week.  “There are already livestock breeders that will use wheat
as silage,” Marie said. “The farmers are saying, ‘I won’t go
to the end because I could lose my wheat crop, when I need to
feed my livestock now.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 