-- 
Gamesa to Supply $2 Billion of Turbines to Caparo in Largest Indian Order

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T12:18:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/gamesa-to-supply-2-billion-of-turbines-to-caparo-for-indian-wind-projects.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA,  Europe ’s
second-largest wind-turbine maker, agreed to supply $2 billion
of  wind turbines  to Indian renewable-energy developer  Caparo
Energy Ltd. (CEL)  in the nation’s largest order ever.  Spain ’s biggest windmill manufacturer said it will deliver
the turbines by 2016 in a press release today. The 2,000-
megawatt order is India’s largest to date, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “It’s for about $2 billion,” Ramesh Kymal, managing
director of Gamesa’s India unit, told a press conference in
Mumbai. “We’ve received an upfront payment in line with normal
commercial terms.”  Europe’s wind-turbine makers face a home market that’s
still depressed by the financial crisis and are stepping up
sales in India, which installed the most new wind capacity last
year behind China and the U.S. The companies are challenging the
market dominance of Indian manufacturer  Suzlon Energy Ltd.. (SUEL)   Gamesa’s shares rose as much as 2.9 percent in  Madrid , the
most since May 13, and traded at 6.39 euros, up 1.7 percent, as
of 12:25 local time. London-listed Caparo, whose investors
include  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset manager, fell
0.1 percent to 93.38 pounds.  In 18 months since entering India, Gamesa has become the
third-biggest supplier after grabbing 10 percent of
installations in the fiscal year ended March 31, according to
the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers Association. Suzlon
installed 41 percent of the 2,351 megawatts of new capacity
followed by Enercon GmbH’s Indian unit with 21 percent.  Caparo Financing  Guernsey, U.K.-based Caparo aims to develop as much as
5,000 megawatts of capacity in India by 2017. Chief Executive
Ravi Kailas told reporters today that Caparo’s first 100
megawatts of capacity begin operating in June. It’s part of a
$1.28 billion order for 1,000 megawatts of turbines placed with
Suzlon in January.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is helping Caparo to raise mezzanine loans
to fund 600 megawatts, Caparo Chief Executive Officer Ravi
Kailas told reporters. Mezzanine debt is a type of leveraged
loan repaid after senior loans in a default.  “We hope to close soon,” he said. It has drawn down part
of the 4.5 billion rupee ($101.5 million) loan it got from
Infrastructure Development Finance Co. last year, he said.  The company only has sufficient cash to build about 195
megawatts and may need to raise 195 million pounds by early 2012
to meet its targets,  Mark Thompson , a London-based analyst for
Religare Institutional Research, said in a note on April 13.  New Growth Models  Gamesa is boosting sales in India,  Brazil  and  China  as
demand dwindles in Europe. Chief Executive Officer Jorge Calvet
said in February the company, whose stock has increased about 12
percent this year, may make no sales in 2011 in its home market
of Spain, which accounted for a third of revenue in 2009.  Under the deal, Caparo will obtain all land and permits for
the wind farms, while Gamesa will supply and erect the turbines.
That differs from the usual model in India led by Suzlon, which
develops projects from start to finish for customers.  “In most places in the world, you have developers that do
the actual execution on the site and you have the machine
supplier,” Kymal said. “In my opinion, that’s the way we are
going to go in the future and this is the first step.”  Gamesa will supply its 850-kilowatt G58 turbine to Caparo
for the first 150 megawatts to be erected starting next year,
Kymal said. Later, Gamesa will supply its 2-megawatt G97
turbine, which it plans to start manufacturing in  India  in the
first quarter of 2012, he said. Sites are still be selected,
Kailas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  