-- 
Geithner Says IMF Should Appoint Interim Leader After Strauss-Kahn Arrest

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-18T02:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/geithner-says-strauss-kahn-not-in-a-position-to-run-imf-praises-lipsky.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the  International Monetary Fund  needs to formally
name an interim leader after Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s jailing,
as pressure rose on the fund’s managing director to resign.  “It’s important that the board of the IMF formally put in
place for an interim period somebody to act as managing
director,” Geithner said at an event in  New York  yesterday.
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said earlier that
Strauss-Kahn “risks damaging the IMF” and her Spanish
counterpart said he should “use his best judgment.”  Any resignation by Strauss-Kahn, who has been jailed on
charges of sexual assault that he denies, is likely to spark
calls by emerging market nations for an end to  Europe ’s
tradition of naming the IMF chief. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said today that he hopes a candidate from an emerging
economy will take the post.  “There’s been a gradual shift of economic power and
representation to emerging markets but institutions like the IMF
and the  World Bank  are still centered heavily in the West,” said
Joseph Tan, Singapore-based chief economist for  Asia  at Credit
Suisse Private Bank. At the same time, “this episode may not be
enough to shift that balance of power to emerging markets,” he
said.  Brazil’s Take  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that while
Brazil would like to see a merit-based system used to select the
IMF chief, Strauss-Kahn has been an ally of  Brazil  and other
emerging markets seeking greater representation at the
Washington-based lender.  “I am rooting so that this situation resolves itself in a
positive way for him,” Mantega said in an interview yesterday
on Globo television.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is accused of attacking a housekeeper at
a midtown Manhattan hotel and forcing her to perform sex acts.
He denies the charges. Strauss-Kahn was arrested May 14 and
ordered held without bail by Manhattan Criminal Court Judge
Melissa Jackson this week, after prosecutors said he was a
flight risk. The next court date is May 20.  Fekter said “he must consider what needs to be done,”
speaking to reporters in Brussels yesterday.  “There’s a lot going on in the world,” especially in Europe,
and “you want the IMF to have the capacity to be helpful in that
context,” Geithner said. Strauss-Kahn currently is “obviously
not in a position” to run the organization, he said.  The Treasury chief, who previously worked at the IMF, also
said that  John Lipsky , the IMF’s acting managing director who
had been the No. 2 official, is competent and capable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  