-- 
Germany Says Safety Report Rules Out Immediate Nuclear Exit

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-17T12:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/german-safety-report-shows-immediate-nuclear-exit-not-needed.html
Germany  should avoid a sudden retreat
from nuclear energy, based on a report addressing the safety of
the country’s 17 atomic power plants, Environment Minister
Norbert Roettgen said.  “After this report, the responsible path would be not to
exit immediately,” Roettgen said at a press conference in
Berlin today. “The decision has to be on the basis of a
rational method and a thorough assessment.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to accelerate an exit
from atomic energy after the disaster at the Fukushima reactors
in  Japan  stoked safety concerns. In March, she ordered the seven
oldest reactors idled during a three-month review of  energy
policy , driving up European electricity and carbon dioxide
emissions prices on lower supply and as utilities boost output
from fossil-fuel-fired power plants to compensate.  Roettgen stopped short of saying whether the report means
those reactors will restart. The seven oldest plants aren’t as
“robust” as facilities built after 1980, the minister said,
adding that the report will serve as the basis for decisions to
be made by the government on nuclear policy.  Improve Security  “Not all questions could be answered,” he said. “But
this has produced a document that is substantially new.”  German utilities need to improve security at their nuclear
plants against external flooding, the report showed, according
to a copy distributed to reporters in Berlin today.  The Reactor
Safety Commission , which drafted the document, said the risk of
a tsunami like that which caused the disaster in Fukushima can
be “practically ruled out” in Germany.  The report graded plants in three “robustness” categories
for considering risks such as flooding and airplane crashes. No
reactor was graded only at level three, the highest, according
to Rudolf Wieland, who heads the commission which advises the
environment ministry.  The final decision on nuclear energy rests with Germany’s
parliament, Roettgen said, adding that he expects the country’s
four reactor operators to respect a decision scheduled to be
made in Cabinet on June 6.  EON AG,  RWE AG (RWE) ,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  and
Vattenfall AB own Germany’s 17 nuclear power plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at  at
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  