-- 
German Investor Confidence Drops More Than Forecast on Prices, Debt Crisis

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-05-17T10:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/german-investor-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast-on-prices-debt-crisis.html
German investor confidence declined
for a third month in May as faster inflation threatened to curb
 consumer spending  and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, fell to 3.1 from
7.6 in April. Economists expected a drop to 4.5, according to
the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s benchmark DAX share index has lost 3 percent this
month as investors fret about Europe’s fiscal crisis and whether
Greece will need a bigger bailout from its euro-area partners.
While the German economy, Europe’s largest, expanded a more-
than-forecast 1.5 percent in the first quarter, faster inflation
may curb growth and prompt further interest-rate increases from
the  European Central Bank .  “Given the stellar performance of the German economy in
the first quarter of the year, it is only normal that economists
and financial analysts expect the economic situation to
deteriorate during the next six months,” said  Aline Schuiling ,
an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The German
economy should continue to outperform the euro-zone average by a
wide margin.”  Record High  ZEW’s measure of current economic conditions rose to 91.5,
a record high, from 87.1 in April. The euro climbed 0.3 percent
to $1.4195 as of 11:32 a.m. in  London , while the yield on the
German two-year note climbed one basis point to 1.82 percent.  Germany powered economic growth in the euro area in the
first quarter as booming exports prompted companies to increase
hiring, fueling domestic spending.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , earned more money per car in the first quarter
than ever before in its 95-year history. BASF SE, the world’s
biggest chemical company, reported first-quarter profit last
week that beat analysts’ estimates.  Some countries are still struggling to revive their
economies after the region’s debt crisis forced governments to
toughen austerity measures, clouding the growth outlook.
Portugal, which followed Greece and Ireland in seeking European
Union aid, said its economy shrank 0.7 percent in the first
three months of the year.  “The never-ending Greek saga doesn’t really concern the
German economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “Rising energy prices and inflation are far
bigger threats.”  Germany ’s inflation rate surged to 2.7 percent in April
after crude oil rose above $113 a barrel. German  consumer
confidence  is waning as households grapple with higher food and
energy prices, market research company GfK AG said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  