-- 
Glencore Said to Set IPO at or Above Middle of Initial 480-580 Pence Range

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-05-17T13:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/glencore-said-to-price-london-initial-share-sale-for-at-least-530-pence.html
Glencore International Plc, seeking
as much as $11 billion in an initial public offering, will price
the sale at or above the midpoint of its earlier announced
range, according to three people with knowledge of the sale.  Shares in the offer will be sold at 530 pence apiece or
more, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information is private. The company’s initial, May 4 range of
480 pence to 580 pence was revised yesterday to 520 pence to 550
pence, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  Demand for the stock weathered a rout in raw-material
prices in the week ended May 6 that wiped out $99 billion of
market value, the biggest weekly decline in two years. The 19-
member  FTSE 350 Mining Index (F3MNG)  has dropped about 7 percent this
month.  “We find this upward revision quite surprising given the
recent selloff in commodities and decline in mining share
prices,”  Paul Galloway , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd., wrote in a note today, referring to the 520-
pence to 550-pence range reported yesterday. “Glencore stock
appears to be reasonably but not attractively valued” at the
midpoint of that range, he said.  Investors who have set price limits for their orders of
less than 530 pence will probably miss out on acquiring shares
in the offer, one of the people said. A final price of 530 pence
would value Glencore, excluding funds to be raised, at about
$51.6 billion, according to the terms of the sale document.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment.  Aabar, Blackrock  The company is offering as many as 1.25 billion shares. The
IPO, the largest since General Motors Co. sold stock in
November, has attracted investors including  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar
Investments PJSC and BlackRock Inc. Demand has been enough to
sell the shares on offer more than twice over, three people
familiar with the transaction said May 12.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley
are managing the IPO as global coordinators, along with Bank of
America Corp. and BNP Paribas as joint bookrunners. Barclays
Plc, Societe Generale SA and UBS AG are co-bookrunners.  Orders will close at 4 p.m.  London  time today, except for
investors meeting management after this date, according to the
sale document. Glencore expects conditional dealings in the
shares to start on the London Stock Exchange around May 19 and
admission and unconditional trade to begin on May 24.  The company, which trades commodities including coal, oil
and metals, plans to sell about $7.9 billion of new stock, while
existing holders may offload an additional $2.1 billion in
shares for tax purposes and to repay loans. The IPO includes an
overallotment option, known as the greenshoe, of 10 percent of
the offer, allowing Glencore to raise as much as $11 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 