-- 
Global Food Prices Extending Gains Set to Raise Costs for Tyson, Kellogg

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-17T07:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/global-food-prices-extending-gains-set-to-raise-costs-for-tyson-kellogg.html
Global food prices are set to extend
gains as production struggles to keep pace with demand, said
Rabobank Groep and Armajaro Trading Ltd., potentially pushing up
costs for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Kellogg Co. (K)   “My view is the only way would be up” in the longer term,
Jasper van Schaik, regional head Europe Agri Commodities at
Rabobank, said in an interview in Singapore yesterday. “We
can’t create any more land,” said Richard Ryan, chief executive
officer of Armajaro Trading, in a separate interview.  World food costs are near a record as growing demand from
 China  and India outpaces harvests hurt by flood and drought, the
United Nations estimates. Rising prices have pushed 44 million
people into poverty in the past year, helped fuel conflict and
unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and spurred central
banks from Brasilia to Beijing to increase  interest rates . Corn
may have the biggest potential for gains, Schaik said.  “Corn has a pretty bullish stance fundamentally” with low
inventories and the risk of increasing Chinese imports, he said.
Rabobank Groep is the world’s biggest agricultural lender and
the bank’s  Wayne Gordon  in Sydney correctly predicted in March
that sugar and cotton prices would decline.  The United Nations food price index climbed nine times in
the past 10 months, and held near a record in April after the
worst drought in at least half a century in  Russia  and floods in
 Australia  pushed up prices of everything from wheat to beef.  Tyson, Kellogg  Tyson Foods, the biggest U.S. meat processor, estimates the
increase in corn and soybean costs is approaching $500 million
from the year ago, said James V. Lochner, chief operating
officer, on a conference call May 9. The company has “no choice
but to pass along these costs,” he said.  Grain supplies are relatively limited and demand is rising,
said John A. Bryant, chief executive officer of Kellogg, the
largest U.S. maker of breakfast cereal, on May 4.  “We would look at 2012 and say yes, it’s probably going to
be inflationary,” he said on a conference call. “We are in a
long-term upward trend on cost of goods.”  As the world population grows, there will be pressure on
prices unless crop yields can increase to meet demand, said
Armajaro’s Ryan yesterday. Armajaro Trading, founded in 1998,
specializes in sourcing cocoa, coffee and sugar and employs more
than 2,000 people globally, according to its website. Both
Schaik and Ryan were in  Singapore  for a commodity conference.  Global Stockpiles  Increasing prices may curb demand and prompt farmers to
plant more, increasing supplies. U.S. corn  stockpiles  before
next year’s harvest may climb to 900 million bushels from a 15-
year low of 730 million this year, the Department of Agriculture
said May 11. Wheat inventories may total 702 million bushels,
more than the 683 million expected by analysts, the USDA said.  While reserves may increase, for some agricultural
commodities global inventories have been shrinking relative to
the growth in annual consumption, according to USDA data.  “The world cannot afford any crop problem this year,
anywhere,” Steve Nicholson, a commodity procurement specialist
at International Food Products Corp., a distributor and adviser
on food ingredients in Fenton,  Missouri , said last month.
“Without a cushion of inventories, any production hiccup in the
northern hemisphere this year will be catastrophic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  