-- 
Goffer Jury Set for Insider Trading Trial to Start Tomorrow in New York

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/goffer-jury-selected-for-insider-trading-trial-in-new-york-1-.html
Opening arguments are scheduled today
after a jury was selected yesterday for the trial of Zvi Goffer
and two others on insider-trading charges in a probe related to
the prosecution of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  A panel of 12 jurors and three alternates was chosen after
two days of questioning by U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan 
in federal court in  Manhattan . Dozens of the potential jurors,
out of an original pool of 100, said they had heard news about
the trial of Rajaratnam, who was convicted on all 14 counts
against him.  Jurors selected for the trial include a Bronx woman who
works at a nonprofit organization that helps victims of violence
and abuse, a retired obstetrician from northern Westchester
County, a man in charge of admissions for an acting school and a
freelance interior designer.  Goffer, 34, is a former deputy of Rajaratnam’s who left
Galleon to work at Schottenfeld Group LLC and then founded his
own firm, Incremental Capital LLC. His brother, Emanuel Goffer,
32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both ex-traders at Incremental,
are codefendants in a second round of cases growing out of a
nationwide insider-trading investigation.  Referred to by some of his alleged accomplices as
“Octopussy,” Zvi Goffer was at the center of the insider-
trading scheme, one of three overlapping rings tied to Galleon,
according to prosecutors. The reference to the 1983 James Bond
movie was due to Goffer’s many sources of information,
prosecutors have said.  Delay Denied  The Goffer brothers and Kimelman are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud. They face as long as 20 years
in prison if convicted of fraud. Emanuel Goffer last week lost a
bid for a two-week postponement of the trial because of what he
called “inflammatory” publicity from Rajaratnam’s May 11
conviction.  Prosecutors allege that Zvi Goffer paid tens of thousands
of dollars to two Ropes & Gray LLP attorneys for information on
transactions the law firm was handling.  The government says Goffer’s sources passed tips on
acquisitions of companies including 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma
Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp. The Goffer trial, like
that of Rajaratnam, will feature conversations secretly recorded
by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  The scheme netted at least $20 million in profit, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission alleged when it filed a
related civil lawsuit. All three men denied wrongdoing.  Blog About Ponytails  Yesterday afternoon, after narrowing the jury pool to about
45 from 100, Sullivan asked potential jurors for basic
information about their families, occupations and places of
residence. Sullivan also asked about favorite television
programs, books and hobbies, learning that one woman maintains a
blog about ponytails.  Questioning the next potential juror, a man with a shaved
head, Sullivan asked, “You don’t read blogs about ponytails?”
eliciting laughter from the courtroom.  “You and me both,” Sullivan joked, running a hand over
his own receding hairline.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  