-- 
Goldman, Druckenmiller, Karan Boost South Africa School Charity

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/goldman-druckenmiller-karan-boost-south-africa-school-charity.html
The son of a former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  executive,  Jacob Lief  emulated the fundraising
strategies of charities with Wall Street ties to help schools in
 South Africa .  He built a database of likely donors, such as hedge-fund
titan Stanley F. Druckenmiller, Nobel Peace Prize winner
Archbishop Desmond Tutu and fashion designer  Donna Karan .  His  Ubuntu Education Fund  has supported education and
health care for more than 24,000 poor, orphaned or abused
children in townships near Port Elizabeth in South Africa’s
Eastern Cape Province. It also helps with exam preparation,
career guidance and college scholarships.  “With daily interventions of medical, psycho-social,
educational and nutritional support, we take a child from
incredible hardship and get him through university,” said Lief,
Ubuntu’s president and co-founder, in an interview at Bloomberg
News headquarters.  Tonight, Karan is donating space for an Ubuntu fundraiser
co-hosted by actor Joaquin Phoenix and author  Salman Rushdie  at
her Urban Zen Foundation headquarters in Manhattan’s West
Village. Other guests include actors Liv Tyler and Marisa Tomei.
The hip-hop/neo-soul group  The Roots  will supply the music.  Ubuntu’s  New York  gala in November drew 700 attendees and
raised a record $2 million for the charity. The South African-
American musician  Dave Matthews  performed before donors and
guests including Druckenmiller, Goldman Chief Financial Officer
David Viniar, actor  Robert De Niro  and New York Jets quarterback
 Mark Sanchez .  No Chalk  Lief was studying diplomatic history at the  University of
Pennsylvania  and planning on a business career when his goals
shifted during a 1998 visit to South Africa. He saw poor schools
that used abandoned shipping containers for classrooms. He
visited classrooms where the blackboards were blank because the
schools couldn’t afford chalk.  Returning to school, he tapped his credit cards and raised
$300 with a raffle to launch the Ubuntu Education Fund the
following year.  “My father was very supportive when I wanted to do this,”
Lief said about Daniel Lief, an Ubuntu advisory board member.
“People were very skeptical at first, but my dad said whatever
you do, just go into it 100 percent.”  Earlier this month, Ubuntu raised $1.2 million at an event
in  London  where it has an office. The event’s co-hosts were Earl Charles Spencer, the brother of the late Princess of  Wales , and
Richard Gnodde, the London-based co-chief executive officer of
Goldman’s European division.  Growing Budget  In 12 years, the charity’s budget has grown to $6.2 million
from a few thousand dollars. Lief now oversees a staff of 80 in
London, New York and Ubuntu’s headquarters in  Port Elizabeth ,
South Africa.  “We’re not Robin Hood, and you’re not going to see your
name in lights,” said Lief, referring to the New York-based
poverty fighting foundation supported by many hedge-fund
executives. “We’re getting people who really care about this
cause.”  The money raised tonight will be used to help Ubuntu’s
nutrition program for orphans and poor children.  One of Ubuntu’s first Wall Street supporters early on was
Harvard Business School professor Robert S. Kaplan, a former
Goldman vice chairman who oversaw the investment banking and
investment management units. In the past two years ago, the
charity has lured more Goldman and finance industry donors, Lief
said.  “What our donors like about us is that we run our own
program, we know where we’re spending the money and we’re not
giving it to another organization to hand out,” he said. “I
look these people in the eye and I say, ‘I won’t let you down, I
want to make this work.’”  (Ubuntu Education Fund’s “A Spring Evening” event is
tonight at Urban Zen, 705 Greenwich St. in  Manhattan , from 7 to
11. Tickets are $250 and $600. Information:
 a.spring.evening@gmail.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 