-- 
Golf-Course Hamlet of 29 Shows Why States Want to Erase Towns

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/golf-course-hamlet-of-29-shows-why-states-want-to-erase-towns.html
U.S. politicians facing budget
deficits are gunning for hamlets such as  Green Hills , a square-
mile Pennsylvania borough with 29 residents that exists to allow
alcohol at a golf course.  The town was created in 1978 so it could apply for a state
liquor license for  Lone Pine Country Club . It has an annual
budget of about $10,000 to pay a solicitor and contract with a
volunteer fire department in the surrounding township, according
to Terry D. George, club pro and mayor. He was  elected  in 2005
with all five votes cast.  “I don’t think there’s any logical way to try to pretend
that it makes any sense,” J. Bracken Burns Sr., a commissioner
in  Washington County , home to Green Hills about 35 miles (56
kilometers) southwest of Pittsburgh, said in a telephone
interview.  Pennsylvania faces a budget deficit next year forecast at
$4.2 billion. With shortfalls nationwide that could reach  $112
billion  in the next fiscal year, states including  Ohio , New
Jersey and  Michigan  are pushing school districts and local
governments -- each with its own officials and budgets -- to
share more services and to consolidate for the sake of
efficiency and cost.  Green Hills, named after the rolling hills of the 175-acre
golf course and a 300-acre horse farm, also has four homes. In
an interview at the club, George, 63, points to three binders
and a few manila folders sitting under his PGA hat that contain
most of the borough’s records. Why did he become mayor?  “Someone has to do it,” he said.  Giving Up Control  State Representative Thomas R. Caltagirone, a Democrat from
Reading, introduced  a bill  last year that would require
consolidation among the commonwealth’s 2,652 boroughs --30
percent of which have 1,000 or fewer residents, according to the
 Pennsylvania Department of Economic Development . Residents and
elected officials are loath to surrender control, he said.  “A lot of them know in their hearts it’s the right thing
to do, but politically they’re afraid to touch it,” Caltagirone
said in a telephone interview.  In Ohio, Governor  John Kasich  has suggested a bipartisan
panel similar to the federal  Base Closure and Realignment
Commission  to analyze consolidations and document the benefits.  “If you can’t show that there’s something to be gained,
you’re not going to get it done,” Kasich said in a telephone
interview.  Old and Over  One state to the west, Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels has
proposed eliminating the state’s 1,008 township governments,
calling them “venerable but obsolete” in his State of the
State  address  this year. Cutting their three-member elected
boards alone would save about $2 million a year, Chris Ruhl,
director of the  Indiana Office of Management and Budget , said in
a telephone interview.  “I’ve never seen such a consistent push across so many
different states and across so many different municipalities to
say, ‘We have to look at this,’”  Charles Zettek Jr.,  vice
president of the  Center for Governmental Research  in Rochester,
New York, said in a telephone interview. The nonprofit center
has advised governments about consolidation in New York,  New
Jersey  and Ohio.  Justifying duplication is difficult with revenue still
rebounding from recession, said  Scott Pattison , executive
director of the Washington-based  National Association of State
Budget Officers .  “People are saying, ‘Come on, we know why you would want
to keep it this way, but we just can’t continue to afford it,’”
Pattison said in a telephone interview.  Mere Numbers  Local governments already share, and the idea that larger
is less expensive and more efficient is a myth, said Matthew
DeTemple, director of the  Ohio Township Association .  “Counting up the number of local governments is a canard,
a red herring that doesn’t tell you anything,” he said.  Gene Krebs , a former Ohio representative, county
commissioner and school board member, said the state is “wildly
overgoverned.”  “Whenever people say, ‘Well, we share services,’ I go,
‘Yeah, you share services the way my diet works: It works really
good until I see chocolate cake,’” Krebs, now senior director
of government affairs and policy for  Greater Ohio Policy Center ,
a Columbus-based nonprofit organization, said in a telephone
interview.  Measured by Horse  The Buckeye State has nearly 3,700 local government
entities -- including villages of as few as 27 people, according
to the  U.S. Census Bureau . The boundaries of its counties and
townships were established in the 19th century so someone could
make a round-trip to the county seat by horse and buggy in one
day, said  Auditor Dave Yost . He has proposed making it easier
for the state’s  1,308 townships  to merge.  “I think there is political will because there’s a lack of
wallet,” he said.  In New Jersey, Governor  Chris Christie  is using financial
pressure to nudge governments together. He has said he hopes his
2 percent cap on annual property-tax increases will force some
of his 566 municipalities and 591 school districts to merge.  A citizen commission is studying a consolidation of
 Princeton Borough , which had 13,381 residents based on 2009 U.S.
Census estimates, with surrounding  Princeton Township ,
population 17,404. Voters rejected three previous efforts,
according to the  Center for Governmental Research , a consultant
on the project.  The Princetons had combined budgets of $60.7 million last
year, and might save $3.3 million by joining forces, according
to a center  report . That includes $2.1 million from combining
the police departments, which operate with their own chiefs,
dispatching services and communications frequencies, the report
said.  Taking on Debt  The municipalities had $106 million in debt as of last
November, according to a center  analysis . A merged entity would
assume it all,  Joseph Stefko , the center’s director of public
finance, said in a telephone interview.  That’s typically the way debt is handled under such
consolidations, said John Hallacy, manager of municipal research
for  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  in  New York . Refinancing debt
may make sense, depending on credit ratings, tax rates and
interest costs, though forced redemption would not necessarily
be required, Hallacy said in a telephone interview.  ‘Multiplicity of Municipalities’  Although former New Jersey Governor  Jon Corzine  created a
commission in 2007 to study local and county governments, none
have merged since 1997, according to the State League of
Municipalities.  Christie said at a May 3 town-hall meeting in Manalapan he
would not force mergers. He supports legislation that would use
incentives and penalties to encourage consolidation, he said.  Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett has said he doesn’t want
to force consolidation, leaving that decision to local officials
and residents.  That time may come for Green Hills. Burns, a Washington
County commissioner since 1996, said he has complained for years
about what he called the “multiplicity of municipalities” in
the Commonwealth, and he highlights Green Hills in a speech he
delivers calling for consolidation of government entities.  Jodie Main, 30, increased the borough’s population by four
when she and her husband moved there in 2003 and had two
children. Her identity as a Green Hillian is not something
important to her, she said.  “As far as fighting to keep a borough, that’s not a large
factor to me,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  