-- 
Greece Default Risk Increasing Since Arrest of Strauss-Kahn, El-Erian Says

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-05-17T15:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/greece-default-risk-increasing-since-arrest-of-strauss-kahn-el-erian-says.html
The probability of  Greece  defaulting
or restructuring its debt has increased since the arrest of
International Monetary Fund head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said.  “Don’t underestimate how important Dominique Strauss-Kahn
was in coordinating action” among European nations, El-Erian,
the chief executive officer of Pimco, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “It’s
the worst possible time to lose your general. You need the IMF
to coordinate this global healing.”  European finance ministers for the first time have raised
the possibility of talks with bondholders over extending
Greece’s debt-repayment schedule, saying that last year’s 110
billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue has failed to restore the
country to financial health. Europe would consider “reprofiling”
Greek bond maturities as part of a package including stepped-up
sales of state assets and deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said late yesterday.  “He has been getting everybody to play from the same sheet
of music,” said El-Erian, a former deputy managing director of
the IMF. “Without him it will be much more difficult to
coordinate European governments.”  Strauss-Kahn was ordered held without bail yesterday by a
New York judge and sent to the city’s Rikers Island jail complex
after being charged with sexually assaulting and trying to rape
a hotel housekeeper on May 14. Straus-Kahn, the managing
director of the IMF, has denied the allegations.  Greece Bonds  European governments have thus far ruled out shifting some
costs to private bondholders and have instead relied on
taxpayer-funded bailouts to stamp out the region’s sovereign
debt crisis.  Greek two-year yields declined one basis point to 23.4
percent as of 10:35 a.m. in New York. Ten-year yields climbed
two basis points to 15.3 percent.  The  IMF  should focus on qualifications of candidates
instead of geographic locations if a successor to Strauss-Kahn
is sought, El-Erian said. Leaders of the IMF have traditionally
come out of  Europe . At the same time, he downplayed speculation
he was a possible candidate for the post.  “I am very happy in  California ,” El-Erian said, referring
to the Newport Beach headquarters of the world’s biggest manager
of bond funds. “I have one of the best jobs in the world.”  Financial Repression  Investors should focus on economies with strong balance
sheets that are growing, including  Canada ,  Australia  and a
number of emerging market economies that are not going to impose
what Pimco has dubbed financial repression, El-Erian said.
Corporate bonds offer value in the U.S., he said.  “There are lots of opportunities if you understand what
game is being played,” he said.  In a  report  aimed at establishing a worldview for investors
in the next three to five years, El-Erian described financial
repression yesterday as the prospect of policy makers trying to
force savers to accept returns below the rate of inflation as
the governments grapple with budget deficits.  A fight over taxes and the scale of U.S. spending cuts
between Republicans and Democrats remain the biggest obstacles
to a deficit-cutting plan that Obama administration and
congressional leaders say is necessary for an agreement to raise
the U.S. debt ceiling.  “We’ve seen some progress toward mini bargains but not
grand bargains,” El-Erian said. “We don’t need to agree on
every step but let’s get going before it gets worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  