-- 
German Bonds Rise; Luxembourg’s Juncker Proposes ‘Reprofiling’ Greek Debt

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-05-17T16:41:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/greek-government-bonds-are-mixed-after-juncker-tables-debt-reprofiling-.html
German bonds rose as Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ’s proposed “reprofiling” of Greek
maturities failed to ease concern that Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening, bolstering demand for the least risky securities.  Greek bonds closed lower after initially gaining on
speculation Juncker’s proposal would limit losses for private
bondholders. Portuguese bonds fell after yesterday’s decision by
European finance chiefs to endorse a 78 billion-euro ($111
billion) bailout for the Iberian nation. Bunds were also lifted
as data showed investor confidence in Europe’s largest economy
fell for a third month, pushing 10-year yields to within two
basis points of a two-month low.  “The talk of a Greek debt reprofiling is a driver, as it
is certainly not a simple issue to resolve,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in London. “The market is probably factoring
in the issue dragging on for a number of weeks at least, and
this is another driver for bunds.”  The 10-year bund yield dropped two basis points to 3.09
percent as of 5 p.m. in London. It reached 3.07 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since March 16. The 3.25 percent
security due in July 2021 rose 0.19, or 1.9 euros per 1,000-euro
face amount, to 101.325. Yields on two-year notes also declined
two basis points, to 1.79 percent.  Greek Yields  European governments have thus far ruled out shifting some
costs to private bondholders and have instead relied on
taxpayer-funded bailouts to stamp out the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  Europe  would consider reprofiling Greek bond
maturities as part of a package including stepped-up sales of
state assets and deeper spending cuts, Juncker said yesterday.  “I am strictly opposed to a large restructuring of Greek
debt,” Juncker said today.  Greek two-year yields rose seven basis points to 24.98
percent, after dropping as much as 45 basis points earlier
today. The 4.6 percent security due in May 2013 lost 0.05, or 50
euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,416) face amount, to 70.65. Ten-
year yields were little changed at 15.63 percent.  German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said any
reprofiling of Greek debt would entail “purely” an extension
of maturities. Reprofiling is only an option at present, and
Greek asset sales are essential to cut debt, Asmussen said in
Brussels today.  Greek Deputy Foreign Minister Spyros Kouvelis said the
nation is willing to engage in talks on “soft” restructuring,
Reuters reported, citing an interview in Beijing. “If it’s
necessary, we will of course be willing to discuss such
things,” Kouvelis told Reuters.  Greek Bill Sale  Greece  sold 1.625 billion euros of 13-week Treasury bills
at an average yield of 4.06 percent. Investors bid for 3.3 times
the amount of securities on offer, compared with a so-called
bid-to-cover of 3.45 at the previous auction of similar-maturity
securities held on April 19, which were sold at a yield of 4.10
percent. Foreign investors bought 31 percent of the bills sold
at the auction, Petros Christodoulou, head of the Athens-based
Public Debt Management Agency, said by e-mail.  “For the moment the market seems to be interpreting
‘reprofiling’ as meaning extended maturities and not a
restructuring,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist
at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, the Netherlands. “If they succeed
in reducing the burden on Greece and at the same time prevent
writedowns on privately held bonds, then this could be positive
for the market.”  German Confidence  German investor confidence declined this month as faster
inflation threatened to curb  consumer spending  and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis worsened. The ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and
analyst expectations, which aims to predict developments six
months in advance, declined to 3.1 from 7.6 in April. Economists
expected a drop to 4.5, according to the median of 31 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  ZEW’s measure of current economic conditions rose to 91.5,
a record, from 87.1 in April. The euro gained 0.4 percent to
$1.4206.  The ECB left its benchmark rate unchanged at 1.25 percent
on May 5 though President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers
continue to see “upward pressure” on inflation.  German bonds have handed investors a 0.8 percent loss this
year, compared with a 2.1 percent return for Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Portuguese Yields, Euribor  Portuguese 10-year yields increased four basis points to
9.01 percent after the country become the third member of the
17-nation currency bloc after Greece and Ireland to receive
emergency loans from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund . Two-year Portuguese notes rose, reducing yields
by 15 basis points to 10.47 percent.  Euribor futures rose, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December 2011 two basis points lower to
2.02 percent as traders cut bets that the ECB will tighten
policy. The rate has climbed from 1.65 percent on Dec. 31.  Spain  sold 4.27 billion euros of 12-month bills at an
average yield of 2.546 percent, and 1.2 billion euros of 18
month bills at 3.095 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  