-- 
Gupta Secretly Defied McKinsey Before SEC Tip Accusation

-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r ,   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-05-17T17:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/gupta-secretly-defied-mckinsey-before-sec-s-tipster-accusation.html
On a sunny Friday afternoon in June
2003, Rajat Gupta was greeted at his waterfront home in
Westport, Connecticut, by scores of his McKinsey & Co. partners.
They had come from  London , Frankfurt,  New Delhi  and other cities
around the world -- and brought along an elephant, which they
tethered on the front lawn.  Gupta was stepping down after nine years as managing
director of the global consulting firm, and his colleagues were
gathered to celebrate his tenure and wish him the best in the
next phase of his career.  They offered champagne toasts and took photos of Gupta,
standing next to the elephant, which was draped in a brightly
colored shawl called a jhool. The decorated elephant represented
the Hindu god Ganesh, who bestows good fortune on new ventures.
Gupta smiled as he rested his arm on its trunk, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its July issue.  Today, some of those same people say they’re stunned by
what they’ve since learned about Gupta. In March, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filed an  administrative order 
against him saying that he had passed confidential information
to hedge fund billionaire  Raj Rajaratnam , the central figure in
the biggest crackdown on insider trading in U.S. history.  Rajaratnam was convicted on 14 counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud on May 11 and could face 19 years in prison,
pending his July 29 sentencing in federal court.  Double Life  Government wiretaps and phone records show that Gupta
called Rajaratnam nine times in 2008 and 2009, giving the hedge
fund manager information to make trades for his New York-based
Galleon Group LLC.  Gupta, 62, who divides his time between his Connecticut
home, a Manhattan apartment and a Florida getaway, has lived a
double life. For 34 years until 2007, he worked for  McKinsey ,
including nine years as the top executive of one of the world’s
most trusted and prestigious consulting firms.  He was the confidant of chief executive officers such as
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Lloyd Blankfein  and  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) ’s former head A. G. Lafley. Gupta sat on the boards of both
of those companies -- and he was a director at four other
publicly traded corporations.  As a philanthropist, Gupta raised millions of dollars for
education and health care, especially in  India  where he was born
and to which he wanted to give back. He’s done charitable work
with Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates , former U.S.
President Bill Clinton and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.
Friends describe him as brilliant and humble.  Keeping Secrets  At McKinsey, a firm known for keeping secrets, Gupta
harbored a few of his own. As the managing director and then as
senior partner of McKinsey for four more years before he
retired, he ran his own consulting business on the side -- a
violation of McKinsey rules.  He and Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey partner who last year
pleaded guilty to passing confidential information to
Rajaratnam, set up their own consulting company. Gupta also
independently advised  Genpact Ltd. (G) , a Gurgaon, India-based firm
that manages business processes for other companies. That work,
too, broke McKinsey’s rules.  “It has always been a clear violation of our values and
professional standards for any firm member to provide consulting
or advisory services outside of McKinsey for personal monetary
gain,” says Michael Stewart, a McKinsey partner and director of
communications.  McKinsey conducted an internal investigation of Gupta and
Kumar, and has cooperated with prosecutors and the SEC.  Off Track  During the past decade, Gupta, who was already a
millionaire, began to veer off track. He spent more time with
Wall Street money managers. He told colleagues that he wanted to
be a dealmaker, not just a consultant. Gupta declined to comment
on what he told his colleagues or on anything else reported in
this story.  While Gupta was devoted to his philanthropy in India, his
quest to amass great wealth led him to lapses in judgment, says
Bala Balachandran, dean of the  Great Lakes Institute of
Management  in Chennai, India, and a friend for almost three
decades.  “He wanted a billionaire’s life and the question for him
was how could he become a billionaire in a short time,”
Balachandran says.  Gupta, a man to whom corporate chieftans turned for advice
and counsel, chose poorly when it came to investment partners.  In December 2006, two years before he reached McKinsey’s
mandatory retirement age of 60, Gupta co-founded private equity
firm New Silk Route Partners with investors, three of whom had
previously paid fines to settle SEC actions against them.  The Fines  Among the three was Rajaratnam, whose Galleon Group paid a
$2 million fine and forfeited profits to the government in May
2005 to settle an SEC  complaint  it had made improper trades. He
neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  Two other investors in New Silk Route, Parag Saxena and
Victor Menezes, like Gupta, had connections in the U.S. and
India.  Saxena, a former money manager, paid a $250,000 fine in
1994 to  settle  civil claims that he had received pre-initial-
public-offering stock in companies at big discounts and then
recommended the shares to his clients at Chancellor Capital
Management Inc., after the companies went public.  In January 2006, Menezes, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  senior
vice chairman, paid $2.7 million in a fine and forfeited trading
profits to the U.S. to settle  SEC charges  that he sold Citigroup
holdings ahead of an announcement of losses from a subsidiary in
Argentina. Both men neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  Balachandran says he warned Gupta of his choice of business
partners.  ‘The Chicken Flu’  “You’re an eagle, so why do you want to be with these
chickens who can’t fly?,” Balachandran says he told Gupta.
“You’ll get the chicken flu.”  Gupta hasn’t been charged with a crime in the Galleon
insider trading scandal. The SEC administrative action against
him is a civil complaint -- and the most that could happen to
him is a fine and a consent decree that could bar him from
serving on public company boards in the U.S.  Gupta and Rajaratnam have known each other since the 1990s,
and their relationship is both personal and professional. Gupta
invested $10 million of his own money with Rajaratnam, according
to Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis . Gupta gave Rajaratnam more
than money; he passed along information on Goldman and P&G,
prosecutors said during Rajaratnam’s trial in Manhattan.  Unindicted Co-Conspirator  Justice Department prosecutors called Gupta an unindicted
co-conspirator. They presented wiretap evidence to the
Rajaratnam jury showing that Gupta had told the hedge fund
manager that in 2008 Goldman Sachs’s board was discussing
possible acquisitions of American International Group Inc. or
Wachovia Corp.  Gupta also gave Rajaratnam early word on earnings at
Goldman Sachs and P&G, the SEC says in its action.  Gupta sent an e-mail in late February to fellow directors
of the Indian School of Business, declaring his innocence.  “I have done nothing wrong,” he wrote to the board of the
school, which he co-founded in 2001 in Hyderabad. “The SEC’s
allegations are totally baseless.”  For the 85-year-old McKinsey, the Kumar conviction and the
SEC action against Gupta have been a blow to its elite image.
The firm counts among its clients hundreds of the world’s
leading corporations, including Bloomberg LP, and governments.  Old Boys’ Club  Consultants never talk about their clients in public, and
the firm won’t even disclose customers’ identities. Leaders of
major companies have started their careers at McKinsey,
including Boeing Co. CEO Jim McNerney, former American Express
Co. head Harvey Golub and one-time International Business
Machines Corp. CEO Lou Gerstner.  For decades, until the 1970s, the firm was the ultimate old
boys’ club, where consultants were required to wear hats and
long, dark-colored socks, with white, button-down cotton shirts
and conservative suits. Gupta was the first nonwhite and non-
U.S.-born elected managing director of the firm.  McKinsey veterans have been deeply troubled by Gupta’s run-
in with the SEC.  “I was shocked, totally and completely shocked, at the
news of the allegations,” says Ian Davis, who succeeded Gupta
as McKinsey’s managing director from 2003 until 2009 and is now
a director of BP Plc and Johnson & Johnson.  Gupta got caught up in envy and emulation of the super-
rich, says Terry Connelly, dean of the Ageno School of Business
at Golden Gate University in San Francisco.  ‘Seductive Power’  “You can never underestimate the seductive power of three
or more zeroes added to net-worth numbers,” says Connelly, a
former managing director at Salomon Brothers Inc. “You can be
successful, but if you’re in hedge fund managers’ circles and
you’re not rich like them, you can start asking, ‘Why can’t I
get that? I’m every bit as smart.’”  Smart is a word people often use when describing Gupta. His
ascent from lower-middle-class roots in Kolkata to the top of
McKinsey is a triumph of brainpower and drive.  He was born in December 1948, 14 months after India became
independent of British rule. His father, a journalist who worked
for two newspapers, fought for India’s independence and was
jailed several times for his political activism. His mother was
a teacher in a Montessori school.  The family moved to New Delhi when Gupta was five. He, his
two sisters and younger brother attended  Modern School,  one of
India’s few English-language, Western-style high schools at the
time -- located off what was then New Delhi’s most exclusive
shopping district,  Connaught Place .  Orphaned at 18  Gupta was orphaned at age 18 after both his parents died of
natural causes within two years of each other. He persuaded an
unmarried aunt to live with him and his siblings, according to a
1994 interview Gupta gave to ‘Business Today,’ an Indian
magazine.  He said he was shattered by his father’s death and became
very studious, careful never to make a mistake that could cost
him his high school scholarship.  Gupta ranked in the top 20 applicants among hundreds of
thousands of Indian youth who took the entrance examination in
1966 for a spot at the elite  Indian Institute of Technology ,
according to an interview he gave to the “Economic Times” of
India when he became head of McKinsey.  He chose the Delhi campus, which kept him close to home
and, in 1971, he earned a bachelor’s degree in mechanical
engineering. His main leisure activity was acting in plays in
the school’s drama club, where he met his future wife, Anita
Mattoo, an electrical engineering student.  Choosing Harvard  In the socialist India of the 1970s, white-collar positions
outside the civil service were scarce. Gupta got his first job
offer from  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , a British-owned company that sold
cigarettes and ran hotels. He turned it down when he was
admitted to  Harvard Business School  on scholarship.  The academic workload was unrelenting for most but not for
Gupta, says John Carberry, who lived in the same Boston
dormitory and was Gupta’s friend.  “Sometimes we’d still be doing cases at 2 a.m., but he’d
be done by 11 p.m. and lying on his bed, watching Johnny Carson,” says Carberry, who’s now president of Wellesley,
Massachusetts-based  F.L. Putnam Investment Management Co . “But
if you had problems with your schoolwork, he’d always help.”  At a time when students at Harvard Business School were
overwhelmingly white, Gupta stood out culturally and
intellectually, Carberry says.  “Gupta was unassuming and humble,” he says. “When he
spoke in class, though, everyone put their pencils down and
listened. He was the smartest guy in my section, just
brilliant.”  Baker Scholar  Gupta became a Baker Scholar, a distinction earned by the
top 5 percent of students in his graduating class in 1973. With
his Master of Business Administration degree, he applied for a
spot with McKinsey.  Even with his stellar academic record, the firm turned him
down. Walter Salmon, one of Gupta’s professors who had McKinsey
connections, wrote Gupta a recommendation, and the consulting
firm decided to hire him in  New York .  Gupta advanced steadily, becoming a McKinsey partner in
1980 and moving to Copenhagen the following year. In 1984, Gupta
began overseeing all of the firm’s business in Scandinavia. He
moved to McKinsey’s  Chicago  office in 1987 and became head there
in 1989. The office served many of the region’s manufacturing
and consumer products companies.  James Kilts, a former CEO of Nabisco Group Holdings Corp.
and Gillette Co., says he was impressed when he first met Gupta
in Chicago in the late 1980s. Kilts was then an executive at
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , and Gupta advised him about strategy for
cheese products.  ‘Self-Deprecating’  “He was very thoughtful and self-deprecating,” Kilts
says. “He could take a complicated subject and simplify it.”
Kilts kept in touch with Gupta as both men advanced. “You could
always learn something from him,” he says.  Gupta’s big career leap came in 1994, when McKinsey held
elections for a new leader, something that happens every three
years. The firm’s 427 partners nominated seven of their peers in
the order they preferred. After several rounds of ballots,
Gupta, who was 45 at the time, was elected. He became McKinsey’s
youngest managing director.  McKinsey grew rapidly under his leadership. He won re-
election twice, and during his three terms, the maximum the firm
allows, revenue increased to $3.4 billion from $1.2 billion. The
number of partners rose to 891, according to  Kennedy Information
LLC , a research firm that tracks the consulting industry.  McKinsey opened 26 new offices globally under Gupta,
who pursued global expansion in India,  China  and other emerging
markets where the firm’s biggest clients increasingly were doing
business.  Internet Startups  As the tech boom took hold in the 1990s, Gupta pushed
McKinsey to take on Internet startups as clients, even when they
could pay only in stock. That broke from the firm’s tradition of
serving mostly blue-chip clients who paid fees. The equity,
which McKinsey accepted from about 150 fledgling firms, went
into a profit pool for partners, according to former partners.  Client demand for McKinsey services declined following the
bursting of the Internet bubble in 2000.  Global Crossing Ltd. (GLBC) ,
Kmart Corp., Swiss International Air Lines AG and other
companies McKinsey had advised filed for bankruptcy. The biggest
public embarrassment was Enron Corp.’s collapse.  The Houston-based energy trader, which had been the
seventh-largest company by assets in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, lost almost all of its value when regulators found the
company had used accounting gimmicks to create a massive fraud.  Outside Interests  Enron had McKinsey in its bloodlines. Jeffrey Skilling, the
firm’s CEO, had once been a McKinsey partner, and the consulting
firm had advised the company for 18 years as it transformed
itself from an oil pipeline operator to a derivatives trader.
Skilling was convicted of fraud in 2006 and sentenced to 24
years in federal prison.  As McKinsey’s spate of woes swelled, so did Gupta’s outside
interests. He raised personal donations from India’s top
business executives, including  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) 
Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy, to start the Indian School of
Business.  He also tapped McKinsey consultants based in India,
including Anil Kumar, who would later get caught up in the
Galleon scandal. The school, which has become the most prominent
one-year business school in India, opened in July 2001.  When an earthquake struck the Indian state of Gujarat in
April 2001, Gupta co-founded the  American India Foundation  to
raise funds for victims. The foundation has since raised
millions of dollars from Hollywood stars, executives and money
managers to aid India’s poor.  Secret Business  Rajaratnam and his wife donated $1.5 million to the
foundation in 2006 for an HIV-AIDS program, and made more
donations later.  Gupta’s McKinsey partners supported his philanthropic
efforts. They didn’t, however, know about the for-profit work he
did while still at the firm, according to Stewart, McKinsey’s
director of communications.  In 2001, Gupta and Kumar set up their own consulting
company, Mindspirit LLC, in the names of their wives, Anita
Gupta and Malvika Kumar, according to a filing with the SEC by
Omaha-based InfoGroup Inc. The two men, working for Mindspirit,
gave advice to the company’s CEO, according to the SEC filing.  InfoGroup, a database company, compensated Mindspirit with
200,000 stock options, which the consulting company exercised
for an undisclosed amount, the filing said.  Bill Clinton, honorary chairman of the American India
Foundation and another InfoGroup consultant, according to the
filing, was granted 100,000 stock options he never exercised.  All-Female-Crew  The same filing disclosed the settlement of a shareholder
suit against InfoGroup’s CEO Vinod Gupta for his use of company
funds for personal pleasures. He had 28 club memberships, 20
cars, a yacht with an all-female crew and a private jet he used
to fly his family and friends to Africa, Cancun and Italy.  Vinod Gupta, who’s not related to Rajat Gupta, had
collaborated with Rajat Gupta in building the American India
Foundation. He resigned as CEO in August 2008 and repaid
InfoGroup $9 million, according to the filing.  Another company that Gupta independently advised was
Genpact Ltd., a Gurgaon, India-based company that had been spun
off from General Electric. Genpact’s sole client initially was
GE, to which it provided back-office support.  Stock Options  Gupta was an advisory director from 2005 to 2007, for which
he was granted 81,405 stock options, valued at 93 cents each
then, according to Genpact’s 2008 proxy statement. He hasn’t
exercised the options which expire in 2015, according to company
filings. Genpact shares traded at $16.88 on May 16.  Gupta became enamored of private equity as he saw others on
Wall Street earning far more than he could make at McKinsey. In
2006, he co-founded New Silk Route Partners, which eventually
raised $1.3 billion to invest in India and other emerging
economies, company filings show. Rajaratnam dropped out as a
partner before New Silk Route opened. He invested $50 million in
the firm. He withdrew his stake last year, according to Kathleen
Lacey, an outside spokesperson for New Silk Route.  After retiring from McKinsey in 2007, Gupta globe-trotted
constantly. He traveled to India to look for investments for New
Silk Route and to cities throughout the U.S. and overseas for
meetings at the five public companies and many nonprofit boards
on which he was a director.  Galleon’s Headquarters  When Gupta was in New York, he spent time with Rajaratnam.
According to testimony at Rajaratnam’s trial, Gupta and his New
Silk Route co-founders initially worked in cubicles at Galleon’s
headquarters. New Silk Route later leased an office on Madison
Avenue that was less than a block and a half from Galleon’s.  Gupta, in 2007, joined Rajaratnam and a third partner to
form GB Voyager Multi-Strategy Fund, an investment fund,
contributing $10 million of his own money. The $50 million fund
invested in Galleon hedge funds, including those that traded on
Gupta’s allegedly illegal tips, the SEC says.  Gupta passed confidential information to Rajaratnam in 2008
and 2009, the SEC says. He disclosed information on two calls to
Rajaratnam in September 2008 about the $5 billion investment in
Goldman Sachs from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the
regulator says.  Rajaratnam’s Galleon Technology funds, which held no
Goldman Sachs investments before those calls, bought 120,000
Goldman Sachs shares after Gupta talked to Rajaratnam, the SEC
says. On a telephone conference call at 3:15 p.m. on Sept. 23,
the Goldman Board approved Berkshire’s $5 billion investment.  Passing the Word  “Gupta participated in the board meeting telephonically,
staying connected to the call until approximately 3:53 p.m.,”
the SEC wrote. “Immediately after disconnecting from the board
call, Gupta called Rajaratnam from the same line.  “Within a minute after this telephone conversation, at
3:56 p.m. and 3:57 p.m., and just minutes before the close of
the markets, Rajaratnam caused the Galleon Tech funds to
purchase more than 175,000 additional Goldman shares,” the SEC
wrote.  Galleon made more than $900,000 on the Goldman stock bought
in advance of the announcement of Berkshire’s stake, according
to the SEC.  A month later, Gupta called Rajaratnam 23 seconds after a
Goldman Sachs board call during which senior executives informed
directors of poor results by the bank, the SEC says.  Gupta also knew that Kumar, who was still employed at
McKinsey, was being paid by Rajaratnam from offshore accounts,
according to phone calls tape-recorded by federal investigators.  “You know, Rajat, I’m paying him a million a year for
doing literally nothing,” Rajaratnam told Gupta in a July 2008
call recorded by federal investigators.  ‘Very Generous’  “I think you’re being very generous,” Gupta replied. “He
should sometimes thank you for that, you know?”  Kumar, in pleading guilty, said Rajaratnam paid him $1.75
million to $2 million.  For himself, Gupta wanted at least a 10 percent stake in
the Galleon International Fund, one of Rajaratnam’s hedge funds,
in exchange for attracting investors. In a May 2008 wiretapped
call, Rajaratnam told Kumar that he was ready to offer this to
Gupta.  “He’s not giving me the luxury of saying, ‘Why don’t you
come up with a package?’” Rajaratnam said. “He’s telling me,
‘I want so much.’”  Gupta never got that stake, according to testimony at
Rajaratnam’s trial. The $10 million he invested in the Voyager
fund with Rajaratnam was wiped out in the 2008 global subprime
financial meltdown.  No Profit  Gupta’s New Silk Route private equity fund hasn’t turned a
profit with exits on any of its investments to date, according
to  Venture Intelligence , a Chennai-based research firm that
tracks private equity in India.  Rajaratnam was arrested in October 2009. Gupta left Goldman
Sachs’s board in 2010, remaining a director at AMR, Genpact,
 Harmon International Industries Inc ., P&G and  Sberbank of
Russia. (SBER)   In January 2011, the SEC notified Gupta that it had tied
him to Rajaratnam and would file an administrative action
against Gupta. He gave no hint of his legal perils when, on Feb.
27, he joined friends and business colleagues in a corporate box
at Bangalore’s Chinnaswamy Stadium.  India was facing England in a group stage match in the
Cricket  World Cup .  “He was chatty and looked dapper and cheerful,” says
Shoba Narayan, an Indian author and acquaintance of his.  Gupta had already informed fellow directors at the Indian
School of Business that an SEC action was imminent.  ‘No Tapes’  “Just to be clear: There are no tapes or any other direct
evidence of me tipping Mr. Rajaratnam,” he wrote in the e-mail
he sent directors. “I have spent my entire professional career
zealously guarding the confidences of my clients. There is no
reason for me to suddenly deviate from a lifetime of probity and
honor.”  Gupta flew back to New York after the match, which ended in
a tie. Two days later, on March 1, the SEC filed its
administrative action against Gupta.  Gupta’s civil case is scheduled to be heard by an SEC
administrative judge in July. He has sued to get the case moved
to a federal court. The lawsuit says the SEC administrative
proceedings deny Gupta his right to a jury trial and procedural
protections afforded by court. In a press release responding to
the SEC administrative order on March 1, Naftalis, Gupta’s
lawyer, called the accusations “totally baseless.”  McKinsey Tightens Rules  Meanwhile, McKinsey has tightened its rules, barring
consultants and support staff, as well as their spouses and
children, from investing in any company McKinsey has served in
the past five years or is cultivating. Employees also are
required to take a test about this policy and won’t receive
their bonus unless they achieve a 100 percent score.  Gupta’s former Harvard dorm mate Carberry says he’s
dumbfounded as to what went wrong with his friend.  “If the SEC charges are true, something happened to
Rajat,” he says. “The Rajat I knew at business school was of
the highest integrity. The Rajat I’ve heard on wiretapped
conversations isn’t the person I knew.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at   jhelyar@bloomberg.net 
Carol Hymowitz  chymowitz1@bloomberg.net 
or  jhelyar@bloomberg.net  and;
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi at   msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  