-- 
Libya’s Top Oil Official Ghanem Flees Qaddafi Regime, Rebel Spokesman Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-05-17T14:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/libya-s-top-oil-official-ghanem-flees-qaddafi-regime-rebel-spokesman-says.html
Libya ’s top oil official,  Shokri Ghanem , defected from the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi , said a
spokesman for the rebel group at war with the country’s leader.  Ghanem, who chaired the state-owned National Oil Corp.,
arrived in the Tunisian capital Tunis, Mahmud Alwerfalli said
today in Doha.  Germany ’s Deutsche Presse-Agentur news agency
reported that Ghanem is now in  Austria , citing another rebel
spokesman, Mohammed al-Menaifi.  Austrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Schallenberg
said he had no information about whether Ghanem is in Austria.  Clashes between Qaddafi’s troops and opposition forces in
Libya have killed thousands since February and helped push  oil
prices  higher. Crude output from Libya, holder of Africa’s
largest oil reserves, “will remain absent from the market for
the rest of 2011,” the  International Energy Agency  said May 12.  Oil surged after anti-government protests in Libya erupted
on Feb. 15. Brent crude futures rose above $126 a barrel on
April 8, the highest since July 2008.  Crude for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as $1.08 to $96.29 a barrel and was at $96.37 at
1:55 p.m. London time. It fell 2.3 percent yesterday to $97.37,
the lowest settlement since May 6. Prices have risen 38 percent
in the past year.  Top Oil Official  Ghanem, 68, has served since 2006 as the state company’s
chairman, the highest-ranking position in the nation’s oil
industry as Libya doesn’t have an energy ministry.  A former head of research at the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, Ghanem was appointed prime minister by
Qaddafi in 2003, with the task of opening up the economy to
private investments, both local and foreign.  Ali Tarhouni, the rebel group’s finance minister, said he
hopes to represent Libya at the OPEC meeting next month in
Vienna.  Libyan oil production dropped to 240,000 barrels a day last
month, or 15 percent of its average output of 1.56 million
barrels in 2010, OPEC’s latest monthly report showed.  Ghanem earned a bachelor’s  degree  in economics from the
University of Libya in 1963 and a doctorate in international
economics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy in  Boston 
in 1975, according to the national oil company’s website. He is
married and has a son and three daughters.  NATO Air Strikes  NATO  said British jets hit two targets overnight in the
Libyan capital, Tripoli, that they identified as a command-and-
control building and a military-training facility. The alliance
said it has helped push loyalist forces back in rebel-held city
of Misrata.  “NATO is keeping up the pressure and we can see the
results on the ground,” Oana Lungescu, the alliance’s chief
spokeswoman, told reporters today in Brussels. Wing Commander
Mike Bracken, speaking to reporters from NATO’s mission command
in Naples, Italy, said allied jets hit a “huge” number of
targets in the last few days and are increasingly aiming at
Qaddafi’s military infrastructure.  He said regime forces are planting floating booby traps off
the coast of Misrata, seeking to lure rescuers and blow them up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  