-- 
Libya Rebel Economy Chief Says Financial Aid Taking Too Long

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-05-18T14:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/libya-rebels-economy-chief-says-help-to-fight-qaddafi-taking-too-long-.html
The economy minister of the Libyan
rebels’ leadership council urged the international community to
speed up efforts to provide access to promised funding and
frozen assets linked to the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi .  Abdullah Shamiya said the rebels need the funds to sustain
the economy in areas they control. The rebel government set a
budget of $3 billion for the next six months, Ali Tarhouni, the
rebel finance minister, told reporters yesterday in Doha.  “Let us use some of our frozen Libyan money to meet our
basic needs and to buy commodities, fuel and medicine for our
people in the liberated areas,” Shamiya, of the Transitional
National Council, said in an interview yesterday in Benghazi,
the main rebel stronghold in eastern Libya.  Foreign ministers from the 22-nation contact group on Libya
meeting in  Rome  earlier this month called for financial assets
that have been frozen by international sanctions and donor
contributions to be made available to the rebels. Tarhouni has
said he favors keeping most Libyan assets frozen until a new,
post-Qaddafi government is in place and has called for providing
a credit line or loan, perhaps secured by a portion of the
frozen assets.  “It’s taking too long. Why?” Shamiya asked. “They want
to make sure that everything goes according to international law
and that’s understandable, but please do it fast.”  The U.S. has blocked about $33 billion in regime assets,
part of the more than $165 billion frozen worldwide that is
beyond the rebels’ reach. A delegation from the transitional
council left  Washington  last week without any clear indication
of when the rebels might be able to draw on some of the assets.  Oil Official Flees  In Tripoli, Muammar Qaddafi’s regime lost its top oil
official with the defection of  Shokri Ghanem , who was reported
by rebels to have fled the country as the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization kept up its strikes against targets in the capital
and Qaddafi forces elsewhere. NATO is also using psychological
operations that include dropping leaflets and broadcasting on
military frequencies, urging regime forces to return to their
barracks and homes, officials said at a briefing.  “NATO is keeping up the pressure and we can see the
results on the ground,” Oana Lungescu, the alliance’s chief
spokeswoman, told reporters yesterday in Brussels.  Oil Prices   Qaddafi’s troops have killed thousands, some during clashes
with opposition fighters, since February, and the turmoil has
helped push oil prices up more than 30 percent from a year ago.
Crude for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  rose
$1.52, or 1.6 percent, to $98.43 a barrel at 9:12 a.m.  Crude output from Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, “will remain absent from the market for the rest of
2011,” the  International Energy Agency  said May 12.  NATO  said British jets hit two targets in the Libyan
capital, Tripoli, and identified them as a command-and-control
building and a military-training facility. The  Associated Press ,
citing Britain’s Ministry of Defense, said British aircraft had
bombed an intelligence agency and a training base for bodyguards
protecting members of Qaddafi’s regime. NATO also said it has
helped push loyalist forces back in rebel-held city of Misrata.  British Royal Air Force Wing Commander Mike Bracken, NATO’s
military spokesman at the alliance’s mission command in Naples,
 Italy , said allied jets hit a “huge” number of targets in the
last few days and are increasingly aiming at Qaddafi’s military
infrastructure. RAF planes destroyed several vehicles near
Misrata and hit a command bunker near Tarhunah yesterday, the
U.K.’s Ministry of Defense said today in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Heavy Attacks’  Forces loyal to Qaddafi conducted “extremely heavy
attacks” along the Tunisian border yesterday, the rebels’
National Transitional Council said in a statement, citing local
media representatives from the western Nafusa Mountains. At
least three residents were killed and nine injured, it said.  “Representatives have confirmed that Qaddafi forces are
using GRAD missiles, snipers, and a previously unseen type of
mortar,” it said. “The Tunisian border is an essential
lifeline for the delivery of humanitarian aid, which is now
unable to reach civilians in the Nafusa area.”  Qaddafi forces have also staged “heavy attacks” in the
western city of Yafren, focusing on the hospital there, the
council said. It didn’t provide further details.  In Benghazi, Shamiya said that continued funding delays may
cause a shortage of cash in rebel-held areas. Rebel officials
are encouraging Libyans to deposit their money in banks, he
said.  Food Reserves  Shamiya said there is a two-month reserve of subsidized
food staples, such as rice and flour. Prices for some
unsubsidized foods have increased “slightly” and shortages
have been reported, he said.  Rebel officials paid April salaries and are working to come
up with the May payments, he said. Salaries have been capped at
750 Libyan dinars ($618) per person.  Ghanem, who chaired the state-owned National Oil Corp.,
arrived in  Austria , Mahmoud Shammam, a spokesman for the rebel
government, said today in an interview in Doha, Qatar. Austrian
Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Schallenberg said he had no
information about whether Ghanem is in Austria.  The rebels “are not interested in speaking to Ghanem until
he says he has defected,” Shammam said.  Ghanem, 68, had served since 2006 as the state company’s
chairman, the highest-ranking position in the nation’s oil
industry as  Libya  doesn’t have an energy ministry. A former head
of research at the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, Ghanem was appointed prime minister by Qaddafi in
2003, with the task of opening up the economy to private
investments, both local and foreign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Benghazi, Libya, at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha, Qatar, at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  