-- 
Icahn Seeks Unfair Blockbuster Claim Sanction, Law Firm Says in Court

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-17T19:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/icahn-blockbuster-sanction-claim-called-unfair-by-law-firm-1-.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  seeks unfairly
to punish the law firm that reviewed information related to a
possible insider-trading claim in  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , the  McMillan
Law Firm APC  said in court papers.  Icahn seeks sanctions against the law firm, which
represented Blockbuster creditor Lyme Regis Partners LLC in a
lawsuit brought as part of the movie-rental chain’s bankruptcy.
The suit, which alleged that Icahn had inside information as he
invested in Blockbuster, was dismissed in March by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  New York .  McMillan Law Firm fulfilled its obligations to review the
complaint for a holder of unsecured bonds in Blockbuster and
filed it for legitimate reasons, lawyers for the firm wrote in
papers filed yesterday.  “Merely by filing motion, defendants have achieved the
punitive results they are seeking -- Mr. McMillan’s former
malpractice insurance carrier has doubled his rates for
renewal,” lawyers for the firm and partner Scott A. McMillan
wrote. The La Mesa, California-based firm has three attorneys,
according to its Web site.  Lyme Regis’s lawsuit distorted the law and relevant facts,
lawyers for Icahn, chairman of New York-based Icahn Enterprises
Holdings LP, said in court papers.  Proxy Fight  Icahn led a 2005 proxy fight which put him on
Blockbuster’s board as the largest shareholder, when the stock
was worth about $10. He resigned five years later and in March
2010 sold most of his stock.  Before Blockbuster’s September 2010 bankruptcy, Icahn
bought about a third of the company’s senior bonds. Along with
Monarch Alternative Capital LP, Icahn also helped finance
operations in bankruptcy, under a “debtor-in-possession” loan
that grants lenders more seniority over other creditors.  Blockbuster sold its assets to  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  in April
for $320 million, leaving nothing for unsecured creditors and
shareholders. Senior lenders, who said they had a lien of $630
million on all the company’s property, will get about $178.8
million.  Lyme Regis had claimed that if Icahn hadn’t had inside
information, he still would have been an equity holder at the
time of the bankruptcy, putting him in line to be repaid after,
not before, the unsecured noteholders. Blockbuster’s decision to
issue $675 million in senior debt in 2009, while Icahn was on
the board, put unsecured bond holders at risk, Lyme said in its
lawsuit filed Dec. 23.  ‘Distinct Advantage’  “Given his long history with the debtor and entrenched
relationships with the debtor’s fiduciaries, including the CEO
and two active board members, Mr. Icahn was in a position to
influence the corporation and had a distinct advantage over
other creditors, including plaintiff,” Lyme Regis said in its
initial complaint.  In a motion for sanctions, Icahn’s lawyers said they should
be awarded attorneys’ fees and costs in defense of “a string of
frivolous and malicious motions.”  The law firm’s claim that “the Icahn Entities
intentionally destroyed the value of their equity in Blockbuster
by forcing the public issuance of secured debt that the Icahn
Entities would later buy back from third parties at a discount
is implausible,” lawyers for Icahn wrote in a motion to dismiss
the suit.  Even though the judge ruled the suit should be dismissed,
McMillan Law firm said its actions don’t merit sanctions. An
investigation by McMillan gave him reason to believe that a case
might properly be made against the Icahn defendants for
“manipulations that gave them an advantage over other creditors
in the bankruptcy,” lawyers for the firm wrote.  Lifland said in a March hearing that he denied Lyme Regis’s
lawsuit against Icahn because the investment firm, which holds 9
percent senior notes in Blockbuster, had suffered no specific
harm. The lawsuit was “porous” and lacked information to back
up claims that Icahn engaged in improper conduct, Lifland said.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 