-- 
Iceland’s Junk Rating May Last Two More Years

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T08:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/iceland-s-junk-rating-may-last-two-more-years.html
Iceland may keep its junk credit
rating as long as two years or until it can completely lift
capital controls that the government has warned could stay in
place until 2015,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Fitch yesterday raised the outlook on Iceland’s BB+ rating
to stable from negative as the fallout of an international
depositor claims dispute recedes.  Even so, the revised outlook “implies that we are not
expecting this rating to change over the next 12 to 24 months,”
Fitch Senior Director Paul Rawkins said in an e-mailed reply to
questions, after the ratings action was published.  Iceland may need some form of currency restrictions until
2015 as it works to restore its access to international markets
following the 2008 collapse of its financial industry, the
government said in March. The island faces a yearlong
international court battle after its voters rejected a depositor
claims accord with the U.K. and  Netherlands  last month, Finance
Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said April 10.  “Comprehensive lifting of  capital controls  would be a key
step forward, because it would imply that many of the imbalances
in the economy had been addressed, allowing the  exchange rate  to
be determined by autonomous capital inflows and outflows,”
Rawkins said in the e-mail.  Moody’s Still ‘Negative’  Moody’s Investors Service affirmed Iceland’s credit rating
at the lowest investment grade of Baa3, with a negative outlook,
on April 20.  “We see more downside risks than upside risks to the
rating,” Moody’s analyst Kathrin Muehlbronner said in an e-
mailed reply to questions. “It is important that the controls
be relaxed as they restrict the availability of external funding
and are an impediment to investment.”  Iceland is trying to reduce its outstanding foreign debt
and this month announced it bought back 346 million euros ($490
million) in Eurobonds due in 2011 and 2012.  “Renewed sovereign access to international capital
markets, rather than debt buybacks, has been the key focus of
International Monetary Fund financial rescue packages and would
be an important bellwether of improving creditworthiness in
 Iceland ’s case,” Rawkins said.  According to Moody’s, the “recent buyback operation is
positive in that it reduces further the repayments due in the
next 12 months,” Muehlbronner said. “But it will not change
the rating per se. The decline in the CDS spreads equally does
not influence our current rating.”  Court Battle  The depositor claims dispute will be settled at the
European Free Trade Association’s court in Luxembourg, Sigfusson
said last month. The 2008 failure of Landsbanki Islands hf left
about 350,000 foreign depositors, who used the high-yielding
Icesave accounts, in danger of losing their savings.  Resolving the dispute is “an important step towards the
normalization of relations with international creditors,” Fitch
said in yesterday’s statement. “However, the capacity of this
dispute to close off access to multilateral and bilateral
funding for Iceland’s International Monetary Fund financial
rescue program and put Iceland’s economic recovery at risk has
clearly diminished.”  The estate of Landsbanki may be enough to cover all
depositor claims, Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir said in
April.  Credit default swaps on Iceland’s five-year bonds have
eased almost 20 percent since the end of April, indicating
investors are less concerned about the risk of nonpayment.  “Movements in CDS spreads were not a driver of Fitch’s
rating decision, although we note that they have been tightening
for some time now,” Rawkins said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  