-- 
Midsize Companies Plan 6% Hiring Increase, GE Capital Finds

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-17T15:30:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/midsize-companies-plan-6-workforce-growth-ge-capital-finds.html
Small and midsize U.S. companies plan
to increase their workforces an average 6 percent in the next
year as confidence strengthens in an economic rebound, according
to a survey by  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit.  The survey, whose results were released today, reflects
data from chief financial officers at 530 companies with annual
sales of $50 million to $1 billion, according to GE Capital, one
of the biggest lenders to small and midsize U.S. companies since
the financial crisis. About 80 percent said they plan to hire
more workers, and almost two-thirds have already started.  “Eighty percent planning on hiring was a pretty bold
statement,” said Dan Henson, who oversees GE Capital in the
Americas, including the commercial lending and leasing unit.
“This was the most definitive we’ve seen in the three times
we’ve done this survey.”  The survey results match a March increase in job openings,
according to the U.S. Labor Department. The number of positions
rose by 99,000 to 3.12 million that month, the most since
September 2008, data showed. Payrolls climbed in April,
extending the longest string of monthly gains since the 2006-
2007 time period.  The planned hiring increases come as 72 percent of finance
chiefs surveyed expect year-over-year sales growth in 2011, up
from 64 percent in January 2010,  GE Capital  said. Industries
included in the report were metals and mining; food, beverage
and agriculture; general manufacturing; health care; retail;
technology and business services; and transportation.  Raw Material Prices  Extracting profit from the higher sales may be the biggest
challenge this year, with raw material prices rising 35 percent
in the 12 months through today, according to the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities. Raw material costs were
cited as a “significant potential concern” by 75 percent of
the CFOs surveyed, up from 60 percent a year ago, the survey
said.  About 40 percent of finance chiefs expect profit margins to
widen in 2011, and 42 percent projected they would stay the
same, GE Capital said. The unit’s parent company is based in
Fairfield,  Connecticut .  “The perspective seems to be shifting that margins are
going to be stable, even with more investment,” Henson said.
“While they’re concerned about raw materials, they appear
pretty darn confident in their ability to pass those costs along
and maintain and improve margins.”  Metals and mining executives were the most optimistic, with
59 percent projecting wider profit margins, a potential
indicator of their ability to channel rising commodity costs to
customers, GE Capital found.  First-Quarter Earnings  First-quarter earnings back up that finding. Materials
companies posting financial reports through yesterday led profit
gains among Standard & Poor’s 500 members, with an average
increase of 56 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average boost for 461 companies reporting was 21 percent.  Of all executives surveyed, 59 percent expected to be able
to raise product or service prices this year, with 78 percent of
the transportation group planning to do so.  About 36 percent expect to increase  capital expenditures ,
the data showed, up from 28 percent a year earlier.  About 53 percent of finance chiefs expect acquisitions in
their industries to increase this year. Transportation
executives were the most confident, with 65 percent projecting
such activity would climb.  The  GE Capital Commercial Lending & Leasing  unit is being
buoyed by the trends, gaining market share amid fewer
competitors, Henson said.  Fullest Pipeline  In the Americas, the unit’s “overall volume for the
quarter was up 83 percent, and our second quarter is looking
even stronger,” Henson said. “We’re pretty highly targeted.
Our pipeline is the highest it’s been in years in terms of
potential transactions. The spend is out there.”  In the  first quarter , the commercial lending unit more than
doubled its profit to $554 million from $232 million a year
earlier, on $4.61 billion in revenue. The division had $197.5
billion in assets as of March 31, according to GE’s quarterly
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  CFOs were interviewed in 30-minute segments using data from
 Dun & Bradstreet Corp. (DNB) , the Short Hills, New Jersey-based
business information and database provider. The respondents
weren’t necessarily GE Capital customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 