-- 
IMF Says German Economy Could Grow More Than 3% This Year

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-05-17T15:16:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/imf-says-german-economy-could-grow-more-than-3-this-year-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
 Germany ’s economy may grow more than 3 percent for a second year
as it sustains a “robust” recovery.  “The proficiency of its industry, along with a sizeable,
internationally-coordinated fiscal stimulus and financial-sector
stabilization measures, helped Germany establish a recovery with
over 3 percent GDP growth in 2010 and, possibly, in 2011,” the
Washington-based fund said in a  statement  on its website today.  The forecast compares with the government’s projection for
growth of 2.6 percent this year. In its World Economic Outlook
in April, the IMF forecast expansion of 2.5 percent.  Europe ’s largest economy grew a record 3.6 percent last
year and continued to drive growth in the 17-nations euro area
in the first quarter when it grew 1.5 percent. Companies are
investing and hiring to fill booming export orders and
unemployment at a 19-year-low is supporting  consumer spending .  “The German economy and employment are above levels before
the onset of the Great Recession, an achievement realized by
only a few advanced economies,” the IMF said. “Considerable
optimism prevails.”  Still, while German investors’ assessment of current
economic conditions rose to a record reading of 91.5 in the ZEW
investor confidence index today, the outlook declined for a
third month, as faster inflation threatened to curb consumer
spending and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened.  “Despite justified optimism, growth can be projected to
slow in the short term as the fiscal consolidation takes hold,
the output gap closes, and world trade growth slows after its
bounce back,” the IMF said. “This could be accompanied by
global and domestic inflationary pressures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  