-- 
IMF Urges Pakistan to Reduce Deficit; Disbursements Frozen

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-17T19:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/imf-urges-pakistan-to-reduce-deficit-disbursements-frozen-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  urged
Pakistan to continue reducing its  budget deficit  and fixed a
date for the next round of talks with national authorities as
disbursements under a $11.3 billion loan remain frozen.  “Continued efforts are needed to reduce the budget deficit
to take the pressure off monetary policy and create space for
more credit to the private sector,” mission chief Adnan Mazarei
said in an  e-mailed statement today  following a meeting in Dubai
over the past week. “The IMF remains committed to the ongoing
dialogue with Pakistan and discussions will continue in the
weeks ahead and a mission is planned for July 2011.”  The Washington-based IMF has not disbursed any money to
 Pakistan  since May 2010 after the country failed to meet the
conditions attached to the loan first issued in 2008. In
December it approved a nine-month extension of the loan to give
Pakistani authorities time to comply with some elements of the
agreement, including implementing a  sales tax .  “Pakistan’s economy faces important challenges,” Mazarei
said. “Economic growth has been negatively affected by the
floods and the high price of oil, inflation remains persistently
high, and budgetary problems are undermining macroeconomic
stability.”  Pakistan’s $168 billion economy, sapped by terrorism and
floods in 2010, is lagging behind emerging markets. The country
has the second-highest inflation rate in Asia after  Vietnam ,
among 17 countries tracked  by Bloomberg in the region.  Narrowing the deficit will require higher tax revenues by
broadening the tax base, Mazarei said, adding that the IMF
mission “welcomed the recent strengthening of the external
position and some of the tax measures announced in March, which
represent an important milestone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 