-- 
Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Grew as Home Building Lagged Behind

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-17T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-grew-as-home-building-lagged-behind.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
probably climbed in April for a sixth consecutive month, while
homebuilding hovered near recession lows, economists said before
reports today.  Production at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.4
percent after growing 0.8 percent in March, according to the
median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Housing starts climbed 3.6 percent to a 569,000 annual rate last
month, other figures may show.  Rising demand from overseas and business investment are
lifting sales at companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , which will
probably keep manufacturing at the forefront of the economic
expansion. A sustained recovery in housing may take time to
develop as foreclosures put further pressure on property values.  “We should see gains in manufacturing in coming months on
the back of strength in exports and business equipment
spending,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “Housing has a long road ahead.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s production data are due at 9:15 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a drop of 0.4
percent to a 0.9 percent increase.  Auto making may be among industries that will cool in
coming months as factories face a temporary shortage of parts
following the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , economists said.
That could show up in last month’s data, said Guatieri. “Growth
is being damped a bit by supply disruptions,” he said.  Survey Results  Economists’ projections for housing starts, due at 8:30
a.m. from the Commerce Department, ranged from 500,000 to
600,000, the Bloomberg survey showed. Builders broke ground on
1.72 million houses a year on average in the decade before the
recession began in December 2007. Starts slumped to a record low
554,000 in 2009.  Permits, a proxy for future construction, rose 0.9 percent
to a 590,000 rate, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Douglas Yearley Jr., chief executive officer at Toll
Brothers Inc., the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, last week
said the home-selling season from April through June, typically
the busiest of the year, has been “disappointing” and that
“people are still scared.”  Investors are more positive on the outlook for
manufacturers than homebuilders. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has climbed 6.3 percent since
Dec. 31, compared with a 2 percent decline for the S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  Growing Exports  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 75 percent of
 industrial production , is likely to keep bolstering the world’s
largest economy as an 18 percent drop in the dollar index from
June 7, 2010, to April 29 made American-made goods more
attractive abroad.  Exports jumped 4.6 percent in March, the biggest gain since
1994, to a record $172.7 billion. The gain reflected overseas
demand for autos, chemicals and industrial machinery. Sales to
customers in South and Central America reached a record, and
purchases from clients in the European Union were the strongest
since June 2008.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction-equipment
maker, last month said it expects global economic growth this
year of about 4 percent, with  developing countries  expanding by
6.5 percent and the U.S. growing by 3.5 percent.  The Peoria, Illinois-based company raised its full-year
earnings forecast and said the outlook would have been higher
had it not been for the March 11 earthquake in Japan.  “Our facilities in Japan were not damaged by the
earthquake and tsunami, but many of our suppliers in Japan
were,” Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on an April
29 conference call. “As a result, we are experiencing sporadic
production disruptions at many of our facilities around the
world.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  