-- 
LinkedIn Increases IPO Share Price 29% as Site’s Value May Top $4 Billion

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-17T13:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/linkedin-increases-share-sale-price-by-29-to-raise-405-7-million-in-ipo.html
LinkedIn Corp., the largest
professional-networking website, increased the price range for
its initial public offering, lifting the company’s potential
valuation to as much as $4.25 billion.  The company is offering 7.84 million shares at $42 to $45
each, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today. The shares had been offered for $32
to $35 apiece. At the top end of the new range,  Mountain View ,
California-based LinkedIn would raise $405.7 million if
underwriters exercise an overallotment option to buy 1.18
million additional shares.  LinkedIn is the first major U.S. social-networking company
to tap the public market for funding and may be the first in a
wave of IPOs by other Internet companies. Groupon Inc., the
deals website that rebuffed a $6 billion takeover approach from
Google Inc., is considering a public offering. Facebook Inc. may
pursue an IPO in 2012, three people familiar with the matter
said last year.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  are leading the offering. The stock will trade under the
symbol LNKD.  About 62 percent of the shares in the offering are being
sold by LinkedIn, which said it plans to use the proceeds to
fund existing operations and to expand the business, possibly
including buying other companies or technologies.  LinkedIn Sellers  The sellers of the other shares include a venture capital
affiliate of Bain Capital LLC, McGraw-Hill Cos.,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and founder and Chairman  Reid Hoffman , the prospectus
shows. Venture capital backers Sequoia Capital,  Greylock
Partners  and Bessemer Venture Partners aren’t selling shares,
according to the filing.  LinkedIn members use the site to search for jobs, recruit
employees and find industry experts. While users can create
personal profiles for free, the company introduced paid
subscriptions in 2005, giving recruiters more access to job
candidates and providing business professionals ways to
communicate with one another. The company also makes money by
selling ads on the site.  The new midpoint price of $43.50 would value LinkedIn at
$4.11 billion, or about 11 times estimated sales of $376 million
this year, if sales for the year continue at the $93.9 million
rate of the first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  