-- 
Intel CEO Says Quarterly Forecast Remains ‘Right On,’ Even Amid PC Slump

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-17T20:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/intel-s-otellini-says-second-quarter-forecasts-remain-right-on-.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Otellini  said the company’s forecast for this quarter
remains “right on,” as emerging economies and surging demand
for data centers help make up for a personal-computer slowdown.  The popularity of smartphones and tablets is spurring the
need for more servers, which run on Intel processors, Otellini
said today in a presentation to analysts at the company’s  Santa
Clara ,  California , headquarters.  Brazil ,  China  and other
developing countries also are fueling sales, he said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the biggest computer maker, cut a
billion dollars from its annual sales forecast today, deepening
concerns that the PC industry is suffering from a slump. A
windfall from tablets and smartphones is helping Intel maintain
its growth, Otellini said. The company is making more money from
the explosion of such products than anyone else, he said, even
though Intel doesn’t produce chips directly for the devices.  The industry devotes one server to every 600 smartphones in
use, and one to every 122 tablets, he said. That’s helping push
Intel’s data-center sales to $10 billion this year, and they’ll
double to $20 billion within five years, he predicted.  Otellini affirmed a second-quarter forecast that Intel made
on April 19. Revenue will be $12.8 billion, plus or minus $500
million, the company said at the time.  “Our guidance for the quarter is still right on,”
Otellini said today.  New Designs  Even so, Intel’s road map of future products is inadequate,
he said. The company is reworking its designs to make chips that
consume less power. Its Atom processor, aimed at getting the
company into mobile phones, tablets and consumer electronics,
will be produced using a more advanced manufacturing technology
-- known as 14 nanometer -- within three years.  Global PC shipments unexpectedly fell 3.2 percent in the
first quarter, IDC reported in April. The rise of tablet
computers, along with the Japanese earthquake and unrest in the
Middle East, affected sales.  Otellini is trying to lessen his company’s dependence on
the PC market and have it profit more directly from demand for
tablets and phones, a market where Intel’s chips have lost out
to rival designs.  About 35 tablets based on Intel’s chips should come out
this year, the bulk of them based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. The company has also said that there will be
at least one mobile phone on sale that uses its processors by
the end of the year.  Intel shares fell 9 cents to $23.55 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 12
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  