-- 
Iran Denies Report of N. Korea Missile Aid

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-17T20:32:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/iran-denies-report-of-missile-technology-trade-with-north-korea.html
Evidence that  North Korea  aided
 Iran ’s ballistic missile program in violation of  United Nations 
sanctions is fabricated, the government in Tehran said as the
U.S. and Britain sought steps to halt the technology transfers.  A confidential report by a United Nations panel of experts,
submitted to the Security Council, said that “prohibited
ballistic missile-related items are suspected to have been
transported between the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
and the Islamic Republic of Iran on regular scheduled flights of
 Air Koryo  and Iran Air.”  An Iranian government spokesman denied that Iran and North
Korea have been secretly exchanging ballistic missile
technology.  “This is propaganda and we believe that certain goals are
pursued by spreading such news,” Iran Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said in televised comments today.
He added that Iran doesn’t need know-how or parts from other
countries.  North Korea has used sophisticated networks of shell
companies, front companies and aliases to mask its activities.  North Korea “has been actively engaged in the export of
complete systems, components and technology to numerous
customers” in the Middle East and South Asia, according to the
UN report reviewed by Bloomberg News.  Efforts Failed  The allegations come as international efforts have failed
to stop North Korea from building nuclear weapons and exporting
technology for nuclear weapons and the ballistic missiles needed
to deliver them. North Korea has flaunted UN resolutions that
ban the import and export of a variety of conventional and
atomic weapons, as well as the  luxury goods  the Communist regime
uses to please its scientists and leaders as the rest of the
isolated country faces famine.  The report hasn’t been officially released because  China  is
“studying it,” Ambassador Li Baodong said after the UN
 Security Council  completed talks today in  New York  on
implementation of the sanctions imposed on North Korea.  The U.S., Britain,  Germany  and  India  pressed to implement
recommendations of the report, including closing loopholes on
shipping and transportation controls and combating North Korea’s
use of shell and front companies and aliases to mask individuals
and entities previously targeted for sanctions.  Syria, Iran Connections  The report noted that a North Korean missile recently on
display in a military parade there resembled Iran’s Shahab-3. It
also confirmed allegations that a Syrian site destroyed by
Israeli aircraft in 2007 was a North Korean-built nuclear
reactor, and that North Korea had helped Syria develop medium
range surface-to-surface missiles.  Iran has long rejected allegations by the U.S. and its
allies that its nuclear activities are a cover for the
development of atomic weapons. Iran’s government says its
nuclear program is for civilian applications and aimed at
securing energy for its growing population.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  