-- 
Iraq MPs to Ask Parliament to Delay New Energy Round, Saad Says

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-17T17:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/iraq-mps-to-ask-parliament-to-delay-new-energy-round-saad-says.html
The Iraqi Oil and Gas Parliamentary
Committee will ask next month for the delay of the next
government-planned exploration licensing round until a new
energy law is passed, a member of the committee said today.  The committee will raise the issue after parliament resumes
sessions starting June 12, Suzanne al-Saad said in a telephone
interview from  Baghdad .  The Iraqi government, eager to boost energy exports to pay
for its reconstruction, asked companies to begin submitting bids
in June for a new round of exploration licenses and aims to
disclose the results in January.  The parliamentary committee is raising the issue to
parliament after their request was rejected by Oil Minister
Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi during a meeting on May 12, Al-Saad said.
The minister said the licensing round may take 18 months, during
which time parliament can adopt the law, according to Al-Saad.  “The Committee considers that there is no legal cover for
this licensing round which should be delayed until the new oil
and gas law is adopted,” she said.  Iraq , holder of the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
has signed 15 licenses for oil and gas energy exploration since
the toppling of former President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003.  The new energy law has been under study for about five
years, and parliament has yet to adopt it amid continued
wrangling among the country’s major political factions. One of
the main points of contention is the oil sales revenue row
between the central government and the semi-autonomous northern
Kurdistan Regional Government.  In the latest effort, the government is seeking to attract
bids for rights to explore 12 concessions that contain a
combined 29 billion cubic meters of gas and 10 billion barrels
of crude, Luaibi said March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 