-- 
Ivory Coast, Biggest Cocoa Grower, Plans to Play Leading Role in Industry

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-05-17T12:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ivory-coast-biggest-cocoa-grower-plans-to-play-leading-role-in-industry.html
Ivory Coast  should consolidate its
position as the world’s biggest cocoa producer and play a
stronger role in the global market, a government spokesman said.  “When you are the world’s biggest producer of a commodity,
your strategies should move the market,” spokesman Patrick Achi
said in an interview yesterday in the commercial capital,
Abidjan.  “Right now, you can’t really tell that Ivory Coast is the
world’s top cocoa grower. We should really tackle this issue. We
need to look at how we are going to be involved in the
management of the sector.”  The West African nation is planning to reform the national
cocoa industry “step-by-step” after President  Alassane Ouattara  appoints a new government following his May 21
inauguration, Achi said.  Cocoa shipments from the country were disrupted during a
four-month power struggle as Ouattara imposed an export ban in a
bid to cut off funds to former leader  Laurent Gbagbo , who
refused to step down after a disputed Nov. 28 election. Ouattara
was sworn in at the beginning of May and the ban was lifted last
month.  The economy is emerging from the crisis. Beans which were
stored during the unrest are starting to be shipped out of the
country.  Production Rises  Ivory Coast is expected to produce 1.34 million metric tons
of beans in 2010-11, compared with 1.24 million tons in the year
earlier, according to a March 28 report from the International
Cocoa Organization. Global production is seen rising to 3.94
million tons, from 3.65 million tons, mainly due to increased
output in  Africa , the world’s largest cocoa producing region,
the ICCO said.  In his  election campaign , Ouattara, a former International
Monetary Fund official, said he planned to create two regulatory
state agencies to manage the purchase and export of coffee,
cocoa, cotton and cashew nuts.  The minimum farm-gate price paid to producers should not be
lower than half of the world market price offered for the
commodities, and export taxes may be reduced, he said on his
campaign website.  Achi said it was “too early” to say which reforms would
be implemented first. Improving the quality of the crop and the
revenues of farmers were priorities, he said.  “Maybe by October we will have the first part of the
process, and maybe by next year the rest will be implemented
with lessons drawn from other cocoa-producing countries such as
Ghana and  Malaysia ,” he said.  After the liberalization of the national cocoa industry in
1999, Ivory Coast’s semi-private agencies stopped paying a fixed
farm-gate price to coffee and cocoa growers.  The  World Bank  has pushed for more transparency in the
industry and a reduction of taxes and levies paid by exporters.  To contact the reporter on this story: Pauline Bax in
Johannesburg at  pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg on  