-- 
Johnson & Johnson Plans $3.75 Billion, Six-Part Debt Sale

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-17T19:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/j-j-mcdonald-s-lead-6-6-billion-of-bond-sales-with-yields-at-6-month-low.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , one of four U.S.
nonfinancial borrowers with a top credit ranking, plans to sell
$3.75 billion of bonds to help pay back short-term borrowings as
investment-grade yields fall to a six-month low.  J&J is joined by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , HSBC Bank Plc and
Caterpillar Financial Services Corp. in marketing at least $16
billion of bonds that may be priced today, after $10.3 billion
of sales yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Issuance reached $36.3 billion last week, the most since the
period ended April 1, when $36.4 billion was raised.  J&J is tapping the corporate  bond market  to pay back
commercial paper following similar sales in the past month by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J may be seeking a more stable
 capital structure  as it faces recalls and pays for its $21.3
billion acquisition of Synthes Inc., according to Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC’s Jody Lurie.  “They probably want to get rid of the short-term stuff and
extend out debt while they can, and keep their capital structure
a little more stable,” Lurie, a corporate credit analyst in
Philadelphia, said. “Companies in general are taking this
opportunity to extend debt maturities.”  Breakdown of Offering  J&J, rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service, plans to sell at least $500 million of two-year,
floating-rate notes, $1 billion of three-year, fixed-rate debt,
$600 million of three-year, floating-rate securities, $900
million of five-year notes, $450 million of 10-year bonds and
$300 million of 30-year debt, said a person with knowledge of
the transaction.  The three-year fixed notes may pay 33 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, the five-year debt may pay a
43 basis-point spread, the 10-year notes may offer 55 basis
points above benchmarks, and the 30-year bonds may yield a 68
basis-point spread, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The company’s two-year notes may be priced with no premium
to the three-month London interbank offered rate, and the three-
year floating-rate debt may offer 9 basis points above the
lending benchmark for banks, the person said. Three-month Libor
was set at 0.26 percent today.  As of April 3, the maker of Acuvue brand contact lenses and
Neutrogena products had $8.2 billion of  commercial paper 
outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 0.246
percent, and weighted maturity of about 55 days, J&J said today
in a regulatory filing that didn’t specify the size or timing of
the sale.  Tumbling Yields  Absolute yields on investment-grade debt tumbled to 3.765
percent yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 12, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  J&J had its outlook cut last month to “negative” from
“stable” by Moody’s as it plans to pay for Synthes, the
largest acquisition in the company’s 125-year history. The
company is “incurring new debt during a period of increased
operating challenges including product recalls,” Michael Levesque, a New York-based analyst, wrote in an April 27 report.  J&J last tapped the  debt market  in August, as the company
took advantage of “favorable terms in the capital markets,”
according to its most recent quarterly filing. J&J’s debt at the
end of the first fiscal quarter 2011 was $17.8 billion from
$12.1 billion a year earlier, according to the filing.  Commercial paper typically matures within 270 days and is
used to finance everyday activities such as payroll and rent.  Repaying Commercial Paper  Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search company, sold
$3 billion of bonds yesterday in a debut offering; cereal-maker
General Mills issued $700 million of notes last week; and CVS
Caremark offered $1.5 billion of securities on May 9, Bloomberg
data show. The companies all cited commercial paper repayment as
a use of proceeds, the data show.  J&J’s $550 million of 2.95 percent, 10-year notes issued in
August were priced to yield 43 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The debt traded on May
13 at 96.8 cents on the dollar to yield 3.36 percent, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  