-- 
Janus Funds Said to Be Pulled From Merrill Lynch Portfolio

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-05-17T20:15:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/janus-funds-said-to-be-pulled-from-merrill-lynch-portfolio-1-.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the money
money manager struggling to reverse almost two years of customer
withdrawals, had two of its largest equity funds pulled from a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch model portfolio, according to two
people familiar with the decision.  The $9.24 billion Janus Twenty Fund and $6.29 billion Janus
Forty Fund were dropped last month from a standard collection of
funds by Merrill Lynch, the second-largest U.S. brokerage by
head count, the people said, asking not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to release the information. Janus fell
the most in almost three months today.  “Outflows are clearly getting worse,”  Michael Kim , an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , said in
a telephone interview. “These brokerage platforms hold a lot of
sway in terms of overall flows, particularly for a retail-
oriented franchise like Janus.”  Chief Executive Officer Richard M. Weil, hired from Pacific
Investment Management Co. in February 2010, has expanded the
product line of Denver-based Janus, adding fixed-income funds
and announcing this month the acquisition of a hedge fund and a
plan to introduce more alternative-investment products. That
hasn’t stopped defections by investors, who withdrew a net $18.5
billion over the past seven quarters.  Worst Performer  Janus fell 6.4 percent, the most since Feb. 22, declining
69 cents to $10.14 at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Janus is the worst-performing stock this year
in the 18-member  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset managers and
custody banks. It has fallen 22 percent, compared with the 1.2
percent decline by the index.  Janus mutual funds lost $770 million in redemptions in
April, more than triple the $230 million in March, according to
research firm Morningstar Inc. Janus Twenty and Janus Forty
together lost an estimated $586 million in April and the 10
largest Janus-branded equity funds lost a combined $1.06
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Janus, which owns Perkins Investment Management and
quantitative investment unit Intech, invests about 90 percent of
customer assets in stocks.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by
client assets, has reduced to three from 13 the number of Janus
funds on its OneSource Select List of recommended products since
the first quarter of 2010, according to the San Francisco-based
firm’s Web site.  ‘Make Adjustments’  The Merrill portfolio that dropped the two funds is open to
retail clients with separately managed accounts, requiring a
minimum balance of $100,000. Merrill routinely rotates funds in
or out, or changes their weightings, and didn’t give a reason
for dropping the Janus offerings, one of the people said.  “We regularly review our portfolios and make adjustments
based on portfolio objectives and market conditions,” Selena
Morris, a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  spokeswoman, said in a May 13 e-
mail. Merrill Lynch is owned by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America.  James Aber, a Janus spokesman, declined to comment on
Merrill’s decision. He said the company believed that the new
products, as well as improved performance at Intech funds,
should eventually reverse the withdrawals.  “Despite the near-term conditions, long-term performance
is still very strong across the company,” Aber said in a
telephone interview, adding that 46 percent of the firm’s funds
held four or five-star rankings from Morningstar.  Customer Exodus  Janus Twenty, which concentrates its holdings in 20 to 30
large companies, lagged behind 99 percent of competing funds in
2010, returning 7 percent, including reinvested dividends,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five
years it has returned an annual average of 6.5 percent, beating
92 percent of peers. Janus Forty, a less concentrated fund that
can also invest in small and medium-sized companies, trailed 98
percent of competing funds last year with a 5.6 percent return.
It returned an average 5.6 percent over the past five years,
trailing 70 percent of competitors.  Janus managed $174 billion as of March 31, down from a 2000
peak of $321 billion, when the booming market for technology
stocks made it the fastest-selling family of U.S. mutual funds.
The subsequent crash of tech stocks and a trading scandal led to
a customer exodus.  Under Gary Black, the previous CEO who took over at the
start of 2006, assets grew again, only to plunge with the
financial crisis. Black reorganized the company and cut the
influence and pay of star fund managers, leading to the
departure of at least 15 fund managers and senior executives. He
resigned in July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  