-- 
Japan Quake Dashes Effort to Beat Oyster Herpes in France

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-05-17T20:25:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/japan-quake-dashes-effort-to-overcome-oyster-herpes-in-france.html
A deadly virus is stalking France’s
coastline, killing at least 60 percent of the young oysters
there since 2008.  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami may have wiped
out the latest rescue plan.  The March 11 natural disasters destroyed the  fishing
industry  in  Miyagi prefecture , which produced 80 percent of
Japan’s oyster seeds in 2009. That is forcing France to abandon
plans to import and breed Miyagi’s Pacific oyster species, and
find another solution for diners seeing fewer, and more costly,
options.  The French eat about  108,000  metric tons of the mollusks,
typically on the half-shell atop a bed of ice and garnished with
a squeeze of lemon or splash of vinegar. Domestic  production 
fell 38 percent last year, driving up wholesale prices 20
percent. Some brasseries in Paris sell the largest oysters for
6.5 euros ($9.17) apiece.  “This delays our exit from the crisis,” Maryline Maingam,
a spokeswoman for  France ’s  National Shellfish Committee , said in
an interview. “There will still be oysters, but a lot less than
before. For the next two years, we’ll have 40 percent to 50
percent production losses.”  France, whose oyster industry was worth about 400 million
euros in 2010, imported young Miyagi oysters in October and
February to test their resistance to the virus, a variant of
 Ostreid herpesvirus 1 , or OsHV-1. That required special
permission from the European Commission to circumvent 1991
 restrictions  on importing oysters for breeding.  $3.3 Billion Industry  Test results are expected this month, yet “the dramatic
events in Japan in March 2011 have altered the chances of
success of the Japanese track,” Veronique Lopes, a spokeswoman
for the  French Ministry of Agriculture , said in an e-mail.  The ministry is drawing up a new list of potential
importers with “sufficient health guarantees,” she said.  Japanese oysters also are less attractive because of the
possibility their beds were contaminated by radiation leaking
from a damaged nuclear-power plant on the coast in neighboring
Fukushima prefecture, Lopes said.  The virus is not just a blow to France,  Europe ’s biggest
producer. The global industry, worth at least $3.3 billion in
2009, has been plagued by OsHV-1 in Ireland,  England  and
 Australia .  Oysters Scarce  In Ireland, Europe’s second-largest producer, about half of
the bays where Pacific oysters are grown have been affected by
the virus since 2008. Research has suggested “a very strong
association” with imports of oyster seeds from France, said
John Joyce, a spokesman for the  Irish Marine Institute  based in
Galway.  The virus starts killing oysters when water temperatures
top about 16 degrees Celsius (61 degrees Fahrenheit). It has
reappeared along the French coast this year and mostly affects
oysters under one year old, Tristan Renault, director of the
genetics and pathology laboratory at the  French Research
Institute for Exploration of the Sea  in La Tremblade, said in a
phone interview.  Oysters need three years to mature, so the past winter was
the first to show the effect on supply, Maingam said.  “We’re starting to feel it,” said Rodolphe Ziegler, a
manager for seafood wholesaler Demarne Freres Ets. at  Rungis ,
the world’s largest wholesale food market, outside Paris.
“We’re starting to see a problem with deliveries of small
sizes.”  Miyagi Destruction  Oyster production declined to 80,000 tons from 130,000 tons
last year in France, Maingam said. Wholesale prices are 20
percent higher than a year ago, according to the  National
Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies  in Paris.  The problem may worsen after 2012, when many of the French
colonies wiped out by the virus would have been ready for the
table. That’s also when the Japanese-imported oysters would have
been growing.  Miyagi oystermen already have lost this year’s harvesting
season, and they won’t be able to plant seeds for the breeding
season typically beginning in July. Fishing and farming were
suspended all along Miyagi’s coast because of efforts to locate
the  9,000  people still missing after the natural disasters.  Oysterman Taro Abe in Onagawa village lost everything.  “Our wharf and processing facility were completely
destroyed,” said Abe, who now spends his time searching for
mementos and remnants of his home. “All I have left is debt.”  Resist Disease  The Miyagi oysters, whose scientific name is Crassostrea
gigas, are more resistant to infectious diseases than other
species and have a history of being sent abroad to jumpstart
farming or revive crops devastated by illness. It is now the
most widely farmed oyster species in the world, Renault said.  Miyagi oysters came to France’s rescue in the 1970s after
the iridovirus killed most of the oyster population. The oysters
also have been transplanted to  more than 30 countries , including
the U.S.,  China ,  South Korea ,  Spain  and  New Zealand .  “Crassostrea gigas has been cultivated all around the
world, showing it is capable of adapting to different
environments,” Renault said.  Oystermen prefer Miyagi’s seeds because the oysters also
are free of a parasite found elsewhere in Japan, Renault said.  Now Japan may have to increase oyster imports to keep
prices stable. To help Miyagi get back on its feet, iLink
Systems Inc., an oyster distributor based in Sendai, in Miyagi
prefecture, started the  Save Sanriku Oysters  project that is
taking donations for new boats, farming equipment and
facilities. Sanriku refers to the northeast coast that includes
Miyagi.  Supplies ‘Tight’  “Particularly for farmers in their 60s carrying debts,
there is talk of giving up,” said Hiroaki Saito, president of
iLink.  Given the traumatic experience from the disasters, which
left at least 400 fishermen dead or missing in Miyagi alone,
money is not the only obstacle, said Katsutoshi Mori, president
of the  World Oyster Society .  “It’s a question of regaining spirit,” he said.  That leaves French wholesalers waiting and hoping for
another rescue plan. The government is making 42 million euros a
year available to support the farmers. Yet some smaller
operations are shutting down because they aren’t producing
enough healthy shellfish, Ziegler said.  “If the mortality continues, this year will be tight, and
next year, also,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  