-- 
Japan Says Tepco Lenders Must Share Burden

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-05-17T07:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/japan-s-noda-urges-creditors-to-share-tepco-support-burden-as-shares-slide.html
Japan ’s government urged  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s creditors to help support the utility,
which is revising a plan to stabilize its crippled nuclear plant
amid evidence the damage is worse than estimated.  “Our basic stance is to get cooperation from every
stakeholder as we try to minimize the burden for the Japanese
public,” Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a news
conference in Tokyo today. “Tepco and financial institutions
should discuss this with these principles in mind.”  Noda spoke a day after the head of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, criticized a
government official for suggesting that lenders forgive loans
made to Tokyo Electric before the crisis. Writing off debt would
prevent banks lending the company more because of increased
 default risk , said analyst Yoshinobu Yamada.  “Megabanks wouldn’t be able to give fresh loans to Tepco
without full-fledged government guarantees” as they would have
to downgrade the quality of the utility’s outstanding
borrowings, said Yamada, a banking analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in Tokyo.  Tepco, as the company is known, fell 9.5 percent to 380 yen
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest decline since April 12.
The shares are down 82 percent since the March 11 quake and
tsunami crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station north of
Tokyo. Tepco will provide an update today on its plan for
bringing the damaged reactors under control.  ‘Out of the Blue’  A group of Japanese lenders including Mitsubishi UFJ,
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  provided about 2 trillion yen ($25 billion) in loans to
Tepco after the record quake.  The government on May 13 unveiled a plan to provide aid to
the company to shield it from bankruptcy. Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said on the same day that lenders may have
to write off loans made to the company before the disaster.  “Mr. Edano’s comments came out of the blue and seem
unreasonable,” Mitsubishi UFJ Chief Executive Officer Katsunori Nagayasu told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. “It seems that the
government stepped into relations between private businesses.”  Asked about Edano’s remarks at today’s briefing, Noda said
the government has yet to nail down specific details.  Naoyuki Matsumoto, a spokesman for Tepco, declined to
comment on whether the utility needs its lenders to forgive
loans made before the magnitude-9 temblor.  Aid Vital  “We would like to continue asking our main lenders to
provide us with loans with lower interest,” Matsumoto said.
“We’re preparing to offer compensation to victims fairly and
quickly, and  government aid  is vital for doing so.”  Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said financial institutions are
likely to cooperate with Tepco’s plans to aid victims of the
disaster, which has sent radiation into the air and sea and
forced the evacuation of about 50,000 families.  How they cooperate is “a matter between private companies,
and we’re not in the position at this stage to tell them
directly what to do,” Kaieda said.  Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi also said
decisions on whether to forgive loans made to Tepco should be
left to the utility and its creditors.  Tepco will present an update of its plan for containing the
nuclear crisis at about 5:30 p.m. local time, Junichi Matsumoto,
a company official, said at a news conference today.  Melted Rods  Under the company’s so-called road map released on April
17, Tepco forecast a sustained reduction in radiation levels at
the reactors within three months and a cold shutdown, where core
reactor temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius, in six to
nine months.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Tepco President Masataka Shimizu said yesterday they don’t expect to change the
timetable.  In March assessments of damage to the fuel rods in the
reactor cores, Tepco said there may have been a partial or a
complete meltdown.  All rods in the core of reactor No. 1 melted and dropped
out of their assembly by early March 12, Tepco  said  on May 15,
after gauges were installed or repaired. The utility said
yesterday the same may have occurred in reactors 2 and 3.  Workers will enter the No. 2 building today for the first
time since March 14 to measure radiation levels and assess
whether work can be carried to fix gauges, Matsumoto said at a
briefing in the Japanese capital today.  Ratings Cut  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut Tepco’s credit
ratings and put them on review for further possible downgrade
after the company confirmed the meltdown. Moody’s also warned
that it may cut debt ratings of the company’s lenders should
they forgive loans made before the quake.  About a year before the disaster, Tokyo Electric had 1.47
trillion yen of long-term loans from lenders including  Sumitomo
Mitsui , Mizuho and Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co., according to the
utility’s financial statement.  The 83-member  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  of shares slid 0.8 percent
today, the fifth straight daily decline and the longest losing
streak since February.  “Megabanks and life insurers may have to shoulder the
burden to rescue Tepco, though it’s uncertain how heavy that
will be,”  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at MF Global FXA
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Global investors may be more hesitant
to buy those shares” or will avoid Japan entirely, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/17/ :03 GMT 