-- 
Joschka Fischer Morphs From Radical to Green Star in Pious Movie: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/joschka-fischer-morphs-from-radical-to-green-star-in-pious-movie-review.html
Joschka Fischer is that rare animal
-- a colorful German politician. In a land where dry, lengthy
speeches are the rule, his witty candor stands out.  His journey from stone-throwing, left-wing rioter in 1960s
 Frankfurt  to foreign minister in Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder’s
cabinet was an eventful one. Now 63, Fischer quit politics after
the Green Party lost power in 2005. He was the party’s most
prominent member, and perhaps he still is. Though some Greens
say they would like to see him stand for chancellor in 2013,
Fischer has said he doesn’t want to return to German politics.  In “Joschka und Herr Fischer,” filmmaker Pepe Danquart,
best known for documentaries about extreme climbers and
cyclists, sets out to tell German postwar history through
Fischer’s eyes and his varied resume. His career included full
exposure to Frankfurt’s seedy night scene as a taxi driver and a
stint as a laborer at carmaker Adam Opel AG, as well as seven
years as Schroeder’s vice-chancellor.  Danquart isn’t critical enough in the film, which opens in
German cinemas tomorrow. He allows Fischer’s views to go
unchallenged and doesn’t speak to detractors.  Standing in a former Berlin power plant turned nightclub,
Fischer is surrounded by projections -- some private, some
public footage of himself, and some newsreels of major political
events. He comments eloquently, describing how the silence
surrounding World War II in the 1950s fueled his generation’s
rebellion against their parents.  Terrorist Bloodbath  His own political path changed direction after the Baader-
Meinhof gang bloodbath of 1977, the year industry chief
representative Hanns-Martin Schleyer was murdered and three
leading gang members committed suicide in jail. Fischer withdrew
from political activity altogether for a couple of years.  In 1982, he joined the Greens, though not through any
environmental conviction. Some amusing footage of a glum Fischer
gingerly carrying a fir on a protest march reveals him to be
anything but a happy tree-hugger.  The  Green Party  is the No. 2 electoral force, some polls
show, suggesting it may appoint the next chancellor. Twenty-five
years ago, Fischer was the first Green to win government office.
He caused outrage by taking his oath of office as Hesse
environment minister in sneakers. He is disarmingly frank about
his utter cluelessness on taking up the post.  Paintball Attack  The party, Fischer says, “wore him out.” You have to
sympathize when he is hit with a paintball in the ear at a
Greens’ congress because of his support for sending UN-mandated
troops to  Kosovo  in 1999. “I was livid,” he says. He admits he
had to fight the urge to grab his attacker.  The film’s main problem is that it attempts to do far too
much by telling 60 years of history and does it only from a
limited perspective. Cameos with 10 other characters -- many of
them from the left-wing protest scene of the 1960s -- give their
take on events of the past decades, blurring the focus.  It would have been better to narrow the scope to Fischer’s
life story and his view of history, creating a portrait through
interviews with critics as well as friends. To some in the
conservative camp, he’s still a controversial figure. There’s no
hint of that here.  Still, Fischer’s take on events is honest, succinct and
entertaining -- all the more so now that he has been out of
politics for six years. The movie is worth watching for that.  Rating **½.  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on this review:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 