-- 
Kenya Opens Inquest Into Death of Marathon Champion Wanjiru After Jump

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-17T13:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/kenya-opens-inquest-into-death-of-olympic-marathon-champion-samuel-wanjiru.html
An inquest into the death of Kenyan
marathon champion Samuel Wanjiru is expected to officially
resolve whether he deliberately jumped from a balcony at his
Rift Valley home, or fell by accident, a police official said.  None of the different accounts circulating among the
public, including one that alleges Wanjiru committed suicide,
have been confirmed, Charles Owino, a spokesman for the  Kenyan
police  force, said by phone from Nairobi, the capital, today.  “So far we don’t think he was pushed or it was his
intention to end his life,” said Owino. “There is a feeling
maybe he thought the distance was short enough he could land
safely, but that’s just us imagining. The investigation has just
started.”  Wanjiru, 24, died from injuries sustained when he fell from
the first floor balcony of his house in Nyahururu, 155
kilometers (96 miles) northwest of Nairobi, on May 15, Jasper
Ombati, police commander for Nyandarua Country, said yesterday.
The incident occurred following a domestic dispute with his wife
Triza Njeri Kamau, who had asked him about a woman he brought
home, Ombati said.  “Allegedly he was with another woman, his wife locked the
door, and he couldn’t access outside through the normal
entrance,” Owino said today.  Inquests are opened in  Kenya  to explore the circumstances
of a “sudden death” he said. A magistrate will be presented with
the evidence, including testimony from eyewitnesses and a post-
mortem medical examination, once the police probe is concluded,
he said. Owino declined to provide a timeline.  Olympic Gold  Wanjiru became the first Kenyan to win an Olympic gold
medal in the marathon at the Beijing Games in 2008, triumphing
in a Games-record time a year after he suffered a bout of
malaria.  He won five of his seven marathons, setting a career-best
time of 2 hours, 5 minutes and 10 seconds in winning the 2009
 London  Marathon. He was a two-time champion of the World
Marathon Majors Series, which consists of the five annual races
in  Boston , London, Berlin,  Chicago  and  New York  and the
marathons at the  International Association of Athletics
Federations  World Championships and  Olympic Games .  Tributes poured in for Wanjiru following his death.  “He was in my opinion the best marathon runner ever and was
likely to break the world marathon record,” London Marathon Race
Director Dave Bedford said in a statement issued by the  World
Marathon Majors . “The sport of marathon running has suffered a
tragic loss, and he will truly be missed by all who knew him in
Chicago,” Carey Pinkowski, the race director for the Chicago
Marathon, said in the same statement.  “I am totally shocked of the news of the death of Sammy
Wanjiru,” Haile Gebrselassie, the Ethiopian marathon world
record holder, wrote on Twitter. “Of course one wonders if we as
an athletics family could have avoided this tragedy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 