-- 
Kenya Shilling Weakens for Second Day, Central Bank Buys Euros

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-17T12:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/kenya-shilling-weakens-for-second-day-central-bank-buys-euros.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
second day as the central bank bought foreign currency for the
fifth trading session in six to boost reserves.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.4 percent to 86.45 per dollar and traded 0.2
percent down at 86.35 by 2:30 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A
close at this level would be the weakest since March 16.  The Central Bank of Kenya has bought 22 million euros
($31.2 million) since May 10, including 4 million euros today,
and has sold 5.1 billion shillings ($59 million) of  repurchase
agreements , including 1 billion shillings today at 5.71 percent,
to counter shilling weakness caused by the euro purchases. The
transactions are “in order to align net domestic assets to the
extended credit facility targets” set by the  International
Monetary Fund , it said in its weekly bulletin dated May 13.  “The central bank’s decision to build up its reserves and
curb excess supply through its repurchase agreements is putting
the local unit under pressure, with the market remaining
cautious,” Wilson Mutai, a dealer at Nairobi-based African
Banking Corp., said in a phone interview today.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  The IMF’s executive board in January approved the extension
of a $508.7 million credit facility for Kenya. The program
targets an increase in the country’s international reserves to
four months of import cover.  The central bank will “maintain the floating exchange-rate
regime while continuing to purchase foreign exchange as needed
to achieve the foreign reserve target,” according to a
 statement  on the IMF’s website.  Kenya’s usable foreign exchange reserves declined to $3.92
billion in the week to May 13, or 3.8 months’ import cover, from
$3.96 billion in the week to May 6, the Central Bank of Kenya
said in its weekly bulletin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  