-- 
Kenya President Announces Nominations for Chief Justice, Public Prosecutor

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T11:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/kenya-president-announces-nominations-for-chief-justice-public-prosecutor.html
Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki and
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  agreed to nominate three candidates
to the judiciary, ending almost four months of wrangling that
tarnished implementation of the country’s new constitution.  Willy Mutunga and Nancy Baraza were nominated to the posts
of chief justice and deputy chief justice respectively, the
presidency said in an e-mailed statement today from Nairobi, the
capital. Keriako Tobiko was recommended as the new director of
public prosecutions, it said.  All of the nominations were made “after consultations with
the prime minister,” the presidency said.  In January, Odinga rejected Kibaki’s appointment of a new
chief justice, attorney general, director of public prosecutions
and budget controller, saying he wasn’t consulted as required by
the constitution that was enacted in August. That new charter
was promised in a power-sharing accord reached in 2008 to end
two months of post-election violence that left an estimated
1,500 people dead and displaced 300,000 more.  Kibaki’s government is seeking to persuade the
 International Criminal Court  to halt cases against six
officials, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , on charges
of playing leading roles in the fighting. The officials have all
denied any involvement.  Kenya asked for a one-year deferral of the cases so that
its courts can prepare to assume responsibility for them.  Dennis Onyango, a spokesman in the prime minister’s office,
and Salim Lone, an adviser to Odinga, didn’t answer their mobile
phones when Bloomberg News called for comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 