-- 
King Says Inflation Driven By Commodity Prices, to Rise Further

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-17T09:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/king-says-inflation-driven-by-commodity-prices-to-rise-further.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the recent surge in inflation is being driven by higher
sales tax and increases in energy and import prices.  ‘Although the impact on inflation of these factors is
difficult to quantity with precision, it is likely that had they
not occurred inflation would have been substantially lower and
probably below the target,” King said in a letter to Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne . Inflation is likely to rise
further over the next few months, he said.  King was forced to write the letter after the  Office for
National Statistics  said inflation jumped to 4.5 percent in
April, more than twice the central bank’s target. The bank
signaled last week it may need to raise the key interest rate
from a record low to control “uncomfortably high” inflation
that may reach 5 percent even as economic growth slows.  “The MPC judges that attempting to bring inflation back to
the target quickly risks generating undesirable volatility in
output and would increase the chances of undershooting the
target in the medium term,” King said.  He said levels of activity in the economy remain. “It is
therefore possible that, as the temporary influence of the
factors currently pushing up on inflation wanes, these downward
pressures on inflation could drag inflation below the target,”
he said.  The governor must write to the chancellor every three
months when the inflation rate strays more than a percentage
point from the 2 percent target in either direction. This is his
sixth consecutive letter since February 2010.  In his response today, Osborne said the government’s
deficit-cutting plan “continues to provide the MPC with the
space it needs to target low inflation.” He welcomed the bank’s
commitment “to respond flexibly to the economic outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  