-- 
Korean Won Snaps Three-Day Drop on Speculation Exporters Selling Dollars

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-05-17T07:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/korea-bonds-gain-won-weakens-on-greek-debt-concern-interest-rate-outlook.html
South Korea ’s won gained, snapping a
three-day decline, on speculation exporters repatriated income
to take advantage of the currency’s slide to a one-month low.  The won dropped 1.5 percent against the dollar in the last
three days as renewed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen bolstered demand for the greenback. Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said today external economic conditions are still
“uncertain.” European finance ministers endorsed a 78 billion-
euro ($111 billion) bailout for Portugal yesterday, while
stepping up pressure on Greece to sell assets and deepen
spending cuts in exchange for more financial aid.  “There was  market sentiment  the recent decline in the won
was overdone and exporters sold their dollars to take profits,”
said Cho Young Bok, currency dealer at Daegu Bank in  Seoul .
“Still, concerns about the European debt crisis linger and that
may limit excessive gains in the won.”  The won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,088.50 against the
dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell as much as 0.4 percent
earlier to 1095.68, the weakest level since April 13.  The yield on South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds due
December 2013 was unchanged at 3.62 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded at a slower
pace than forecast in May, showing that surging raw-material
costs are damping confidence. The Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York ’s general economic index fell to 11.9 from a one-year high
of 21.7 in April, the central bank reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  