-- 
South Korea Revives Woori Sale Process, Sets June Deadline for Fresh Bids

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-05-17T07:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/korea-revives-woori-sale-sets-june-deadline-for-new-bids-1-.html
South Korea  will begin accepting
fresh bids for Woori Finance Holdings Co. tomorrow as the
government tries to revive the sale of its 57 percent stake in
the country’s largest financial company by assets.  Bidders should submit letters of interest by June 29 with
offers to buy a minimum 30 percent stake, the Public Fund
Oversight Committee said today. Woori Finance will be sold in a
package with its units, the committee said in a statement.  State-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. aims to divest the
stake, valued at about 6.3 trillion won ($5.8 billion) as
President  Lee Myung Bak  sheds control of state-run companies to
boost their global competitiveness. The plan follows the
government’s suspended attempt in December to privatize Woori
Finance amid a lack of buyer interest.  Woori shares fell 1.5 percent to 13,350 won at the 3:00 p.m.
close of trading in  Seoul , reversing earlier gains. They have
tumbled 14 percent this year, compared with the Kospi Index’s
2.5 percent increase.  Final bids for Woori will be taken in September, Min Sang
Kee, who heads the committee, told reporters today in Seoul. The
committee is jointly run by the government’s Financial Services
Commission and private experts including professors.  Luring Bidders  To lure more bidders, the government may consider easing
rules requiring financial holding companies to own more than 95
percent after buying a peer, Shin Je Yoon, vice chairman of the
Financial Services Commission, told reporters today.  State-run KDB Financial Group Inc. may seek to buy a stake
in Woori Finance if the government eases the requirement, Yonhap
News reported May 5. KDB Financial will talk with South Korean
financial authorities about making a possible bid for Woori
Finance, Park Chan Ho, a spokesman at KDB, said by phone today.
Shin and Min declined to comment on a specific bidder.  The government is also trying to privatize KDB and aims to
sell an unspecified number of shares by May 2014.  “The key concern is whether there will be bidders other
than KDB and the outlook isn’t bright,” said Hyun Shim, a
banking analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co., who has a
“buy” rating on Woori.  Hana Financial Group Inc. Chairman Kim Seung Yu, who’s
seeking to extend a 4.7 trillion won bid to buy Korea Exchange
Bank from Dallas-based Lone Star Funds, said on May 12 that he
wasn’t considering acquiring Woori Finance if his attempt to buy
Korea Exchange Bank fails.  KB Financial Group Inc. Chairman Euh Yoon Dae said on May
11 that the owner of South Korea’s largest lender won’t bid for
Woori Finance.  ‘Last Resort’  Financial Services Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong had
said the country may reorganize roles of state-run financial
companies to better support South Korean companies in overseas
infrastructure projects.  “Combining KDB with Woori may be the last resort for the
government as it fails to find a buyer at all,” said Choi Jung Wook, a banking analyst at Daishin Securities Co. “That’s far
from the government’s earlier stance of making financial
companies more competitive through privatization.”  Woori Finance had total assets of 346 trillion won at the
end of March and  operates  three banks including  Woori Bank , the
country’s second biggest. It also runs a securities unit Woori
Investment & Securities Co. as well as asset management and
private equity units.  The company was created in 2001 as a holding company for
banks that the government rescued following the Asian financial
crisis in 1997 to 1998. The government spent 12.8 trillion won
to aid Woori Finance and has recouped 5.3 trillion won so far
though block sales of shares.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Samsung Securities Co. and Daewoo
Securities Co. were hired in September to help Korea Deposit
sell its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  