-- 
KP Chemical, International Container Pace Share Gains on MSCI Index Review

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n ,   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-05-17T09:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/kp-chemical-shares-climb-most-in-three-weeks-on-being-added-to-msci-index.html
LSR Group (LSRG) , a St. Petersburg-based
property developer,  South Korea ’s  KP Chemical Corp. (064420) , and
 International Container Terminal Services Inc. (ICT)  jumped after  MSCI
Inc. (MSCI)  said they will be added to benchmark indexes.  LSR rallied as much as 7 percent on inclusion in the Russia
index and traded up 3 percent at 1,030 rubles by 12:51 p.m. in
Moscow. OAO Rostelecom, the nation’s dominant long-distance
carrier, and OAO Mechel preferred shares slumped at least 4
percent after they were not included. KP Chemical, a paraxylene
maker that’s set to join the MSCI Korea Index, advanced 4.5
percent. International Container Terminal, the  Philippines ’
biggest port operator, surged 13 percent.  MSCI, which announced semi-annual changes to its gauges,
estimates more than $3 trillion of funds are benchmarked against
its indexes globally. Changes to indexes can alter share prices
as passively managed funds buy and sell stocks to mirror the
benchmark indexes.  “The inclusion news is positive for share moves,” Kim Chul Min, a Seoul-based quant analyst at  Hyundai Securities Co. (003450) ,
said by phone today. “Actual buying from passive funds will be
more clearly seen on May 31.”  LSR replaced OAO OGK-4, E.ON AG’s power utility, in the
MSCI Russia Index. Eight companies were included in the MSCI
China Index and three were removed. Six were added to the MSCI
India Index and none deleted. Twenty were cut from the MSCI
 Japan  Index, with no stock added. The changes will take effect
after the close of trading on May 31, MSCI said in a statement
on its website.  ‘Contrary’  “Contrary to our and market expectations, LSR Group’s
liquidity was assessed sufficient, making the stock eligible for
inclusion,” said VTB Capital analysts led by Alexey Zabotkin.
Preferred shares of  Mechel (MTLR) , which were a “widely mentioned
inclusion candidate,” failed to meet the criteria to be
included.  OAO Polymetal jumped 4.5 percent, the most in a month,
after the Russian gold and silver producer had its weighting
increased in the MSCI Russia Index. OGK-4 slid 1.9 percent,
dropping for a second day.  Rostelecom sank 5.5 percent to 168.17 rubles, snapping a
seven-day streak of advances. Mechel’s preferred shares
retreated 4.5 percent. Brokerages including  Renaissance Capital ,
UralSib Financial Corp.,  Alfa Bank  and Citigroup Inc. had
forecast that the shares would be included in MSCI’s semi-annual
review.  ‘Surprised the Market’  “MSCI surprised the market this morning by including LSR
into its Russia index and ignoring Rostelecom shares and Mechel
prefs,” Leonid Slipchenko, an analyst at UralSib Financial
Corp., said today. “We believe that Rostelecom may be included
in the index later," he said, calling Rostelecom shares
"fundamentally attractive" and recommending "using possible
weakness in the stock as a buying opportunity."  The New York-based index provider is adding 54 securities
and deleting 57 stocks from the MSCI All Country World Index.
The three largest additions to the MSCI World Index are U.S.-
based  Whiting Petroleum Corp. (WLL) ,  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  and  Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)   The three largest additions to the MSCI Emerging Market
Index are Shriram Transport Finance Co., an Indian truck
financier backed by  Fidelity Investments , South Africa’s
 Barloworld Ltd. (BAW) , the world’s largest forklift trader, and
synthetic rubber maker  Korea Kumho Petrochemical (011780)  Co.  Shriram Transport Finance rallied 3.6 percent, and
Barloworld climbed 2.8 percent. Korea Kumho Petrochemical rose
0.9 percent. Hyundai Wia Corp., an auto-parts unit of Hyundai
Motor Co., advanced 3.9 percent in  Seoul  after MSCI said it will
be added to the Korean index. CSG Holding Co., a Chinese
glassmaker that will be included in the MSCI China Index,
climbed 2 percent.  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) , Japan’s fourth-largest brewer, and
Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., the nation’s largest zinc
producer, led declines in  Tokyo  among shares set for removal
from the MSCI Japan Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  