-- 
National Bank’s Bertrand Returns to Exchange Roots in Counterbid for TMX

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-05-17T20:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/national-bank-s-bertrand-returns-to-exchange-roots-in-counterbid-for-tmx.html
Three years after being passed over
to head  Canada ’s largest stock exchange, Luc Bertrand is back,
leading a group of banks and pension funds trying to keep  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  in Canadian hands and thwart a bid from the London
bourse.  Bertrand has become the public face for Maple Group
Acquisition Corp. in its unsolicited C$3.6 billion ($3.7
billion) offer to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange owner. Though
the group includes four of the country’s biggest banks, and
pension funds with C$450 billion in assets, Bertrand has done
all the talking since the bid was announced last weekend.  “The whole exchange space is one where I’ve had personal
interest for a long time,” Bertrand said in an interview
yesterday in Toronto, after leading two conference calls with
analysts and reporters. “I’m very happy to be involved in
helping to build this arrangement.”  Bertrand, 56, who led the  Montreal Exchange  for almost a
decade before leaving the industry in 2009 after failing to win
the job as TMX’s chief executive officer, is in familiar
territory.  During his tenure at the Montreal bourse, he pushed to turn
the exchange, which had inherited most of the country’s
derivatives contracts trading, into a for-profit company. The
firm went public in 2007.  ‘Unique and Innovative’  “His demutualizing of the Montreal Stock Exchange was
unique and it was innovative,” said Tom Caldwell, whose
Toronto-based money management firm invests in global exchanges.
“Clearly Luc, as CEO at the time, can take credit for that.”  When the Toronto Stock Exchange agreed to buy Montreal
Exchange for about C$1.3 billion, Bertrand was considered by
some analysts as a candidate to become CEO after  Richard Nesbitt 
left the firm in January 2008 for Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce. Bertrand was bypassed when TMX hired Thomas Kloet for
the top job in June of that year. Bertrand left his post as
deputy CEO a year later and joined Montreal-based  National Bank
of Canada (NA)  as a vice chairman this year.  During his time at the TMX, Bertrand felt there was an
opportunity to expand the Canadian exchange owner into something
bigger, with trading and clearing “siloed” in the same
company. Under the Maple bid, TMX plans to merge with Alpha
Group, an alternative equity trading system, and  CDS Inc. , the
securities clearing house owned by the banks, TMX and the
Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.  London Catalyst  “For me, it’s always been something in my mind to see the
TMX developed into a major silo,” said Bertrand, who is TMX’s
largest individual investor, owning 737,000 shares worth about
C$32 million, according to Bloomberg data. “This is the
opportunity to do it.”  The catalyst for Bertrand’s involvement with Maple was
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s Feb. 9 bid to buy the Toronto
Stock Exchange owner, which came two days after he started at
National Bank.  LSE’s proposal to buy TMX Group for about C$3.2 billion in
stock prompted talks between Bertrand and National Bank CEO
Louis Vachon, a former Montreal Exchange board member, about the
future of Canada’s markets.  “The discussion expanded with other broker-dealers on the
street,” Bertrand said. “At the end of the day, we decided
that -- after lots of analysis and work -- that we could build a
better, superior proposal to the LSE proposal,” he said.  Alternative Bid  Bertrand and a group of banks expressed their concerns
about the LSE deal in March, appearing before an Ontario
legislative committee and in media interviews and public
speeches.  “I would say Luc was one of the drivers” of this bid,
said Caldwell, CEO of Caldwell Securities Ltd. “He’s always had
an interest in the exchange space.”  The firms behind the bid, including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
CIBC and National Bank, spent the next two months working on an
all-Canadian alternative to the LSE takeover, he said.  Bertrand said the Maple bid is superior to the LSE deal
because it’s primarily in cash; offers a premium to the LSE bid;
keeps the company based in Canada; preserves jobs and makes TMX
better positioned to pursue international acquisitions.  Under the Maple  plan , TMX shareholders would get C$33.52 in
cash plus 0.3016 of a Maple share for each TMX share. The group,
which was created for this bid, would pay as much as C$2.5
billion in cash under the proposal, which is about 15 percent
higher than the offer from the London bourse.  Antitrust Review  Though the bid doesn’t require a foreign investment review,
it will face an antitrust probe because the TMX and bank-owned
Alpha control a combined 88 percent of Canada’s equity trading
market.  TMX fell 68 cents, or 1.5 percent, to C$43.37 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, below the Maple bid of C$48 a share, suggesting
investors aren’t convinced the deal will get done.  Bertrand, raised near the Quebec border in Cornwall,
Ontario, has been a senior executive in the Quebec business
community for more than a decade. He held a position at National
Bank in 1998 before becoming president and CEO of Montreal
Exchange in March 2000. He’s also a minority owner in the
 Montreal Canadiens  of the  National Hockey League , having bought
an undisclosed stake when a group led by Montreal’s Molson
family acquired the club in 2009.  Bertrand said he’d welcome the opportunity to serve in a
governance capacity at TMX, perhaps as a board member, if the
Maple Group bid succeeds. He’s not interested in being the boss.  “I’m very happy as vice chairman of National Bank,” he
said. “It’s exciting, I work with very bright people, fun
people, and I have no plans whatsoever to accept a position
elsewhere.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  