-- 
Natural Gas Futures in New York Fall as Mild Weather Cuts Cooling Demand

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-05-17T19:25:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/natural-gas-futures-fall-as-mild-weather-reduces-cooling-demand.html
Natural gas futures slipped in  New
York  for the first time in four days on concern that demand for
the fuel may decline after data showed U.S. industrial
production unexpectedly stalled in April.  Gas dropped 3.2 percent after the  Federal Reserve  reported
output at factories, mines and utilities was unchanged following
a 0.7 percent gain in March. Industrial consumers account for 28
percent of the nation’s gas demand, according to Energy
Department estimates.  “The domestic industrial production number is really
weighing on the market,” said Jason Schenker, the president of
Prestige Economics in Austin,  Texas . “The implication is that
weaker industrial output could sap some gas demand.”  Natural gas for June delivery fell 13.6 cents, or 3.2
percent, to settle at $4.182 per million British thermal units
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have fallen 5.1
percent this year.  The data reflected a decline in automobile output as the
Japanese earthquake and tsunami disrupted supplies, the Federal
Reserve said. Economists had forecast a 0.4 percent gain in
industrial production, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, fell to 76.9 percent last month from 77 percent
in March. The gauge compares with the average of 79.5 percent
over the past 20 years.  Cooler Weather  Gas also slid as cool weather reduced demand for gas-fired
electricity to run air conditioners. Forecasters including
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland, said
temperatures will be below normal in parts of the Midwest,
Southeast and Northeast through May 21.  Power plants  use 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies,
according to the Energy Department.  “There is not an abundance of confidence in gas with the
cool weather,” said Brad Florer, a trader at Kottke Associates
Inc., an energy trading firm in Louisville, Kentucky. “We’ve
been in this overall shrinking consolidation for months.”  The high temperature in Boston on May 21 may be 63 degrees
Fahrenheit (17 Celsius), 5 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in
 Chicago  may be 73 degrees, matching the normal temperature.  Cooling demand in the Northeast may be below-normal through
May 21,  David Salmon , a meteorologist with Weather Derivatives
in Belton, Missouri, said in a note to clients today.  Nuclear Power  U.S. nuclear-power production rose 1 percent as operators
boosted reactors in Illinois, Georgia, Florida and Louisiana,
the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  said. Higher atomic output can
reduce the demand for natural gas in power plants.  Nuclear power generation nationwide increased 776 megawatts
from yesterday to 76,730 megawatts, or 76 percent of capacity,
according to an NRC report today and data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twenty-six of the nation’s 104 reactors were offline.  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  boosted the 882-megawatt Quad Cities 2 reactor
on the Illinois side of the  Mississippi River  to 100 percent of
capacity from 85 percent yesterday. Another unit at the site,
the 882-megawatt Quad Cities 1, is shut. The plant is located
about 20 miles (32 kilometers) northeast of Moline.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
230,595 as of 2:40 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 307,000. Volume was 253,975 yesterday. Open interest was
955,823 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
945,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  