-- 
Pfizer Blames Teva, Ivax for ’Billions’ in Neurontin Losses

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-17T18:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/neurontin-trial-begins-in-federal-court-in-newark-new-jersey.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, told a federal jury that it lost billions of dollars
in sales from unauthorized copies of the epilepsy drug Neurontin
and it wants the money back.  Pfizer claims copies of the pill made by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and its Ivax unit, along with
Actavis Group hf’s Purepac unit, infringe a patent that expires
in 2017. During opening statements today in federal court in
 Newark , New Jersey, the generic-drug makers rejected the claim
and told jurors that the brand drug only became a blockbuster
for Pfizer because of the company’s illegal marketing activity.  Low-cost versions of Neurontin have been on the market
since 2004. A federal appeals court in 2007 overturned a
U.S. judge’s ruling that they didn’t infringe Pfizer’s patent,
setting the stage for a trial that began today after 11 years of
litigation.  “Teva and Ivax took Pfizer’s product for themselves,”
Pfizer lawyer Jack Blumenfeld told the jury in his opening
statement. “The result was that Pfizer lost billions of
dollars, virtually overnight.”  Neurontin, whose active ingredient is gabapentin, was a
$2.5 billion-a-year drug for New York-based Pfizer before the
copies entered the market. The patent is for a process to make
gabapentin with fewer contaminants.  Generic Version  Ivax, then a standalone company, began selling a variation
of the drug in August 2004. Purepac started selling its generic
version in October 2004 with Teva after the companies agreed to
share any potential legal loss. Pfizer’s sales in 2005 plunged
to $150 million a year, Blumenfeld said.  “Ninety-four percent of the Neurontin market disappeared
within that year,” he said. “It had an impact of more than $2
billion that first year, and more as time went on.”  Petah Tikva , Israel-based Teva, the world’s biggest
generic-drug company, and Iceland-based Actavis, which has U.S.
offices in Morristown and Elizabeth,  New Jersey , contend the
patent is invalid because it’s an obvious variation of already
expired patents, including one that ended in 2000.  “Pfizer didn’t want to risk good, honest competition in
the marketplace,” said Elizabeth Holland, a lawyer for Ivax.
“That’s what this case is really about.”  The generic drugmakers contend that, even if they lose on
the patent question, Pfizer shouldn’t be able to recoup money it
obtained because of the unlawful promotion of Neurontin.  Blockbuster Drug  Warner-Lambert Co., which Pfizer bought in 2000, built the
drug into a blockbuster by promoting it for uses not approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Teva contends. In 2004,
Warner-Lambert pleaded guilty and agreed to pay $430 million to
resolve U.S. criminal and civil allegations that it marketed
Neurontin for so-called off-label uses.  Neurontin was approved by U.S. regulators as a supplemental
drug to combat seizures. It paid doctors consultant fees to
attend conferences in Hawaii and  Florida  and the 1996 Atlanta
Olympics, and encouraged doctors to prescribe the drug for
bipolar mental disorder,  Lou Gehrig ’s Disease, attention deficit
disorder and even migraines, according to prosecutors.  “The vast, vast majority of sales of Neurontin by Pfizer
were based on this misleading information to doctors,” Holland
said. “It had nothing to do with the patent. It had to do
Pfizer breaking the law and misleading doctors.”  Blumenfeld said all that happened before 2004, so it
shouldn’t be an issue in the trial.  ‘Illegal Marketing’  “Neurontin was not a blockbuster drug because of illegal
marketing,” Blumenfeld told the jury. “It was a blockbuster
drug because doctors believed it had real value.”  In January, Pfizer was told to pay another $142.1 million
for violating U.S. racketeering laws in a civil suit brought by
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Inc. The company has said it would
appeal the jury verdict and damage award.  The company also is facing lawsuits accusing it of
illegally promoting the drug and hiding risks that use of the
drug could lead to suicidal tendencies.  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz generic-drug unit also was part of the
case and settled last month. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The case is Warner-Lambert Co. v. Purepac Pharmaceutical,
00-cv-2931, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story: David Voreacos in
Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and; Allan Holmes at
   aholmes25@bloomberg.net  