-- 
New Municipal Bond Rules, France Rural Wireless, Portugal Debt: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-17T12:22:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/new-municipal-bond-rules-france-rural-wireless-portugal-debt-compliance.html
Investors in U.S. floating-rate
municipal bonds have more access to information now under rules
established after the financial crisis roiled the market three
years ago.  The  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board , the industry’s
regulator,  said that beginning yesterday  investors could access
its website for information about the bidding at auctions that
set the interest rates on the securities. They can also find
documents on key credit lines tied to the bonds. The changes
will raise transparency to an “unprecedented level,” according
to a statement by Lynnette Hotchkiss, executive director of the
board.  The rules are aimed at corners of the $2.9 trillion
municipal bond market where state and local governments borrow
for decades at short-term interest rates. Issuers guarantee
investors that they will be able to sell the securities after
holding them for only a week or month, which makes them willing
to accept lower yields.  One segment of that market, for so-called auction-rate
securities, was upended in 2008 when Wall Street banks stopped
using their own cash to buy unwanted bonds when investors
exited. When those auctions failed, investors were stuck with
securities they couldn’t sell and debtors had to pay penalty
 interest rates .  The market for variable-rate demand obligations, or VRDOs,
was also disrupted by the credit crisis. The new MSRB
disclosures will make it easier for investors by putting
documents now available through brokers in one place, said
Joanna Brody, a managing director who runs the short-term
municipal bond desk at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York .  Compliance Policy  Finance Chiefs Back IMF; Focus on Strauss-Kahn’s Successor  Finance ministers sought to bolster confidence in the
International Monetary Fund as they began discussing a successor
to Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who was jailed on
charges including attempted rape.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said he is
“absolutely confident” the IMF will “carry on with its
business” under Acting Managing Director  John Lipsky . French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said the 187-member lender to
governments is “solid.”  Kaoru Yosano , Japan’s economy
minister, said the flap won’t compromise the fund’s mission.  Germany and Belgium said they prefer another European as
head of the agency, responding to a push by developing countries
to throw open its leadership. There are “good reasons” for
Europe to keep the post amid the euro area’s debt crisis, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters in Berlin.  IMF spokeswoman  Caroline Atkinson  told reporters yesterday
that the fund is “fully operational” and working on matters
for its member countries around the world. Still, much of the
talk in Washington and in European capitals focused on who would
replace Strauss-Kahn if he leaves office before the scheduled
end of his term more than 17 months from now.  The IMF’s executive board, meeting in Washington, agreed to
seek contact with Strauss-Kahn about his intentions, according
to an official briefed on the deliberations. Strauss-Kahn, a 62-
year-old former French finance minister accused of sexually
assaulting a hotel housekeeper, was sent to New York’s Riker’s
Island prison yesterday after being denied bail.  France to Require Immediate Rural Coverage in Spectrum Sale  France’s government will require mobile-phone operators to
introduce fourth-generation wireless coverage to rural areas and
big cities simultaneously as a condition of its $3.5 billion
sale of frequency spectrum.  A “priority zone” for 4G coverage, which offers much
higher mobile data speeds than existing technologies, will cover
18 percent of the French population and 80 percent of the
country’s land area, Industry Minister Eric Besson said in
prepared remarks for a speech delivered near Paris yesterday.  The French state is seeking at least 2.5 billion euros
($3.5 billion) for the spectrum, which operators will be able to
use beginning next year, Besson said. The auction will also
require operators to cover 90 percent of the population in each
of the 96 departments that cover mainland France within 12
years. That measure, imposed for the first time, is another step
to increase rural coverage.  European countries are opening wireless spectrum vacated by
analog television signals, making faster data transmission
possible and extending high-speed service to new areas. A
planned U.K. auction may raise as much as 2.6 billion pounds
($4.2 billion), communications regulator  Ofcom  said in March.  The French government is also aiming to encourage more
competition among mobile-phone operators as customers in France
pay more than those in most European countries, according to the
Paris-based  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development .  German FDP Eyes Share-Capital Rule for Banks, Handelsblatt Says  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition partner, the
Free Democratic Party, wants banks and insurers to hold share
capital as a backup to offset risks from European government
bonds,  Handelsblatt  reported, citing a draft motion for
resolution.  Compliance Action  Portugal Bailout Approved as EU Presses Greece to Sell Assets  European finance ministers endorsed a 78 billion-euro
($110.8 billion) bailout for Portugal as they stepped up
pressure on Greece to do more to win improved aid terms.  Portugal followed Greece and Ireland in seeking emergency
loans from the European Union and International Monetary Fund,
bringing to 256 billion euros the aid provided to stamp out the
sovereign debt crisis.  The backing for Portugal came during deliberations in
Brussels yesterday clouded by the absence of International
Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn. Europe’s
rich countries tied extra money for Greece to pledges that it
reap more revenue at home and weighed whether to make
bondholders share the pain.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said there
“certainly” would not be a decision on Greece yesterday, since
European and IMF experts have yet to complete an updated
assessment of the Greek economy.  For more, click here. For related news on Strauss-Kahn, see
Comings and Goings and Interviews/Speeches sections, below.  Nasdaq, ICE Drop NYSE Bid, Clearing Way for Deutsche Boerse  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
withdrew their bid for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  after the U.S. Department
of Justice threatened a lawsuit, sending NYSE Euronext down by
the most in 2 1/2 years as the takeover battle for the Big Board
ended.  NYSE Euronext agreed to be bought by Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  on Feb. 15, creating the world’s largest
exchange operator. The NYSE Euronext board twice rejected a
rival proposal from Nasdaq OMX and ICE, saying the unsolicited
offer would lead to too much debt and regulatory opposition.  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  finds
himself without a partner in the global wave of mergers that has
swept the exchange industry. The second-biggest U.S. exchange
operator was counting on its plan to merge its stock-trading and
listings operations with NYSE Euronext as a way to eliminate
costs in businesses where competition has reduced its profits
and market share. Nasdaq OMX would have gained a monopoly on
corporate listings.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s withdrawal paves the way for NYSE
shareholders to approve the merger with Deutsche Boerse at a
special meeting scheduled for July.  The U.S. Department of Justice said in a  statement  on its
website that it would have filed an antitrust lawsuit to block a
purchase of NYSE Euronext by Nasdaq OMX and ICE.  For more, click here.  Courts  Total, Arkema Lose EU Appeal of 59 Million-Euro Cartel Fine  Total SA (FP) ’s Elf Aquitaine unit and former Total subsidiary
 Arkema SA (AKE)  lost appeals of a 59 million-euro ($83.5 million) fine
levied three years ago for fixing the price of a chemical used
to make paper.  The  European Union General Court , the second-highest
tribunal in the 27-nation bloc, rejected bids by Arkema France
and Elf Aquitaine to annul or cut the fine, ruling in Luxembourg
today that the  European Commission  “did not commit an error”
in its decision in the case, which began in March 2003.  The French companies’ punishment was part of a 79 million-
euro penalty that the commission, the EU’s  antitrust  regulator,
levied on four companies in June 2008 for participating in an
unlawful cartel on prices of sodium chlorate paper bleach.  Total is “not able to comment as we need time to study the
decision,” Sandra Dante, a spokeswoman for the France, Paris-
based company said in an e-mail. Sybille Chaix, a spokeswoman
for Arkema, based in Colombes, France, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment.  The case is T-299/08, Elf Aquitaine v. Commission;
T-343/08, Arkema France v. Commission.  Interviews/Speeches  Juncker Says He’s Deeply Sad About Arrest of IMF’s Strauss-Kahn  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said he was “very, very
sad” about the arrest in New York of International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn on sexual-assault
charges.  “To see Dominique Strauss-Kahn in handcuffs on television
this morning has deeply saddened me,” Juncker told reporters in
Brussels late yesterday after leading a meeting of European
finance ministers. “I have the feeling to be in a bad movie.”  Juncker said ministers didn’t discuss Strauss-Kahn during
their talks.  O’Neill Says EU Must Not Delay on Greek Restructuring  Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
discussed this weekend’s arrest of International Monetary Fund
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn and the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  O’Neill, who spoke with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg
Television’s “Last Word,” also talked about the IMF’s
leadership outlook and Mario Draghi’s candidacy to replace Jean-
Claude Trichet as president of the European Central Bank.  For the video, click here.  Markets Need ‘Attention’ After Bank Probes, Almunia Says  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union antitrust regulator who
is already investigating 16 investment banks, said financial
markets still need “a lot of attention” to aid the continent’s
economic recovery.  The  European Commission  is “trying to avoid that the
financial markets will consolidate abuses or will eliminate the
possibility for new entrants to introduce more competition and
more efficiency,” Almunia, the EU competition commissioner,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in London.  “The economy will need a more dynamic, more efficient,
more solvent and more stable financial system,” said Almunia,
who was the EU commissioner for monetary and economic affairs
from 2004 through 2010. “We need to improve the functioning of
our markets from the point of view of efficiency.”  Almunia increased scrutiny of financial markets last month
with probes into whether banks colluded to shut out rivals from
information on the swaps market.  Erste’s Treichl Says Politicians ‘Cowardly’ on Basel III Rules  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl
sparked a row in Austria when he said the country’s politicians
are “too stupid and too cowardly” to resist tougher
international capital rules.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s proposed Basel
III rules, which require banks to hold more capital, will hurt
both Erste and the Austrian economy, Treichl, 58, said in a May
13 speech to members of the co-governing  Austrian People’s Party 
in Salzburg. The comments were first reported the following day
by state broadcaster ORF.  “This is a gross blunder,” Treichl said, according to a
recording of his speech that ORF broadcast  May 15 . “Our
politicians are too stupid and too cowardly and too clueless for
that because they don’t know anything about economics. This is
going to hurt Austria.”  Government officials responded that Erste received 1.2
billion euros ($1.7 billion) of state aid in 2009, following the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Comings and Goings  IMF’s Strauss-Kahn Ordered Held Without Bail in New York  International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn,
accused of attempting to rape a hotel housekeeper, was ordered
held without bail by a New York judge after prosecutors argued
he presented a flight risk.  Strauss-Kahn appeared in Manhattan criminal court
yesterday, two days after he was taken into custody aboard an
Air France flight at John F. Kennedy International Airport as it
prepared to depart. The IMF chief faces several charges
including attempted rape in the first degree, according to court
papers. Strauss-Kahn, 62, has denied the charges and will plead
not guilty, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman has said.  Strauss-Kahn didn’t enter a plea yesterday. His next court
appearance was set for May 20. Brafman told reporters gathered
at the courthouse that he would appeal the bail decision.  The alleged attack on a 32-year-old woman at a Sofitel
hotel in midtown Manhattan occurred May 14, according to the New
York Police Department. Strauss-Kahn was picked out of a lineup
by the maid, police said.  The IMF has now called upon John Lipsky to guide it through
the eurozone debt crisis. He was named acting director May 15.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  For more, click here, and see Interview/Speeches section,
above.  Draghi Backed by Euro Finance Ministers as Next ECB President  Euro-area finance ministers put Mario Draghi on track to
become the next head of the European Central Bank as the region
struggles to contain a debt crisis sparked by ballooning
deficits in southern Europe.  The ministers from the 17 nations using the euro endorsed
Draghi, 63, to take over the ECB in November, Luxembourg’s Jean-
Claude Juncker, who leads the group, told reporters in Brussels
late yesterday. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet’s eight-year
term ends on Oct. 31.  Draghi “is a central banker who has proven throughout his
career that he holds the principles of the euro dear,” Juncker
said. The head of the Bank of Italy is “a man who brings
together all the necessary qualities to be a worthy successor to
Jean-Claude Trichet, who was an eminent president,” he said.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel last week praised Draghi as
the right successor for Trichet because he is “very close to
our ideas of a stability culture.” The Rome native became the
ECB frontrunner in February when Merkel’s contender, then-
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , pulled out of the race.  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the  World Bank  and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  