-- 
Nigeria to Put ‘Excess’ Oil Revenue in Wealth Fund, Minister Aganga Says

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-05-17T16:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/nigeria-to-put-excess-oil-revenue-in-wealth-fund-minister-aganga-says.html
Nigeria  will put aside oil revenue
earned when prices exceed what is used to calculate the
government budget for the country’s new sovereign wealth fund,
Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga said.  A dependence on oil brings risks including the inherent
volatility of prices and the impact that boom and bust revenue
cycles can have on inflation, fiscal planning, and budgetary
prudence, Aganga said today in an e-mailed statement from the
capital, Abuja.  The fund “will help Nigeria mitigate these risks in the
same way that sovereign wealth funds are now a fundamental
component of macroeconomic  wealth management  by natural-
resource-rich countries around the world,” Aganga said.  Nigeria’s House of Representatives passed the sovereign
wealth fund bill today after the Senate unanimously approved it
on May 11 with seed capital of $1 billion. President Goodluck
Jonathan will have to sign the legislation before it becomes
law.  The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority which will be
split into the Nigeria Infrastructure Fund, the Future
Generations Fund and the Stabilization Fund, according to a
draft of the bill obtained by Bloomberg. Each component will
represent at least 20 percent of the total.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, relies on crude
exports for about 95 percent of its foreign currency earnings.
It’s the only member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries without a sovereign fund, according to the Information
Ministry.  The sovereign fund, to be based in the capital, Abuja, will
have a governing board headed by the president. Other members
include governors of the 36 states, the ministers of finance,
justice and planning, the governor of the central bank and the
chief economic adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net . 