-- 
Nissan to Reinforce Japan Factories for Future Earthquakes

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-05-17T10:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/nissan-invests-3-bln-yen-to-reinforce-ground-of-iwaki-plant-1-.html
Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said the automaker plans to invest 3
billion yen ($37 million) to reinforce the foundation of its
most heavily damaged domestic factory after Japan’s record
earthquake in March disrupted output.  Nissan, Japan’s second-largest automaker, plans to do the
same at other factories including those in Tochigi and Yokohama,
north and west of Tokyo respectively, to equip them against
future earthquakes, Ghosn said in an interview today at the
Iwaki plant in Fukushima prefecture. The facility builds engines
for Infiniti-brand cars and other luxury models.  “We will do it as a priority here and then we will extend
this to other plants, mostly those near the high probability
earthquake area,” Ghosn said. “By taking some precautions and
making some investments, you’re going to limit the damage.”  Nissan plans to reinforce foundations at its factories
after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  earlier this month requested
Chubu Electric Power Co. shut a nuclear plant in Shizuoka
prefecture, west of Tokyo, until the plant’s tsunami defenses
are improved. Kan cited a government study that showed an 87
percent likelihood of an 8-magnitude quake striking the area
within 30 years.  Ghosn said Nissan is still evaluating the extent of
reinforcements needed and declined to specify investments for
the other plants.  Parts, Power  Nissan,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. halted
output after the March 11 disaster damaged factories and knocked
out  power plants , causing shortage of parts and electricity.
Nissan today said repairs at the Iwaki plant were completed two
weeks earlier than expected.  “Iwaki is a symbol of our swift recovery,” Ghosn told 600
factory workers, before presenting a Special President’s Award
to plant manager Nobuhiro Ozawa.  Shares of Nissan gained 0.8 percent to 809 yen at the 3
p.m. close in Tokyo. The stock has dropped 0.9 percent since
March 10, the day before the earthquake.  After the earthquake, the plant suffered damages including
total loss of electricity, water and fuel, Ghosn said. Half a
dozen air ducts fell from the ceiling, cracks in the floor had
to be filled with concrete and steel plates were placed under
equipment to compensate for slanted floors that sank into the
ground. The plant’s location was originally a rice paddy, said
Hikaru Kawasumi, head of the factory’s management division.  First Shift  Since the plant’s first shift on March 11 reached its daily
output target early, no workers were at the  production line  when
the earthquake struck, Kawasumi said.  The factory, which resumed partial production on April 18,
is operating at about 50 percent of capacity because of shortage
of parts, Ghosn said.  Fewer than 20 suppliers are still in a
critical situation, down from 40 in March, allowing Nissan to
forecast that global production will return to normal by
October, he said last week.  To prevent future production disruptions, Nissan will ask
second- and third-tier suppliers to implement “alternate
sourcing” of components, which they currently lack, Ghosn said.
That may mean suppliers, particularly semiconductor makers, will
be able to produce the same component in multiple factories
around the country.  Tougher Quarter  Nissan last week said it boosted fourth-quarter profit even
as Toyota reported a 77 percent drop in earnings after the 9-
magnitude temblor in March. Ghosn has said the current quarter
will be tougher for the carmaker and its Japanese rivals as they
recover from the plunge in sales and factory disruptions that
followed the disaster.  Nissan lost production of 55,000 units in  Japan  in March,
compared with the company’s original plan. The carmaker will
initially face a “significant” market-share loss globally
because of the earthquake and plans to catch up in the second
half of the fiscal year.  Nissan plans to prioritize  China  and the U.S., the world’s
two biggest auto markets, to stem market-share losses and still
plans to increase full-year sales.  In April, Nissan’s production volume in Japan was at about
40 percent of last year’s level, and output this month is at
about 50 percent, the company has said. Production has also been
halted periodically from April at factories in  Mexico , the U.S.
and the U.K. In China, plants are halting weekend and overtime
shifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  