-- 
Obama ‘Out of Touch’ With Americans, Alberta Minister Says

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T20:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/obama-out-of-touch-with-americans-alberta-minister-says.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  is “out
of touch” with Americans for putting environmental concerns
ahead of potential jobs and oil that could be supplied by a
Canadian pipeline to the Gulf Coast, said  Alberta  Energy
Minister Ron Liepert.  A proposed extension of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s C$13 billion
($13.3 billion) Keystone pipeline to the  Gulf of Mexico  has been
delayed as the U.S. State Department considers whether to
approve the project. The extension would transport 700,000
barrels of crude a day from Alberta and create thousands of jobs
as it traverses six states, Liepert said.  “The American people spoke last fall that jobs trump
everything else in this country right now,” Liepert said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “I would
strongly encourage those elected and those in Cabinet positions
to start to make some tough decisions on what the American
people want, not necessarily what the administration is
advocating for.”  TransCanada expects to directly employ 13,000 people to
build the Keystone extension, Chief Executive Officer Rus
Girling said on April 29. The project could contribute about $20
billion in economic stimulus for the U.S., he said.  Increased imports of oil from Alberta, along with expanding
U.S. production of natural gas and opening areas currently off-
limits to drilling, would contribute $194 billion in revenue for
the U.S. government and create a million additional jobs over
the next 15 years, the  American Petroleum Institute  said May 14.  Environmental Concerns  Alberta’s oil sands have been the focus of campaigns by
environmental groups including Greenpeace that highlight the
 carbon emissions , water pollution and habitat destruction
associated with production of oil from tar-like bitumen-soaked
sand in the northern part of the Canadian province. U.S.
residents in areas that would be crossed by the pipeline have
opposed the project, citing concerns about environmental damage
if the pipeline should leak.  “I think the administration today is highly influenced by
the environmental movement, and there’s a lot of foot-dragging
relative to the approval of projects that are seen to have,
quote, environmental impact,” said Liepert.  A spokesman for the Obama administration did not
immediately respond to a request for comment.  A revised environmental study issued April 15 by the State
Department reaffirms support for the Keystone extension.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in October that the
department was “inclined” to approve the pipeline. The State
Department said last month it expects to decide by the end of
the year.  Proposed Protection  In an effort to quell environmental criticism inside
 Canada , the province government on April 5 proposed a protection
plan that would bar drilling on 20,000 square kilometers (7,722
square miles) of land, larger than the state of  New Jersey , in
the Lower Athabasca region in northeastern Alberta.  The province also has established an oil sands monitoring
panel to make recommendations on how to protect the water, air
and land of northeastern Alberta. The group, headed by a former
TransCanada chief executive officer as well as a former
president of the University of Lethbridge, will report its
findings to the government next month.  Investment in the  oil sands  may rise to C$15 billion this
year from C$13 billion in 2010, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers. It estimates reserves of 173
billion barrels of oil in the province based on current
technology.  Alberta will likely win investment in the form of minority
stakes from Chinese and other Asian companies as they seek
 energy security , Liepert said. Improvements in technology will
likely boost production beyond the targeted 3 million barrels
per day by 2020, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 