-- 
Obama Tells Democratic Donors Budget Fight Isn’t ‘Just About Numbers’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-17T01:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/obama-tells-donors-budget-fight-isn-t-just-about-numbers-1-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  told
Democratic Party donors today that the debate about the federal
budget is about the future direction of the country and “not
just about numbers.”  The Democrats are arguing for “our vision for America” in
the negotiations with Republicans over spending and debt, the
president told about 60 donors at a  Democratic National
Committee  dinner at the St. Regis Hotel in downtown Washington,
a few blocks from the White House.  Obama sought to draw a distinction between the two parties.
Democrats, he said, want to keep the social safety net intact
and spend the money necessary to improve the nation’s education
system.  “We are building on the basic precept that anybody in this
country will make it if they try,” Obama said. “In order for
us to make sure that that opportunity is available for everyone,
it means we’re going to have to make ourselves more
competitive.”  The dinner, with tickets that cost as much as $35,800, was
the first of two fundraising events for the president tonight.  Florida Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, whom Obama
has picked to lead the DNC, introduced the president at the
first event, saying Democrats will campaign in the 2012 election
by outlining the clear contrast in policy approaches with
Republicans.  ‘Big in Spirit’  The president sought to energize about 600 mostly young
people at the second DNC fundraiser, where ticket prices began
at $44, by recalling his 2008 presidential campaign.  “We wanted a country that was true to its founding
ideals,” he said at the Capital Hilton, also near the White
House in downtown Washington. “An America that was big in
spirit and bold in vision.” Democrats, he said, are about
making sure that Americans are “still dreaming big dreams.”  Obama listed his administration’s accomplishments so far,
including enacting health-care legislation, regaining
“momentum” in  Afghanistan  and restoring “around the world a
sense of America as a responsible actor” that upholds human
rights. He listed an overhaul of immigration law and a clean-
energy plan as work he has left to do.  “We have to finish what we started,” the president said.
“Part of what made our campaign special was you.”  Campaign Issue  The economy and the budget are top issues that both parties
are focusing on going into next year’s election. With the  budget
deficit  projected to exceed $1 trillion this year and next,
Obama and congressional Republicans are negotiating how to cut
the nation’s cumulative deficit by at least $4 trillion over the
next 10 to 12 years. Democrats propose using a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases, while Republicans are pushing
for cutting federal outlays alone.  Obama has already opened his 2012 re-election campaign
headquarters in  Chicago , and he raised millions of dollars last
month at events in Illinois,  California  and  New York .  The total cost of the 2012 presidential election campaign
is likely to exceed the more than $2 billion the  Federal
Election Commission  said was spent in 2008 by candidates,
political parties and outside groups.  Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007-08, and he was
the first major-party nominee to reject public financing for the
general election.  Not Running  So far no clear Republican front-runner has emerged, and
two prominent potential candidates have announced that they
won’t make a bid. Real-estate developer Donald Trump said in a
statement earlier today that he wouldn’t seek the nomination;
former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  said on May 15 that he
has decided against a run.  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich has announced his
candidacy, and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and
former Governors Tim Pawlenty of  Minnesota  and Mitt Romney of
 Massachusetts  have filed paperwork with the FEC that allows them
to raise money for potential runs. Representative  Ron Paul  of
 Texas  announced his third White House bid in New Hampshire on
May 13.  Other prospective Republican candidates include former Utah
Governor Jon Huntsman, who stepped down as U.S. ambassador to
 China  last month; former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the
party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee; Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, a favorite of the Tea Party movement; and
Governor Mitch Daniels of Indiana, a former director of the
Office of Management and Budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  