-- 
Obama Prepares to Outline U.S. Mideast Strategy, Carney Says

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-17T20:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/obama-prepares-to-outline-u-s-mideast-strategy-carney-says-1-.html
President  Barack Obama , faced with
historic upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa, is
preparing a fresh policy blueprint for a region where U.S. oil
supplies and security are at stake.  Obama will have “specific new ideas” about how to address
the spreading pro-democracy movement, reviving stalled peaces
talks between Israel and the Palestinians and dealing with
 Syria ’s continued violent suppression of protests, White House
press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  “We are in a historic moment with regards to what’s been
referred to as the Arab Spring,” Carney said at the White
House. “And it presents a unique opportunity for the United
States and our allies to embrace and support the kind of change
that will improve the lives of the people of that region and
improve the security of the  United States  of America.”  Obama’s address, scheduled to be delivered May 19 at the
State Department in Washington, comes as six months of anti-
government protests have swept through the Arab world, toppling
rulers in Egypt and Tunisia and shaking governments in  Libya ,
Bahrain, Syria, Yemen and Jordan. It also follows the death of
Osama bin Laden at the hands of U.S. Navy SEALs, a major victory
in the U.S. battle against extremism and terrorism.  Opportunity  The potential for positive changes “is an opportunity not
to be missed, in the president’s view,” Carney said.  Obama offered a glimpse of his plans earlier today when he
said following a meeting with Jordan’s King Abdullah II that the
“old structures” that have dashed the aspirations of young
Arabs for freedom and economic progress “have to be reworked.”  Obama said he and Abdullah agreed that “the rapid
transformation that’s taking place in places like Egypt and
 Tunisia , and we both agreed that it’s critical that not only
does political reform proceed, but economic reform accompanies
those changes there.”  The spread of anti-government protests helped push  oil
prices  higher on concern that major oil producing countries such
as  Saudi Arabia  may be affected. Oil surged after demonstrations
erupted in Libya erupted on Feb. 15. Brent crude futures rose
above $126 a barrel on April 8, the highest since July 2008.  They since have dropped. Crude oil for June delivery
dropped 46 cents to $96.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement since Feb. 22. Still, futures
have risen 38 percent in the past year.  Peace Process  The turmoil makes finding a way to restart peace talks
between  Israel  and the Palestinians “more vital than ever,”
Obama said.  The talks broke down weeks after they began in September
2010, and prospects for a breakthrough were set back after
George Mitchell, the U.S. special envoy to the Middle East,
announced last week he is resigning.  The U.S is maintaining its long-held position that the
talks must lead to creation of a Palestinian state and
recognition of Israel, settling the rights of Palestinian
refugees who want to return to their former homes, resolving the
status of  Jerusalem , which both sides claim as a capital, and
security arrangements for Israel.  Netanyahu outlined his own conditions for a peace deal in a
speech yesterday, reiterating several positions the Palestinians
have already rejected, including their recognition of Israel as
a Jewish state and full Israeli sovereignty over Jerusalem.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas wrote in an
opinion piece published in The New York Times that in the
absence of negotiations the Palestinians would unilaterally seek
United Nations recognition of an independent state within the
1967 borders.  Carney said that while Obama will touch on the Middle East
peace process, “it is a much broader speech than that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  