-- 
Obama Says Reforms Must Follow Calls for Change in Mideast

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-17T17:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/obama-says-reforms-must-follow-calls-for-change-in-mideast-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said economic
reform must accompany political changes in the Middle East and
that the regional turmoil makes the  peace process  between  Israel 
and the Palestinians “more vital than ever.”  Some of the existing structures in the Middle East “have
to be reworked” in light of the changes taking place as a
result of democracy movements and anti-government
demonstrations, Obama said after meeting with King Abdullah II
of  Jordan  at the White House,.  The U.S. president said he and Abdullah agree that the
peace process must be restarted. Israel and the Palestinians
must “find a way to get back to the table and begin negotiating
a process whereby they can create two states that are living
side by side in peace and security,” Obama said.  The White House focus on the Middle East comes two days
before the president makes a major speech on U.S. policy and the
democracy movements that have toppled rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia  and shaken leaders in  Libya , Bahrain,  Syria , Yemen and
Abdullah’s own kingdom of Jordan.  Obama said the U.S. and Jordan have an “enormous stake”
in reaching a peace agreement between Israel and the
Palestinians. “We will continue to partner to try and encourage
an equitable and just solution to a problem that has been
nagging the region for many, many years,” Obama said in the
Oval Office. Obama is scheduled to meet with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on May 20.  Talks Stalled  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks broke down weeks after they
began in September 2010, and prospects for a breakthrough were
set back after  George Mitchell , the U.S. special envoy to the
Middle East, announced last week he is resigning.  Abdullah, after meeting with U.S. Jewish organizations in
 Washington  yesterday, said Obama’s continued attention to
narrowing the issues in the Israel-Palestinian conflict is
paramount. If left unresolved, “conflict will escalate regional
tension,” according to a statement from the Jordanian embassy.  Obama also announced that because of a “huge spike” in
commodity prices globally, the U.S. will provide 50,000 metric
tons of wheat to Jordan. Before today, wheat futures surged 56
percent in the past year on the Chicago Board of Trade as
adverse weather cut crops in exporting countries including
Russia and the U.S.  Economic Development  The U.S. also has mobilized aid through the  Overseas
Private Investment Corporation , an independent U.S. government
agency that invests in overseas markets, that would leverage
about $1 billion for economic development in Jordan, he said.  “All of this will help to stabilize the cost of living and
day to day situation of Jordanians and will provide a foundation
so that these economic reforms can move forward and long term
development can take place,” the president said, calling Jordan
an example of a “prosperous modern and successful Arab state.”  Abdullah was scheduled to meet with Senate Democratic
leader Harry Reid and Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  later
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  