-- 
Hochberg Seeks 40% Boost in Export-Import Bank Lending Limit

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-17T17:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hochberg-seeks-40-boost-in-export-import-bank-lending-limit-1-.html
U.S. Export-Import Bank Chairman Fred Hochberg asked Congress for a 40 percent increase in the loan
limit to $140 billion for fiscal year 2015 as borrowing by
companies closed in on the current maximum.  “We need an increasing exposure cap to continue to support
American companies as they compete overseas,” Hochberg told the
Senate Banking Committee in  Washington  today at a hearing on the
government-backed lender’s reauthorization.  The Export-Import Bank, which is independent and self-
sustaining, provides financing to U.S. exporters, including
direct loans, guarantees and payment insurance. The bank has
loaned $78 billion out of $100 billion allowed, and outstanding
loans probably will exceed $80 billion this year, Hochberg said
in an interview after testifying to the committee.  Demand for bank support from companies such as  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  KBR Inc. (KBR) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  surged
after the financial system seized up in 2008 and banks tightened
borrowing requirements. The lender is chartered by Congress and
needs its authority to be renewed in order to operate beyond
Sept. 30, when its five-year approval expires.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat, said he’s hopeful the reauthorization will be
granted by September.  “I don’t see any controversy surrounding this issue, but
you never know,” Johnson said in an interview.  Hochberg said he’s working with Johnson and Representative
 Gary Miller , a California Republican who heads the House
Financial Services Committee panel that oversees the bank, and
is “confident we’re on the right path” for approval before the
fiscal year ends.  The bank asked Congress in legislation submitted yesterday
to raise the loan limit by $10 billion a year through 2015 to
reach $140 billion, Hochberg said. New loans will climb to a
record for a third year, he said, repeating a March forecast.
The lender provided $24.5 billion in new financing in the
2009-2010 fiscal year, and will exceed that this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in New York at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  