-- 
Ohio State’s Eddie George, Deion Sanders Head College Football Hall Class

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-17T17:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ohio-state-s-eddie-george-deion-sanders-head-college-football-hall-class.html
Ohio State University  running back
Eddie George and  Florida State University  defensive back  Deion Sanders  were among 14 former players and two former coaches
named today the  College Football Hall of Fame .  This year’s class, announced by the  National Football
Foundation  at the Nasdaq MarketSite in  Manhattan , also includes
former  University of Michigan  coach Lloyd Carr. The 16 inductees
were selected from 88 nominees by foundation members.  George won the Heisman Trophy as college football’s best
player in 1995, when he rushed for a school-record 1,927 yards.
In his four years as a Buckeye, he ran for 44 touchdowns and
3,768 yards, second only to Archie Griffin. George’s No. 27 was
retired by the Buckeyes in 2001.  George has more 200-yard rushing games than any player in
Ohio State history, and as a senior in 1995 set a school record
with 314 yards rushing in a game against  Illinois . He was the
National Football League Offensive Rookie of the Year in 1996
and rushed for 10,441 yards in a nine-year professional career
with two franchises.  The 43-year-old Sanders, nicknamed “Prime Time” for his
flashy playmaking, was a three-sport star at Florida State, in
baseball, football and track. He was a two-time All-American in
four years with the Seminoles, and won the 1988 Thorpe Award in
his senior season as the nation’s best defensive back.  Sanders’s 14 career interceptions are tied for third in
Seminoles history, and he remains the school’s all-time leader
in punt-return yards. He played 14 NFL seasons with five teams
and was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in February.  Big Ten  Carr, 65, was 122-40 in 13 years at  Michigan . He won five
Big Ten titles and the 1997 national championship, and is the
sixth Wolverine coach selected for the Hall.  Former Alabama defensive tackle Marty Lyons was also
chosen, along with receivers Carlos Alvarez (Florida) and Gene
Washington (Michigan State); defensive tackles Doug English
( Texas ) and Russell Maryland (Miami); fullback Bill Enyart
(Oregon State); defensive back Jake Scott (Georgia); guard Will Shields (Nebraska); quarterback Sandy Stephens (Minnesota);
linebacker Darryl Talley (West Virginia); halfback Clendon
Thomas (Oklahoma); and defensive lineman Rob Waldrop (Arizona).
Former Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry was the elected alongside
Carr.  The College Football Hall of Fame, located in  South Bend ,
 Indiana , was established in 1951 and has 1,072 inductees,
including 882 players and 190 coaches. Players become eligible
for the ballot 10 years after their final college season, and
current professional players and coaches aren’t eligible until
retirement.  This year’s class will be inducted at the football
foundation’s annual awards dinner in  New York  on Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 