-- 
Oil Falls Near Three-Month Low as Housing Start Drop Damps Growth Outlook

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-17T20:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/oil-falls-as-u-s-housing-starts-decline-damping-economic-growth-optimism.html
Oil fell to the lowest price in
almost three months as U.S. housing starts dropped and
industrial output stalled in April, damping optimism about the
economic and fuel-demand outlook.  Crude slipped 0.5 percent after the Commerce Department
said work began on 523,000 houses at an annual pace, down 11
percent from March. Production at factories, mines and utilities
was unchanged, the  Federal Reserve  reported today. Yesterday,
the dollar touched the highest level against the euro since
March 29, reducing the appeal of commodities.  “The terrible housing numbers added to worries about the
economy and demand destruction,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “We’re facing what
could be the biggest washout since 2008, especially if the
dollar continues to rally.”  Crude oil for June delivery dropped 46 cents to $96.91 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Feb. 22. Futures have risen 38 percent in the
past year.  Prices rebounded from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. in  Washington  that
U.S. crude-oil stockpiles increased 2.67 million barrels to
369.9 million. June oil rose 1 cent to $97.38 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:31 p.m.  Brent oil for July settlement declined 85 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $109.99 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil in New York tumbled from a record $147.27 a barrel in
July 2008 to a low of $32.40 in December of that year as the
deepest economic slump since World War II reduced fuel demand.  Home Construction   Builders were forecast to start constructing 569,000 homes
in April, according to the median forecast of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Total U.S. manufacturing fell 0.4 percent, while it rose
0.2 percent excluding automobiles, according to the Federal
Reserve report. Economists had forecast a 0.4 percent gain in
industrial production, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “Some negative economic numbers have taken a lot of the
froth out of the market,” said  Chris Barber , a senior analyst
at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.
“Focus has shifted to the huge surplus we have on hand.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,328.27, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 69.25
points to 12,479.12 at 3:12 p.m.  A ‘Dud’  “Economic news has been driving the market lately, and
there hasn’t been a lot of good economic news,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The summer driving season was the
last hope for the bulls, but now that looks like a dud.”  U.S. gasoline consumption peaks between the Memorial Day
holiday in late May and Labor Day in early September, when
Americans traditionally take vacations. Demand for the motor
fuel dropped 1.3 percent to 8.83 million a day in the week ended
May 6, the lowest level since the seven days ended Feb. 11, the
Energy Department said last week.  A department report tomorrow will probably show U.S. crude
oil inventories climbed to a two-year high last week as fuel
stockpiles increased.  Supplies rose 1.7 million barrels in the week ended May 13,
according to the median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. A gain of that size would leave inventories
at 372 million barrels, the highest level since the week ended
May 1, 2009.  Market Pressure  “Most folks are expecting another inventory build in
tomorrow’s report,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “This is
putting pressure on the market.”  Gasoline stockpiles increased 950,000 barrels last week,
the survey showed. Inventories of distillate fuel, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, probably climbed by
250,000 barrels.  Mississippi River water pouring through 15 gates on
Louisiana’s  Morganza  floodway has greatly reduced the risk of
flooding to oil refineries that account for about 14 percent of
U.S. capacity.  The Mississippi crested at about 17 feet in  New Orleans 
yesterday, 2.5 feet below the forecast, and is expected to top
out at 45 feet tomorrow in  Baton Rouge , below a record 47.5 that
was expected by May 22, according to the U.S. Lower  Mississippi
River  Forecast Center’s  website .  “Overnight news continues to indicate that the flooding
problems at refineries on the Mississippi River are unlikely to
be as bad as previously feared,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
led by New York-based Lawrence Eagles, said in a report today.
“The opening of the Morganza spillway over the weekend has
spared the worst of the flooding for the concentration of
refining assets near Baton Rouge, New Orleans and St. Charles.”  Libyan Defection  Libya ’s top oil official,  Shokri Ghanem , defected from the
regime of  Muammar Qaddafi , said a spokesman for the rebel group
at war with the country’s leader. Ghanem, who chaired the state-
owned National Oil Corp., arrived in the Tunisian capital Tunis,
Mahmud Alwerfalli said today in Doha.  Clashes between Qaddafi’s troops and opposition forces in
Libya have killed thousands since February and curbed oil output
in the country, which holds Africa’s biggest reserves.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 715,399
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 678,592
yesterday, 5.8 percent below the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.63 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 