-- 
Oil Trades Near Lowest in a Week as Supply Gains Vie With Growth Outlook

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-17T11:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/oil-trades-near-lowest-in-a-week-as-supply-gains-vie-with-growth-outlook.html
Oil  traded near its lowest in a week
as confidence in Europe’s economic recovery prospects was offset
by signs of accumulating crude supplies in the U.S.  Oil pared earlier losses as European finance officials
endorsed a bailout for  Portugal , causing the dollar to weaken
versus the euro and spurring demand for assets priced in the
greenback. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S.
crude inventories climbed to a two-year high.  “The concerns about economic growth and the heavy selling
this triggered on the commodities market were overdone,” said
Eliane Tanner, a Bank Sarasin & Cie. analyst in Zurich. “Our
outlook on  oil prices  remains positive in the longer term.”  Crude for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was at $97.36 a barrel, down 1 cent, at 12:15 p.m. London time,
after earlier sliding to $96.61. It fell 2.3 percent yesterday
to $97.37, the lowest settlement since May 6. Prices have risen
39 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $111.21 a barrel, up
37 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
June contract expired yesterday, losing $1.10 to $112.73.  Chinese oil demand growth may slow this year, according to
an official at a unit of the nation’s biggest crude producer.
Demand may rise 6.7 percent, slowing from 9.6 percent growth in
2010, Zhang Fuqin, deputy chief engineer at China National
Petroleum Corp.’s petroleum and petrochemical engineering
institute, said at a conference in Tianjin today.  Greek Debt  European finance ministers for the first time suggested
talks with bondholders on “re-profiling”  Greece ’s debt
repayments, saying last year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion)
rescue has failed to restore the country to financial health,
according to Juncker. His comments suggest ministers’ views are
closer to the 85 percent of international investors who, in a
Bloomberg poll last week, said Greece is likely to default.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels from 370.3 million
barrels, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies may increase 1 million
barrels, the survey shows. The industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  publishes its weekly supply report today.  U.S. homebuilding probably held near recession levels,
while production at factories, mines and utilities may have
increased for a sixth month in April, according to separate
Bloomberg News surveys of economists before data released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  