-- 
Home Depot Profit Meets Analysts’ Estimates on Cost Cuts

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-05-17T20:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/home-depot-first-quarter-profit-meets-analyst-estimates-on-lower-expenses.html
Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, said first-quarter profit rose 12
percent, meeting analysts’ estimates, as operating expenses fell
faster than sales.  Net income advanced to $812 million, or 50 cents a share,
in the quarter ended May 1, from $725 million, or 43 cents, a
year earlier, the Atlanta-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts projected 50 cents, the average of 20
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Home Depot, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Frank Blake, reduced expenses including payroll and advertising
in the quarter, countering a slight drop in revenue. Sales of
lawn and garden items were hurt by bad weather in the U.S.,
while customer purchases of more than $900 also declined.  “We are still seeing those bigger-ticket, discretionary
projects under pressure with the customer,”  Craig Menear ,
executive vice president of merchandising, said on a conference
call today. Discounts lifted demand for kitchen items, he said.  Home Depot advanced 42 cents to $37.40 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
6.7 percent this year.  Sales by stores open at least 12 months fell 0.6 percent,
missing a forecast for a 1 percent gain, the median of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Overall revenue fell 0.2 percent
to $16.8 billion. Total operating expenses declined 1.8 percent
to $4.4 billion.  Home Prices  The retailer raised its full-year diluted earnings per
share to $2.24 from a previous forecast of $2.20.  Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, reported yesterday first-quarter earnings of 34 cents
a share, missing the average analysts’ estimate by 2 cents. The
Mooresville, North Carolina-based company lowered its profit
forecast for the year ending Feb. 3, 2012, to a maximum of
$1.64, after customers cut back on renovations.  Home prices fell in more than three-fourths of U.S. cities
in the first quarter as foreclosures devalued real estate, the
National Association of Realtors said May 10.  Colder-than-average weather in the northeastern U.S. and
rain across the country crimped Home Depot sales, according to a
May 12 report by Jonathan Berg, a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst in
 Minneapolis . He rates Home Depot “neutral.”  Heavy rain and severe conditions, including reports of 875
tornadoes, characterized April’s weather, according to the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ’s National
Climatic Data Center in Asheville, North Carolina. It was the
10th-wettest April since 1895.  Economic growth slowed to a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the last
three months of 2010, according to Commerce Department figures.
Rising fuel and grocery bills are damping  consumer confidence 
and squeezing the budgets of households, whose spending makes up
70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 