-- 
Honeywell, Lilly, Facebook, Philips: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-17T11:46:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/honeywell-eli-lilly-facebook-philips-intellectual-property.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  agreed
to pay $32.5 million to settle a patent-infringement lawsuit
brought by BorgWarner Inc. over a titanium wheel used in engine
turbochargers. BorgWarner originally sought more than $100
million.  A trial on the lawsuit BorgWarner filed in 2007 was
scheduled to begin yesterday in a federal court in Asheville,
 North Carolina .  In a statement, Honeywell said that as part of the
settlement it will license the patents. “The settlement
resolving the dispute at a fraction of BorgWarner’s claim was
the best solution for Honeywell and its customers,” the Morris
Township, New Jersey-based company said.  Turbochargers , which compress air to improve the power and
efficiency of smaller engines, have become more widely used by
automakers as governments push for stricter fuel-economy
standards. Honeywell said in March it expects use of the devices
to double in new U.S. automobiles by 2015.  The legal dispute with Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
BorgWarner was over a lighter, titanium compressor wheel, which
directs air to the engine’s intake manifold. BorgWarner’s
inventions related to a cost-effective cast titanium compressor
wheel, the design of the wheel and a method for making
turbochargers with the titanium wheel.  BorgWarner, which gets about 30 percent of its sales from
turbochargers and has a 33 percent share of the market, said in
April that sales this year will probably expand as much as 23
percent.  The case is  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)  v. Honeywell International
Inc., no. 07cv184, U.S. District Court, Western District of
North Carolina (Asheville).  Patents  Lilly Rejected by U.S.  Supreme Court  in Gemzar Patent Case  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to consider Eli Lilly &
Co.’s bid to re-establish the drugmaker’s exclusive right to
sell the cancer medicine Gemzar.  The justices yesterday left intact a federal appeals court
decision invalidating a patent that would have protected Gemzar
from generic competition in the U.S. until May 2013.  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  began
selling generic versions after the lower court ruling. Had the
Supreme Court intervened and backed Lilly, those two companies
might have had to pay damages and pull their products from the
market.  Gemzar, whose chemical name is gemcitabine, generated U.S.
sales of $723 million for Indianapolis-based Lilly last year,
with generic competition beginning Nov. 15. The drug is used for
lung, breast, pancreatic and ovarian cancers.  The appeals court ruling was a victory for  India ’s  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , a generic-drug manufacturer that
challenged the Lilly patent. Trade groups representing brand-
name drug and biotechnology companies joined Lilly in urging
Supreme Court review.  Lilly is also waging a separate patent fight with Hospira
at the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The case is Eli Lilly v. Sun Pharmaceutical, 10-972.  Lilly Denies Claims by Amylin in Suit Filed Yesterday  Lilly yesterday denied claims it had breached an agreement
with  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  to market exenatide, a type-2
diabetes drug currently sold under the name Byetta. “We
emphatically reject the allegation that we did not meet our
contractual obligations under the Lilly and Amylin alliance,”
said Enrique Conterno, president of Lilly Diabetes.  Lilly released the statement in response to the suit filed
under seal by Amylin on May 13 in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of  California . The suit alleges that that
Lilly is engaging in anticompetitive activity and has breached
its strategic alliance agreements with Amylin.  Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , U.S.
District Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  Philips Wins Princo Patent Clash as High Court Rejects Appeal  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to revive accusations that
Royal Philips Electronics NV misused patents in its licensing
program for recordable compact discs.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal by  Princo
Corp. (8053) , a Taiwanese manufacturer barred from importing its discs
into the U.S. because they use Philips’s patented technology.  Princo accused Amsterdam-based Philips of using an
agreement with  Sony Corp. (6758)  to suppress Sony technology that would
compete with an industry standard on the CDs. Princo, defending
itself against infringement claims at the  U.S. International
Trade Commission , argued that Philips should be barred from
enforcing its patent rights.  A federal appeals court rejected the Princo defense,
upholding an ITC decision barring the company from importing its
discs into the U.S.  The case is Princo v. International Trade Commission,
10-898.  Sanofi’s Genzyme Sues Allergan for Royalties on Juvederm  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) ’s Genzyme unit sued Allergan Inc. for
patent royalties on sales of wrinkle filler Juvederm.  Genzyme, which has a patent for a gel used to augment soft
tissue, claims Irvine, California-based Allergan has refused to
make payments for sales of Juvederm Ultra, Ultra Plus, Ultra XC
and Ultra Plus XC. Genzyme is demanding compensation and an
order blocking further use of its invention without permission,
according to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Boston.  Allergan, which also makes the Botox treatment, had been
paying Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme on a patent that
expired in July 2010, according to the complaint. Genzyme sued
because Allergan declined a request to continue paying the same
royalties through the March 2012 expiration of a second patent.  Allergan is reviewing the complaint and has no comment,
said Caroline Van Hove, a spokeswoman for the company.  Juvederm is an injection to fill in wrinkles around the
nose and mouth. Allergan doesn’t break out sales of the product.  Paris-based Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, bought
Genzyme last month for about $20 billion.  The case is Genzyme Corp. v. Allergan Inc., 11cv10868, U.S.
District Court for the District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Uniloc Loses Bid to Restore $388 Million Microsoft Patent Award  Uniloc USA Inc. lost its bid to have an appeals court
reinstate a $388 million patent damages award from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)   The  U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit  in
 Washington  D.C. yesterday  denied  Uniloc’s request.  “Unless either side seeks to appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court, the next step in this case is for the matter to be listed
for a retrial on damages,”  IMF Australia Ltd. (IMF) , an Australian
litigation funder, said yesterday in a statement to the
country’s stock exchange.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, infringed a patent
on technology used to deter piracy, the appeals court had ruled
in January, overturning a U.S. District Judge’s decision to
throw out the 2009 verdict. The appeals court had ordered a
retrial on damages, saying the lower-court verdict of $388
million was “fundamentally tainted by the use of a legally
inadequate methodology.”  The award was the third-largest jury verdict in 2009 and
the second-biggest patent verdict, behind a $1.67 billion award
that Johnson & Johnson won against Abbott Laboratories,
according to Bloomberg data.  The case is Uniloc USA v. Microsoft Corp., 10-1035, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower
court case is Uniloc USA Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 03cv440, U.S.
District Court, District of Rhode Island (Providence).  For more patent news, click here.  Internet  U.S. Cybersecurity Plan Calls for Tougher Global Standards  President Obama’s administration yesterday proposed
tightening global defenses against computer attacks by creating
international cybersecurity standards and setting consequences
for countries and groups that don’t comply.  The International Strategy for Cyberspace released by the
White House calls for building an international coalition to
preserve Internet freedoms, prevent cybercrime and loss of
intellectual property, according to a fact sheet released by the
administration.  “We as a society should not take it as a fact of life
living in the era of Internet that people are going to
successfully take your identity or your credit card or disable
networks,” Howard Schmidt, the top White House cybersecurity
official, said in a phone interview yesterday. “We want nation
states to be unified behind a vision like this so we can send a
clear message to bad actors that there’s going to be no place
for them to operate in the international sphere.”  The strategy calls for the State, Defense, Homeland
Security, Commerce and Justice departments to work with their
counterparts in other countries to develop standards on how to
protect intellectual property, prevent theft of private
information and ensure Internet freedom as well as cooperation
among law enforcement agencies of different countries when a
crime is being investigated, Schmidt said.  The U.S. also is urging countries to sign a 10-year-old
treaty called the Cybercrime Convention that calls for
cooperation in probing crimes committed via the Internet and
other computer networks. These crimes include copyright
infringement, fraud, child pornography and violations of network
security, according to the treaty website.  The treaty has been ratified by 30 countries, including the
U.S. and 29 European nations. Signatories including the U.K.,
Canada and Turkey have yet to ratify the law, according to the
treaty  website . China and Russia are among nations that have not
signed the treaty.  For more, click here.  Facebook Spared Appeals Court Rehearing in Winklevoss Case  Facebook Inc. won’t have to face an appeals court again
over an effort by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss to undo a
settlement of their suit claiming company founder Mark Zuckerberg stole the idea for the site.  The Winklevoss twins, former Harvard University classmates
of Zuckerberg’s, will appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court,
according to the law firm representing them, Howard Rice in  San
Francisco . They had asked for an 11-judge panel at the U.S.
Court of Appeals to review an April ruling by a three-judge
panel that rejected their bid to reopen the settlement. That
request was denied yesterday by the court without explanation.  The brothers argued that the three-judge panel erred when
it rejected their claims that the 2008 settlement was procured
through fraud. They alleged that Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook didn’t disclose an accurate valuation of its shares
before they agreed to the cash and stock settlement. The appeals
court ruled that the accord barred future lawsuits and was
“quite favorable” to the twins.  Jerome Falk, the Winklevosses lawyer, said in an e-mailed
statement “the court’s decision shut the courthouse door to a
solid claim that Facebook obtained this settlement by committing
securities fraud,” Falk said. “Our petition to the Supreme
Court will ask the high court to decide whether that door should
be reopened.”  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, the world’s most
popular social-networking service, said in an e-mail the company
is pleased with yesterday’s ruling.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Privacy  Facebook, Apple, Google to Face U.S. Lawmakers on Mobile Privacy  The Senate Commerce Committee announced that
representatives from Facebook Inc.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
have agreed to answer questions about how companies collect and
use consumer data on mobile devices.  The hearing, which will be held May 19, will focus on the
government’s possible role “in protecting consumers in the
mobile marketplace and promoting their privacy,” according to a
news release yesterday from Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West
Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the committee.  The witness list includes Bret Taylor, Facebook’s chief
technology officer; Catherine Novelli, vice president of
worldwide government affairs for Apple; and Alan Davidson,
director of public policy for Google.  This will be the second time Apple and Google have appeared
before Congress this month. Executives from the two companies
testified May 10 about mobile privacy at a Senate Judiciary
subcommittee hearing chaired by Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota
Democrat.  At that hearing, the companies, makers of software used in
millions of smartphones, defended their handling of user
location data and said they don’t track individual customers.
Apple, Google and other companies use location data to deliver
targeted advertising and help customers find nearby businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  