-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Drop on Greece Debt Concern; Developers Fall

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-05-17T08:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hong-kong-stocks-drop-on-greece-debt-concern-developers-fall.html
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell to
its lowest close in eight weeks as  Greece  seeking more bailout
funds and disappointing economic data in the U.S. boosted
concern a global economic recovery may stall.  HSBC Holdings Ltd., Europe’s largest bank by market value,
slid 0.7 percent, while  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates
container facilities at Piraeus, Greece’s largest port, sank 2.4
percent.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , a Hong Kong-based developer,
retreated 2 percent after  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  followed HSBC
in raising mortgage interest rates. China Life Insurance Co.,
the country’s No. 1 insurer, rose 1.1 percent after a brokerage
boosted its rating.  The impact of U.S. and Europe debt on the Asian region
“won’t be a direct one but a secondary effect of heightened
 risk aversion ,”  Stephen Schwartz , chief economist for  Asia  at
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Hong Kong, told Bloomberg
Television. “Growth indicators are likely to show some
moderating trends in the second quarter” in Asia.  The Hang Seng Index fell 0.3 percent to 22,901.08, its
lowest close since March 23. Twenty-three stocks fell while 16
rose in the 45-member gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies’ H shares rose 0.5 percent to
12,733.21.  HSBC fell 0.7 percent to HK$81.25. Cosco Pacific slid 2.4
percent to HK$15.78. The terminal unit of China’s biggest
shipping group said April throughput at its Piraeus port fell
4.7 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 25 percent gain
in total, excluding two terminals.  Exporters Slide  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners
and Ryobi power tools, declined 2.8 percent to HK$9.63, while
 Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. (551) , which makes shoes for Nike
Inc., slid 0.7 percent to HK$27.75.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2
percent today. In  New York , the index lost 0.6 percent yesterday
as Greece sought additional bailout funds and a report showed
manufacturing growth in the New York region cooled.  European finance chiefs endorsed a 78 billion-euro ($110
billion) bailout for Portugal. Authorities stepped up pressure
on Greece to sell assets and deepen spending cuts to win an
increase of its 110 billion-euro aid package and more time to
repay the loans. In deliberations clouded by the absence of
arrested International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn,  Europe ’s rich countries also weighed whether to
make holders of Greek bonds assume some losses.  “Highly Destabilizing”  A Greek default would be “highly destabilizing” for banks,
causing losses that “far exceed” the size of their loans and
investments there, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  In the U.S., manufacturing in the New York region expanded
at a slower pace than anticipated in May as the cost of raw
materials surged, according to the central bank. A separate
report showed confidence among homebuilders was little changed
in the month as executives turned more pessimistic on the
outlook for sales, a sign any pickup will take time to develop.  A measure of property developers had the biggest drop among
the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s four industry groups. Hang Lung fell 2
percent to HK$32.75, while Henderson Land Development Co., the
builder controlled by billionaire Lee Shau-kee, sank 1.6 percent
to HK$50.80.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd. a developer controlled
by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , lost 1 percent to HK$114.80.  Standard Chartered , a bank which gets most of its revenue
in markets outside the U.S. and U.K., said it will raise its
interest rate for mortgages based on the Hong Kong interbank
offered rate, or Hibor, to 1.5 percentage points to 2 percentage
points more than the benchmark starting May 31. That followed a
similar hike by HSBC announced last week.  Curbing China’s Growth  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. and Chong Hing Bank Ltd. also increased
their  mortgage rates , the Standard newspaper reported. StanChart
shares rose 0.1 percent to HK$199.20.  The Hang Seng Index has fallen 0.3 percent this year
through yesterday on concern  China  will take more steps to curb
inflation and  Japan ’s nuclear crisis will stall global economic
growth. Shares in the gauge traded at an average 12.1 times
forecast earnings yesterday, compared with 14.4 times at the end
of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that rose, Yuanda China Holdings Ltd. surged
to HK$1.66 from its initial public offering price of HK$1.50.  China Coal Energy Co., the nation’s second-largest coal
producer, gained 0.9 percent to HK$9.74 on speculation demand
for the fuel will increase. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. increased
3.9 percent to HK$29.20.  Power Shortages  Limits on power usage in China caused by a shortage of
electricity may reduce the nation’s second-quarter economic
growth by 0.5 percentage points, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, citing an unidentified analyst.  China Life rose 1.1 percent to HK$26.55, the second-biggest
positive contributor to the Hang Seng Index, after Credit Suisse
Group AG raised its rating to “neutral” from “underperform.”  Futures on the Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent to 22,788.
The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for  Hong Kong 
stock options, fell 3.1 percent to 18.18, indicating options
traders expect a swing of 5.2 percent in the Hang Seng Index in
the next 30 days.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 