-- 
Morgan Stanley Fails to Buy Forties Oil; Saudi Sells Light Blend

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-05-17T16:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/morgan-stanley-fails-to-buy-forties-oil-saudi-sells-light-blend.html
Morgan Stanley and Hess Energy
Trading Co., or Hetco, failed to buy cargoes of  North Sea 
Forties crude at lower premiums.  State-owned  Saudi Aramco  sold a 1 million-barrel shipment
of a new, light crude blend to Total SA for delivery in
Rotterdam, a person with knowledge of the sale said.  North Sea  Morgan Stanley sought to buy a cargo of Forties for June 4
to June 8 delivery at a premium of 45 cents a barrel to Dated
Brent. Hetco’s bid for a June 7 to June 9 shipment at 35 cents
more than Dated Brent was also unsuccessful.  Shell sold two consignments of Forties at 50 and 55 cents a
barrel more than Dated Brent yesterday.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
the Platts window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before
the window, Forties loading in 10 to 21 days cost 51 cents more
than Dated Brent, compared with 73 cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BG Group Plc said its North Sea Armada oil and gas platform
will close for planned maintenance and other work this month,
Jill Moir, a company spokeswoman in Aberdeen,  Scotland , said by
e-mail today. The shutdown will begin May 29 and last 45 days.  Armada pumps oil into the Forties Pipeline System and sends
it to Scotland. Gas production enters the CATS natural gas
pipeline and arrives in the U.K. at Teesside.  BP Plc will shut its CATS riser platform at the same time
as the Armada outage for a two-phase maintenance period, Matt
Taylor, a BP spokesman, said in a separate e-mail today.  Brent for June settlement traded at $108.55 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the
window, down from $112.70 the previous session. The July
contract was at $108.28, 27 cents less than June.  Mediterranean/Urals  No bids or offers were declared for Urals cargoes in
southern or northwest  Europe , according to the Platts survey.  OAO Lukoil didn’t manage to buy a cargo yesterday at $3.10
less than Dated Brent, while Vitol Group failed to sell two
cargoes at discounts of $2.50 and $2.65.  Saudi Aramco sold its fifth cargo of a new, light crude
blend to Total as European refiners seek alternatives to easily
refined Libyan fuel withheld from markets, a person with
knowledge of the sale said.  The shipment by the world’s biggest oil exporter will be
delivered to Rotterdam, the person said, asking not to be
identified because the sale is confidential. The tanker Al Dawha
loaded the cargo at the Red Sea port of Yanbu in early April,
according to the person. Since then, the ship has sailed through
the Mediterranean to  Gibraltar , according to AISLive ship-
tracking data on Bloomberg.  West Africa  July loading schedules for  Angola ’s Palanca and Gimboa
grades are likely to be released tomorrow, according to traders
who participate in the market. Africa’s second-largest oil
producer plans to ship 50.84 million barrels in July, or 1.64
million barrels a day, according to the provisional loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday.  Nigeria’s July official selling prices and loading program
will probably come out this week, according to the traders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  