-- 
U.S. Banks Servicing Mortgages Face ‘Substantial’ Liability, Jepsen Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-17T22:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/mortgage-servicers-face-substantial-liability-jepsen-says-1-.html
U.S. banks under investigation for
their mortgage-servicing practices aren’t offering enough to
resolve the probe and face “substantial” liability if states
sue them, Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said.  Five banks, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., last week offered to pay $5 billion as part of a
settlement with state attorneys general and federal agencies,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  “Thus far, the national servicers have been unwilling to
step up to the plate with the money necessary to address the
full scope of the problems they themselves created,” Jepsen
said in a statement today. “I believe they face substantial
legal liability for their clearly illegal behavior should states
be forced to sue.”  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the largest mortgage servicers in the U.S. The probe by all
50 attorneys general was triggered last year by claims of faulty
foreclosure practices after the housing collapse.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, declined to comment. Miller is helping to lead
settlement talks. Jepsen didn’t say how much money he believes
the banks should pay. Susan Kinsman, his spokeswoman, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  Revised Terms  Before a negotiating session last week, state and federal
officials submitted revised settlement terms to the banks. They
also proposed a fund that would in part pay for loan principal
reductions for homeowners.  The changes followed an earlier term sheet in March that
drew criticism from a group of Republican  attorneys general  who
said they opposed principal writedowns as part of the settlement
agreement.  Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, who warned in a
March letter to Miller that forcing principal reductions would
destroy the housing market, said in a statement today that he is
reviewing the latest version of the settlement proposal.  “While progress is being made in areas I and other
attorneys general have questioned, the settlement still lacks
key provisions,” he said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  