-- 
Osborne Says Bank of England Is ‘Doing Right Thing’ to Combat Inflation

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-05-17T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/osborne-says-bank-of-england-is-doing-right-thing-to-combat-inflation.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  backed the decision by the Bank of England to maintain
interest rates at record lows even as inflation quickens, saying
Governor  Mervyn King  is right to look beyond the short term.  “It’s always a matter of concern when inflation is above
target but the governor and the MPC are doing the right thing,”
Osborne said in an interview as he traveled back to  London  from
a meeting of European Union finance ministers in Brussels
yesterday. “The job of the independent Monetary Policy
Committee is to look through temporary factors and for medium-
term trends for inflation.”  U.K. consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in April after a 4
percent increase in March, data yesterday showed, forcing King
to write to Osborne explaining publicly why policy makers
haven’t yet raised their key interest rate from 0.5 percent.  Osborne said the increase in prices, the biggest since
October 2008, means British families are having a “very tough
time,” though King’s argument that the surge in inflation is
temporary means that by next year the pressure will ease.  The  Bank of England  will publish the minutes of its May 5
policy decision at 9:30 a.m. today, which will show if a four-
way split among officials persisted. The central bank didn’t
have the April inflation data at the meeting.  Jobless Data  The  Office for National Statistics  releases unemployment
data at the same time, which will show that jobless claims were
unchanged in April from the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods probably held at 7.8 percent in the first quarter.  The chancellor is counting on the bank to underpin demand
in the economy as he drives through a plan to almost eradicate
the  budget deficit  within four years, the biggest fiscal
consolidation since at least World War II. Osborne said
yesterday his budget plans were delivering lower market interest
rates, a further boon for the economy.  “Britain is one of the few countries that is moving up the
credit-rating scale rather than down the credit-rating scale,”
he said.  While King said inflation is likely to rise further in the
next few months, he sees it easing toward the bank’s 2 percent
target next year. The governor said in his letter to Osborne
that the surge is being driven by the chancellor’s increase in
 sales tax  that came into effect in January and by higher energy
and import prices.  Osborne defended the increase in value-added tax in his
interview, saying it was not the key factor in the spike in
prices and that the depreciation of sterling and rising
commodity costs bore as much of the blame.  ‘Diminishing Impact’  “The VAT rise is an essential part in dealing with the
budget deficit,” Osborne said. “The VAT rise has only a
temporary and diminishing impact on inflation.”  Investors are betting on a quarter-point rate increase in
December, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average.  King said last week domestic gas prices may rise as much as
15 percent in the second half of 2011 and the first quarter of
2012, while electricity prices may increase by about 10 percent.
Centrica Plc said May 9 the cost of gas and power to be
delivered later this year is about 25 percent higher than in
2011.  The Ernst & Young ITEM Club said two days ago that high
inflation may squeeze households and undermine  consumer spending 
for a decade. J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest
supermarket chain, said May 11 it expects economic conditions to
remain “uncertain.”  IMF Job  In yesterday’s interview, Osborne also said former Prime
Minister Gordon Brown hasn’t asked the British government to
back him as the next head of the  International Monetary Fund .
The chancellor sidestepped questions on whether he would back
such a bid.  The Financial Times reported yesterday that Brown, who
served as chancellor for 10 years, had told friends he had
international backing for his candidacy for the job heading the
Washington-based lender. IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn was arrested May 14 on sexual-assault charges in
 New York  and finance ministers have begun to discuss a
successor.  “ Gordon Brown  has neither asked directly nor indirectly to
be considered for the job, so at the moment I am focused on
making sure we get the best person for the job,” Osborne said.
The search for a new candidate shouldn’t be based on
nationality, the chancellor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  