-- 
Hospitals Eliminate 1 in 4 U.S. Emergency Rooms Since 1990, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-05-17T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hospitals-eliminate-1-in-4-u-s-emergency-rooms-since-1990-study-finds.html
More than one in four U.S. emergency
departments were closed in the past two decades, forcing the
nation’s poor and elderly to seek care in fewer, more crowded
facilities, researchers found.  The number of emergency rooms in metropolitan and suburban
areas fell 27 percent to 1,779 in 2009 from 2,446 in 1990,
according to research today in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association . During the study, 374 emergency departments
were opened.  Departments most likely to close were in for-profit
hospitals and facilities that serve high numbers of patients on
Medicaid, the U.S. health plan for the poor, the researchers
found. Closing an emergency room results in overcrowding at
other hospitals, which can hurt patient care, said  Renee Hsia ,
the study’s lead author.  “When people don’t have ERs in their neighborhood, it’s
not like their emergency disappears,” Hsia, an assistant
professor of emergency medicine at the University of  California ,
 San Francisco , and an emergency attending physician at San
Francisco General Hospital, said in a telephone interview.
“Emergency departments can’t pay for themselves, and it’s
expensive care.”  Emergency rooms are required by federal law to treat all
patients who need critical care regardless of whether they have
insurance or the ability to pay.  Domino Effect  Closing a hospital emergency room “displaces tens of
thousands of patients, many of them uninsured and low income,
which leads to increased crowding at other emergency departments
and can create a domino effect,” said Caroline Steinberg, vice
president for trends analysis at the  American Hospital
Association  in  Washington .  While emergency rooms are being cut, demand for their
services is rising. The number of  emergency visits  climbed to
127 million in 2009 from 89 million in 1991, according to the
AHA.  Today’s study is the first to look at the risk factors
behind emergency room closures, Hsia said. Researchers used
American Hospital Association data on emergency rooms that
closed from 1990 to 2009 and merged it with hospital and payer
information from Medicare cost reports.  The closures “didn’t just happen in one part of the
country,” Hsia said. Rather, they happened across the nation
“in a very consistent way,” she said.  Health-Care Failure  The shutdown of emergency rooms represents a failure of the
health-care financial system,  Sandra Schneider , professor in the
Department of Emergency Medicine at the University of Rochester
Medical Center and president of the American College of
Emergency Physicians, said in a telephone interview.  “The emergency care in this country is in crisis,” she
said. “We’re crowded because we can’t get those patients into
the hospital because, in many cases, the hospitals have cut down
on the number of beds. We don’t anticipate that it will get any
better.”  Steve Speil , senior vice president for health, finance and
policy for the Federation of American Hospitals, a Washington-
based trade group for investor-owned hospitals, said the study
may not have captured what’s actually occurring because of the
data used. If a for-profit hospital buys another, the owners
might consolidate under one new provider number, making it
appear that hospitals have closed, he said.  “I was disappointed in this study because the need for
emergency departments and the overcrowding is, as they point
out, a major problem,” he said in a telephone interview today.
“This study is distorting the data and does not advance us
toward a policy solution.”  Safety Net  Nassau University Medical Center  in East Meadow, New York
on  Long Island  is opening a new $36 million emergency
department. The hospital, considered a safety-net facility
because of the high number of Medicaid patients it treats, is
hoping the new emergency department with additional private
rooms will attract patients from nearby communities, said
Anthony Boutin, chairman of the Department of Emergency
Medicine.  “To stay competitive with other hospitals, we had to fix
our front door, which is our emergency department,” Boutin said
today in a telephone interview. The emergency department had
about 73,000 visits last year.  Today’s study was funded in part by the U.S. National
Institutes of Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Changes in Health Care Financing and Organization Initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  