-- 
House Budget Panel Chairman Paul Ryan Won’t Run for Wisconsin Senate Seat

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T16:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/house-budget-panel-chairman-paul-ryan-won-t-run-for-wisconsin-senate-seat.html
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, announced today he won’t run for
the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Democrat  Herb Kohl .  “The most important factor in making this decision was
determining where I could make the biggest difference,” Ryan
said in a statement. “Continuing to serve as chairman of the
House Budget Committee allows me to have a greater impact.”  In an interview with the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, Ryan
said it would take “12 to 16 years in the Senate to get where I
am in the House. I don’t want to be in Congress for the rest of
my life.”  Kohl, 76, said last week he wouldn’t run for a fifth term,
making him the fifth Senate Democrat to announce his retirement
ahead of the 2012 elections. Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent who caucuses with Democrats, also isn’t
running for re-election. Republicans hold 47 of the Senate’s 100
seats and would need to pick up four additional seats to ensure
control of the chamber.  Potential candidates for Kohl’s seat include former Senator
Russ Feingold, a Democrat who last year lost to Republican  Ron Johnson  in his bid for a fourth term, and former Wisconsin
Governor Tommy Thompson, a Republican.  Ryan, his party’s unofficial spokesman on economic and
budget issues, is the architect of a plan to privatize the
Medicare health-care program for the elderly that was included
in a budget approved last month by the House.  Private Insurance  As part of a plan to reduce long-term  government spending ,
it would replace the traditional program with government
subsidies to help seniors buy private insurance. Democrats say
Ryan’s proposal would amount to ending Medicare.  “He knew his plans to end Medicare and hand Social
Security over to  Wall Street , while cutting benefits for working
families and giving tax cuts to billionaires, was both morally
and politically indefensible in the Badger State,” said Mike
Tate, chairman of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin. “No matter
how well his snake oil might sell in  Washington , there was no
chance it would fly in Waterford, Washburn and Wautoma.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  