-- 
NATO Helicopters Cross Into Pakistan, Spark Firefight With Border Guards

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-05-17T12:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/pakistan-troops-clash-with-nato-helicopters-in-afghanistan-border-region.html
Two NATO helicopters entered
Pakistani airspace and triggered a firefight that injured two
soldiers,  Pakistan ’s military said, in a further setback to ties
strained by the U.S. raid that killed  Osama bin Laden .  Pakistan troops at a border post in the North Waziristan
region shot at the aircraft of the U.S.-led force in Afghanistan
and were injured in a return of fire, according to an e-mail
sent by  Inter-Services Public Relations , the press office at
Pakistan’s army headquarters in Rawalpindi. The army has lodged
a “strong protest” with NATO’s Kabul-based  International
Security Assistance Force , the statement said. ISAF is aware of
the incident and is investigating, spokesman Lieutenant John
Harden said by phone.  North Waziristan is a mountainous district from where
Afghan and Pakistani Taliban guerrillas attack U.S. troops
across the border in  Afghanistan . Last September, Pakistan
closed its border to U.S. military supplies for 10 days after a
similar exchange of fire between a U.S. helicopter and Pakistani
border troops.  The incident added to already heightened tensions between
the U.S. and Pakistan in their nine-year joint effort to subdue
some Islamic militant guerrilla groups in the Afghanistan-
Pakistan region. U.S. Senator  John Kerry  met Pakistan’s army
chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, and civilian leaders this
week in an effort to improve dialogue after U.S. commandos
raided a house deep in Pakistan May 2 to kill al-Qaeda leader
bin Laden.  Sovereignty Protests  Pakistan’s leaders have protested the violation of the
country’s sovereignty, and lawmakers in Parliament on May 14
asked the government to consider ending a transit route used by
NATO to supply forces in Afghanistan.  “Pakistan has made it clear that they are going to protect
their borders,” after the bin Laden incident, said Shaheen
Akhter, a research fellow at  Institute of Regional Studies  in
Islamabad. Still, with the U.S. needing Pakistan’s help to
“make its exit from Afghanistan as smooth as possible” and
Pakistan not wanting to escalate confrontations on its western
border, it will be “business as usual,” Akhter said.  Hours after Kerry completed his talks in Islamabad
yesterday, missiles fired by U.S. unmanned aircraft killed seven
suspected militants in North Waziristan, Pakistani officials
said. Such strikes in the border area are very unpopular among
Pakistanis for the civilian casualties they have caused.  A joint statement released by the Pakistan president’s
office and the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad said the governments
held “a constructive exchange.”  Clinton Visit  It said U.S. officials will visit Pakistan soon to prepare
for a trip by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . In  Washington ,
State Department spokesman Mark Toner confirmed that Clinton
will visit Pakistan on a date to be announced.  While the joint statement on cooperation appeared to rule
out any repeat of the unilateral U.S. attack into the country,
it did not explicitly address that point or the U.S. missile
attacks from drones.  Although Pakistan’s army didn’t identify the nationality of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization helicopter in today’s
firefight, the ISAF  forces deployed  across the border from North
Waziristan, in the Afghan provinces of Khost and Paktika, are
Americans.  The firefight erupted at Admi Kot in the Pakistani border
area of Datta Khel, which is controlled by Taliban commander
Hafiz Gul Bahadur.  Bahadur hosts fighters from al-Qaeda and allied guerrilla
groups, and his territory has been targeted by 65 of the 143 U.S.
missile attacks launched by unmanned aircraft since the
beginning of 2010, according to the  Long War Journal , a private
U.S. website that monitors the war.  U.S. officials said they didn’t inform their Pakistani
counterparts of the attack on bin Laden because they feared
sympathizers in Pakistan’s government or military might tip him
off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  