-- 
Peso’s Advance Has Foreigners Piling Into Fixed-Rate Bonds: Mexico Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-05-17T12:58:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/peso-s-advance-has-foreigners-piling-into-fixed-rate-bonds-mexico-credit.html
Foreign investors are boosting their
holdings of Mexican peso bonds at the fastest pace since October
2009 as a rally in the currency helps keep inflation in check.  Overseas holdings of fixed-rated bonds jumped 8.2 percent
in the past month to a record 556 billion pesos ($47 billion),
according to  data compiled by the central bank . Foreigners own
34.6 percent of the outstanding securities, an all-time high and
up from 25.7 percent a year earlier.  Investors are piling into Mexican bonds as a record gain in
the peso keeps price increases near a five-year low and bolsters
dollar-based returns on local assets. Neighboring  Brazil  and
Peru are seeking to stem advances in their currencies while
struggling to keep inflation below their targets. Mexican
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens signaled last week that
he will keep the benchmark lending rate at a record low of 4.5
percent as expectations for rising prices are “well-behaved.”  “Mexico is one of the most liquid emerging markets where
the central bank has never expressed the willingness of capital
restriction,” said Jean-Dominique Butikofer, a  fund manager  who
helps oversee about $1 billion of emerging-market debt,
including Mexican bonds, at Union Bancaire Privee in Zurich.
“When you are in an environment where inflation seems to be not
the biggest worry, you have a lot of investors going into the
Mexican  bond market . That’s the entire story.”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 fell
61 basis points, or 0.61 percentage point, from a one-year high
on March 3 to 7.39 percent. Brazil’s real-denominated bonds due
in 2021 yield 12.5 percent, down 20 basis points during the
period. Foreign investors withdrew a net $372 million from
Brazil’s bond market in the first quarter after the government
tripled taxes on bond investors last year to curb an advance in
the real.  ‘Very Comfortable’  Annual inflation in Mexico was 3.36 percent last month,
near a five-year low set in March. The central bank last week
maintained its 2011 inflation forecast of 3 percent to 4
percent. In Brazil,  Latin America ’s biggest economy, inflation
quickened to 6.51 percent in April, breaching the upper limit of
the government’s target for the first time since 2005.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon said in an interview on
May 10 that he’s “very comfortable” with the strength in the
peso, which remains 4.5 percent cheaper than its average over
the past decade. The peso has gained 12.6 percent in the past
two years, the biggest since 1993, when then-President Carlos Salinas de Gortari changed the currency following a surge in
inflation in the 1980s.  “Mexico has a very transparent monetary policy, and they
have been very clear and open that they don’t plan to place
restrictions on the currency,” said Sergio Mendez, who helps
manage about 80.5 billion pesos in assets as chief investment
officer at pension fund Afore XXI. “Mexico has become very
attractive for foreign investors.”  Outperformance  Mexican bonds returned 1.1 percent over the past month in
dollar terms, compared with losses of 1.7 percent in Brazil and
a decline of 2.9 percent in  India , according to data compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The bonds gained 5.8 percent in
April, the biggest advance in more than a year.  An official at the central bank’s press office didn’t
respond to phone calls seeking comment.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened one basis point to 137,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 98, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day interbank rate
due in October fell one basis point yesterday to 5.01 percent.  CETES Purchases  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 11.7838 per dollar at 8:56
a.m. New York time. It is up 4.8 percent this year, the best
performer among six Latin American currencies.  “As long as the peso keeps appreciating, foreign holding
should increase too,”  Eduardo Suarez , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Foreign investors also lifted their holdings of Mexican
notes and bills maturing in less than one-year, known as CETES,
to 33 percent, from 9 percent a year earlier, to bet on the
peso’s appreciation.  The currency will strengthen 0.6 percent to 11.7 by the end
of September, according to the median forecast of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse Group AG has the most
bullish estimate, predicting a rise to 10.9 per dollar.  Mexican policy makers are concerned foreign investment has
become more “speculative” as investors increase holdings of
short-term notes, according to RBS Securities Inc. analysts
including Flavia Cattan-Naslausky.  ‘Further Appreciation’  “The mix of flows this year has turned more speculative in
nature,” the analysts wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
Cattan-Naslausky didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment.  Foreigners increased their holdings of Mexican bonds by 60
percent last year to 463 billion pesos, after Citigroup Inc.
included the securities in its World Government Bond Index.  HSBC Bank Plc. is recommending clients buy  Mexico ’s bonds
due in 2024 as the yield will drop another 34 basis points to
7.05 percent.  “There’s room for the rates to tighten,” Alejandro Martinez, a fixed-income strategist at HSBC Mexico SA in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview. “You want to take the
advantage of further appreciation of the peso.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  