-- 
Peter Madoff’s Vintage 1964 Aston Martin to Be Auctioned to Pay Victims

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T20:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/peter-madoff-s-1964-aston-martin-to-be-auctioned-off-to-pay-fraud-victims.html
A vintage Aston Martin automobile
previously owned by  Peter Madoff , brother of Bernard L. Madoff,
will be sold at auction to help pay the jailed con man’s former
investors.  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating the Madoff firm in
 New York , asked a judge to approve the sale in a court filing
yesterday. A 1958 Aston Martin MK III Drop Head Coupe was bought
for $267,000 for Peter Madoff by Bernard Madoff’s U.K. firm in
2008 and it wasn’t reimbursed for the expense, according to
Picard.  RM Auctions , a car-auction company, will sell the Drop Head
at the Monterey Auction in  California  in August, according to
Picard. As many as 3,500 people attend the vintage sports car
event, he said.  Charles Spada, a lawyer for Peter Madoff, declined to
comment.  Peter Madoff, sued by the U.K. liquidators in 2009 for
allegedly enriching himself unjustly by taking the Aston Martin,
transferred ownership of the car to Picard on May 4, the trustee
said. It is being auctioned with agreement from the U.K.
liquidators, he said.  Family Members  Picard has sought a total of $198.7 million from Peter
Madoff and other members of  Bernard Madoff ’s family, including
his son Mark, who committed suicide in December, and niece Shana Madoff Swanson, who all had jobs at the defunct firm, according
to court documents.  Peter Madoff was chief compliance officer at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC. He was among those to whom
Bernard Madoff confessed shortly before his arrest, according to
Ira Sorkin, a lawyer for Bernard Madoff. Peter Madoff also co-
signed Bernard Madoff’s $10 million bond following the money
manager’s arrest.  Picard said in November he was trying to locate assets of
the con man’s U.K. unit, including an Aston Martin and a yacht.  Earlier, liquidators of the U.K. firm said a 1964 Aston
Martin was delivered to Peter Madoff at his residence in  Palm
Beach , Florida, in 2008. The U.K. firm, Madoff Securities
International Ltd., wire-transferred about $200,000 to the Aston
Martin company to buy the car for Peter Madoff, they said in
court documents, filed by in 2009.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 