-- 
Pinera Plans Productivity Measures to Boost Chilean Growth

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-17T16:36:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/pinera-plans-productivity-measures-to-boost-chilean-growth-1-.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera
plans to boost competition in financial industries and raise
energy productivity as part of what his government calls the
most significant package of microeconomic reforms in a decade.  Fifty planned measures include reducing taxes on software,
paving rural roads and cutting red tape such as payments to
state suppliers, Pinera and his Economy Minister Juan Andres Fontaine said today at the presidential palace in Santiago.  Pinera, the billionaire entrepreneur-turned-politician who
assumed the presidency in March 2010, is targeting average
annual growth of 6 percent over his four-year term and
shortening the path toward achieving developed-nation status.
The package of reforms aims to boost productivity and innovation
to help achieve his goals.  “Our government has set out the task to lay down the
foundation so that, before this decade ends,  Chile  will be a
developed country without poverty,” Pinera said. “This is a
project for our generation.”  Chile’s gross domestic product probably expanded 9.8
percent in the first quarter, according to the median estimate
of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank is
scheduled to release its quarterly GDP report tomorrow.  South
America ’s fifth-biggest economy grew 5.2 percent last year.  The economy has changed its growth trend rather than merely
recovering from last year’s 8.8-magnitiude earthquake, Pinera
said today. Now Chile needs to modernize the state, improve
education and make better use of its existing resources, he
said.  Fontaine has a year to implement the package of measures,
Pinera said.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain announced yesterday
measures to help farmers cope with  Latin America ’s best
performing currency in the past year, including $400 million of
loans with “favorable”  interest rates .  Chile’s peso has strengthened 15 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months, more than the other major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the price of its
major export, copper, rises and borrowing costs increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  