-- 
Pink Diamond Fetches $10.9 Million at Sotheby’s Swiss Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-05-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/pink-diamond-fetches-10-9-million-at-sotheby-s-as-gem-collectors-battle.html
A pink diamond the size of a SIM card
sold last night in  Switzerland  for 9.6 million francs ($10.9
million) as collectors continued to battle for rare gems.  The price paid by a telephone bidder was the third highest
for a pink diamond at auction, said  Sotheby’s. (BID)  The privately
owned diamond, not seen on the market for more than 30 years,
was estimated to fetch as much as 14.8 million francs at hammer
prices, the most highly valued of 491 items being offered by
Sotheby’s in its biannual jewel auction in Geneva.  “It’s difficult to predict what big stones will make,”
Sam Taub, director of the Antwerp wholesalers  CLS Diamonds , said
in an interview. “Each bidder has a different personal reason
for wanting to buy. At this level, diamonds aren’t a commodity
market.”  Diamonds are selling for higher figures than those achieved
before the financial crisis. Rare colored stones continue to
command one-off prices. Gems lighter than 4 carats, and some
collectors’ items, are now about 10 percent more expensive than
they were three years ago, Taub said. Values of smaller white
stones have been pushed up by speculative trade buying in  India ,
he said.  The emerald-cut “fancy intense pink” stone sold tonight
weighed 10.99 carats and was mounted on a platinum ring.  Tiara Record  Earlier in the evening, an emerald and diamond tiara sold
for 11.3 million francs, an auction record for this particular
type of jewelry. The winning bid was taken on the telephone by
Lisa Hubbard, Sotheby’s New York-based chairman of jewelry,
against competition from five other bidders, said Sotheby’s.  The tiara had been estimated to sell for between 4.6
million francs and 9.2 million francs.  The bejeweled headdress had been commissioned in about
1900, possibly from the jeweler Chaumet, by the Prussian mining
magnate Guido Count von Henckel, First Prince von Donnersmarck,
for his Russian second wife Princess Katharina. The tiara
featured 11 Colombian pear-shaped emerald drops weighing more
than 500 carats in total, said Sotheby’s.  The tiara beat the HK$48.5 million ($6.2 million) paid for
that containing the Shizuka Diamond (101.27 carats) at
Christie’s International,  Hong Kong , in May 2008.  Yesterday’s sale totaled 78.9 million francs including
fees, beating a hammer-price estimate of 42 million francs.
Sotheby’s sold 90 percent of the lots.  At Sotheby’s equivalent sale in Geneva in November, London
dealer Laurence Graff paid 45.4 million francs, a record for any
gem at auction, for a 24.78-carat “fancy intense pink.”  “That wasn’t a diamond price,” Taub said, referring to
the Graff stone. “It was a collectors’ item.”  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 