-- 
Plains to Perform Inspections Before Restarting Alberta Line

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-17T21:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/plains-to-perform-inspections-before-restarting-alberta-line-1-.html
Plains Midstream Canada LP must
perform more inspection work on its Rainbow pipeline in  Alberta 
before restarting a line that burst April 29, the province’s
energy regulator said.  Plains has been directed to dig up other sections of the
pipeline before the province will approve its restart, the
 Energy Resources Conservation Board  said in an e-mailed
statement. The board has completed reviews of technical
information supplied by Plains and is not prepared to authorize
its return to service, the statement showed.  “While the ERCB recognizes there are many people affected
by delays in pipeline operations, the ERCB will only consider
approving the resumption of operations when it is confident the
line can be safely returned to operation and operate within all
regulatory requirements,” the agency said in its statement.  Stress and improperly compacted soil around a repair in the
line caused the break, which spilled 28,000 barrels of oil onto
the soft muskeg, Plains said May 6. The company, an affiliate of
Houston-based  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) , said the pipe has
been repaired and only requires ERCB approval to restart.  Cleanup efforts have been hampered by wildfires that forced
the evacuation of crews from the damaged section of pipe May 15.
The 220,000-barrel-a-day line carries crude from the Northwest
Territories and northern Alberta to refineries near Edmonton.
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  has been forced to shut its Norman Wells line
which uses Rainbow as its only link from Arctic oilfields.  More than 10,500 barrels of oil has been recovered at the
spill site, the board said.  Plains All American fell 98 cents to $59.20 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  