-- 
Polish Yield Gap at Six-Month Low Spurs First Five-Year Bond Since January

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-18T08:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/polish-yield-gap-at-six-month-low-spurs-first-five-year-bond-since-january.html
Poland is selling five-year bonds for
the first time since January as the extra cost of borrowing
compared with two-year maturities falls to the lowest in almost
six months.  The  Finance Ministry  plans to issue as much as 3 billion
zloty ($1.1 billion) of April 2016 bonds today, according to
government data published on Bloomberg. The yield on five-year
bonds declined to 5.65 percent as of 10:19 a.m. in Warsaw, or 61
basis points above two-year notes. The gap shrank to 58 basis
points last week, making it the lowest since Nov. 18, when
compared with the previous benchmark two-year debt.  Two-year yields have risen relative to longer-dated debt
since the central bank unexpectedly raised interest rates for a
third time this year on May 11 and a report showed inflation
accelerated to a 31-month high. Polish bonds maturing in one-to-
three years returned 0.3 percent this month compared with 0.66
percent for bonds maturing in five to 10 years, according to
data compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg.  “The unexpected rise in interest rates has weakened the
shorter end,” said Miroslaw Budzicki, a fixed-income analyst at
PKO Bank Polski SA in Warsaw.  Poland  last sold five-year bonds on Jan. 5, when the
government issued 1.14 billion zloty of debt at an average yield
of 5.642 percent, the highest since a sale in December 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds may yield
5.65 percent at the auction today, according to Budzicki.  FRAs  Poland’s central bank last week lifted its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to 4.25 percent.
Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs in six
months show investors expect a rate increase of another 51 basis
points, based on a difference between the contracts and a three-
month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which they settle.  The Finance Ministry has borrowed more than half the amount
it needs from debt markets this year, Deputy Finance Minister
 Dominik Radziwill  said on May 16. Borrowing needs will be lower
than the planned 167.5 billion zloty, according to Piotr Marczak, head of the ministry’s public debt department.  The decline stems from the government decision to reduce
state transfers to private pension funds, he said. The budget
will also receive 95 percent of the central bank’s 2010 net
profit of 6.5 billion zloty, according to a statement from the
Warsaw-based bank on April 6.  “The degree to which borrowing needs have been met may
lead to lower supply of government debt in the coming months,”
Arkadiusz Urbanski, fixed-income analyst at Bank Pekao SA in
Warsaw, wrote in a note to customers. “This increases the
chance that the auction will go well.” He predicts that the
average yield will reach 5.65-5.67 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  