-- 
British Pound Stronger, Gilts Drop as Inflation Accelerates to 4.5 Percent

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-17T15:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/pound-snaps-five-day-decline-versus-dollar-before-april-inflation-report.html
The pound rose against the dollar for
the first day in six as a report showed inflation accelerated
more than forecast in April, prompting investors to bet on
higher  interest rates .  Sterling headed for its biggest one-day gain in two weeks
against  Japan ’s yen. U.K. consumer prices rose 4.5 percent last
month from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 2008, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today. The median forecast
of 32 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 4.1 percent. The Bank
of England left its key rate unchanged at 0.5 percent on May 5
as policy makers prioritized growth over taming inflation.  “The inflation rate was higher than expected, and
therefore we saw the pound benefiting,” said You-na Park, a
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The market
is still waiting for signs regarding the first rate hike from
the  Bank of England . If inflation stays at higher levels, an
earlier rate hike becomes more likely.”  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.6206 as of 4:25 p.m. in
 London , paring a gain of as much as 0.7 percent. It appreciated
as much as 0.7 percent to 86.82 pence per euro before trading at
87.34 pence. It strengthened 0.9 percent to 131.94 yen.  Short-sterling futures fell, pushing the implied yield on
the December futures contract up two basis points to 1.08
percent, a sign that investors were adding to bets for higher
borrowing costs.  Sonia Forwards  Money markets now price in a 25 basis-point increase in the
key rate in January, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said the recent surge
in inflation is being driven by higher sales taxes and increased
energy and import prices.  “Although the impact on inflation of these factors is
difficult to quantify with precision, it is likely that had they
not occurred inflation would have been substantially lower and
probably below the target,” King said in a letter to Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  published today. Inflation is
likely to rise further over the next few months, he said.  The Bank of England signaled it may need to raise rates
later this year even as the economy struggles to build momentum.
Minutes from the May 5 meeting will be released tomorrow and
will show how policy makers voted.  U.K. 10-year government bond yields rose as much as seven
basis points to 3.38 percent immediately after the inflation
data was released, before falling two basis points to 3.36
percent. Two-year yields were little changed at 1 percent.  The inflation data “appear to be mainly driven by
temporary factors,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. The timing of a
rate increase “will depend not so much on the inflation
figures, but the activity data.”  Travel costs were boosted in April by the timing of the
Easter holidays. Tax increases on alcohol and tobacco also
boosted the inflation figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 