-- 
PPC’s CEO Says Company May Announce Projects Outside South Africa in 2011

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-17T08:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/ppc-s-ceo-says-company-may-announce-projects-outside-south-africa-in-2011.html
Pretoria  Portland Cement Co.,  South
Africa ’s biggest cement producer, may announce projects outside
South Africa in the year through September, Chief Executive
Officer Paul Stuiver said.  “We definitely have some irons in the fire, as we have
been working on some projects,” Stuiver said by phone from
Johannesburg today. Those projects are still subject to either
strict confidentiality agreements or to regulatory processes,
said Stuiver. “We hope to have something to share by year
end.”  Net income fell 38 percent to 378 million rand ($54
million) in the six months through March as cement sales volumes
fell 7 percent, the company said in a regulatory statement
today. Over-capacity in the South African cement industry and
lower demand has resulted in a competitive market, putting
pressure on cement-selling prices and preventing a full recovery
of increasing input costs, it said.  Exports declined 35 percent as the rand’s strength against
the dollar made prices for international buyers unattractive and
because of difficulties in getting its products to neighboring
 Mozambique , said Stuiver.  Transnet Ltd., which manages South Africa’s ports and rail
system, “is not able to service us properly” on the line from
Pretoria to Mozambique’s capital, Maputo, said Stuiver. “The
problem seems to be a shortage of locomotives, but we are
continuously engaged with Transnet on it,” he said.  PPC, which has eight cement manufacturing facilities and
three milling depots in South Africa, Botswana and  Zimbabwe , is
shipping products from  Cape Town , on South Africa’s southwest
coast, to Maputo, raising transport costs.  The rand rallied 14 percent against the dollar in the year
through March, making it the best performer in the period among
more than 20 emerging-market currency tracked by Bloomberg.  PPC shares snapped two days of gains, dropping as much as
2.8 percent to 24.60 rand and trading 0.9 percent down at 25.08
rand by 10:10 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  