-- 
Security Threats Make Private Cloud Better for Some Business

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-17T20:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/private-cloud-safer-for-businesses-with-concerns-about-web-security.html
Financial services companies and
other businesses that move high volumes of secure data may
benefit from a private cloud for restricted groups of customers,
panelists said at a  Bloomberg Link  conference in  New York .  Private cloud networks reduce the cost of a company’s
information-technology infrastructure while maintaining a level
of security not attainable in a public cloud, said Bryan Beal,
an executive at Sunnyvale, California-based  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  Public clouds deliver data over the Internet to a wider set
of users.  “There is no one-size-fits-all cloud,” said Beal, vice
president of cloud-business development at Juniper. “You have
to be intelligent in planning your workloads. If it’s a high-
priority workload where security is concerned, that’s a workload
that could end up on a private cloud.”  An attack on  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s online entertainment systems last
month heightened awareness about the need to secure sensitive
data residing on a company’s own servers.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Elastic Compute Cloud, which hackers signed up for using fake
information, helped them cover their tracks in the attack on
Sony, a person familiar with the matter said May 13.  Extra Security  Private cloud services, such as those on offer at AT&T
Inc., will add more value to enterprise companies with advanced
data systems that require extra security than Seattle-based
Amazon, Beal said. Cloud technology can significantly speed up
internal processes, in some cases from weeks to hours, he said.  “Amazon and the public-cloud providers, they have a
margin, they want to make money,” said Todd Papaioannou, vice
president of cloud architecture at Yahoo! Inc., also based in
Sunnyvale. “For us it would never make sense to go to a public-
cloud provider.”  As cloud technology evolves, companies should weigh options
and take care to avoid committing to one type of infrastructure,
said Forrest Norrod, vice president and general manager of
server platforms at computer maker Dell Inc.  “We’re still early,” he said. “Don’t get locked in. Make
sure you’re seeking out open solutions.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  