-- 
Tracey Emin’s Saucy, Egoistic Relics Seduce in London Show: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-05-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/tracey-emin-s-saucy-egoistic-relics-seduce-in-london-show-martin-gayford.html
Are we tired of Tracey Emin?  A large segment of the public hated her and her works on
first acquaintance, and even those who didn’t could be excused
for feeling weary after two decades of incessant publicity. If
ever an artist has been overexposed in the media, it’s Emin.
She’s that dubious personality, an art celeb.  Still, I was won over by the career retrospective, “Love
Is What You Want,” which just opened at the  Hayward Gallery  in
London. The fact is that, maddening as she can be, Emin is a
compelling and original talent. She’s also erratic, limited and
repetitious. Quite a few renowned artists are all of those. It
almost goes without saying that Emin is egomaniacal.  Obviously, everything she does is all about herself. When I
reviewed an exhibition of hers a few years ago, I suggested she
might be a religious artist. I wasn’t altogether joking. While
she doesn’t claim any actual belief, her work is full of
religious references, albeit sometimes blasphemous (“Come unto
me,” for example, and a cross on one of her blankets). What’s
more, she’s fond of displaying memorabilia associated with the
dramas of her life, including surgical procedures, in the manner
of the relics of saints.  Even if you’re tired of the tale of St. Tracey -- her
teenage rape, the abortions, problems with drink and so forth --
there’s a visual pizzazz about her best work that makes it
durable. She complains in a catalog interview about people who
can’t be bothered to read the texts in her work (anyone who did
read every word in this show would be there a long time). I
agree the words are integral to her embroidered and applique
blankets. They have anarchic visual vigor that’s crucial too.  Nervous Line  Emin, born in 1963, uses diverse media, and the results in
some are much better than in others. The drawings, though not
garbage as is sometimes claimed -- she has a nervous, personal
line, which is a good start -- are monotonous. There are far too
many, and they are too similar. Nor has she found a way to make
effective large-scale paintings, though the latest, “Black
Cat” (2008) is the least weak.  On the positive side, Emin has a remarkable ability to
extract a sort of poignancy from marginal, soiled and rejected
things. This is apparent in her sculpture, which isn’t what
she’s most widely known for, yet it’s one of the things she’s
best at. Her knack is for turning everyday objects into psychic
metaphor.  Forlorn Pier  “Knowing My Enemy” (2002) is a dilapidated seaside pier
with at one end a homely little room. The route to this refuge -
- the wooden walkway -- has partially collapsed. The safe haven
is inaccessible. The whole huge piece has a forlorn, neglected
air, like a rundown beach resort (such as Emin’s hometown of
Margate).  Also on the plus side of the balance sheet are her textiles
and her neon works. A black corridor filled with the latter --
like electric graffiti, spattered with four-letter words and
startlingly intimate revelations -- seems both sleazy and
glamorous. The neons are sometimes shocking and sometimes
touching. The declaration “You Forgot to Kiss My Soul” in blue
and pink, might make you squirm. Emin is like that. The squirm
factor is part of the effect. Boldly, she ventures into areas of
taste where many would hesitate to follow. Love her or hate her,
she’s a true original.  “Love Is What You Want” is at the Hayward Gallery,
 London , through Aug. 29. Information:
 http://www.haywardgallery.org.uk/ .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 