-- 
Galleon, Facebook, Cigna, IMF’s Strauss-Kahn in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-17T11:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/rajaratnam-facebook-cigna-imf-s-strauss-kahn-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, the hedge fund manager convicted of insider trading,
will be heard again on recorded wiretaps in the trial of his
former deputy,  Zvi Goffer , the judge overseeing the case said.  Rajaratnam, who didn’t testify in his trial, was convicted
of 14 criminal counts last week by jurors who heard him talking
in dozens of wiretapped conversations with employees and alleged
co-conspirators. U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  said
recordings of Rajaratnam will be played in the case of Goffer
and two others whose trial began yesterday with jury selection.  “Mr. Rajaratnam is going to be a factor in this trial,”
Sullivan told lawyers in a hearing yesterday before the start of
jury selection in the same  Manhattan  courthouse where Rajaratnam
was convicted of directing the biggest illegal stock-tipping
ring since the 1980s. “He’s going to be mentioned or in fact
heard on these tapes.”  Goffer, 34, who left Galleon to work at Schottenfeld Group
LLC and then founded his own firm, Incremental Capital LLC, is
on trial along with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael
Kimelman, 40, both ex-traders at Incremental. Their trial begins
a second round of cases growing out of a nationwide insider-
trading investigation.  Referred to by some of his alleged accomplices as
“Octopussy,” Zvi Goffer was at the center of the insider-
trading scheme, one of three overlapping rings tied to Galleon,
according to prosecutors. The reference to the 1983 James Bond
movie was due to Goffer’s many sources of information,
prosecutors have said.  Sullivan told lawyers he expects jury selection to be
completed today, with opening statements to follow.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Trader Daniel Corbin Pleads Guilty in New York Federal Court  Day trader Daniel Corbin pleaded guilty in federal court in
New York yesterday to charges that he conspired to make illegal
trades based on confidential tips gleaned from the wife of a
former Lehman Brothers salesman.  Corbin, 35, of Miami Beach, Florida, pleaded guilty to one
count each of securities fraud and conspiracy before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman in federal court in Manhattan,
making him the last of five people indicted in December 2008 to
plead guilty.  Corbin said that his partner, Jamil Bouchareb, obtained
material non-public information about Veritas DGC Inc. that was
used to buy 2,500 shares of the company for their joint account
on Sept. 1, 2006. The trade earned them $16,000 in profits.
Compagnie Generale de Geophysique SA said four days later it had
agreed to buy the provider of geophysical services to the oil
industry for $3.1 billion.  Corbin told Pitman in court yesterday that he had
“suspicions” that the information that Bouchareb had obtained
wasn’t public. Bouchareb got his tips from a former  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  salesman, Matthew Devlin, and told Corbin
about them prior to the trade being made, said Corbin’s
attorney, Ronald Gainor.  The case is U.S. v. Corbin, 09-cr-00463, U.S. District
Judge, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Rajaratnam Deemed Guilty by Day 2 of Deliberations, Juror Says  Raj Rajaratnam was convicted of insider trading by a jury
that never argued during 12 days of secret deliberations that he
was innocent, Bloomberg News’s David Voreacos, David McLaughlin
and Bob Van Voris report that a juror said.  By the second day of their discussions in federal court in
Manhattan, the panel decided the Galleon Group LLC co-founder
was guilty of the first conspiracy charge in a 14-count
indictment, concluding he traded on illegal tips from former
McKinsey & Co. partner  Anil Kumar , juror Leila Gonzalez Gorman
said in an interview at her home.  It took 10 more days of what Gorman said were tense and
sometimes tearful talks, punctuated by the replacement of an
ailing juror that forced them to restart deliberations, before a
May 11 verdict that Rajaratnam was guilty of five conspiracy and
nine securities-fraud charges. Jurors never believed the hedge
fund manager’s arguments that his trades were based on a
“mosaic” of publicly available information, she said.  “No one was arguing that he was not guilty,” said Gorman,
44, who teaches second-graders in the Bronx. “Some people said
‘I’m not sure about this’ and ‘I’m not sure about that.’ But no
one said he’s an innocent man at any point.”  Rajaratnam, 53, faces 15 1/2 years to 19 1/2 years in
prison under federal sentencing guidelines. Jurors found he made
$63.8 million in illicit profits during a seven-year conspiracy
to trade on inside information from corporate executives,
traders and directors of public companies.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam, who is free on bail, said he plans
to appeal his conviction in the biggest insider trading trial in
a generation. Prosecutors for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan have charged 47 people with insider-trading over 18
months as part of a nationwide investigation.  Rajaratnam didn’t testify, although jurors heard his voice
in more than 40 wiretapped conversations with Kumar; Rajiv Goel,
a managing director at  Intel Corp. (INTC) ; and Danielle Chiesi, an
analyst at New Castle Funds LLC. All pleaded guilty, and Kumar
and Goel testified against Rajaratnam, as did Adam Smith, a
former Galleon trader.  “The wiretaps helped but they were not the most
compelling” evidence, Gorman said. “They were very, very
helpful because you get to listen to the tone. It pieced
everything together. It was a confirmation that this is
definitely insider trading.”  Just as important, she said, was the testimony of the
conspirators and the government’s expert, as well as e-mails,
instant messages, text-messages and government graphs showing
the share prices of stocks and the dates of Galleon’s trading.
She discounted the testimony of Rajaratnam’s witnesses.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Facebook Spared Appeals Court Rehearing in Winklevoss Case  Facebook Inc. won’t have to face an appeals court rehearing
on an effort by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss to undo a
settlement of their claims company founder  Mark Zuckerberg  stole
the idea for the social networking site.  The Winklevoss twins, former Harvard University classmates
of Zuckerberg’s, will appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court,
according to the law firm representing them, Howard Rice in  San
Francisco . They had asked for an 11-judge panel at the U.S.
Court of Appeals to review an April ruling by a three-judge
panel that rejected their bid to reopen the settlement. That
request was denied yesterday by the court without explanation.  The brothers argued that the three-judge panel erred when
it dismissed their claims that the 2008 settlement should be
voided because it was procured through fraud. They alleged that
Palo Alto, California-based Facebook didn’t disclose an accurate
valuation of its shares before they agreed to the $65 million
cash and stock settlement. The appeals court ruled that the
accord barred future lawsuits and was “quite favorable” to the
twins.  “Settlements should be based on honest dealing, and courts
have wisely refused to enforce a settlement obtained by
fraudulent means,” Jerome Falk, the Winklevosses lawyer, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The court’s decision shut the
courthouse door to a solid claim that Facebook obtained this
settlement by committing securities fraud,” Falk said. “Our
petition to the Supreme Court will ask the high court to decide
whether that door should be reopened.”  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, the world’s most
popular social-networking service, said in an e-mail the company
is pleased with yesterday’s ruling.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  Lehman to Pay ‘Saphir’ Derivatives Investors A$98.5 Million  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. will pay investors A$98.5
million ($104 million) to settle a derivatives dispute that
divided courts in the U.S. and the U.K., according to an
Australian trustee who sued on behalf of investors.  Lehman agreed to pay holders of credit-linked notes issued
by  Mahogany Capital Ltd.  as much as 85 cents on each dollar
invested in Series I notes that were backed by an Australia and
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. bond and as much as 69 cents on
the dollar for a Series II note backed by a Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc bond, said Chris Green, group executive at
Perpetual Corporate Trust in Sydney.  “Those were the assets we were fighting over,” Green said
today in a phone interview, referring to the bonds backing the
notes. “The question was who got first dibs.”  Lehman had argued it was entitled to the assets, while
Perpetual maintained the money should be returned to investors.
Courts in the U.K. ruled against Lehman, which is seeking money
to pay creditors, while a U.S. bankruptcy judge last year ruled
in Lehman’s favor. Allowing an appeal, a U.S. district judge
said Lehman had used the lower-court decision as “leverage” in
talks with other parties over billions of dollars of similar
transactions.  The divided court rulings mean there is still no consensus
on who has priority in derivative transactions in which a
counterparty defaults, Green said. Billions of dollars with
multiple counterparties remain in dispute in the Lehman
bankruptcy, he said.  About 1,000 retail investors including Australian charities
and local councils will be getting checks within the next month,
Green said.  Ralph Miller, a lawyer for Lehman, declined to comment.
 Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, also declined to
comment.  The main bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  DirectBuy Holdings Accord Rejected by Judge as Too ‘Meager’  DirectBuy Holdings Inc.’s settlement of a nationwide class-
action lawsuit over its sales practices was rejected as being
too “meager” by a federal court in Connecticut.  The plaintiffs claims were “substantially undervalued,”
U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall in Bridgeport, Connecticut,
said yesterday in a written opinion. The accord would require
DirectBuy to provide as much as $55 million in free memberships
to members to settle claims that the  consumer club  marked up the
supplier and manufacturer prices of its goods.  “The court does not view these claims as so weak that it
would be reasonable to settle claims arguably worth over $2
billion for, at most, only a hundredth of this amount,” Hall
wrote.  The ruling followed opposition from attorneys general in 37
states who argued last month that the agreement offered no real
benefit to consumers. The settlement’s value is vastly
overstated and the deal should be rejected entirely, Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen said April 12 in court papers.  DirectBuy, based in Merrillville, Indiana, franchises
stores and charges customers membership fees of $2,900 to $7,000
in exchange for the right to buy appliances and furniture at
wholesale prices.  The company allegedly received millions of dollars in
kickbacks from manufacturers, resulting in members’ paying more
than the discount price, according to court papers.  DirectBuy didn’t admit any wrongdoing in the agreement.
Michael Georgeff, a spokesman for the company, didn’t return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Fewer than 1 percent of the settlement class members
objected to the deal, with those who did complaining
“vociferously,” Hall wrote.  Jeffrey Nobel, an attorney for the plaintiffs, didn’t
return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Wilson v. DirectBuy Inc., 09-00590, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  For more, click here.  Cigna Gets Partial Win at U.S. High Court on Benefits  The U.S. Supreme Court gave a partial victory to  Cigna
Corp. (CI)  in a pension fight, setting aside a ruling that required
the company to recalculate the benefits for 27,000 workers.  The dispute stemmed from Cigna’s 1998 conversion of its
pension plan into a so-called cash balance plan. The workers
said they didn’t realize at the time that most of them would
lose money as a result of the conversion. Two lower courts said
workers were entitled to additional benefits.  The Supreme Court yesterday unanimously set aside those
rulings, saying the workers needed to show that they were harmed
by Cigna’s violation of a federal employee-benefits law.  The justices stopped short of requiring the workers to show
that they relied on plan summaries that a trial judge concluded
were misleading.  Cigna in 2008 took a pretax charge of $80 million to cover
its estimated liabilities in the case.  Cash balance plans are hybrids that combine elements of
traditional employer-funded defined-benefit plans with the
transferable personal accounts that are common to 401(k)-style
defined-contribution plans.  The case is Cigna v. Amara, 09-804, U.S. Supreme Court
( Washington ).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Volcom Shareholder Sues Seeking to Block Sale to  PPR (PP)   Volcom Inc. was sued over claims its planned $607.5 million
sale to PPR SA, the French owner of Gucci and Puma, is unfair
and coercive to shareholders.  The proposed agreement is “grossly inadequate,”
shareholder Gabriel Graff said in a complaint filed in Delaware
Chancery Court. PPR said May 2 it would pay $24.50 a share for
Costa Mesa, California-based Volcom to strengthen its lifestyle-
sports unit with skate and snowboarding gear.  “Despite the company’s recent financial success, Volcom is
trying to sell itself off to PPR,” Graff said in the complaint
made public yesterday. Graff seeks to represent all Volcom
shareholders in the bid to block to deal.  The offer by Paris-based PPR values Volcom at 24 percent
more than its April 29 closing price of $19.73. Graff accused
Volcom directors of acting for their own benefit by agreeing to
a deal with strict protections.  “These preclusive deal protection devices illegally
restrain the company’s ability to solicit or engage in
negotiations with any third party,” Graff said.  Rob Whetstone, a spokesman for Volcom, had no immediate
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Graff v.  Volcom Inc. (VLCM) , CA6487, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Toyota Must Face Unintended-Acceleration Claims, Judge Says  The federal judge overseeing lawsuits against Toyota Motor
Corp. involving allegations of unintended acceleration made
final an order rejecting the automaker’s bid to throw out claims
by vehicle owners claiming economic loss.  The Toyota owners contend the company drove down the value
of their vehicles by failing to disclose or fix defects related
to sudden acceleration. U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in
Santa Ana, California, declined on May 13 to revisit last
month’s tentative order allowing the lawsuits to move ahead
because the vehicle owners had properly pleaded loss or injury.  “Taking these allegations as true, as the court must at
the pleading stage, they establish an economic loss,” Selna
wrote, using language identical to his tentative ruling. “A
vehicle with a defect is worth less than one without a defect.”  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families alleging
injuries and deaths.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna,
who is overseeing pretrial evidence-gathering.  Selna issued a similar ruling in November that rejected
Toyota’s motion to dismiss an earlier complaint by the vehicle
owners.  The cases are combined as In re  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  IMF’s Strauss-Kahn Ordered Held Without Bail in New York  International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn,
accused of attempting to rape a hotel housekeeper, was ordered
held without bail by a New York judge after prosecutors said he
presented a flight risk.  Strauss-Kahn appeared in Manhattan criminal court
yesterday, two days after he was taken into custody aboard an
Air France flight as it prepared to depart from John F. Kennedy
International Airport. Prosecutors asked Judge Melissa Jackson
that he be kept in custody until trial. Strauss-Kahn faces as
long as 25 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
charges, prosecutors said.  A potential candidate for the French presidency, Strauss-
Kahn, 62, has denied the charges and will plead not guilty, his
lawyer Benjamin Brafman has said. He didn’t enter a plea
yesterday. His next court appearance was set for May 20.  The IMF chief is charged with criminal sexual act,
attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment, sexual
abuse and forcible touching, according to court papers.  Stephen Morello, a spokesman for the New York City
 Department of Correction , said yesterday that Strauss-Kahn may
be taken to the city’s main jail complex on Rikers Island, off
the shore of northern Queens opposite LaGuardia Airport.  The jail has one-person cells and Strauss-Kahn, because of
his prominence, may require an escort when out of his cell,
Morello said. He will stay at the courthouse lockup “until we
decide to move him somewhere else,” Morello said.  Brafman asked the judge to let his client stay with his
daughter, who lives in New York, while awaiting trial. Brafman
said Strauss-Kahn’s wife, television journalist Anne Sinclair,
was flying to New York yesterday.  After the hearing, Brafman told the reporters at the
courthouse that he would review the bail decision.  The alleged attack on a 32-year-old woman at a Sofitel
hotel in midtown Manhattan occurred May 14, according to the New
York Police Department. The maid picked Strauss-Kahn out of a
lineup, police said.  The IMF “remains fully functioning and operational”
following Strauss-Kahn’s arrest, the Washington-based
organization said in a statement yesterday.  John Lipsky , the
IMF’s first deputy managing director, is serving as acting
managing director, IMF spokesman William Murray said. Murray
said Strauss-Kahn’s trip to New York was private and that his
hotel room was not paid for by the IMF.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  For more of this story, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Halliburton Engineer Declines to Testify in Oil Spill Suit  A  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  engineer who said he warned  BP Plc (BP/)  of the
risk of a natural-gas surge before the Macondo well blew up has
declined to testify in litigation over the incident,  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG)  said yesterday.  Jesse Gagliano, a technical adviser who was Halliburton’s
cementing engineer on the well offshore of Louisiana, “refused
to testify last week” in a deposition and invoked his Fifth
Amendment rights against self-incrimination, Transocean said in
a court filing. Transocean asked the magistrate overseeing
depositions to give the company more time to question personnel
from Houston-based Halliburton.  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP, which owned the well, Switzerland-based
Transocean, which owned the oil rig, and other partners and
contractors including Halliburton.  Transocean’s filing yesterday came as parties are seeking
sworn testimony by witnesses and representatives of companies
involved in the lawsuits. A trial on determining liability for
the incident and subsequent spill is set for February 2012 in
federal court in New Orleans. Depositions conducted by the
various parties may be used in that trial and others.  Gagliano told the U.S. Coast Guard at a hearing last year
that he warned BP five days before the explosion that its design
for the well was susceptible to a “severe” natural-gas surge.
He said he advised BP to assemble the well with 21 centralizers,
devices used to ensure the steel pipe lining the well could be
properly secured.  BP used six centralizers, according to the report on the
explosion by a U.S. presidential panel.  Joshua Berman, Gagliano’s attorney, didn’t return a call
for comment. Donald Godwin, Halliburton’s lead trial lawyer in
the litigation, declined to comment.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  Venezuela Bandagro Bond Case Draws U.S. Supreme Court Inquiry  The U.S. Supreme Court sought the Obama administration’s
views on an Ohio investor group’s effort to sue Venezuela over
potentially $900 million in bank notes that the South American
country says are forgeries.  The justices asked acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal for
his advice on whether the high court should hear the case. A
lower court barred Venezuela from invoking a U.S. law that
immunizes foreign sovereigns from some lawsuits in American
courts.  In seeking Supreme Court review, Hugo Chavez’s Venezuelan
government told the justices that the suit by DRFP LLC, which
does business under the name Skye Ventures, may be the first of
several claims over the disputed bearer bonds.  The notes were allegedly issued in 1981 by the Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario, then a state-owned Venezuelan bank also
known as Bandagro.  Skye Ventures says it acquired its two notes only after the
Venezuelan attorney general issued a 2003 opinion declaring them
valid. The investor group then demanded payment in Columbus.
When Venezuela refused, Skye sued.  The two Skye notes have a face value of $50 million apiece.
The investor group said in September that with interest the
bonds were worth $900 million.  In ruling 2-1 that the suit could go forward, the
Cincinnati-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
Venezuela isn’t shielded by the U.S. Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act because the notes let the holder demand payment
in the U.S. The majority said Venezuela’s refusal to pay had a
“direct effect” on the U.S., putting the dispute within the
province of the American court system.  The case is Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela v. DRFP,
10-1144, U.S. Supreme Court.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  