-- 
Treasury Yields Two Basis Points From This Year’s Low Before Housing Data

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-05-17T08:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/treasury-yields-one-basis-point-from-this-year-s-low-before-housing-report.html
Treasury yields were three basis
points away from the year’s low before a report forecast to show
U.S. housing starts near recession levels, adding to concern
about the recovery and boosting demand for the safety of bonds.  The  Federal Reserve  will today buy $5 billion to $7 billion
of notes as part of its $600 billion  purchase program  to cap
borrowing costs and shore up the economy. Demand for government
debt was also bolstered as traders reduced their prediction for
inflation to a three-month low, which would help preserve the
purchasing power of bonds’ fixed income.  “There has definitely been some flight to safety,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in  London . “We are at critical junctures all around,
particularly at the long end of the curve.”  The 10-year note yielded 3.16 percent as of 8:41 a.m. in
London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent security maturing in May 2021 slipped 2/32, or 63 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 23/32. The benchmark yield
declined to 3.13 percent on May 13, the lowest since Dec. 8.  Treasury 30-year yields fell one basis point to 4.28
percent. Monument’s Ostwald called 4.25 percent, a level last
reached on Dec. 7, “a very critical level” for 30-year yields.  ‘Stagnant’ Housing  U.S. builders began work on 569,000 houses at an annual
rate last month, compared with 549,000 in March, a Bloomberg
survey showed before today’s Commerce Department report. Starts
averaged 1.72 million a year in the decade before the recession
began in December 2007.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index held at 16 this month, the Washington-based
group reported yesterday. The 10-year average was 42.  “The U.S. housing market is unlikely to recover to pre-
recession levels in one or two years, and will probably be
stagnant for a longer period,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior
strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. “Ten-year
yields are expected to stay in the lower end of a 3-4 percent
range,” he said.  The Fed plans to purchase Treasuries due from May 2015 to
November 2016 today, according to its  website . The central bank
is scheduled to complete its purchase program by June.  Futures on the Chicago Board of Trade show a 15 percent
chance the Fed will raise its target lending rate by December,
down from a 29 percent probability a month ago. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month he’s in no rush to increase rates, and
he will keep reinvesting proceeds of maturing debt held by the
central bank into bonds.  Inflation Outlook  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, fell as low as
2.31 percentage points today, the narrowest since Feb. 18.  Inflation-linked Treasuries have handed investors a loss of
0.1 percent in May, headed for the first monthly loss this year,
according to an index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Treasury bill rates were near record lows after Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday he had taken action
to stave off the federal debt limit until Aug. 2.  Geithner wrote lawmakers to say he has declared a “debt
issuance suspension period,” a technical measure that allows
him to free up borrowing room from two retirement funds.
Republicans are seeking spending cuts and no tax increases in
exchange for lifting the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Bill Yields  Six-month rates were at 0.07 percent, compared with the
record low 0.0305 percent set on May 6. Three-month bill rates
were at 0.02 percent, almost the lowest level since they went
negative during the financial crisis.  “In the very short term it’s actually a positive for the
Treasuries market because limiting volumes of supply means
there’s less to go around,” said Ostwald in a telephone
interview. “But it doesn’t mean we aren’t pushing yield levels
to a level at which everyone says this has got stupid and we
have a short sharp sell-off.”  Demand for Treasuries was tempered amid speculation exports
will bolster a U.S. recovery.  Industrial production rose for a sixth month in April,
gaining 0.4 percent, a Bloomberg survey showed before the Fed
report today. Demand for cars, chemicals and industrial
machinery helped drive up U.S. exports in March to a record.  “It’s a good time to sell” Treasuries, said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a
unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest bank by market value. “Exports
are strong, led by growth in the  developing countries .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 