-- 
Reid Sets Up Senate Vote on U.S. Appellate Court Nominee Liu

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-17T23:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/reid-sets-up-senate-vote-on-u-s-appellate-court-nominee-liu.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
moved to force a full Senate vote on President Barack Obama’s
nomination of University of California law professor Goodwin Liu
to a U.S. appeals court.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, filed a motion tonight that sets
up the Senate vote later this week on overcoming Republican
efforts that have delayed a vote on Liu’s nomination. The motion
to proceed would need 60 votes to pass, and Liu faces broad
opposition from Republicans in the 100-member chamber that
Democrats control with 53 votes.  The president first nominated Liu, 40, to the  9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  in February 2010 and
renominated him on Jan. 5.  The  Senate Judiciary Committee  approved Liu’s nomination
last year, and again this year, on party-line votes. His name
never went to the Senate floor last year in the face of a likely
filibuster by Republicans, who along with outside groups faulted
Liu for his views on  privacy rights  and other issues, his lack
of experience as a judge, and his past opposition to two of
President  George W. Bush ’s selections for the Supreme Court,
Chief Justice John Roberts and Associate Justice  Samuel Alito .  Liu has been mentioned as a possible future Supreme Court
nominee by Obama. He is a former chairman of the board of the
 American Constitution Society , a Washington-based group whose
website says it seeks to counter the “activist conservative
legal movement.”  Constitutional Question  Liu is co-author of a book that said judges should
interpret some portions of the Constitution -- including those
pertaining to privacy rights -- using modern-day views.  At his confirmation hearing this March, Liu told the
judiciary panel that he agrees that judges must follow court
precedents. He also defended his past writings.  Republicans questioned Liu during the hearing on the
comment he offered opposing the nomination of Alito to the
 Supreme Court . Liu said Alito’s record as a federal appeals
court judge “envisions an America where police may shoot and
kill an unarmed boy to stop him from running away with a stolen
purse” and where “federal agents may point guns at ordinary
citizens during a raid, even after no sign of resistance.”  Alito was confirmed as an associate justice in early 2006.  ‘Poor Judgment’  Liu said he regretted the language he had used, and under
questioning from Republican Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma  said
the comments were “poor judgment.”  The son of Taiwanese immigrants, Liu is a graduate of
 Stanford University  and Yale Law School and was a Rhodes
Scholar. He was a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and worked in private practice before joining the
 University of California  faculty in 2003.  Reid, in filing his motion, said Liu “has lived the
American dream; he is the highly successful son of immigrants.”
Reid also said Liu “should be confirmed, but at the very least
he should undoubtedly deserve an up-or-down vote” on his
nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  