-- 
Coburn Doubts ‘Gang of 6’ Will Get Deficit Deal

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-17T19:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/republican-coburn-says-he-doesn-t-expect-gang-of-six-to-get-deficit-deal.html
A bipartisan “Gang of Six” senators
is unlikely to reach agreement on a proposal to reduce the
government’s long-term budget deficits, Senator  Tom Coburn  said
today.  Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican and member of the group,
said his colleagues are “just too far apart on basic issues.”
Other members of the group said they remain hopeful for a deal.  The group has been working privately for months to achieve
an agreement on a combination of tax increases and spending cuts
to reduce the deficit. Its negotiations have been closely
followed in part because its members come from across the
ideological spectrum of the Senate.  The group’s momentum has been flagging in recent weeks even
as debate heated up over what sort of budget cuts to attach to a
needed increase in the federal debt ceiling. Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, has repeatedly
said he believes a separate bipartisan group of lawmakers led by
Vice President  Joe Biden  is more likely to agree on a deficit-
reduction plan.  Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia, the Democratic co-leader
of the group, said he is an “eternal optimist,” while
acknowledging the negotiations face obstacles.  “I still think this is the single best path to address
meaningful deficit reduction,” Warner said regarding the
group’s effort. “We’ve made enormous, enormous progress, but
there are still challenges.”  ‘Keep Working’  Senator  Saxby Chambliss , the group’s Republican co-leader,
said “we’re going to hopefully keep working at it until we come
to some resolution.”  Still, Chambliss said, “When you get down to the few
issues that are really the game-changers, that’s when it gets
tough -- that’s kind of where we are.” He said he would “love
to finish this week, but we’ve never had a deadline, so I can’t
say that we’re that close.”  Idaho Republican  Mike Crapo , another member of the group,
said he, too, is hopeful for deal though he said he doesn’t feel
compelled to reach an agreement in time for a vote to raise the
debt limit. The Treasury Department has said it will run out of
options for avoiding default by Aug. 2. Many lawmakers say the
debt-limit vote will be their best chance this year to force
major changes in the budget.  Crapo disagreed, saying there is no “magic date by which
everything evaporates if we haven’t made a deal by that point.”  Also today, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor said Wall
Street investors monitoring Congress’s debt-limit negotiations
are more focused on spending cuts than on whether lawmakers
raise the government’s borrowing authority before Aug. 2.  “The markets are smarter than to think a date is what
makes a difference,” the  Virginia  Republican said today on
CNBC. Investors are “really” concerned about “whether there
is going to be movement on actual reform” of budget and
entitlement spending to reduce the deficit, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
Or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  