-- 
South African Retail Sales, Inflation Data Ease Pressure on Rate Increase

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-17T13:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/retail-sales-growth-in-south-africa-slows-for-third-month-to-5-1-in-march.html
South African retail sales slowed for
a third consecutive month in March, while consumer prices rose
less than economists expected in April, easing pressure on the
central bank to raise interest rates from a 30-year low.  Sales increased an annual 5.1 percent after gaining 5.5
percent in February, the Pretoria-based statistics office said
on its website today. Inflation was 4.2 percent in April, the
agency also reported, compared with the 4.4 percent median
estimate of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  left its benchmark interest rate at 5.5
percent on May 12 to help bolster  consumer spending  and economic
growth, while warning that price pressures are intensifying.
Today’s data may persuade Governor  Gill Marcus  to maintain that
policy to support the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  The data “vindicates the Monetary Policy Committee’s view
that there’s little by way of demand-pull inflation in the
economy,” Tony Twine, an economist with Johannesburg-based
 Econometrix , said in a phone interview today. A rate increase in
July is now unlikely, he said.  Marcus last week reduced this year’s growth forecast to 3.6
percent from 3.7 percent and said inflation will probably breach
the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the
first quarter. Inflation is being driven by “cost-push”
pressures, such as rising food and fuel costs, she said.  Rand Impact  “There is very little demand-led inflation,” Gina Schoeman, an economist at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  in Johannesburg, said
in a phone interview today. “We maintain that the Reserve Bank
will only start to raise interest rates in January 2012.”  The median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for retail sales to rise an annual 5.7 percent in March.
Sales increased 0.3 percent in the month, the statistics office
said.  The rand fell as much as 0.6 percent to 7.0275 per dollar
today, and traded at 7.0230 at 3:12 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The Retailer Liaison Committee, which surveys retailers
such as Woolworths Holdings Ltd., said on May 3 that sales
increased an annual 9.8 percent in March. The data isn’t
adjusted for inflation and doesn’t usually tally with those of
the statistics agency, which surveys more companies and uses a
different methodology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  