-- 
Tribune Noteholders Win Access to Shareholder Pre-Bankruptcy Payment Data

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-17T15:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/tribune-noteholders-win-access-to-shareholder-payment-amounts.html
Tribune Co. noteholders, who plan to
file lawsuits to collect what they are owed, won access to how
much money 28,000 former stockholders made in 2007 when they
sold their shares in the media company before it went bankrupt.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey ordered the
information turned over to noteholders led by hedge fund
Aurelius Capital Management LP so they can use the details to
prepare lawsuits in state court related to Tribune’s $8 billion
leveraged buyout. Carey rejected the argument by an investment
fund for former shareholders that the information should be
withheld.  “We’re not talking about  trade secrets  or things of that
nature,” Carey said in a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware .
“People get sued all the time and amounts are listed all the
time.”  The noteholders have agreed to keep the amounts paid to the
shareholders confidential and to keep those details under seal
when the lawsuits are filed, Aurelius attorney David Zensky said
in court. The noteholders have until June 4 to file some of
their lawsuits, Zensky said.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in 2008, one year after the
buyout led by real-estate billionaire Sam Zell.  Tribune said in court papers it is now worth about
$6.75 billion. It has about $13 billion of debt, most if it from
the buyout.  Biggest U.S. Markets  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles 
Times and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
last year of 1.9 million. The company owns 23 TV stations,
including broadcasters in the three biggest U.S. markets,  New
York ,  Chicago  and Los Angeles.  Aurelius and other pre-buyout creditors have proposed a
reorganization plan for Tribune that would use lawsuits against
the buyout lenders, Zell and shareholders to collect what they
are owed.  Tribune and the lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
support a reorganization plan that would settle the main
lawsuits against the lenders and allow others to move forward.  Carey will decide which of the two plans to approve.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  