-- 
Russia’s RTS Futures Advance as Commodities Pare Earlier Losses

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-17T21:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/russia-s-rts-futures-advance-as-commodities-pare-earlier-losses.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, signaling stocks may rise from the lowest level in more
than five months in Moscow today, after oil and other
commodities pared losses during New York trading.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
advanced 0.6 percent. Contracts on Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil producer, climbed 0.8 percent while those on OAO
Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest, rose 0.6 percent. OAO Gazprom,
the world’s biggest gas producer, increased 0.6 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
ended 0.1 percent lower yesterday after falling as much as 1.2
percent on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is slowing.
Oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, declined as much as 2.4
percent before paring its decline to 0.5 percent.  “Russia is seen as a commodity trade,” New York-based
Chris Osborne, chief executive officer of Troika Dialog USA, a
unit of Russia’s oldest investment bank, said in an e-mail.  Russia is the world’s largest energy exporter and a
producer of metals including nickel, palladium and aluminum. Oil
and natural gas account for a quarter of economic output.  Gazprom’s American depositary receipts broke a streak of
five consecutive losses and rose 1.4 percent yesterday after the
company’s board recommended paying a record-high dividend for
2010. Gazprom’s board recommended raising the payment to 3.85
rubles a share, up 61 percent from a year earlier.  “The news is positive for Gazprom, in our view, as it
demonstrates the preparedness of management (and the board of
directors) to share some extra cash with equity investors,”
 Luis Saenz , the London-based director of international sales at
brokerage Otkritie Securities Ltd., said in e-mailed note today.  Vectors Fund  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 0.1 percent. Lukoil’s ADRs rose 0.7
percent. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel’s ADRs were little changed.  The ruble-denominated 30-stock Micex index dropped 0.9
percent to 1,608.66 at the end of trading in Moscow yesterday.
OAO Rostelecom, the country’s dominant long-distance carrier,
slipped 7.1 percent after its shares weren’t included in MSCI
Inc.’s Russia Index. The dollar-denominated RTS Index lost 0.9
percent to 1,828.89.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  