-- 
Santander Brasil to Boost Lending to Smaller Companies

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-05-17T20:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/santander-brasil-to-boost-loans-to-small-companies-barbosa-says.html
Banco Santander Brasil SA, the worst-
performing bank stock in the benchmark Bovespa index, is
stepping up lending to small and mid-sized companies in a bid to
improve interest margins and support its share price.  Santander lending to those companies will grow as much as
25 percent in 2011, faster than its overall credit portfolio
growth target of about 15 percent, Santander Brasil Chairman
 Fabio Barbosa  said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters yesterday. The bank also is focusing on real-estate
and credit-card financing, he said.  Since Madrid-based Santander sold shares in its Brazilian
unit in October 2009, the stock has slumped 24 percent, compared
with a 2.5 percent gain for  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and a 2.3 percent
slide for  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , the country’s two biggest
non-state banks. Santander’s lending in  Latin America ’s largest
economy increased 16 percent last year, compared with growth of
more than 20 percent at Bradesco.  “The market is saying I would like you guys to leverage
more the bank,” said Barbosa, who stepped down as chief
executive officer in February to become chairman. “It is a
point in time where we say let’s be more focused on the ones
which yield better returns.”  Santander, the third-biggest non-state-owned Brazilian
bank, is underperforming in the stock market because it’s
overcapitalized and delayed credit growth following the
acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV’s  Brazil  unit in 2007 and
after the global financial crisis a year later, Barbosa said.  Surging GDP  “In the beginning of the recovery in Brazil, which was
back in 2009, 2010, it took us a little longer to really believe
that Brazil was not going to be as impacted as other countries
were,” said Barbosa, 56. “Belonging to an international group,
having different experiences around the globe, it took us
longer.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent in
2010, the fastest pace in two decades. The central bank has
raised the benchmark lending rate 3.25 percentage points since
April 2010 to 12 percent and increased banks’ reserve
requirements to cool lending growth and curb inflation.  Annual inflation soared to 6.51 percent in April, the
highest rate since 2005 and above the government’s target range.  Net income for  Spain ’s biggest bank fell 5 percent in the
first quarter as a 32 percent drop in profit in its home market
was partly compensated by a 27 percent increase in profit in
Latin America, including a 23 percent gain in Brazil.  Santander Brasil shares rose 0.7 percent to 17.95 reais in
 Sao Paulo  trading today, paring this year’s drop to 20 percent.  ‘Robust Demand’  Brazilian banks earn an average profit margin of
15 percent, compared with 7.8 percent for U.S. lenders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks may be turning to lending more to small and mid-sized
companies as competition grows in financing the largest
companies, a market where the country’s state development bank,
known as BNDES, is active, said  Zeina Latif , an economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo.  After the surge in economic growth last year, many
industries are operating near capacity, spurring demand for
financing to bolster output, she said.  “There’s robust demand in Brazil,” Latif said in a
telephone interview. “Lots of sectors are near full capacity.”  While lending to smaller companies “naturally” is
riskier, the higher rates earned on those assets will compensate
for any increase in loan delinquencies, said Barbosa, who also
chairs  Febraban , the country’s banking association.
Delinquencies won’t rise much because economic growth remains
strong, he said.  ‘High-Margin Business’  “The delinquency on the small and mid-sized companies
naturally has to be bigger than the delinquency on triple-A
names,” said Barbosa, who took over as chief executive officer
of  ABN Amro ’s Brazilian unit in 1996 and stayed atop the bank
after the purchase by Santander four years ago. “It goes up
just because it is a business dynamic.”  Itau Unibanco, Brazil’s biggest bank by market value,
increased provisions for bad loans amid expectations default
rates will rise after the government measures to restrict credit
and central bank rate increases.  The  Finance Ministry  forecasts the economy will expand 4.5
percent this year. While Brazil struggles to grow at an annual
pace of more than 5 percent without triggering inflation, the
expansion is spreading to poorer people and to regions
throughout the country, Barbosa said.  “Brazil is growing on several layers of this pyramid and
spread out around the country,” he said. “There are more
companies coming to the market and having access to credit.
Therefore, I am going to the high-margin business, if you will,
from a bank perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  