-- 
SAP Cornering $11 Billion ‘Green’ Software to Take On IBM

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-17T12:19:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/sap-corners-11-billion-green-software-market-takes-on-ibm.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of
business management software, is cornering a 7.5 billion-euro
($11 billion) market for products that help companies increase
productivity while limiting the effect on the environment.  At its annual  Sapphire conference  this week in  Orlando ,
 Florida , SAP is showing how software that lets businesses
monitor and manage such things as their carbon footprints and
the number of employee sick-days can couple with new mobile and
data-analysis products to boost efficiency.  SAP’s sustainability software, used by about 1,700
customers, was one of the company’s fastest growing segments
last year, said Daniel Schmid, vice president of sustainability
operations. Large enterprises worldwide will spend as much as
$12 billion on software and hardware related to sustainability
this year alone, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “SAP is a good distance ahead of the field,” said Stephen
Stokes, managing vice president at Gartner. To compete with
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , which incorporates both
software and hardware solutions in its  Smarter Planet  offer, SAP
will need to find business partners, he said.  Among customers that purchased SAP’s sustainability
software are  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the oilfield services provider,
Deere & Co., the largest maker of  farm equipment , and  De Beers ,
the world’s biggest diamond-producer, according to the Walldorf,
Germany-based  software company .  McKinsey Study  “It’s a sizeable business for us,” Peter Graf, SAP’s
chief sustainability officer, said in an interview in Orlando.
“We’ve just started, this is a young discipline.”  Sustainability software generated a three-digit million
euros amount in revenue for SAP last year, Schmid said. In a
joint study with McKinsey & Co. on the market, SAP predicted
that the addressable market for SAP’s solutions would be worth
as much as a total of 7.5 billion euros between 2009 and 2014.  Adrian Bowles, vice president and principal analyst at
 Constellation Research Inc. , recently analyzed software
offerings for energy and carbon management and named companies
like  Hara Software Inc.  and  C3 , founded by Thomas Siebel.
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  has struck partnership deals with both.  “We have deep pockets to invest,” Graf said, citing SAP’s
acquisitions of Clear Standards, a carbon-management software
company and Technidata, which makes software helping companies
comply with environmental, health and safety regulations. “We
might acquire more companies in the future if we feel like speed
to market is essential.”  Dell, China Telecom  Since co-chief executive officers Bill McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe took the helm from the now Hewlett-Packard CEO
 Leo Apotheker  in February last year, they have pursued a three-
pronged strategy of making SAP software available on-premise,
on-demand and on-device, the latter with the $5.8 billion
acquisition of Sybase Inc., a maker of mobile-device
applications.  Among deals struck at the Sapphire conference is an
agreement to make SAP applications and the real-time analytics
technology Hana available to  Dell Inc. (DELL)  customers. SAP also
signed a pact with China Telecom Corp., under which the Chinese
phone company will sell SAP’s on-demand software Business
ByDesign to small and medium-sized companies.  China Telecom estimates the addressable market to be more
than 1 million businesses, SAP said. The German company released
its ByDesign software in July last year after more than two
years of delay. SAP said last month it is on track to win 1,000
customers by the end of this year.  Share Gain  SAP today introduced the latest version of the so-called
Sybase unwired platform and Internet-based mobile applications
for businesses, as well as an agreement with  Accenture Plc (ACN)  to
develop Sybase-based software for companies in the oil and gas,
utilities and consumer industries.  SAP is targeting annual sales of 20 billion euros by the
middle of the decade. In 2010, its revenue amounted to 12.5
billion euros.  SAP lost 64 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 43.76 euros at 2:18
p.m. in  Frankfurt , giving the company a market value of 53.7
billion euros. Before today, the stock had gained 17 percent
this year, compared with a 2.3 percent increase by the 65-
company Bloomberg World Software Index. IBM gained 15 percent,
while  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , SAP’s archrival, was up 9.2 percent.  Other functions SAP’s sustainability software offers
include helping businesses track how much of their energy
consumption comes from wind and solar power and measure the
level of customer satisfaction.  “In the past, companies thought that either you are
profitable or you are sustainable,” said SAP’s Schmid. “During
the crisis, companies realized if you are more sustainable that
leads to increased profitability. Sustainability is really a
driver for innovation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Orlando, Florida via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  