-- 
SAP Forecasts $7 Billion Revenue From New Businesses by 2015

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-18T12:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/sap-forecasts-7-billion-revenue-from-new-businesses-by-2015.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of business
management software, predicts mobile products, services and
real-time analytics technology will generate about a quarter of
its projected 20 billion-euro ($28.5 billion) in sales by 2015.  “Mobility and in-memory technology will be the two main
drivers of growth for SAP,” John Chen, chief executive officer
of Sybase, which SAP bought last year for $5.8 billion, said in
an interview in Orlando, Florida. “If you look at the whole 20
billion euros, I think the last 5 billion euros is going to rely
on these two functions.”  While archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  has spent more than $42
billion on takeovers since the beginning of 2005, SAP will meet
the revenue target even without acquisitions as it pitches
mobile solutions and the Hana real-time analytics product to
current customers, co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe said in an
interview at the company’s annual Sapphire conference.  “The first impression is for sure that this is a very
ambitious goal,” said Tobias Ortwein, senior vice president at
Pierre Audoin Consultants in Munich. “We expect also a portion
of inorganic growth within this revenue goal.”  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , announced to a deal with
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to make a series of its software offerings
available to customers on demand via Amazon.com’s cloud-
computing Web Services. SAP and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  also agreed to
tighten the integration of their computer offerings that deliver
and store software over the Internet.  Cloud Demand  The global market for cloud-related services may rise to
$148.8 billion in 2014 from $68.3 billion in 2010, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut. The biggest
makers of cloud software include  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and
SuccessFactors Inc. Companies like Amazon and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  operate
servers on which the on-demand software runs.  Earlier this month, SAP’s head of global solutions, Sanjay Poonen, said a recent outage on Amazon’s cloud-computing
services, and a controversy around Google Inc.’s delays in
providing e-mail services to 30,000 city employees in  Los
Angeles  could make it harder for the  software industry  to
convince clients that cloud computing is secure.  SAP slid 14.5 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 43.46 euros at 2:31
p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has gained 14 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 53.3 billion euros.  Redwood
City , California-based Oracle is up 8.4 percent.  Build or Buy?  Since co-CEOs Snabe and Bill McDermott took the helm from
now Hewlett-Packard CEO Leo Apotheker in February last year,
they have pursued a three-pronged strategy of making SAP
software available on-premise, on-demand and on-device.  In 2010, SAP reported total revenue of 12.5 billion euros.
Sybase made about “half a billion dollars” on the mobile
solutions, according to Chen.  “That is our carrying strategy for 2015,” Snabe said. “I
know this industry well enough that between now and 2015
there’ll suddenly be new opportunities that we don’t know today.
Then we will make the call again: is it best to build or is it
best to acquire?”  SAP has made only two large acquisitions in its 39-year
history: Sybase, and business-intelligence company  Business
Objects  for 4.8 billion euros in 2007.  The German company delayed the sale of its on-demand
solution Business ByDesign by two years and has so far won 500
customers. According to Snabe, so long as the average number of
users per company is between 80 and 100, Business ByDesign will
be “as profitable” as the rest of the business.  SAP targets a 35 percent profit margin by 2015. In 2010 it
was 32 percent. The average number of users among the 500
ByDesign customers is 25, and would be less profitable and weigh
on the group margin, Snabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Orlando , Florida via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  