-- 
Sasol Considers Plans to Produce Fuel from Shale Gas, Coal in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T12:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/sasol-focused-on-ningxia-open-to-coal-projects-in-other-regions-of-china.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest maker
of motor fuels from coal, is open to adding plants to convert
coal to fuels in regions of China such as Xinjiang, said John
Armstrong, company president for the country.  The Johannesburg-based company will also consider projects
to turn shale gas into liquid fuels should the nation allow
access to such an industry in the future, Armstrong said in an
interview in Tianjin today.  Sasol is trying to gain a foothold in China with a $10
billion joint venture coal liquefaction facility in the Ningxia
Hui autonomous region with Shenhua Ningxia Coal Industry Group
Ltd., a unit of the nation’s biggest coal producer. Sasol has
halted development of the plant pending state approval, the
company said in February.  “We are alert to other opportunities,” Armstrong said.
“But the focus remains on Ningxia and we will not do anything
to detract from this,” he said.  Sasol,  South Africa ’s second-biggest company by market
value, uses its Fischer-Tropsch technology to transform gas from
below the ocean floor and coal into liquid fuels such as
gasoline and diesel in South Africa and Qatar.  Other Opportunities  “We have that one project on the go and it’s still our
best entree into business in China,” Armstrong said, referring
to the Ningxia project. “But maybe it won’t be the only one.
Maybe there’ll be other partners or a different region. It’s
hard for anyone to say no to a project in Xinjiang,” he said.  China is developing poorer provinces in the west including
resource-rich Xinjiang, which contains 40 percent of the
nation’s proven coal reserves, according to government data.  The country has tapped foreign companies including  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to help explore and extract
shale gas reserves, estimated to be 12 times higher than
conventional gas reserves, according to the U.S. Energy
Department last month.  “Right now, China places quite a bit of restriction on
what you can do with gas and at the moment, gas to liquid isn’t
too much on the radar screen,” Armstrong said. “Depending on
what happens to shale gas, that might change.”  Ningxia Project  Coal-to-liquids and coal-to-gas projects were removed from
the Chinese government’s list of industries whose development it
plans to encourage, according to an April 26 report on the
website of the National Development and Reform Commission,
China’s top economic planning agency.  Sasol hasn’t set a deadline for getting government approval
for the Ningxia project, Armstrong said.  “We still think we are moving in the right direction
although that’s moving slower than we’d like,” he said.  Sasol submitted an application with Shenhua to the NDRC in
2009 and expected recommendations by the end of 2010, the
company said last August.  It said in March 2010 it may decide on whether to go ahead
with the 3.85 million metric ton-a-year Ningxia plant, about 810
miles (1,300 kilometers) southwest of Beijing, by the end of
that year.  The company is cutting costs at its  China  operations to be
“in the game for longer,” Armstrong said. Sasol has reduced
its China-based staff to around 20 compared with a crew of 50
people at the peak, he said.  “Given what we’ve invested in the project so far, Sasol
would be very cautious to walk away earlier than is required,”
he said, declining to provide details on the company’s
investments in the China business.  China Headcount  Shares of Sasol, which converts more than 40 million tons
of coal annually at the world’s largest plant in Secunda, South
Africa, gained 27 percent in Johannesburg in the past 12 months
as rising oil prices increased the value of alternative fuels.
The stock fell 0.9 percent to 357.5 rand at 12:18 p.m. local
time today.  Armstrong said he isn’t planning to reduce Sasol’s China
headcount further if delays to the Ningxia project continue.  “On the contrary, I’m thinking of how I’m going to
remobilize, on which guys I should bring back to make sure we’ve
got a strong team so that when somebody pushes the button and
says go, I can go,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net 
SOL SJ <Equity>
SHGCLZ CH <Equity>
1088 HK <Equity> 