-- 
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan Tanker Rates Extend Slide on Excess Ships

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-17T16:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/saudi-arabia-to-japan-tanker-rates-extend-slide-on-excess-ships.html
The cost of delivering Middle East
crude oil to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers,
fell for a second day because of an excess supply of vessels.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route slipped 0.4
percent to 48.9 Worldscale points, according to the Baltic
Exchange in  London . Rental income, which varies depending on
changing fuel costs, strengthened 7.2 percent to $4,374 a day.  “Cargo requirements for the remainder of May currently
indicate limited activity,” Frode Morkedal, an analyst at RS
Platou Markets AS in Oslo, said in an e-mailed report today.
“Any significant short-term positive momentum appears unlikely
due to still long lists of available tonnage.”  Owners are contending with a fleet that’s swelling faster
than seaborne trade in crude. The transportation capacity of the
fleet will grow 7.4 percent to 172.8 million deadweight tons
this year while demand expands 3.1 percent to 128.4 million
tons, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) ’s research unit.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the  Worldscale Association  in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The market “remains over-supplied,” preventing owners
from securing higher charter rates, Morkedal said in an e-mailed
report today.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of crude
oil transportation costs that also encompasses ships smaller
than VLCCs, rose 0.3 percent to 784 points, according to the
 Baltic Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  