-- 
Saudi Arabia Defies Turmoil as Guardian of Status Quo

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-18T12:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/saudi-arabia-defies-mideast-upheaval.html
Saudi Arabia  is leading a counter-
revolution against the sweeping political changes in the Middle
East by using money, force and religion.  As popular movements for democracy toppled leaders in  Egypt 
and Tunisia and began threatening neighboring Bahrain and Yemen,
Saudi Arabia’s Al Saud royal family strengthened control over
the Arab world’s biggest economy. Once restrictive of the Muslim
clerics,  King Abdullah  offered money and new censorship powers
for their loyalty as he doled out 500 billion riyals ($130
billion) nationally in housing grants and other sweeteners.  The Al Saud have “positioned themselves as the guardians
of the status quo,” Christopher Davidson, author of “Power and
Politics in the Persian Gulf Monarchies,” said in response to
e-mailed questions. “We are seeing a resistance to genuine
reform by using a mixture of carrots and sticks.”  Four months of political unrest have shaken the Middle East
as citizens demand civil rights, higher  living standards  and the
ouster of autocratic regimes. Yet Saudi Arabia, the self-
proclaimed economic  powerhouse  and leader of the Gulf states, is
showing itself as unhindered by the events, sending in troops to
end protests in Bahrain and quelling smaller demonstrations in
its own Eastern Province.  In Riyadh yesterday, Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf told
1,200 conference delegates, including officials from JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Moody’s Investors Service and BNP Paribas SA, that
the Saudi economy was on track for stronger growth.  Growth, Investment  “I’d like on this occasion to note that the financial and
economic situation in the kingdom is stable, thank God, and we
have not noticed any abnormal financial movements despite
unprecedented events taking place in the region,” he said.  The economy is forecast to expand 5.3 percent this year,
compared with 3.8 percent last year,  National Commercial Bank 
said on May 15. Egyptian growth may slow to about 1 percent this
year, the  International Monetary Fund  said on April 11.  U.S. companies are pursuing investments in the Saudi
kingdom.  General Electric Co. (GE)  announced contracts valued at more
than $500 million this month.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  were awarded contracts this month to develop a
project in the eastern coastal city of Jubail.  To quell the impact of the region’s unrest, Abdullah turned
to “the official religious establishment,” Christopher Boucek,
an analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
 Washington , said in a telephone interview. “Other countries in
the region don’t have the ability or resources to do this.”  The senior religious scholars responded by issuing a
statement calling protests un-Islamic ahead of a so-called Day
of Rage on March 11. Protesters stayed off the streets.  Dissidents  Saudi Arabia arrested more than 160 dissidents since
February as part of the government’s crackdown on protests,
 Human Rights Watch  said in April.  Earlier in the year,  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  were toppled, the first
leaders to go as uprisings spread. Demonstrators and security
forces are still facing off in Syria and Yemen. In  Libya , NATO
forces are two months into a bombing campaign against  Muammar Qaddafi  as he battles with rebels.  The allegiance from King Abdullah’s 110,000-man National
Guard and the Interior Ministry, controlled by Prince Nayef,
wasn’t challenged during the unrest.  Abdullah, who is 87 this year, dispatched soldiers to help
the fellow Sunni Muslim monarchy in Bahrain crush protests led
mainly by Shiites, who make up the majority of the island’s
population.  Council Move  The Saudi-led  Gulf Cooperation Council  also may admit
Morocco and Jordan as the group seeks to counter “the wave of
political change in region,” Ayham Kamel, an analyst with
Washington-based Eurasia Group, wrote on May 13.  Under a pact dating back to 1744 between the Al Saud ruling
family and Muhammad bin Abdul Wahhab, the kingdom has maintained
an austere brand of Islam, known as Wahhabism, in return for the
Sunni hierarchy’s acceptance of the crown.  The king renewed the alliance with clerical power at home
“to present a solid front against the events that are sweeping
the region,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis,
said in a phone interview.  Political loyalties have their costs. Of the expenditure
announced by Abdullah in February and March, $67 billion went to
funds for housing, religious groups and the military, according
to a royal decree issued by the king.  “The state religious establishment was very well
compensated,” said Boucek at Carnegie Endowment.  Royal Reaction  Abdullah issued a  royal decree  banning media services from
publishing anything that “violates” Islamic law, “harms the
reputation” of clerics, and threatens internal security, the
official Saudi Press Agency in Riyadh said on April 29.  “The kingdom is reacting to events and anticipating things
will get worse,” Simon Henderson, director of the Gulf and
Energy Policy Program at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, said in response to e-mailed questions.  To pay for the new spending, Saudi Arabia needs an oil
price of between $80 to $85 a barrel, according to  Banque Saudi
Fransi (BSFR)  in Riyadh, Jadwa Investment Co. and  National Commercial
Bank . That compares with the original 2011 budget requirement of
$65 a barrel, National Commercial Bank said.  Crude oil for June delivery was $98.13 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:42 p.m. London time. Futures have
risen 42 percent in the past year.  Petrodollars  “Saudi Arabia has saved a lot of money during this oil
price rise to get them through a potential period of an oil-
price decline,” Brad Bourland, chief economist at Riyadh-based
Jadwa, said in an interview today. “They aren’t fragile to the
point that if they didn’t meet their break-even price a fiscal
crisis would occur.”  Oil revenue this year is expected at 828.2 billion riyals
and Saudi Arabia will record a budget surplus of 62.8 billion
riyals, National Commercial Bank said. Expenditures may exceed
the initial 2011 budget by as much as 15 percent, al-Assaf said
yesterday. The government in August announced a five-year, $384
billion economic development plan.  “Subsidies and expenditure are being increased across the
board in order to appease the religious establishment, the
security services and public sector workers,” said Davidson,
who is at  Durham University  in northern  England . “This is in
parallel to increasingly repressive statements aimed at
frightening people into staying at home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 