-- 
Saudi Sweet Oil Supply Too Low to Offset Libya, al-Husseini Says

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-05-17T15:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/saudi-sweet-oil-supply-too-low-to-offset-libya-al-husseini-says.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
crude exporter, won’t be able to produce enough low-sulfur
blends to replace lost Libyan output for refiners in  Europe ,
said Sadad al-Husseini, a former  Saudi Aramco  executive.  The country doesn’t have enough Arab Super Light to create
sufficient amounts of low-sulfur, or sweet, oil similar to
 Libya ’s grades, al-Husseini, Aramco’s former executive vice
president for exploration and development, said today by e-mail.  “Although the sulfur in the new Saudi blends is low, many
Libyan crude types are lower still, I believe as low as 0.07
percent sulfur,” said al-Husseini, who runs  Husseini Energy , an
energy consultant.  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said on March 8 that Aramco
had developed light, sweet blends with specifications matching
crude normally supplied by fellow OPEC member Libya, where
production has dwindled because of an armed rebellion. Libyan
exports slumped to 450,000 barrels a day in March compared with
1.6 million barrels in January, before the conflict began,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  One of the new blends has an API gravity of 41 degrees and
a sulfur content of 0.7 percent while the other has an API
gravity of 44 degrees and a sulfur content of 0.5 percent, the
IEA said March 15.  “The equivalent to the ultra low sulfur Libyan crude is
available in Central Arabia and is called Arab Super Light but
the volumes are not enough to replace Libya’s production,” al-
Husseini said.  Total, OMV, BP  Saudi Aramco can produce up to 100,000 barrels a day of
Arab Super Light with an API of 40 degrees and higher from the
Nuayyim field, according to company data. Oil is considered
light if the API gravity is 34 degrees or higher, 31 to 33 is
medium and 30 or below is heavy. Crude is considered sweet if
sulfur content is less than 0.5 percent.  Saudi Aramco sold as much as 4 million barrels of the new
blends after struggling to find buyers until last week. The
light blends were sold to  Total SA (FP) , BP Plc, and OMV AG as
European refiners seek alternatives to easily refined Libyan
crude withheld from the market.  Saudi Aramco sold a 1 million-barrel cargo of one of the
new blends to Total for delivery in Rotterdam.  The French refiner is replacing Libyan crude at its fuel-
processing plants mainly with North Sea oil, Jean-Jacques
Mosconi, the company’s head of strategy and economic
intelligence, said May 9.  “Total should have modernized its refineries to add sulfur
recovery from its diesel and gasoline processing,” al-Husseini
said. “No new technology is needed but they were talking about
shutting down refineries instead of expanding their complexity
just a few months ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  