-- 
HSBC Says Hong Kong Mortgage Rates to Keep Rising as Liquidity Tightens

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-17T05:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hsbc-says-hong-kong-mortgage-rates-to-keep-rising-as-liquidity-tightens.html
Mortgage rates in  Hong Kong , ranked
the world’s most expensive place to buy a home by Savills Plc,
may climb further as liquidity tightens among local banks, said
 HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “There is a little bit of tightness in terms of liquidity
in the market,”  Peter Wong , chief executive officer for the
Asia-Pacific region at HSBC, the U.K. bank that gets more than
half of its profit from  Asia , said in an interview yesterday.
For mortgage rates “everybody is watching everybody in the
market.”  HSBC, which owns two of Hong Kong’s three-biggest banks by
customers, and rivals such as Standard Chartered Plc and BOC
Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. have been raising mortgage rates since
April as the Hong Kong Monetary Authority warned of the risks of
a “credit-fueled property bubble.” Housing prices have surged
more than 50 percent in the past two years because of record low
rates and an influx of Chinese buyers.  “I think there’s still room to increase” mortgage rates,
Wong said. Banks “are going to increase the spread with
Hibor,” he said.  HSBC last week said it will raise  interest rates  for
mortgages based on the Hong Kong interbank rate, or Hibor, to
1.5 percentage points to 2 percentage points more than the
benchmark, from 1 percentage point to 1.5 percentage points.  Hong Kong’s bank interest rates will rise on loan demand
and capital outflows when the U.S. increases borrowing costs,
 Norman Chan , head of HKMA, the city’s de-facto central bank,
said on April 28.  The government in November increased property transaction
taxes and pledged to boost land supply amid public protests that
housing prices are becoming unaffordable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  