-- 
Scene Last Night: Falcones, Marina Abramovic, Shaklee’s Barnett

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-17T16:50:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/scene-last-night-falcones-marina-abramovic-daniel-ziff-roger-barnett.html
Standing on a black AstroTurf
platform and in Dior black lace, Lisa Maria Falcone told 900
guests at the  Friends of the High Line  benefit, “Unfortunately,
I have no surprises tonight.”  A board member of the elevated park and co-chairman -- with
her husband,  Philip Falcone  -- of this year’s benefit, Falcone
was alluding to a spontaneous $10 million gift she announced at
the organization’s fundraiser two years ago.  She went on to thank guests for helping to create an urban
oasis out of abandoned railroad tracks on  Manhattan ’s far West
Side. The first section opened in 2009, and the second will open
next month.  “How many people can say they’ve been part of building a
park? You have,” she said.  The event honored the park’s architect, Diller Scofidio &
Renfro; the High Line’s landscape designers, James Corner Field
Operations; hotelier Andre Balazs; and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Managing Director Jennifer Padovani, who played a key role in
initial fundraising.  “I happened to know a lot of Goldman Sachs guys and hedge-
fund guys, and I said, ‘Let’s create a buzz,’” Padovani said.
She organized a cocktail party with Edward Norton as the special
guest, and the checks started pouring in.  Those who accepted the chance to walk a stretch of Section
2 included Donald Mullen, a Goldman executive and Friends of the
High Line board member, accompanying artist Marina Abramovic.  “You know it’s very hard to get something meditative in a
city like New York, and there it is,” Abramovic said. “You
really can reflect and think.”  Lawn, Two Rivers  One element Mullen particularly liked was the lawn on the
new section’s widest part, just below 23rd Street. It is 5,000
square feet and when you stand on it, you can see both the  East
River  and the  Hudson River .  “I love the concrete abutting the grass,” Mullen said,
standing near it. “It’s a sculpture unto itself.”  Mullen was also charmed by the “flyover,” a metal walkway
elevated over a densely planted landscape. On this evening,
magnolia blossoms glistened with raindrops.  “It reminds me of walking through  Costa Rica  when you do
the lines over the tree canopy,” he said.  Back on ground level, Mullen wondered where the bar was, as
 Mario Batali  and others feasted on kale chips.  For dinner, the gala caterer Bite served up a family-style
meal of 19 dishes, ranging from fresh burrata to Mallomar-style
gourmet cookies with ancho caramel ganache.  After dessert,  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG)  Chairman Philip Falcone
took photographs of his guests, including producer and rapper
Swizz Beatz, as the after party, sponsored by the Calvin Klein
collection, got under way.  American Ballet Theatre  After the American Ballet Theatre’s opening-night
performance, guests at the company’s Spring Gala were ready to
move.  Two dance floors flanked the dinner tent while the Hank
Lane Orchestra played. The 1,100 guests included Daniel Ziff of
Ziff Brothers Investments LLC and John Mahoney, a partner at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  John Loeb, a descendant of the founders of  Lehman Brothers ,
twirled several women, including his fiancee, Sharon Handler,
and writer Susan Fales-Hill.  Sloan Lindemann Barnett, wife of Shaklee Corp. Chairman and
Chief Executive Roger Barnett and one of the party’s chairmen,
was temporarily halted when a waiter stood on her long hot-pink
Dolce & Gabbana gown. With a pained expression, she tugged the
dress free. In a moment she was bobbing to the orchestra’s cover
of the Black Eyed Peas’ “I’ve Got a Feeling.”  In Barnett’s posse were Candace and Charles Nelson, the
founders of Sprinkles Cupcakes, which just opened its first  New
York  store. The former investment bankers turned bakers had
donated their Sprinkles red velvet cupcakes for the goody bags.
The event raised $1.75 million.  As she left the party, ABT dancer Melanie Hamrick, in a
Carolina Herrera gown, still had a craving.  “Let’s go get some ice cream,” she told her boyfriend,
fellow dancer Jose Manuel Carreno.  She explained that she was talking so much during dinner
she’d had little chance to eat. She needed Ben & Jerry’s
Chocolate Fudge Brownie.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 