-- 
Schwarzenegger Love Child Admission Hurts Political Clout, Not Film Appeal

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-05-18T04:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/schwarzenegger-love-child-hurts-political-clout-not-film-appeal.html
Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s admission
that he fathered a child out of wedlock may dim the political
influence of the former California governor. His return to the
movie business is unlikely to suffer.  The 63-year-old Republican, a former bodybuilding champ and
star of the “Terminator” movies, has been making public
appearances and lining up movie deals since leaving office on
Jan. 3 after seven years.  Schwarzenegger’s clout already had suffered from his
decision to reduce the sentence of the son of a friend and
political ally, former Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez, said
Arnold Steinberg, a Republican strategist in Los Angeles. The
new scandal, involving a household staffer who bore his child 10
years ago, adds to the damage, he said.  “This becomes a one-two punch,” Steinberg said in
telephone interview.  The day before his term ended, Schwarzenegger cut in half
the sentence of Esteban Nunez, who had pleaded guilty to the
stabbing death of a college student in  San Diego  during a 2008
brawl. Schwarzenegger reduced the sentence to seven years from
16. The move spurred a lawsuit by local prosecutors to overturn
the decision.  Nunez served as speaker from 2004 to 2008, at a time when
Schwarzenegger was reaching across the aisle to cooperate with
Democrats on issues such as the budget, water infrastructure and
greenhouse gas emissions.  ‘Bad Advice’  “He still has star power for turning out crowds,”
Steinberg said of the former governor. “He is a high-energy,
intelligent guy with enormous leadership potential. He’s had bad
advice, erratic public policy and his political instincts are
not good.”  The 20-year employee whose child Schwarzenegger fathered
retired in January, the  Los Angeles Times  reported yesterday.
The affair’s surfacing broke up Schwarzenegger’s 25-year
marriage to Maria Shriver, who announced last week that she was
leaving him, the newspaper said.  “This is a painful and heartbreaking time,” Shriver said
in a statement. “As a mother my concern is for the children. I
ask for compassion, respect and privacy as my children and I try
to rebuild our lives and heal. I will have no further comment.”  While Schwarzenegger had been financially supporting the
child, he concealed the facts from Shriver until recently, the
Times said.  ‘Feelings of Anger’  “After leaving the governor’s office I told my wife about
this event, which occurred over a decade ago,” Schwarzenegger
said in a statement. “I understand and deserve the feelings of
anger and disappointment among my friends and family. There are
no excuses and I take full responsibility for the hurt I have
caused. I have apologized to Maria, my children and my family. I
am truly sorry.”  Schwarzenegger isn’t eligible to run for president because
he was born in  Austria . He left office with only 22 percent of
the voters saying he had done a good job -- one of the lowest
public approval ratings for a California governor in history,
according to the San Francisco-based  Field Poll .  The former Mr. Olympia and star of movies such as 1990’s
 “Kindergarten Cop”  has been attached to two upcoming films.
Those plans aren’t likely to be disrupted, said  Peter D. Graves ,
executive producer of “Terminator Salvation,” in which
Schwarzenegger had a computer-generated cameo.  “This isn’t a great thing for him, but he handled it as
well as anyone could,” Graves said. “I don’t think it affects
him as an actor.’  ‘Cry Macho’  “Cry Macho,” the story of a retired horse trainer who
gets caught up in an international kidnapping scheme, is
scheduled for a 2012 release, according to the  Internet Movie
Database , a Hollywood information Web site. It is being produced
by Albert Ruddy, an Oscar-winning producer of “The Godfather”
and “Million Dollar Baby.”  “We have the perfect star for the role,” Ruddy said in an
interview. “We’re making this film.”  Schwarzenegger is also listed as star of “The Last
Stand,” a film about a drug cartel leader who escapes from
jail. It is directed by Jee-woon Kim, whose last film, the low-
budget thriller “I Saw the Devil,” grossed $128,392 at the box
office last year.  “He hasn’t even shot the movies and there’s a long time
between shooting and when the movies come out,” said  Michael Sitrick , a consultant in  Los Angeles  who specializes in crisis
public relations. “It isn’t like he forced himself on someone
or did an alleged criminal act.”  ‘The Governator’  Spider-man creator Stan Lee is developing a superhero
called “The Governator” that could become a comic book and a
television show, Schwarzenegger told Entertainment Weekly on
March 30.  Schwarzenegger won a 2003 recall election against then-
governor  Gray Davis , a Democrat, overcoming allegations
published in the Los Angeles Times that he had groped women.
Schwarzenegger said the allegations were untrue and Shriver
stood by him.  Before leaving office, Schwarzenegger successfully
campaigned against Proposition 23, a November ballot measure
that would have undone environmental legislation the governor
signed in 2006. He spoke this year at environmental conferences
in  Washington  and Los Angeles, and toured the Brazilian
rainforest with “Terminator” director  James Cameron .  His political action committee, the  California Dream Team ,
lists infrastructure, political reform and the environment as
its main issues.  Endorsements  The scandal makes it unlikely that presidential candidates
will seek Schwarzenegger’s endorsement, said Steve Maviglio, a
former spokesman for Davis when he was governor.  “He’s radioactive,” Maviglio said in a telephone
interview. “There’s no cause or candidate that would want
him.”  Schwarzenegger’s infidelity has a precedent with former
presidents who allegedly fathered children out of wedlock,
including  Thomas Jefferson , Grover Cleveland and Warren G. Harding.  He joins a list of politicians whose careers suffered from
affairs, including former presidential candidates  John Edwards 
and Gary Hart, and ex-Nevada Senator  John Ensign .  “Another guy guv admits 2 cheating on his wife,” former
Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm posted on Twitter. “Maybe
we need more women governors. Guys: keep ur pants zipped, for
Pet’s sake. #Arnold.”  The issue has come up in the just-starting 2012
presidential race. Former U.S. Speaker of the House  Newt Gingrich , a Republican who has declared his candidacy,
acknowledged in 2007 that he had affair with his former aide,
whom he has since married.  “If you’re going to be audacious enough, lie, have the kid
play in the house while you’re running for office,” said
Hollywood publicist Michael Levine, who represented singer
 Michael Jackson  during his child-molestation trial. “Nobody but
Shakespeare could create this story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  