-- 
Senate Democrats Push to Repeal $21 Billion in Oil Breaks

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-17T21:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/senate-democrats-push-to-repeal-oil-breaks.html
Senate Democrats pushed for the
repeal of $21 billion in tax breaks for five multinational  oil
companies  and sought to draw a contrast with Republican
proposals to lower the federal deficit.  A vote to allow debate on the tax bill was scheduled
tonight. Democrats, who hold 51 Senate seats and are often
joined by two independents, need 60 votes to advance the
legislation. Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, said
she opposed the bill because it wouldn’t cut gasoline prices and
predicted the legislation would fail.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and Democrats
sought today to link oil company profits and budget negotiations
with Republicans, arguing that  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving,
Texas, London’s  BP Plc (BP/) , Houston’s  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
of San Ramon, California, and The Hague’s  Royal Dutch Shell PLC (RDSA) 
can afford to pay more in taxes.  “Instead of defending oil companies, Republicans should be
defending the American taxpayer,” Reid told reporters. “What
they want to do is drill, baby, drill, more.”  House Republicans passed a budget April 15 that includes
$6.2 trillion in cuts during 10 years to Medicaid, food stamps
and farm subsidies. Reid said the five oil companies reported
first quarter profits of about $36 billion.  Republican leaders said the oil-tax plan, which would take
back about $2 billion a year from the companies, would raise
gasoline prices, cost jobs and increase reliance on foreign oil.  ‘Not a Serious Effort’  The Democratic proposal was not “a serious effort to
address the price of gas at the pump,” said Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  Prices for a gallon of gas in the U.S. averaged $3.944
yesterday, up from $2.867 a year ago, according to AAA.  A Republican-backed measure to increase offshore production
and expedite permits faces a vote tomorrow in the Senate.  The legislation mirrors bills adopted by the Republican-led
U.S. House in the previous two weeks in that it would force the
Interior Department to rule on oil-drilling permits within 60
days. In the absence of a decision by the deadline, the
application would be automatically approved.  A provision would also require lease sales in the Gulf of
Mexico and off the coasts of Virginia and Alaska.  Reid said Democrats would resurrect the oil-tax bill as
part of legislation to raise the U.S. debt limit if the Senate
rejects it today. House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio has said
Republicans won’t accept any tax increases in the budget
negotiations.  ’Misguided, Unwarranted’  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s largest business
lobby, said in a letter to senators yesterday that the Senate
tax plan was “misguided, unwarranted, and ultimately
counterproductive.”  The White House issued a statement of support for the
Democrat-sponsored bill.  “There are much more responsible ways to utilize the
billions in taxpayer dollars provided to oil and gas companies
through unwarranted tax breaks,” the administration said.
President  Barack Obama  wants to repeal about $4 billion a year
in oil industry tax benefits.  Obama announced on May 14 plans to increase domestic
drilling by moving ahead on lease sales in the  Gulf of Mexico 
and in Alaska’s National Petroleum Reserve.  The administration also is extending leases to give
companies more time to comply with new safety regulations added
after the BP oil spill last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  