-- 
Societe Generale Sues Ex-Trader Alleging Theft of Secrets

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-17T21:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/societe-generale-sues-forex-trader-alleging-trade-secrets-stolen.html
Societe Generale SA,  France ’s second-
largest bank by market value, accused a former foreign-exchange
trader of misappropriating  trade secrets  involving clients for
his future employer,  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   Societe Generale SA, in a lawsuit filed today in federal
court in Manhattan, is seeking an order to force the ex-trader,
Karma Tenzing, to return the data. The bank said in its
complaint that Tenzing was a junior salesperson on it foreign
exchange desk from January 2010 until April 28 when he left for
 Credit Agricole , France’s third-largest bank by market value.  The documents Tenzing allegedly took from the bank’s  New
York  office and its computer server were found on the hard drive
of a computer in his New York office, according to the suit.  “Knowing full well that his lack of ‘a book’ and minimal
contacts made him less desirable as a candidate, he set upon a
scheme to make himself more marketable to a competitor,”
 Societe Generale (GLE)  said in the complaint.  “Tenzing knew that taking those documents was wrong,”
Societe Generale said. “He was trained by Societe Generale on
the need to maintain confidentiality.”  Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman for Credit Agricole,
couldn’t be reached for comment after business hours in Paris.  No one answered a telephone listed in Tenzing’s name in
Queens, New York.  Trade Secrets  Societe Generale asked the court for an injunction, or
order, barring Tenzing from disclosing the trade secrets to
others and for unspecified monetary damages. The bank also asked
the court to allow an inspection of his home computers and other
electronic devices. Tenzing should be barred from soliciting its
clients for a year and barred from working for Credit Agricole
for a month, the bank said.  Societe Generale said in court papers it will suffer
“immediate and irreparable harm” if the court fails to
restrain Tenzing.  Laura Schalk , a spokeswoman Societe Generale, didn’t
immediately return a voicemail seeking comment left at her
office after business hours.  The case is Societe Generale v. Tenzing, 11-CV-3366, filed
in the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  