-- 
Sony Faces More Questions From U.S. Lawmakers About Data Breach

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-18T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/sony-pushed-to-reveal-more-about-hacking.html
U.S. lawmakers yesterday asked  Sony
Corp. (6758)  for more information about an attack that exposed more
than 100 million customer accounts to hackers, an event its
chief executive officer described as a ‘hiccup.’  Representatives Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican,
and G.K. Butterfield, a North Carolina Democrat, sent a letter
to Sony requesting details on what customer information may have
been stolen and whether the company’s investigation has
determined how the breach occurred.  The letter, addressed to Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s executive
deputy president in charge of consumer products and network
services, requests a response by May 25.  Sony declined to appear at a May 4 hearing on  data theft 
chaired by Bono Mack and instead sent an eight-page letter
responding to lawmakers’ questions about the attack that
crippled the company’s PlayStation gaming network. Bono Mack
plans to hold a follow-up hearing and introduce legislation on
data security, her spokesman Ken Johnson said in an e-mail.  “Clearly, there are still a lot of unanswered questions,”
Johnson said. “As we begin drafting our data security
legislation, we are hopeful that the Sony experience can be
instructive.”  The hacker attack, which forced Sony to shut down its
online movie, music and games services, is a “hiccup” in the
company’s online strategy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Howard Stringer said in an interview yesterday.  Three-Week Outage  Stringer said the Tokyo-based company is working to
determine whether other computer systems were infiltrated. Sony
resumed partial operation of the entertainment services this
week after a three-week outage.  The Sony intrusion has sharpened U.S. government scrutiny
of how companies notify the public about attacks from hackers
and malicious software.  The Obama administration on May 12 released a proposal for
shielding banks, power grids and government computers. The plan
calls for uniform laws on reporting breaches and requiring
owners of critical systems to develop network security plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  