-- 
Sony’s Stringer Calls Hacker Attack ‘Hiccup’ in Company’s Online Strategy

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-05-18T19:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/sony-chairman-stringer-calls-hacker-attack-hiccup-in-road.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  Chairman Howard Stringer
said the hacker attack that crippled the company’s online
entertainment services and exposed more than 100 million
customer accounts was a hiccup in its Internet strategy.  “Nobody’s system is 100 percent secure,” Stringer, 69,
said in a phone interview almost a month after the shutdown of
the Qriocity and PlayStation Network services. “This is a
hiccup in the road to a network future.”  The attack has undermined Stringer’s plan to lure customers
by linking Sony’s televisions, mobile devices and computers to
its entertainment content through the Internet. Stringer, who
apologized for the breach earlier this month, said he doesn’t
have estimates for how the hacking attack will affect earnings,
scheduled for May 26.  “Investors are waiting to see more information on the
financial impact,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Barclays Plc. Sony “hasn’t been able to disclose much about the
investigation.”  The shares fell 1.3 percent to 2,245 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo today. They have fallen 23 percent this year.  Sony hired three security firms to investigate the attack
and is working with law enforcement officials after criticism it
was too slow to inform consumers about the breach.  The effort to restore confidence suffered another blow
yesterday when Sony temporarily shut down the password-reset
pages on the website of PlayStation Network, which offers games
and movies, and Qriocity, a service for programs and music.  Resetting Passwords  Users who forgot their old passwords would have been
required to provide their e-mail address and date of birth. That
information may have been stolen during the April breach, Sony
has said.  “Consumers who haven’t reset their passwords for PSN are
still encouraged to do so directly on their PS3,” spokesman Dan
Race said in an e-mailed statement. The flaw has been fixed, and
once the sites are back online, users will be able to resume
resetting their passwords there, he said.  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics is
increasing its reliance on the Internet to help spur demand for
its products. Sony’s PlayStation Suite allows users to download
games made by smaller developers on Google Inc.’s Android-
powered smartphones.  In October, the maker of Bravia televisions started
offering Internet-enabled TVs in the U.S. that use Google
software to let viewers access websites and Web videos.  Insurance Policy  The Tokyo-based maker of the PlayStation console is working
to determine whether other computer systems were invaded,
Stringer said. U.S. lawmakers have pressed Sony for more
information about the hacker attack, the second-largest online
data breach in U.S. history.  Authorities in the U.S.,  Europe  and elsewhere haven’t
provided Sony with details of criminal investigations into the
attacks, Stringer said.  Stringer on May 5 offered U.S. users of Sony’s PlayStation
Network and Qriocity services a year of free identity-theft
protection, backed by a  $1 million  insurance policy per user
covering legal and ID-restoration costs, as well as lost wages
that occur after data is stolen.  The company yesterday also offered users a package of free
games and movie services as compensation.  Representatives Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican,
and G.K. Butterfield, a North Carolina Democrat, sent a letter
to Sony requesting details on what customer information may have
been stolen and whether the company’s investigation has
determined how the breach occurred. The letter requests a
response by May 25.  Three-Week Outage  Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s executive deputy president in charge of
consumer products and network services, informed Stringer of the
breach shortly before shutting down the online services.  “Kaz and I together worked out what we need to do,”
Stringer said. Hirai and two other company officials bowed in
apology at a press conference in  Tokyo  earlier this month.  After a three-week outage, the company resumed partial
operation of the entertainment services this week. Restored
operations include online gaming, chat service and music
downloads. Sony plans to restart service in  Asia  soon, according
to a May 15 statement.  Sony had failed to deliver on a May 1 pledge to put the
network back into service within a week of its outage.  “There is no precedent for this in people’s experience,”
Stringer said of the delays in bringing services back online.
“Most reports now seem to indicate that we acted very quickly
and very responsibly.”  Regulators’ Backlash  The April breach of the PlayStation and Qriocity networks
affected 77 million accounts. Some 24.6 million accounts may
have been compromised at the Sony Online Entertainment platform,
a U.S. unit, the company said.  The attack may be the largest single breach of company data
in history, Stringer said.  The company has faced a backlash from regulators over the
time it took to warn customers their accounts had been
compromised. Users were alerted of the breach April 27, six days
after the shutdown of the movie and music-streaming services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  