-- 
Southern Sudan’s Investment Risk Isn’t ‘Astronomical’, IFC Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-17T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/southern-sudan-s-investment-risk-isn-t-astronomical-ifc-says.html
Southern Sudan , which will declare
independence in July, is pushing ahead with measures to attract
investment and lose its image as an “astronomical” risk, an
official at the International Finance Corp. said.  Registering a business in the war-torn region takes about
15 days, close to the average for the 34-nation Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, the Washington-based IFC
said today in a report.  “Most people think Juba, South Sudan, and war,” Rachel Kyte, the IFC’s vice-president for business advisory services,
said by phone from  Washington . Today’s report “shows the
country is moving slowly and surely in the right direction.”  Development in the region had been stunted by a two-decade
civil war between  Sudan ’s Muslim north and largely animist and
Christian south that ended with a peace agreement in 2005. The
war left more half population in poverty and the region in dire
need of investment in infrastructure, education and health.  Six years later, Southern Sudan has 9,000 registered
businesses and drafted 19 laws guiding commerce including the
Taxation Act and Land Act, which are waiting for enactment and
may help organize a clutter of overlapping rules, said the IFC,
a unit of the  World Bank .  At independence on July 9, Southern Sudan will assume
control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day, mainly pumped by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of
proven oil reserves as of January 2010, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 