-- 
South Africa’s Gordhan Says Candidate From Emerging Market Must Lead IMF

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 
2011-05-17T18:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-candidate-from-emerging-market-must-lead-imf.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said a candidate from a developing country should be
given the opportunity to be managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Such a candidate will bring a new perspective that will
ensure that the interests of all countries, both developed and
developing, are fully reflected in the operations and policies
of the IMF,” he said in an e-mailed statement from the
Pretoria-based ministry today. “There are several candidates
from developing countries who are credible and are eminently
suitable to run the IMF.”  Finance ministers are discussing a successor to IMF
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who was accused of
sexually assaulting a hotel housekeeper and sent to New York’s
Riker’s Island prison yesterday after being denied bail. Gordhan
didn’t comment on the charges facing the IMF head. Strauss-Kahn,
a 62-year-old former French finance minister, has denied the
allegations and will plead not guilty, his lawyer said.  Gordhan’s predecessor,  Trevor Manuel , is among potential
candidates named by Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington and a former IMF official,
as a successor to Strauss-Kahn. Other potential candidates
include Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam and
Kemal Dervis, who was Turkey’s minister of economic affairs at a
time his country got IMF aid, Prasad said.  “Institutions such as the IMF must reform so that they can
become credible,” Gordhan said. “To be credible they must
represent the interests and fully reflect the voices of all
countries, not just a few industrialised nations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  