-- 
Sovereign Swaps Fall on Bets Greek ‘Reprofiling’ Won’t Trigger

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-05-17T11:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/sovereign-debt-risk-falls-to-5-week-low-in-europe-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring European
sovereign debt fell to the lowest levels in five weeks on
speculation credit-default swaps won’t pay out if investors
voluntarily accept a “reprofiling” of Greek bond maturities.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of swaps on 15
governments dropped 2 basis points to 172.5, the lowest since
April 13. Contracts on  Greece  declined 9 basis points to 1,226,
Ireland slid 10 to 590 and  Portugal  dropped 11 to 585.  European finance ministers for the first time floated the
idea of talks with bondholders over extending Greece’s debt-
repayment schedule, saying that last year’s 110 billion-euro
($156 billion) rescue has failed to restore the country to
financial health. Investors are betting bondholders will agree
to the changes to avoid crystallizing losses in a restructuring.  “Reprofiling would be a better alternative for banks as
they wouldn’t need to take a capital hit,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London . “The
question for Greece is whether reprofiling will be enough, and
personally I don’t think it is.”  Europe would consider extending Greek bond maturities as
part of a package including stepped-up sales of state assets and
deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said yesterday. Governments so far have ruled out
shifting the costs of bailing out Greece, Ireland and Portugal
to private bondholders.  Buying Time  “Reprofiling would buy Greece time and this would give
banks an opportunity to manage down their exposures and build
sufficient capital buffers in the event of haircuts being
imposed,” Parhar said.  Corporate bond risk was little changed, with the Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of 40 companies with mostly high-yield
credit ratings falling 1 basis point to 353 basis points, near
the lowest in more than three years. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 0.25 basis point to 96.75. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25 banks
and insurers rose 1 basis point to 137 and the subordinated
index fell 2 to 226.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.2 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  