-- 
Spyker Wins China Investment as Mainland Carmakers Target Overseas Brands

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-17T06:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/spyker-wins-china-investment-as-mainland-carmakers-target-overseas-brands.html
China car dealer Pangda Automobile
Trade Co. agreed to buy a 24 percent stake in  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) ,
owner of cash-strapped  Saab Automobile , the latest in a line of
Chinese companies looking to acquire European auto brands.  Pangda, which sells 20 car brands including vehicles from
Toyota Motor Corp. and Volkswagen AG’s Audi division, agreed to
pay 65 million euros ($92 million) for its stake in Spyker, the
Zeewolde, Netherlands-based manufacturer said in a statement
yesterday.  Pangda, which raised 6.3 billion yuan ($968 million) in an
initial public offering in  Shanghai  last month, follows SAIC
Motor Corp. and Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. in acquiring
European brands in a bid for better technology and branding.  “The Chinese have the money, they have the market and they
have the ambition,” said Michael Dunne, president of Hong Kong-
based auto consultancy Dunne & Co. Chinese carmakers “know no
one can beat us when it comes to manufacturing, but we haven’t
figured out the brand game yet,” he said.  Moves like Pangda’s allow Chinese companies to “acquire an
established brand that has taken decades to build up awareness
for,” Dunne said.  Spyker has been seeking a partner to help revive
Trollhaettan, Sweden-based Saab, which suspended car production
as of late March in a payment dispute with suppliers.  Spyker’s earlier Saab deal with Beijing-based Hawtai Motor
Group fell through on May 12 because Hawtai couldn’t get
government approval. A day later, the Chinese automaker blamed
“commercial and economic realities” for the collapse.  Surprise Bid  Pangda, an auto dealer based in  China ’s Hebei province,
already paid 30 million euros to buy Saab vehicles for
distribution in China later this year, Spyker said yesterday.  Deliveries at Pangda last year totaled 470,000 vehicles
from 926 outlets across China, according to its  website .  The stake purchase by Pangda is a surprise because it has
no engineering or production capacity, said  Bill Russo , a
Beijing-based senior adviser at Booze & Co.  “This is not a company that on the surface can offer much
apart from cash that can benefit,” Russo said. “It’s a
surprise because you wouldn’t expect a non-car manufacturer to
be in the hunt. It shows how much interest there is for foreign
assets among Chinese parties.”  Pangda’s stock rose as much as 6.7 percent today, the most
in almost two weeks, and traded at 35.14 yuan as of 1:39 p.m.
The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.4 percent.  Spyker Cars gained 16 percent to 4.11 euros in Amsterdam
trading yesterday. The stock has gained 18 percent this year.  Chinese Buyers  Pangda company spokeswoman Li Yan declined to immediately
comment when reached by telephone today.  Booming auto sales on the mainland helped the nation
overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest auto market over the
last two years, generating profit that’s allowed Chinese
companies to reach out to Western markets and technologies.  Zhejiang Geely bought Volvo last year in the biggest
overseas acquisition by a Chinese carmaker.  Geely Automobile
Holdings Ltd. (175) , its listed unit, had boosted car sales 48 percent
and net income 35 percent to 1.18 billion yuan in 2009.  Volvo, which is counting on Chinese demand to help double
sales to 800,000 vehicles in 10 years, plans to invest as much
as $11 billion worldwide over the next five years to expand in
emerging markets.  Rover, MG  SAIC, China’s largest domestic automaker, paid $116 million
for the design rights of MG Rover’s Rover 25 and 75 models in
2005 to strengthen its own-brand vehicles. The automaker also
helped restart production of the iconic MG sports-car brand in
the U.K. this year.  The Chinese partner of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
also paid $500 million for a 0.97 percent stake in Detroit-based
GM in November.  Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery Co. withdrew
its proposed acquisition of GM’s Hummer sport-utility vehicle
unit, after the bid failed to win Chinese government approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  