-- 
Standard Chartered Said to Hire Chaudhuri for Consumer Bank

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-17T08:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/standard-chartered-said-to-hire-chaudhuri-for-consumer-banking.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank
that makes three-quarters of its profit in Asia, hired Sanjeeb Chaudhuri from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as global marketing head for
consumer banking, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Chaudhuri, who was chief executive officer for consumer
banking in central and eastern  Europe  at Citigroup, will join
 Standard Chartered  on June 1 in Mumbai and will also run
consumer banking for South Asia, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the hiring hasn’t been announced.  Standard Chartered’s revenue in Asia reached a record 5.9
billion pounds ($9.6 billion) last year, as economic growth in
the region drove demand for everything from credit cards to
wealth management services. The bank said this month it had
“double digit” revenue growth in the first quarter.  Chaudhuri resigned from his position as a supervisory board
member of Bank Handlowy SA, a Polish lender in which Citigroup
has a majority stake, according to an April 14  filing  to the
country’s stock exchange. He worked for Citigroup for more than
18 years, based on a profile on Bank Handlowy’s website. His
appointment is subject to regulatory approval, one person said.  James Griffiths , a spokesman for Citigroup in  Hong Kong ,
declined to comment.  The executive will replace Shyam Srinivasan, who joined
Indian lender  Federal Bank Ltd. (FB)  as CEO in September last year.
Srinivasan was Standard Chartered’s head of consumer banking in
India and Nepal.  Competition for Employees  Chaudhuri will report to Steve Bertamini, global head of
consumer banking, and Neeraj Swaroop, Standard Chartered’s South
Asia CEO, the people said. Consumer banking contributed $6.1
billion, or more than a third of revenue in 2010, according to
Bloomberg data.  Standard Chartered and HSBC Holdings Plc, London-based
banks making most of their profit in Asia, this month said
competition for employees was placing pressure on margins.
Employee numbers dropped in the period and the bank had a “firm
grip” on costs, Standard Chartered Finance Director Richard Meddings said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  