-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Lawyer Says Prosecutors ‘Invited’ Revised Proposal for Bail

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-18T04:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/strauss-kahn-prosecutors-are-willing-to-consider-bail-lawyer-brafman-says.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the
International Monetary Fund chief locked up at New York’s Rikers
Island jail complex on charges of sexual assault and attempted
rape, may still be able to arrange bail while awaiting trial.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, is accused of attacking a housekeeper at
a midtown Manhattan hotel and forcing her to perform sex acts.
His lawyer denies the charges. Strauss-Kahn was arrested May 14
and on May 16 ordered held without bail by Manhattan Criminal
Court Judge Melissa Jackson after prosecutors said he was a
flight risk. Strauss-Kahn, who was placed on a suicide watch in
jail according to person familiar with the situation, is
scheduled to return to court on May 20.  At the bail hearing, Benjamin Brafman, Strauss-Kahn’s
lawyer, told the judge that the  district attorney  “invited me
to come back to them with some sort of package we think they
would be willing to consider.”  Assistant District Attorney John “Artie” McConnell told
the judge that Strauss-Kahn, who was taken into custody on an
Air France plane minutes before takeoff at John F. Kennedy
International Airport, had every incentive to flee. If convicted
of the most serious charges against him, he could be sentenced
to as long as 25 years in prison, prosecutors said.  Brafman said his client was prepared to post $1 million
bail, surrender his remaining travel documents and stay at his
daughter’s home in New York.  No Shoelaces  Strauss-Kahn, who had been a possible contender for the
French presidency, is now being held in single-person cell. At
 New York ’s Rikers Island prison complex, he is being watched
constantly and was given a specially designed prison jumpsuit
and shoes without laces, said the person familiar with the
matter. He hasn’t attempted to injure himself, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the information isn’t
public.  An assessment of Strauss-Kahn and other factors, including
that it’s his first time in jail, led to the precaution, the
person said.  “All inmate health records are confidential under the
law,” the New York City  Department of Correction  said in an e-
mailed statement in response to a call seeking comment. The
department “follows the same protocol for the safety and
security of all inmates, and the protocol dictates that every
inmate is assessed for risk of harm to themselves and risk of
harm to others,” it said in the e-mail.  Brafman declined to comment on the case.  ‘Tricky Bail Issue’  France  doesn’t extradite its own citizens, McConnell told
the judge, and Strauss-Kahn, who previously served as France’s
finance minister, has “substantial financial resources” and
“an extensive network of contacts throughout the world.”  “It’s a very tricky bail issue, given his circumstances,”
Charles Stillman, a New York defense attorney not involved in
the case, said yesterday in a phone interview. “The guy should
get out. By the same token, you do have to face the fact that he
is a flight risk.”  Brafman asked the judge at the bail hearing if she would
change her mind if Strauss-Kahn consented to wear an electronic
monitoring ankle bracelet. Brafman, seeking to return to her
courtroom with a revised proposal for a bail package, said he
had previously considered electronic monitoring unnecessary and
“prohibitively expensive.” Jackson declined to reconsider.  Stewart, Madoff  Electronic monitoring has sometimes been used with federal
criminal defendants awaiting trial, including  Martha Stewart ,
the founder of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., who was
convicted in 2004 of obstructing justice.  Bernard Madoff , before
pleading guilty to fraud in the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S.
history, wore an electronic monitor.  Erin Duggan, chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on the case or the
matter of bail. She said the office rarely uses electronic
monitoring.  Ira Judelson, a bail bondsman, said he had been contacted
by Brafman to assist Strauss-Kahn and was standing by at the
Manhattan criminal courthouse on May 15 and May 16.  “I was prepared to work with Ben,” he said. He said he
didn’t know when the issue might be raised again.  Judelson said he had assisted state-court defendants whose
bail conditions called for electronic monitoring, including
 Kristin Davis , who was accused of operating a $2 million-a-year
prostitution ring. He said electronic monitoring can cost $17 a
day.  ‘Respectable Citizen’  Douglas T. Burns, a former federal prosecutor who is now a
white-collar criminal defense lawyer in New York, said there
were several ways to construct a bail package for Strauss-Kahn
that could satisfy a judge. That could include $1 million cash
bail plus electronic monitoring and the surrender of his
passport, said Burns.  “Putting aside what he allegedly did, he’s a respectable
citizen,” Burns said yesterday in a phone interview. “To
immediately conclude the guy’s going to go on the lam is a
little bit silly.”  He added, “I don’t see him laying around Riker’s Island
for six months.”  A $1 million bond posted by Strauss-Kahn’s relatives could
be seen by the judge as a more severe restriction on the
defendant’s movements than if the money came from another
source, said Steven Molo, a defense lawyer at New York-based
MoloLamken LLP.  “One million dollars to one person is quite a bit of money
and to another, not as much,” he said.  ‘Defensible Case’  At the May 16 bail hearing, Brafman made an argument that
may suggest the defense will claim the woman consented in the
alleged incident.  “The forensic evidence, we believe are not consistent with
forcible encounter,” Brafman told the judge. “This is a very,
very defensible case.”  The 32-year-old hotel housekeeper who told police she was
attacked by Strauss-Kahn had never crossed paths with him
before, a lawyer representing the woman said.  “She did not know who he was and did not see him before,”
Jeffrey Shapiro, the woman’s lawyer, said yesterday in a phone
interview. Shapiro, a personal injury and medical malpractice
lawyer at New York’s  Jeffrey J. Shapiro & Associates LLC , said
he was introduced to the woman by a friend and is offering her
counsel.  IMF’s Response  After Strauss-Kahn’s arrest, the IMF appointed Deputy
Managing Director  John Lipsky  as acting managing director.  “We are aware of widespread speculation about the managing
director’s status,” William Murray, an IMF spokesman, said in a
press statement yesterday. “We have no comment on this
speculation, other than to note, as we did earlier this week,
that the executive board was briefed informally on developments
regarding his arrest in New York.”  The IMF’s executive board, meeting in  Washington , agreed to
seek contact with Strauss-Kahn about his intentions, according
to an official briefed on the deliberations.  U.S. Senator  Mark Kirk  wants Meg Lundsager, the U.S.
executive director of the IMF, to seek Strauss-Kahn’s
resignation, the lawmaker’s spokeswoman said.  Kirk, an Illinois Republican who serves on a Senate
appropriations subcommittee that has partial oversight of the
IMF, is also seeking hearings on how the international fund has
managed the European debt crisis, his spokeswoman, Kate Dickens,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  Meanwhile, Strauss-Kahn was spending a second night at
Rikers Island, where inmates are routinely awakened for
breakfast between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m.  “He passed the night uneventfully,” Stephen Morello, a
spokesman for the city’s Department of Correction, said in a
phone interview after Strauss-Kahn’s first night in jail.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  