-- 
Strauss-Kahn’s Downfall Is Chance for IMF Renewal: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-05-17T10:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/strauss-kahn-s-downfall-is-chance-for-imf-renewal-matthew-lynn.html
It couldn’t have come at a worse
moment. A bailout of  Portugal  was being completed. Greece was
tottering on the edge of a default. And where was the managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund , the man meant to be
guiding the world economy through this chaos?  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  was in a cell in  New York ’s Rikers
Island jail, awaiting his next court hearing on charges of
sexually assaulting and attempting to rape a hotel housekeeper.  The trial of Strauss-Kahn will finish his career and
transform the race for the French presidency, for which he was
the leading candidate in next year’s election. It may well
determine the fate of Europe’s single currency. There is no
guarantee that the next head of the IMF will support the euro
with the same determination that Strauss-Kahn did.  Yet the most significant consequence of the scandal will be
the effect it has on the IMF itself. It has become painfully
obvious that giving the top job to a French, German or even
British politician who happens to have some spare time on his
hands is no longer good enough.  The IMF plays the most important role in the world economy
right now. In the next decade, we will see multiple sovereign-
debt crises stemming from the extravagance of the last decade.
We may also witness the emergence of a new currency system. The
IMF is the only body that can provide leadership on both fronts
and that will require someone with different qualifications and
ambitions. For this reason, it should select internal candidates
and groom a new generation of leaders from within its own ranks.  Fair Trial  Strauss-Kahn does, of course, remain innocent until proven
otherwise. He denies all charges and his lawyer says Strauss-
Kahn will plead not guilty. He is entitled to a fair trial, and
may yet emerge from this scandal as a free man. Still, it seems
unlikely he will remain in office after the case is over, even
if he is acquitted. The reality is that the IMF will need a new
managing director.  John Lipsky , who is filling in for Strauss-
Kahn, is due to leave his post as deputy at the end of August.  Tradition states that a European gets the job. More often
than not, it goes to someone French. Normally, they are former
bankers, finance ministers or policy makers. There won’t be any
shortage of candidates in that mold.  Christine Lagarde , the
French finance minister, has already been linked to the job. So
has  Axel Weber , the former Bundesbank chief. Former U.K. Prime
Minister  Gordon Brown  would love to run the IMF, though it seems
unlikely he will secure the support of the British government.  Possible Successors  No doubt we will be reading about the relative merits of
Spanish central bankers and Swedish finance ministers fairly
soon as the different campaigns get under way. Many of them
would be perfectly good. Lagarde is smart and experienced, and
has impressed plenty of people with her skill at helping put
together the rescue packages for the euro. Weber demonstrated
his independence and integrity at the Bundesbank.  The IMF now needs a new kind of leader. The top job should
no longer be a consolation prize for someone who missed out on
running the  European Central Bank . It also shouldn’t be a
stepping stone to the French presidency. Or an alternative to
the golf course for defeated prime ministers. It should be the
summit of a career, and not something you add to your resume on
the way to something bigger.  There will never be a more important time to overhaul the
IMF’s leadership culture.  The sovereign-debt crisis is just starting.  Greece , Ireland
and Portugal are only the tip of a very large iceberg. Far
bigger countries face huge fiscal challenges in the next 10
years. The IMF will have to anticipate and prevent defaults from
turning into a more general financial crisis.  Dollar in Decline  At the same time, the dollar’s role as a reserve currency
is in long-term decline. With the rise of emerging economies,
the U.S. can no longer maintain its position at the center of
the financial system. At some point, a new reserve currency will
be needed. It might be based on a basket of currencies or on
gold. Perhaps it will be based on something no has even thought
of yet. Whatever it is, the IMF will be pivotal to bringing it
into being and stabilizing the global economy in the dangerous
transition from one system to another.  To do that, the IMF needs to be allowed to develop its own
leadership from within. Central banks aren’t run by former
politicians or finance ministers parachuted into the role.
Neither are big companies. They are led by men, and occasionally
women, who have made their careers within those institutions. By
the time they get the top job, they know the issues, and they
know how they want to tackle them.  The IMF already has a talented pool of insiders. Whether
the managing director comes from  Europe  doesn’t matter. What
counts is whether he or she has the knowledge, expertise and
vision to do the job.  Strauss-Kahn may well leave his post in disgrace. Yet if
his downfall can establish the point that the IMF needs a
different kind of leader, he will have done his colleagues in
 Washington  an unexpected service.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  