-- 
Swaziland’s Declining Reserves Are Threatening Peg to South Africa’s Rand

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-05-17T10:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/swaziland-s-declining-reserves-a-threat-to-currency-peg-central-bank-says.html
Declining reserves in Swaziland, sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s last absolute monarchy, may undermine the
currency peg to the South African rand, central bank Governor
Martin Dlamini said.  The level of reserves “does not augur well” for the one-
to-one peg with the rand, Dlamini said in a statement dated
yesterday, handed to Bloomberg News today in Mbabane, the
capital. “It also affects the level of confidence by markets in
the country’s ability to meet external obligations, as well as
to absorb external shocks.”  Reserves fell 4.2 percent to 4.03 billion emalangeni ($578
million) in March from a month earlier, enough to cover 2.5
months of imports, Dlamini said. The Central Bank of Swaziland
transferred 660 million emalangeni to the government to help it
meet its obligations, the Times of Swaziland reported May 12,
citing Finance Minister Majozi Sithole, without saying when the
transfer was made.  The country, Africa’s third-largest sugar producer wedged
between  South Africa  and  Mozambique , is struggling to contain a
 budget crisis  that has forced it to raise taxes and slash
recurrent spending. Labor unions have refused to agree to a
state-worker wage cut, one of the conditions for a loan from the
 African Development Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . Last
year, the nation lost a third of its revenue as income from a
regional customs union that includes South Africa declined when
the global economic crisis cut trade.  Water Cannons  Police used tear gas, rubber bullets and water cannons to
quell union protests last month to demand democracy and to
oppose the austerity measures.  Businesses have warned they may have to close down because
of higher taxes and aggressive collection by the Swaziland
Revenue Authority that started in January, Zodwa Mabuza, chief
executive officer of the Swaziland Federation of Employers, said
by phone today.  The government may not be able to pay state salaries in
June, the Mbabane-based Swazi Observer on May 10 cited Majozi as
saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlatshwayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  