-- 
Syrians Protest in Damascus Following Reports of Mass Grave Discovery

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-17T15:56:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/syrians-protest-in-capital-after-report-of-mass-grave-denied-by-government.html
Syrian protesters kept up
demonstrations, gathering in the suburbs of the capital and the
central city of Homs, following reports of the discovery of a
mass grave containing the bodies of anti-government activists.  The Ministry of Interior in Damascus denied accounts of the
burial ground in the southern city of Daraa, saying the
allegation was part of a “campaign of provocation and baseless
falsehoods,” state television reported today.  Protesters gathered late yesterday in the Damascus suburbs
of Saqba, Harasta and Darayya, while women staged a nighttime
rally in Homs, Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights said in a phone interview today from the capital.
Security forces backed by tanks continued to besiege the town of
Tallkalakh near the border with Lebanon, he said.  Syrian authorities have killed at least 850 people during
two months of protests, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi,
head of Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights. The
suppression of pro-democracy protests followed revolts that
ousted longtime leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . The uprising drew
initial pledges of reform from President Bashar al-Assad, who
lifted an emergency law in place since 1963 and named a new
government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in recent weeks as
security forces stepped up their assaults.  International Sanctions  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  met in Washington and
indicated that they will take further initiatives against the
Syrian regime in the coming hours or days.  The EU has imposed sanctions including a visa ban and an
asset freeze on 13 Syrian officials and relatives of Assad. The
U.S. also has applied sanctions against Syrian officials.  “Today we discussed additional steps that we can take to
increase pressure and further isolate the Assad regime,”
Clinton said in  Washington .  Qurabi said the bodies of 31 people killed by security
forces were buried in the mass grave found by villagers near
Daraa, where anti-government protests began in mid-March. The
remains of another 41 people who were targeted by authorities
during the past week were also discovered yesterday in Jassem
and Inkhel, he said by phone today. The villages are part of the
Daraa governorate. Authorities have said they were chasing
Muslim militants and “terrorist elements” in the area.  Video Provided  Qurabi provided Bloomberg News with a video purported to be
of the grave that has also been posted on the YouTube website.
It wasn’t possible to confirm the authenticity of the video
immediately. It showed bodies being dug out of the ground and
put into plastic bags.  Most foreign journalists have been banned from  Syria  and
the government has restricted media access.  Syria has asked the Lebanese government to hand over four
Syrian soldiers who refused to fire on residents of Tallkalakh
and fled with hundreds of civilians across the border into
Lebanon, Al-Arabiya reported today. One of the soldiers died of
his wounds, the news channel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  