-- 
April Inflation Accelerates More Than Forecast to Fastest Pace Since 2008

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-17T10:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/u-k-inflation-accelerates-more-than-forecast-to-fastest-pace-since-2008.html
U.K. inflation accelerated more than
economists forecast in April to the fastest since October 2008,
forcing  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  to explain publicly
why officials haven’t raised  interest rates  yet.  Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in April after a 4 percent
increase in March, data today showed. The median forecast of 32
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 4.1 percent. Core
inflation quickened to the fastest in at least 14 years. King
said in a letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
that the surge is being driven by higher sales tax and increases
in energy and import prices.  The pound rose after the London-based  Office for National
Statistics  reported the inflation data. While King said
inflation is likely to rise further in the next few months, he
sees it easing toward the bank’s 2 percent target next year. The
central bank signaled last week it may need to raise the key
interest rate from a record low to control “uncomfortably
high” price growth.  “The Monetary Policy Committee judges that attempting to
bring inflation back to the target quickly risks generating
undesirable volatility in output and would increase the chances
of undershooting the target in the medium term,” King said.  ‘First Hike’  The pound extended its gain against the dollar after the
data, and traded at 1.6269 as of 11:13 a.m. in London, up 0.5
percent from yesterday. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was up 3 basis points today at 1.020 percent.  Investors are betting on a quarter-point rate increase in
December, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by Tullett
Prebon Plc. Bets have wavered between November and January since
last week.  “We believe the market went too far in terms of only
pricing the first rate hike for January,” said  James Knightley ,
an economist at ING Group in London, who sees the first increase
in November. Still, “with ongoing worries about the
sustainability of the economic recovery this suggests the pace
and scale of rate hikes will be modest.”  Surging commodity and energy prices, as well as a
government tax increase, have kept inflation above the bank’s 2
percent target for more than a year.  ‘Substantially Lower’  King said that while it’s “difficult to quantify with
precision” the impact of these factors, it is likely that
inflation would have been “substantially lower and probably
below the target” had they not occurred. In his response,
Osborne said the government’s deficit-cutting plan “continues
to provide the MPC with the space it needs to target low
inflation.” He welcomed the bank’s commitment “to respond
flexibly to the economic outlook.”  Today’s data showed consumer prices rose 1 percent in
April, matching a record in December 2010. The price gains on
the month and the year were led by costs for transport as well
as alcohol and tobacco. The statistics office said travel costs
were boosted in April by the timing of the Easter holiday.  Gas
prices  also lifted the annual rate.  So-called  core inflation , which excludes costs of energy,
alcohol, food and tobacco, quickened to 3.7 percent, the fastest
since records began in 1997, from 3.2 in March. The same factors
driving the headline rate fueled core prices.  Retail-price inflation, a measure of the cost of living
used in wage negotiations, slowed to 5.2 percent in April from
March’s 5.3 percent. On the month, prices by that measure
increased 0.8 percent. Excluding mortgage costs, retail-price
inflation was 5.3 percent.  Consumer Impact  King said last week domestic gas prices may rise as much as
15 percent in the second half of 2011 and the first quarter of
2012, while electricity prices may increase by about 10 percent.
U.K. energy company  Centrica Plc (CNA)  said May 9 the cost of gas and
power to be delivered later this year is about 25 percent higher
than in 2011.  The Ernst & Young ITEM Club said yesterday that high
inflation may squeeze households and undermine  consumer spending 
for a decade.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest
supermarket chain, said May 11 it expects economic conditions to
remain “uncertain” this year.  The Bank of England’s MPC didn’t have the April inflation
data at its meeting this month, when it held its benchmark rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent to aid the economic recovery.
Minutes of the decision will be published tomorrow, and will
show if a four-way split among policy makers persisted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  