-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline to One-Month Low as Hewlett-Packard Tumbles

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-17T20:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-before-industrial-production-housing-data.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending
benchmark indexes to one-month lows, as a reduced sales forecast
at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and an unexpected decline in housing
starts damped optimism about the economic recovery.  Hewlett-Packard, the biggest personal-computer maker,
tumbled 7.3 percent after also missing analysts’ profit
projections as consumers shunned PCs.  D.R. Horton  Inc. and KB
Home fell at least 1.8 percent, pacing declines in homebuilders.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  slumped more than 1.6 percent after
figures from the Federal Reserve showed that industrial
production in the U.S. unexpectedly stalled in April.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined less than 0.1
percent to 1,328.98 at 4 p.m. in  New York , falling 1.5 percent
over the last three days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
retreated 68.79 points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,479.58 today.  “There’s just not a whole lot to drive the stock market
higher right now,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6
billion as chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust Co.
“The housing improvement has been pushed down the road. Some
big companies are cutting forecasts. The European debt crisis is
in everyone’s minds. We were off for a good start this year. I
see some pause as investors turn a bit more defensive.”  Economic Surprise  The S&P 500 has extended a two-week decline amid investors’
concern that Greece may have to restructure its debt and as
economic data missed forecasts.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s U.S. Economic
Surprise Index, which gauges the rate at which data is exceeding
or trailing economists’ estimates, turned negative in May and is
at its lowest level since August. The index had climbed to a
record in March.  Still, analysts have raised full-year earnings estimates in
the  S&P 500 index (SPX)  by 2.2 percent since April as more than two
thirds of companies that reported earnings beat projections.  The S&P 500 closed above its average price of the last 50
days of 1,323.74 after dropping below it earlier today. A close
below that level could have signaled the potential for further
decline, according to analysts who study charts.  “There’s potential support at that level,” said  Ryan Detrick , senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s Investment
Research in Cincinnati. “We see some bottom-picking going on.
It looks like the buyers are coming in here because we got
oversold in key leadership areas.”  Lagging Behind  Industries that had led the  S&P 500  rally from its 2009
bottom have lagged behind since this year’s low on March 16.
Commodity producers, financial and technology companies have
underperformed the benchmark during that period. The S&P 500 has
advanced 5.7 percent since March 16.  Stock futures turned lower today after government data
showed that work began in April on 523,000 houses at an annual
pace, down 11 percent from the prior month and less than the
569,000 median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Figures from the Commerce Department also showed that
building permits, a sign of future construction, decreased.  Output at factories, mines and utilities was unchanged
after a 0.7 percent gain in March, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed, led by a drop in auto production after parts
supplies were disrupted by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.  European finance ministers for the first time floated the
idea of talks with bondholders over extending Greece’s debt-
repayment schedule, saying that last year’s 110 billion-euro
($156 billion) rescue has failed to restore the country to
financial health.  Europe  would consider “reprofiling” Greek
bond maturities as part of a package including stepped-up sales
of state assets and deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said late yesterday.  Probability of Default  The probability of Greece defaulting or restructuring its
debt has increased since the arrest of International Monetary
Fund head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said.  “Don’t underestimate how important Dominique Strauss-Kahn
was in coordinating action” among European nations, El-Erian,
the chief executive officer of Pimco, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “It’s
the worst possible time to lose your general. You need the IMF
to coordinate this global healing.”       Hewlett-Packard tumbled 7.3 percent to $36.91. Full-
year sales will be $129 billion to $130 billion and earnings
excluding some items will be at least $5 a share, Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard said. Analysts estimated sales
of $130.3 billion and earnings of $5.24, the average projections
in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Another Tough Quarter’  The predictions came a day after Bloomberg News reported
Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  had sent a downbeat memo
warning his staff of “another tough quarter” in the period
through July. Hurt by competition from tablet computers such as
Apple Inc.’s iPad and falling profitability at its services
unit, Hewlett-Packard may need to reduce jobs to lower expenses.  “They probably have to do some cost cutting,” said
Kulbinder Garcha, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York. “They’ll have to drive for further efficiency. Can they
do that easily? No, it’ll probably take some time.”  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes fell 0.8 percent as
10 of its 12 stocks retreated. D.R. Horton, the second-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue, declined 1.8 percent to $11.46.  KB
Home (KBH)  slumped 2.2 percent to $10.91.  Industries most-tied to economic growth led the declines in
the S&P 500. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of 30 stocks
dropped 1.5 percent.  Caterpillar Declines  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, slid 3.8 percent to $102.08. 3M, the maker of
products including Scotch tape and  Post-it Notes , fell 1.7
percent to $93.86.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rose 2.2 percent to $43.81. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said banks are starting to lend
again. Dimon also said four businesses may add more than $500
million each to profit during the next five to seven years:
commercial banking, commodities, private-client services and
international expansion.  “We have enormous growth opportunities both in the U.S.
and overseas,” Dimon said at the New York-based company’s
annual shareholders’ meeting in Columbus, Ohio. He said the bank
plans to open 20 international branches next year for wealthy
customers and corporations with investments overseas.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  added 1.1 percent to $37.40. The largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer said first-quarter profit rose 12
percent, meeting analysts’ estimates, as operating expenses fell
faster than sales. Home Depot cut expenses including payroll and
advertising in the quarter, countering a slight drop in revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  