-- 
U.S. Industrial Production Stalls on Auto Disruption; Housing Starts Drop

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-17T16:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/u-s-april-industrial-production-stalls-on-autos.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
unexpectedly stalled in April and housing starts dropped, posing
hurdles to a rebound from the first quarter’s economic slowdown.  Output at factories, mines and utilities was unchanged
after a 0.7 percent gain in March, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed today, led by a drop in auto production after
parts supplies were disrupted by the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan . Work began on 523,000 houses at an annual pace, down 11
percent, as tornadoes and floods in the South shut down
construction sites.  Production may reassert its place at the leading edge of
the recovery as parts supplies resume, while overseas demand and
business investment boost sales at companies like  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  At the same time, a housing recovery may take years to
unfold as foreclosures and 9 percent unemployment hold back
demand.  “The second quarter will be a little better than the
first, though it’s not going to be off to the races,” said
 Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez
Inc. in  New York . “It’s a reasonably good outlook for
manufacturing” and “housing is bouncing along the bottom.”  Treasury securities  rose and stocks declined after the
reports. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note, which moves
inversely to prices, fell to 3.10 percent at 12:04 p.m. in New
York from 3.15 percent late yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index declined 0.5 percent to 1,322.57.  Economists had forecast a 0.4 percent gain in industrial
production, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Housing starts were forecast to rise to a 569,000 pace.  Autos, Parts  Factory output, which makes up 75 percent of the total,
fell 0.4 percent, and production of automobiles and parts
plunged 8.9 percent, the Fed report showed. Excluding autos,
manufacturing rose 0.2 percent.  “The weakness was primarily concentrated in autos due to
the parts shortage, but that’s temporary and auto output will
come snapping back,” said  Brian Jones , an economist at  Societe
Generale  in New York, who correctly forecast that industrial
production would be unchanged.  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, fell to 76.9 percent last month from 77 percent
in March. The gauge compares with the average of 79.5 percent
over the past 20 years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased
0.8 percent. Utility output climbed 1.7 percent.  Dollar’s Decline  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, is likely to keep bolstering economic growth as an 18
percent drop in the dollar index from June 7, 2010 to April 29
made American-made goods more attractive abroad.  Exports jumped 4.6 percent in March, the biggest gain since
1994, to a record $172.7 billion. The gain reflected overseas
demand for autos, chemicals and industrial machinery. Sales to
customers in South and Central America reached a record, and
purchases from clients in the European Union were the strongest
since June 2008.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction equipment
maker, last month said it expects global economic growth this
year of about 4 percent, with  developing countries  expanding by
6.5 percent and the U.S. growing by 3.5 percent.  The Peoria, Illinois-based company raised its full-year
earnings forecast and said the outlook would have been higher
had it not been for the March 11 earthquake in Japan.  Japanese Suppliers  “Our facilities in Japan were not damaged by the
earthquake and tsunami, but many of our suppliers in Japan
were,” Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said on an April
29 conference call. “As a result, we are experiencing sporadic
production disruptions at many of our facilities around the
world.”  A survey by the  Institute for Supply Management  released
today showed manufacturers have a more optimistic outlook for
sales and spending in 2011 than they did at the end of last
year.  Factory purchasing managers project sales will grow 7.5
percent this year, up from a 5.6 percent December forecast,
according to the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s semiannual
forecast. By contrast, service providers estimated revenue will
rise 2.1 percent this year, less than the 3.4 percent forecast
in December.  Today’s Commerce Department report showed housing starts
dropped in two of four regions, led by a 23 percent decrease in
the South, the largest area. They fell 4.8 percent in the
Northeast and climbed 16 percent in the Midwest and 3.7 percent
in the West.  Weather’s Influence  Weather may have played a role. Last month was the 10th
wettest April since record-keeping began in 1895, with 875
preliminary reports of tornados, a record for any month,
according to the National Climatic Data Center. Most wind damage
occurred from the southern and central plains to the Atlantic
coast.  Flooding on the  Mississippi River  may continue to constrain
homebuilding in the region this month, Morgan Stanley economists
 David Greenlaw  and Ted Wieseman wrote in a note to clients
today. They forecast starts to show “little increase” this
year.  The Commerce Department revised March’s total to a 585,000
pace, up from a previously estimated 549,000. Starts reached a
record low 477,000 pace in April 2009.  Building permits, a gauge of future construction, fell 4
percent to a 551,000 annual pace in April.  CoreLogic Inc. in March estimated about 1.8 million homes
were delinquent or in foreclosure, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the 3.5 million existing homes already
on the market.  Toll Brothers Inc. Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr. last week said the April through June home selling season,
typically the busiest of the year, has been “disappointing”
and that “people are still scared.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  