-- 
U.S. April Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-05-17T13:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/u-s-april-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 industrial production  and capacity utilization report for April
released by the Federal Reserve.  Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  Industrial production was unchanged in April after having
increased 0.7 percent in March.  Output in February is now
estimated to have declined 0.3 percent; previously it was
reported to have edged up 0.1 percent.  In April, manufacturing
production fell 0.4 percent after rising for nine consecutive
months. Total motor vehicle assemblies dropped from an annual
rate of 9.0 million units in March to 7.9 million units in April,
mainly because of parts shortages that resulted from the
earthquake in  Japan .  Excluding motor vehicles and parts,
factory production rose 0.2 percent in April.  The output of
mines advanced 0.8 percent, while the output of utilities
increased 1.7 percent.  At 93.1 percent of its 2007 average,
total industrial production was 5.0 percent above its year-
earlier level.  The rate of capacity utilization for total
industry edged down 0.1 percentage point to 76.9 percent, a rate
3.5 percentage points below its average from 1972 to 2010.  Market Groups  The production of consumer goods decreased 0.7 percent in
April because of weakness in the output of consumer durable
goods.  The index for consumer durable goods fell 4.4 percent,
while the index for consumer nondurables rose 0.3 percent.
Within the durables category, the output of automotive products
dropped 7.0 percent, and the output of appliances, furniture,
and carpeting fell 4.2 percent.  The index for miscellaneous
 consumer durables  recorded a decrease of 0.2 percent, while the
index for home electronics increased 0.7 percent.  The output of
non-energy nondurable goods rose 0.6 percent, with gains in all
of its main components.  The output of consumer energy products
declined 0.5 percent.  The index for business equipment fell 0.4 percent in April
following a loss of 0.5 percent in March. Within business
equipment in April, the output of transit equipment decreased
3.6 percent as a result of the large drop in motor vehicle
assemblies; the production of most other types of transit
equipment, particularly civilian aircraft, advanced
substantially.  The index for industrial and other equipment
gained 0.7 percent, while the index for information processing
equipment was unchanged.  Despite a second consecutive monthly
decrease in business equipment, the index in April was 9.9
percent above its level 12 months earlier.  The production index for defense and space equipment was
unchanged in April after decreasing 0.3 percent in the previous
month. Output in April was 1.4 percent above its year-earlier
level.  Among nonindustrial supplies, the output of construction
supplies declined 0.1 percent in April.  This index has risen
3.0 percent since April 2010 but remains well below its pre-
recession peak.  The production of business supplies increased
0.7 percent in April following a similarly sized gain in March.
Within business supplies in April, the index for commercial
energy advanced 0.6 percent, and the index for non-energy
business supplies moved up 0.7 percent--its sixth consecutive
monthly increase.  The output of materials to be processed further in the
industrial sector rose 0.3 percent in April after increasing 0.9
percent in March.  The output of durable materials declined 0.4
percent in April; a drop of 5.4 percent in consumer parts--
primarily motor vehicle parts--more than offset an increase of
0.9 percent in equipment parts.  The output of nondurable
materials edged up 0.2 percent after increasing 0.5 percent in
March.  In April, among nondurable materials, a sizable increase
in textile production and a small gain in chemical production
more than offset a decrease in the output of paper.  The index
for energy materials moved up 1.1 percent, with similarly sized
increases in primary energy and converted fuel. Industry Groups  In April, manufacturing output fell 0.4 percent after
increasing 0.6 percent in March.  The rates of change for
manufacturing were also revised down for both January and
February; lower estimates for the production of cigarettes,
petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, microprocessors, and
military aircraft contributed to the downward revisions.  The
index for manufacturing in April was 4.6 percent above its year-
earlier level.  Capacity utilization for manufacturing moved
down 0.4 percentage point to 74.4 percent, a rate 10.0
percentage points above its trough in June 2009 but still 4.6
percentage points below its average from 1972 to 2010.  The production index for durable goods dropped 1.0 percent
in April.  The output of motor vehicles and parts fell 8.9
percent after increasing 3.6 percent in March.  In addition, in
April, significant losses in output were recorded in the
following industries:  primary metals; electrical equipment,
appliances, and components; and furniture and related products.
Durable goods industries with gains in output included
nonmetallic mineral products, fabricated metal products,
machinery, computer and electronic products, and aerospace and
miscellaneous transportation equipment.  The production of nondurables edged up 0.1 percent in April
after advancing 0.5 percent in March.  In April, decreases for
paper products and for petroleum and coal products were more
than offset by gains for all other categories, with increases of
nearly 1 percent or more for textile and product mills, apparel
and leather, and printing and support.  Production in the non-
NAICS manufacturing industries (logging and publishing) rose 0.8
percent after declining for four consecutive months.  In April, mining output rose 0.8 percent.  Gains in oil and
gas extraction, in support activity for mining, and in coal
mining more than offset decreases in metal ore mining and in
nonmetallic mineral mining and quarrying.  Capacity utilization
for mining moved up 0.6 percentage point to 88.2 percent, a rate
0.8 percentage point above its average for the period from 1972
to 2010.  The output of utilities increased 1.7 percent, and its
capacity utilization rate rose to 81.6 percent, a rate 5.0
percentage points below its average from 1972 to 2010.  Capacity utilization rates in April for industries grouped
by stage of process were as follows:  At the crude stage,
utilization increased 0.4 percentage point to 87.0 percent, a
rate 0.6 percentage point above its long-run (1972 to 2010)
average; at the primary and semifinished stages, utilization
moved up 0.1 percentage point to 74.5 percent, a rate 6.8
percentage points below its long-run average.  At the finished
stage, utilization fell 0.5 percentage point to 75.6 percent, a
rate 1.7 percentage points below its long-run average.  Revision of Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  The  Federal Reserve  Board released its annual revision to
the index of industrial production and the related measures of
capacity and utilization on March 25, 2011.  This revision
incorporated detailed data from the 2009 Annual Survey of
Manufactures, which was conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau.  In
addition, data from selected editions of the Census Bureau’s
2009 Current Industrial Reports and annual data from the U.S.
Geological Survey regarding metallic and nonmetallic minerals
(except fuels) for 2009 were incorporated.  Monthly indicators
(either product data or input data) were revised, and the
estimation methods for some series were changed.  The new
monthly production estimates reflected the incorporation of
updated seasonal factors and monthly and quarterly source data
that became available (or were revised) after the closing of the
reporting window.  Data on capacity utilization from the Census
Bureau’s Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity for 2010 were
incorporated in the revision.  The published revision release is available on the Board’s
website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17.  The revised
data are also available through the website of the  Department of
Commerce .  Further information on the revision can be obtained
from the Board’s Industrial Output Section (telephone number
202-452-3197).  Explanatory Note  The Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization
statistical release, which is published around the middle of the
month, reports measures of output, capacity, and capacity
utilization in manufacturing, mining, and the electric and gas
utilities industries.  More detailed descriptions of industrial
production and capacity utilization are available on the Board’s
website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17. In addition, the
website includes files containing data shown in the release,
more detailed series that are published in a monthly supplement
to the G.17, and historical data.  Instructions on searching for
and downloading specific series are provided as well.  Industrial Production  Coverage.  The industrial production (IP) index measures the real
output of the manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas
utilities industries; the reference period for the index is 2007.
Manufacturing consists of those industries included in the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) definition of
manufacturing plus those industries-newspaper, periodical, book,
and directory publishing plus logging-that have traditionally
been considered to be manufacturing.  For the period since 1997,
the total IP index has been constructed from 312 individual
series based on the 2002 NAICS codes. These individual series
are classified in two ways: (1) market groups, and (2) industry
groups. Market groups consist of products and materials.  Total
products are the aggregate of final products, such as  consumer
goods  and equipment, and nonindustrial supplies (which are
inputs to nonindustrial sectors). Materials are inputs in the
manufacture of  products.  Major industry groups include three-
digit NAICS industries and aggregates of these industries-for
example, durable and nondurable manufacturing, mining, and
utilities.  A complete description of the market and industry
structures, including details regarding series classification,
relative importance weights, and data sources, is available on
the Board’s web site
(www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17/About.htm).  Source data.  On a monthly basis, the individual indexes of industrial
production are constructed from two main types of source data:
(1) output measured in physical units and (2) data on inputs to
the production process, from which output is inferred.  Data on
physical products, such as tons of steel or barrels of oil, are
obtained from private trade associations and from government
agencies; data of this type are used to estimate monthly IP
wherever possible and appropriate.  Production indexes for a few
industries are derived by dividing estimated nominal output
(calculated using unit production and unit values or sales) by a
corresponding Fisher price index; the most notable of these fall
within the high-technology grouping and include computers,
communications equipment, and semiconductors.  When suitable
direct measures of product are not available, estimates of
output are based on production-worker hours by industry.  Data
on hours worked by production workers are collected in the
monthly establishment survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  The factors used to convert inputs into estimates
of production are based on historical relationships between the
inputs and the comprehensive annual data used to benchmark the
IP indexes; these factors also may be influenced by
technological or cyclical developments. The annual data used in
benchmarking the individual IP indexes are constructed from a
variety of source data, such as the quinquennial Censuses of
Manufactures and Mineral Industries and the Annual Survey of
Manufactures, prepared by the Bureau of the Census; the Minerals
Yearbook, prepared by the United States Geological Survey of the
Department of the Interior; and publications of the  Department
of Energy .  Aggregation Methodology and Weights.  The aggregation method for the IP index is a version of the
Fisher-ideal index formula.  (For a detailed discussion of the
aggregation method, see the Federal Reserve Bulletins of
February 1997 and March 2001.)  In the IP index, series that
measure the output of an individual industry are combined using
weights derived from their proportion in the total value-added
output of all industries.  The IP index, which extends back to
1919, is built as a chain-type index since 1972.  The current
formula for the growth in monthly IP (or any of the sub-
aggregates) since 1972 is shown below.  An output index for
month m is denoted by I^A_m for aggregate A and I_m for each of
its components. The monthly price measure in the formula  (p_m)
is interpolated from an annual series of value added divided by
the average annual IP index.  The IP proportions (typically shown in the first column of
the relevant tables in the G.17 release) are estimates of the
industries’ relative contributions to overall growth in the
following year.  For example, the relative importance weight of
the motor vehicles and parts industry is about 4 percent.  If
output in this industry increased 10 percent in a month, then
this gain would boost growth in total IP by 4/10 percentage
point (0.04 x 10% = 0.4%).  To assist users with calculations,
the Federal Reserve’s web site provides supplemental monthly
statistics that represent the exact proportionate contribution
of a monthly change in a component index to the monthly change
in the total index (www.federalreserve.gov/
releases/G17/ipdisk/IPWeightsSa.txt).  Timing.  The first estimate of output for a month is published
around the 15th of the following month. The estimate is
preliminary (denoted by the superscript “p” in tables) and
subject to revision in each of the subsequent five months as new
source data become available. (Revised estimates are denoted by
the superscript “r” in tables.) For the first estimate of output
for a given month, about 70 percent of the source data (in
value-added terms) are available; the fraction of available
source data increases to 84 percent for estimates in the second
month that the estimate is published, 93 percent in the third
month, 97 percent in the fourth month, 98 percent in the fifth
month, and 99 percent in the sixth month.  The physical product group includes series based on either
monthly or quarterly data.  As can be seen in the first row of
the table, in the first month, a physical product indicator is
available for about half of the series (in terms of value added)
that ultimately are based on physical product data (25 percent
out of a total of 53 percent).  Of the 25 percent, about two-
thirds (19 percent of total IP) include series that are derived
from weekly physical product data and for which actual monthly
data may lag up to several months.  On average, quarterly
product data are received for the fourth estimate of industrial
production.  Specifically, quarterly data are available for the
third estimate of the last month of a quarter, the fourth
estimate of the second month of a quarter, and the fifth
estimate of the first month of a quarter.  Seasonal adjustment.  Individual series are seasonally adjusted using Census X-12
ARIMA. For series based on production-worker hours, the current
seasonal factors were estimated with data through January 2011;
for other series, the factors were estimated with data through
at least December 2010.  Series are pre-adjusted for the effects
of holidays or business cycles when appropriate.  For the data
since 1972, all seasonally adjusted aggregate indexes are
calculated by aggregating the seasonally adjusted indexes of the
individual series.  Reliability.  The average revision to the level of the total IP index,
without regard to sign, between the first and the fourth
estimates was 0.26 percent during the 1987-2009 period.  The
average revision to the percent change in total IP, without
regard to sign, from the first to the fourth estimates was 0.21
percentage point during the 1987-2009 period.  In most cases
(about 85 percent), the direction of the change in output
indicated by the first estimate for a given month is the same as
that shown by the fourth estimate.  Rounding.  The published percent changes are calculated from unrounded
indexes, and may not be the same as percent changes calculated
from the rounded indexes shown in the release.  Capacity Utilization  Overview.  The Federal Reserve Board constructs estimates of capacity
and capacity utilization for industries in manufacturing, mining,
and electric and gas utilities.  For a given industry, the
capacity utilization rate is equal to an output index
(seasonally adjusted) divided by a capacity index.  The Federal
Reserve Board’s capacity indexes attempt to capture the concept
of sustainable maximum output-the greatest level of output a
plant can maintain within the framework of a realistic work
schedule, after factoring in normal downtime and assuming
sufficient availability of inputs to operate the capital in
place.  Coverage.  Capacity indexes are constructed for 89 detailed industries
(71 in manufacturing, 16 in mining, and 2 in utilities), which
mostly correspond to industries at the three- and four-digit
NAICS level. Estimates of capacity and utilization are available
for a variety of groups, including durable and nondurable
manufacturing, total manufacturing, mining, utilities, and total
industry.  Manufacturing consists of those industries included
in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
definition of manufacturing plus those industries-newspaper,
periodical, book, and directory publishing plus logging-that
have traditionally been considered to be manufacturing.  Also,
special aggregates are available, such as high-technology
industries and manufacturing excluding high-technology
industries.  Source Data.  The monthly rates of capacity utilization are designed to
be consistent with both the monthly data on production and the
periodically available data on capacity and utilization.
Because there is no direct monthly information on overall
industrial capacity or utilization rates, the Federal Reserve
first estimates annual capacity indexes from the source data.
Capacity data reported in physical units from government sources
(primarily from the  U.S. Geological Survey  and the Department of
Energy’s Energy Information Administration) and trade sources
are available for portions of several industries in
manufacturing (e.g., paper, industrial chemicals, petroleum
refining, motor vehicles), as well as for electric utilities and
mining; these industries represent about 25 percent of total
industrial capacity.  When physical product data are unavailable
for manufacturing industries, capacity indexes are based on
responses to the Bureau of the Census’s Quarterly Survey of
Plant Capacity (QSPC); these industries account for a bit less
than 70 percent of total industry capacity. In the absence of
utilization data for a few mining and petroleum series, capacity
is based on trends through peaks in production (roughly 5
percent of total industry capacity).  A detailed description of
the methodology used to construct the capacity indexes is
available on the Board’s web site
(www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17/CapNotes.htm).  Aggregation Methodology.  Monthly capacity aggregates are calculated in three steps:
(1) utilization aggregates are calculated on an annual basis
through the most recent full year as capacity-weighted
aggregates of individual utilization rates; (2) the annual
aggregate capacity is derived from the corresponding production
and utilization aggregates; (3) the monthly capacity aggregate
is obtained by interpolating the annual capacity aggregate with
a Fisher index of its constituent monthly capacity series.
Utilization rates for the individual series and aggregates are
calculated by dividing the pertinent monthly production index by
the related capacity index.  Consistency.  A major aim is that the Federal Reserve utilization rates
be consistent over time so that, for example, a rate of 85
percent means about the same degree of tightness that it meant
in the past.  A major task for the Federal Reserve in developing
reasonable and consistent time series of capacity and
utilization is dealing with inconsistencies between the
movements of the industrial production index and the survey-
based utilization rates.  The McGraw-Hill/DRI Survey, now
discontinued, was the primary source of manufacturing
utilization rates for many years.  This was a survey of large
companies that reported, on average, higher utilization rates
than those reported by establishments covered by the Census
Bureau’s annual Survey of Plant Capacity (the predecessor to the
QSPC) for the fourteen years they overlapped.  Adjustments have
been made to keep the industry utilization rates currently
reported by the Federal Reserve roughly in line with rates
formerly reported by McGraw-Hill.  As a consequence, the rates
reported by the Federal Reserve tend to be higher than the rates
reported in the QSPC.  Perspective.  Over the 1972-2010 period, the average total industry
utilization rate is 80.4 percent; for manufacturing, the average
factory operating rate has been 79.0 percent.  Industrial plants
usually operate at capacity utilization rates that are well
below 100 percent: none of the broad aggregates has ever reached
100 percent.  For total industry and total manufacturing,
utilization rates have exceeded 90 percent only in wartime.  The
highs and lows in capacity utilization shown in table 7 are
specific to each series and do not all occur in the same month.  References and Release Dates  References.  The release for the annual revision that was published on
June 25, 2010 is available on the Board’s website (www.federal
reserve.gov/releases/g17/revisions/Current/DefaultRev.htm).  The
annual revision published in March 2009 is provided in the
Federal Reserve Bulletin, vol. 95 (August 2009), pp. A125-A145.
The annual revision published in March 2008 is described in an
article published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, vol. 94
(August 2008), pp. A41-A60.  A summary of the annual revision
that incorporated back to 1972 production and capacity indexes
reclassified according to the North American Industry
Classification System is available in an article in the Federal
Reserve Bulletin, vol. 89 (April 2003), pp. 151-176. A
description of the aggregation methods for industrial production
and capacity utilization is included in an article in the
Federal Reserve Bulletin, vol.  83 (February 1997), pp. 67-92.
The Federal Reserve methodology for constructing industry-level
measures of capital is detailed in “Capital Stock Estimates for
Manufacturing Industries: Methods and Data” by Mike Mohr and
Charles Gilbert (1996), which can be obtained at:
www.federalreserve.gov/releases/g17/CapitalStockDocLatest.pdf.  Industrial Production-1986 Edition contains a more detailed
description of the other methods used to compile the industrial
production index, plus a history of its development, a glossary
of terms, and a bibliography.  The major revisions to the IP
indexes and capacity utilization since 1990 have been described
in the Federal Reserve Bulletin (April 1990, June 1990, June
1993, March 1994, January 1995, January 1996, February 1997,
February 1998, January 1999, March 2000, March 2001, March 2002,
April 2003, Winter 2004, Winter 2005, March 2006, May 2007,
August 2008).  Release Schedule  At 9:15 a.m. on  2011: January 14, February 16, March 17, April 15, May 17, June
15,
July 15, August 16, September 15, October 17, November 16, and
December 15. 