-- 
Treasury 10-Year Note Yields Fall to 2011 Low on Housing, Output Weakness

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-17T21:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/u-s-treasury-yields-advance-before-release-of-industrial-production-data.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields to their lowest level in 2011 as U.S. housing starts
unexpectedly fell in April and industrial output stalled.  Bill rates remained close to record lows with the Treasury
reducing sales to conserve borrowing capacity after the U.S.
exceeded its borrowing limit yesterday. The Treasury sold $28
billion of four-week bills today at a rate of 0.025 percent,
compared with record sales of $40 billion weekly as recently as
April. European finance ministers for the first time floated the
idea of talks with bondholders over extending  Greece ’s debt-
repayment schedule.  “Slowing economic data, the ebb and flow of the European
debt crisis, and general anxiety about the budget battle have
kept enough bullish momentum in Treasuries to continue to see
yields grind lower,” said  Adrian Miller , fixed-income
strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York.  The 10-year note yields dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.12 percent at 5:18 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security maturing in May 2021 gained 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 2/32.  Yields on 10-year notes touched 3.10 percent, the lowest
level since Dec. 7. The 30-year bond yields slid five basis
points to 4.23 percent. Two-year note yields were little changed
at 0.52 percent.  Housing Starts  Work began on 523,000 houses at an annual pace in April,
down 11 percent from the prior month and less than the 569,000
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today. Building
permits, a sign of future construction, also decreased.  Industrial production was unchanged last month after a 0.7
percent gain in March, the  Federal Reserve  reported. The median
forecast was for a 0.4 percent increase.  “These numbers continue to indicate the ‘lumpiness’ of the
recovery,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital
markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , wrote today in a research note to clients. “There is
little on the ‘hope horizon’ to predict a trend change, at least
for the balance of 2011.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, fell to 2.26 percentage points today, the
narrowest since Feb. 17.  Bond Returns  Treasuries have returned 0.9 percent in May after a 1.2
percent gain in the previous month, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Inflation-linked U.S.
debt has lost 0.1 percent this month.  “The  U.S. economy  is falling into a slower period of
economic growth,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “That said,
fundamental growth and inflation expectations just don’t justify
the levels of rates we are seeing. The rates market is due for a
correction given the magnitude of the rally.”  Six-month bill rates were at 0.07 percent, compared with
the record low 0.0305 percent reached May 6. Three-month bill
rates were at 0.04 percent, almost the lowest level since they
went negative during the financial crisis.  Bill supply has slid since February after the Treasury
eliminated $195 billion in short-term debt it sold on behalf of
the Fed to help avoid exceeding the  U.S. debt  limit.  Geithner on Debt  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  wrote to lawmakers
yesterday to say he is proceeding with a measure allowing him to
free up borrowing room from the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund and the Government Securities Investment Fund to
avoid the $14.3 trillion debt limit through Aug. 2.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  has
said his party wants “significant” cuts in spending and no tax
increases as a condition for raising the limit.  Citigroup Inc. advised investors to sell five-year German
notes versus similar-maturity  U.S. government debt , citing its
outlook for European Central Bank interest rates and government
debt supply.  “The retracement in ECB policy rate expectations now looks
stretched, and this week’s supply is likely to favor Treasuries
over the euro core,” Jamie Searle and Peter Goves, fixed-income
strategists in  London , wrote today in a client report.  While  Germany  will sell five-year notes tomorrow, the Fed’s
purchases of securities today under quantitative easing were
“in the five-year area of the curve,” they wrote.  German five-year notes rallied on May 5, when ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled the bank will wait until after June
to raise its main refinancing rate again. An advance in five-
year notes today pushed the yield down one basis point to 2.45
percent. The U.S. five-year note yield fell two basis points to
1.78 percent.  The Fed purchased today $6.4 billion of Treasuries maturing
from June 2015 to October 2016 under the second round of
quantitative easing. The $600 billion program is scheduled to
expire in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  