-- 
Tumpel-Gugerell Says Interest Rates Should Be Consistent With the Economy

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 
2011-05-17T07:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/tumpel-gugerell-says-eu-interest-rates-should-be-consistent-with-economy.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell said interest rates should be
consistent with economic activity, suggesting she sees room for
further monetary tightening.  “We have to keep in mind that our monetary policy stance
is still accommodative, and the interest-rate level of course
has to be consistent with the level of economic activity and
with the risks to  price stability ,” Tumpel-Gugerell said
yesterday in an interview at the ECB’s Frankfurt headquarters.
“These elements taken together lead then to the appropriate
interest-rate level.”  The 17-nation euro-area economy expanded a better-than-
forecast 0.8 percent in the first quarter and inflation
accelerated to 2.8 percent last month, exceeding the ECB’s 2
percent limit. The central bank raised its benchmark rate by a
quarter point to 1.25 percent in April and economists expect at
least two more increases this year.  Tumpel-Gugerell, 58, said markets are “quite good” at
understanding the ECB’s communication, though she stressed the
bank makes a new assessment each month and “there is no prior
commitment to any direction of monetary policy.”  Still, “we have made very clear with our recent interest-
rate increase that we are committed to fight inflation, this is
our primary task,” she said. “It’s important to keep inflation
expectations under control and this is also the reason why we’ve
started to increase  interest rates .”  Departure  Tumpel-Gugerell won’t take part in the ECB’s next policy
decision on June 9. Her eight-year term on the six-member
Executive Board ends on May 31, when she will be replaced by
Belgium’s Peter Praet.  Tumpel-Gugerell, whose departure means the ECB’s 23-member
Governing Council will be exclusively male, said she encourages
women to pursue careers in central banking.  “It’s important to have diversity in the decision-making
bodies and therefore I’m confident that we’ll see more female
board members in central banks,” she said. “There will be new
nominations in the years to come.”  An Austrian with a doctorate in economics and social
sciences from the University of Vienna, Tumpel-Gugerell said
 Europe ’s economic recovery is likely to continue.  “The recovery has broadened and this has become visible in
many sectors,” she said. “It’s still very much driven by
foreign demand, but we also see consumers being more confident
and therefore we’re fairly confident about the continuation of
the recovery.”  The financial system “has overcome the crisis of the last
two years,” Tumpel-Gugerell said.  “We see demand for loans picking up, which is very
important for further economic activity, for investment
activity, and therefore I think we are on a very good path,”
she said. “Money markets have gone back to normal operations”
and “fewer banks are now relying on central bank liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Yueh in Frankfurt at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  