-- 
ECB Committed to Inflation Fight: Tumpel-Gugerell

-- B y   L i n d a   Y u e h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-05-17T07:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/tumpel-gugerell-says-ecb-remains-committed-to-fighting-inflation.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell comments on monetary policy and
the economic outlook in the euro region. She spoke in an
interview in Frankfurt yesterday.  On monetary policy:  “We have to keep in mind that our monetary policy stance
is still accommodative, and the interest-rate level of course
has to be consistent with the level of economic activity and
with the risks to  price stability . These elements taken together
lead then to the appropriate interest-rate level.”  On inflation:  “We are closely monitoring inflation figures. We know that
we have a cost push at the moment coming from commodity and food
prices, and we are expecting a lower inflation rate for next
year. It is important what now happens with these price
increases. It’s important that neither the producers nor the
consumers expect inflation to go up further. It’s very important
to keep this confidence that the cost push can be kept under
control and does not lead to higher inflation rates.”  “We have made very clear with our recent interest-rate
increase that we are committed to fight inflation, this is our
primary task. It’s important that all the economic agents are
convinced that we will succeed.”  “I think the markets are quite good in taking up certain
elements of our communication. What is important is that we make
a new assessment of the economic situation each month and then
the discussion takes place, then the decisions are made. So
there’s no prior commitment to any direction of monetary
policy.”  “It’s important to keep inflation expectations under
control and this is also the reason why we’ve started to
increase  interest rates . We should also take into account that
the money market has come back to higher levels of activity
which is very important for the liquidity provision to banks and
the reliance on central bank liquidity.”  On recent rise in  core inflation :  “We look at the headline rate as you know so there’s no
change in our assessment.”  On whether she can rule out an increase in rates in June:  “The Governing Council in June will discuss the situation,
it will also have new projections available, and I think the
Governing Council, which I will no longer be a member of, will
take its decision.”  On the economy:  “The recovery has broadened and this has become visible in
many sectors. It’s still very much driven by foreign demand but
we also see consumers being more confident and therefore we’re
fairly confident about the continuation of the recovery.”  On financial markets’ health and non-standard measures:  “The financial system has overcome the crisis of the last
two years. We see demand for loans picking up, which is very
important for further economic activity, for investment
activity, and therefore I think we are on a very good path.
Money markets have gone back to normal operations, this means
that banks are trusting each other again.”  “We should keep in mind that fewer banks are now relying
on central bank liquidity. Of course it depends on the overall
package that we offer. For the time being we have a generous
liquidity provision and we will sooner or later also phase out
our special measures. It’s very important for the remaining
banks to also get the confidence of the markets and get access
to market financing again.”  On Greek banks:  “So far it was possible to provide the liquidity for the
banks. This is important so that Greek banks can also lend to
Greek to entrepreneurs and Greek borrowers, and we will continue
this policy.”  On challenges for the new ECB president:  “The president of the ECB has a responsibility within the
Governing Council leading the monetary policy debate, listening
carefully to all the positions and then drawing the conclusions.
I think this is a great challenge, and this is the first task of
the president. Then of course there are challenges in the field
of financial stability reform and using the new institution of
the systemic risk board to make an assessment of the financial
sector and issue recommendations and if necessary also
warnings.”  On the lack of women in European central banking:  “I am very much encouraging women, I have very good female
economists, experts in my team. I think there should be no limit
for careers in central banking.”  “The Eurosystem has a number of very well-qualified men
and women and it’s important to have diversity in the decision-
making bodies and therefore I’m confident that we’ll see more
female board members in central banks. There will be new
nominations in the years to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Yueh in  Frankfurt  at  lyueh@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  