-- 
Hungary’s Mol Says Croatia’s Watchdog ‘Biased’ Over INA Trading

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-05-17T12:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hungary-s-mol-says-croatia-s-watchdog-biased-over-ina-trading.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
called an extended suspension of its Croatian unit’s shares
discriminatory to foreign investors because it already provided
answers in a trading probe by the Balkan country’s watchdog.  Croatian regulator Hanfa yesterday said it would continue
to block trading in INA Industrija Nafte d.d., saying Mol has
not sufficiently explained its trading activities. Mol said in
an e-mailed statement today that the decision is biased because
trading by Croatian domestic investors has not been examined.  Hanfa suspended INA trading four times in the last two
months, citing suspicious trading activities. Tensions between
Budapest-based Mol and Croatian authorities increased after the
Hungarian company made an offer to purchase the outstanding
shares in  INA  in December. The government claimed it wasn’t
notified of Mol’s intention before the offer. Mol has a 47.26
percent stake in INA and the government in Zagreb holds 44.84
percent.  “Over two-thirds of the trading with INA shares between
December and April have been made by domestic institutional
investors, which have never been subject of any Hanfa
scrutiny,” Mol said. “Mol must underline that such reasoning
is both discriminative and biased against foreign investors who
provide continuous capital inflow into the Croatian economy.”  The Hungarian refiner on April 28 said it bought INA shares
from private investors outside the offer period. The company
hasn’t reached any disclosure obligation level that would have
demanded a stock exchange announcement, it said.  In a May 6 letter, Mol told Hanfa that all of its foreign
“direct or indirect interests are being continuously
disclosed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  