-- 
Hunterdon County, N.J., Has Highest Taxes

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-05-17T19:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/hunterdon-county-n-j-has-highest-taxes.html
Residents of  New Jersey ’s Hunterdon
County pay the highest property taxes in the U.S., according to
the Tax Foundation.  The annual median property tax in Hunterdon, about 60 miles
(97 kilometers) southwest of  Manhattan  near the Delaware River,
was $8,216, a report issued today by the Washington-based
organization shows. Suburban Westchester and Nassau counties,
both bordering  New York  City, ranked second and third,
respectively, at $8,206 and $8,160.  “The only source of revenue to pay for a broad spectrum of
services in New Jersey is the property tax,” said William Dressel, executive director of the  New Jersey League of
Municipalities.  “The property tax in many states is not the
dominant source of revenue for local services.”  Hunterdon County's seat is Flemington, whose courthouse was
the site of the 1935  trial and conviction  of Bruno Richard
Hauptmann for kidnapping and murdering aviator Charles Lindbergh’s baby son in 1932.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  has made a 2 percent cap
the centerpiece of his plan to control growth in New Jersey’s
property taxes, which averaged $7,576 last year. Real estate
levies, the main source of funding for schools and towns, have
climbed 70 percent in the past decade.  Cuomo Cap Plan  In New York, Governor Andrew Cuomo urged residents to
pressure lawmakers to approve a property tax cap when he kicked
off a statewide tour May 10. Cuomo’s proposal would set a limit
of 2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less.  The  Bethel Census Area  in Alaska had the lowest ranking,
with taxes of $105 a year, according to the  data .  The  Tax Foundation , a nonpartisan research group that
advocates for “sound tax policy,” compiled the rankings based
on U.S. Census data for 2,922 counties from the American
Community Survey. The survey uses a five-year average from 2005
to 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  