-- 
Huntsman, Coolest in Republican Race, Eyes 2012: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-05-17T01:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/huntsman-coolest-republican-eyes-2012-race-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
The big news these days is who isn’t
running for president. Without  Mike Huckabee  and  Donald Trump ,
the Republican contest will be less colorful, of course, but
also even more unsettled than it has been for the last few
months. That leaves room for another Mormon governor and
businessman.  Last week I had a chat with  Jon Huntsman , the former Utah
governor who resigned as the Obama administration’s ambassador
to China last month. It was one of only a couple of
conversations he’s had with a reporter since he dipped his toe
in the water. And it left me convinced that, though not yet
registering in polls, he may be the big new Republican face of
2012.  Huckabee’s departure leaves a big “likeability gap” in
the Republican field. It sure isn’t going to be filled by  Newt Gingrich , whose smiles for David Gregory on “Meet the Press”
last week hardly erased his “Gingrich who stole Christmas”
impression with voters. The other candidate waiting offstage is
Indiana governor Mitch Daniels, the latest crush of
establishment Republicans and deficit hawks, despite his record
presiding over the most profligate spending in the history of
the Republic as  George W. Bush ’s budget director.  The two other plausible nominees,  Mitt Romney  and  Tim Pawlenty , are hardly running away with the likeability primary.
Huckabee memorably noted in 2008 that Romney would remind voters
of the boss who laid them off. Pawlenty isn’t actively
unlikeable, but his charm seems written in invisible ink.
Discounting the nerd-chic of Ron Paul, Huntsman will be the
coolest guy in the race.  Mormon Rock  Huntsman played the keyboard in a rock band as a teenager,
speaks fluent Mandarin (learned while on his Mormon mission),
loves Motocross and has adopted children from  China  and  India .
He wears his Mormonism lightly (a daughter is about to be
married outside the faith), looks sharp in his bomber jacket and
has an attractive wife. He has executive experience at his
family’s chemical company. It doesn’t hurt that he seems smart,
has millions in the bank (his father invented the “clamshell”
container that Big Macs were once packaged in) and has already
hired top-flight political operatives like John Weaver, who ran
John McCain’s 2000 presidential campaign. Most important, from
Huntsman’s perspective, is that he boasts a conservatism-that-
works record in Utah.  Line of Attack  Huntsman intends to directly attack the health-care law
that Romney passed in  Massachusetts , which later became a model
for President Obama’s efforts in  Washington . He will try to sell
the health-insurance plan he implemented in  Utah , without any
mandates, as the right plan at the right time for the American
right. The idea is to use health care against Romney the way
Obama used the  Iraq war  against  Hillary Clinton  in the 2008
Democratic primaries: as a way of convincing the base that he’s
closer to them on their No. 1 issue. Repeal of Obamacare is the
only stance that unites all Republicans, and the candidate who
masters that message has an inside track to the nomination.  Huntsman’s liabilities are also considerable. As a Mormon,
he won’t have much appeal among the evangelicals who make up
about a third of Republican primary voters (whose support is
likely to be split between Pawlenty and  Michele Bachmann ). He
was receptive to federal stimulus dollars as governor, and once
supported a cap-and-trade plan to reduce  greenhouse gases  in
Western states (which he has since distanced himself from).
Reporters haven’t yet begun to pore over his personal life in
detail.  Working for Obama  Huntsman’s biggest stumbling block, of course, is that he
served in the Obama administration, which for the birthers,
haters and assorted nasties who make up a sizeable chunk of the
Republican base will be a deal-breaker. When I asked Huntsman
about the effusive letters of praise he wrote to Obama and to
former President  Bill Clinton  -- he called Obama “a remarkable
leader” and praised Clinton’s “brilliant analysis of world
events” -- he dismissed them as “thank you notes.”  Aides say that Huntsman’s tie to the Obama administration
is only a problem until people hear that he also served as an
ambassador under George H. W. Bush (to  Singapore ) and worked for
the second President Bush and for  Ronald Reagan . They think that
his foreign policy credentials will serve him well through the
debates.  We’ll see. Huntsman will have to walk a fine line between
criticizing Obama’s foreign policy and seeming ungrateful for
his appointment (though that might not be a problem with primary
voters). He will give a speech soon laying out his worldview,
but he hinted to me that he didn’t think Obama had been tough
enough in stressing “values” over “perceived interests.”  China Question  On the question of China’s rise, he thinks that while the
Chinese will pass the U.S. in “sheer output” in the next couple
of decades to become the largest economy in the world, it will
be 75 to 100 years before they catch up technologically and beat
the U.S. on what he considers the more relevant economic
statistic of per-capita GDP.  My sense is that in the cattle calls to come Huntsman will
get the blue ribbon from the press and from Republicans looking
for the strongest candidate in a general election against Obama.
In the past, neither of these factors have had much impact on
Republican primary voters. But it’s worth remembering that just
a few years before becoming the 2008 Republican nominee,  John
McCain  had a voting record so Democratic that he nearly accepted
entreaties to switch parties. And being the press’s darling
certainly never hurt McCain.  Huntsman’s fate, then, may be less tied to his personal
image than to how Republicans make sense of what may be the most
wide-open field since Wendell Willkie won their nomination in
1940.  (Jonathan Alter, author of “The Promise: President Obama,
Year One,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Jonathan Alter at
 alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  