-- 
Turkish Stocks Slump as Goldman Sachs Becomes More Cautious

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-17T15:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/turkish-stocks-slump-as-goldman-sachs-becomes-more-cautious.html
Turkish stocks weakened after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. turned more cautious on investing in the
country because of its current-account deficit.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of equities lost 0.05 percent to
65,385.38 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul. Turkish stocks
have declined for eight of the last 10 days, leaving the gauge
with a loss of 0.9 percent so far in 2011.  The current-account deficit more than doubled in March from
a year earlier to $9.8 billion, the central bank said May 11.
Since January, the central bank has held the benchmark one-week
repo rate at 6.25 percent. It has also raised the reserve ratio
on the shortest-term bank liabilities to 16 percent from 6
percent to rein in the consumer borrowing and spending that has
contributed to the deficit.  “Foreigners have scant interest in Turkish stocks and the
primary reason is that there is too much uncertainty,” Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest, said in e-mailed comments.  Developing-nation stocks fell today, driving the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index down 0.3 percent toward the lowest
closing level in almost two months, as  Greece  sought more
bailout funds and investors speculated rising interest rates may
sap economic growth.  Goldman added  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS, or Isbank, Eregli
Demir & Celik Fabrikalari TAS, or Erdemir, and Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS, also known as Turkcell, to its  “focus sell”
list.  Shares of Isbank and Turkcell,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-
phone operator, lost 0.4 percent. Erdemir, the country’s largest
steelmaker, sank 1.2 percent.  Lira, Bonds  “The latest disappointing current-account deficit has
reinforced our view that Turkey needs to tighten
significantly,” Goldman Sachs wrote in a research report dated
today. “Consensus earnings estimates and valuations still do
not reflect this.”  The lira gained 0.3 percent to 1.5879 per dollar,
strengthening for a second day. Two-year benchmark bond yields
decreased four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.82
percent, falling for the first day in three, according to the
TEB Local Benchmark Bond Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  