-- 
Turkish Finance Minister Simsek Says He Could Lead IMF

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-05-17T13:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/turkish-finance-minister-simsek-says-he-could-lead-imf-correct-.html
(Corrects timing of Dervis joining the CHP in sixth
paragraph.)  Turkish Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said nothing would keep him from serving as head of the
 International Monetary Fund  and that selecting a Turk for the
position would be a “natural” choice.  “We have several friends who could be IMF president,”
Simsek said in an interview with Kanal 24 television today. “As
far as myself, I don’t have even the tiniest shortage in terms
of experience or knowledge. We’d do this very well.”  Local speculation that Simsek may be Turkey’s preferred
candidate for the job was first raised by Turkish minister and
European Union chief negotiator Egemen Bagis, whose comments on
Twitter that Simsek would do the job well were re-tweeted by
Simsek and then picked up by the national media.  “If a Turk were to be head of the IMF, it would be utterly
natural,” Simsek, 44, told Kanal 24. “Our hope is that in the
coming period, IMF heads will come from more developing
countries like  Turkey , like Russia.”  Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution,
named another Turk, Kemal Dervis, as one of three leading
potential successors if the current IMF chief, Frenchman
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, is forced to step down. Strauss-Kahn was
arrested on May 14 in  New York  on charges of sexually assaulting
and trying to rape a hotel housekeeper. He will plead not guilty
to the charges, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman said.  Dervis, an economist who formerly worked at the  World Bank 
and led the United Nations Development Program, was minister of
state for economic affairs in 2001-2002 without a party
affiliation. After resigning from the post, he joined the
 Republican People’s Party , running against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s Justice and Development Party in elections that
same year.  Before becoming finance minister, Simsek worked in  London 
as chief economist and strategist for emerging Europe, the
Middle East and Africa at Merrill Lynch. He also served as a
senior economist at the U.S. embassy in Ankara in the mid-1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  