-- 
Uruguay Said to Start Marketing Sale of 10-Year Samurai Bonds Next Week

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-05-17T06:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/uruguay-said-to-start-marketing-sale-of-10-year-samurai-bonds-next-week.html
Uruguay started marketing a sale of
10-year Samurai bonds guaranteed by the  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation , according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The South American nation is offering the notes to
investors to yield between 42 basis points and 48 basis points
more than the yen swap rate, said the person, who asked not to
be identified as the information is private. Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. and Nomura Securities Co. are helping to
arrange the sale that’s planned for next week, the person said.  Overseas borrowers have raised 899.7 billion yen ($11
billion) this year from the sale of Samurai bonds, or yen-
denominated notes sold in Japan by non-Japanese issuers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 80 percent more
than the same period a year ago, even after a magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 shut the market for two
months, the data show.  “Demand should be strong as the Samurai investor base is
expanding,” Fumihito Gotoh, head of  Japan  credit research at
UBS Securities Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo , said in a telephone
interview. “With yields on domestic corporate bonds so low,
investors are turning to Samurai bonds.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Samurai debt
instead of similar-maturity Japanese  government bonds  dropped to
81 basis points yesterday from 92 basis points April 1,
according to a Nomura index. The spread on Japanese corporate
bonds was last at 54 basis points, or 0.54 percentage point, a
separate Nomura index shows.  Turkey  sold 180 billion yen of 10-year, 1.87 percent bonds
on March 11 with backing from Japan’s state-run lender at 48
basis points more than the yen swap rate, Bloomberg data show.
Export-Import Bank of India paid a 47 basis-point spread on 1.88
percent notes due 2021 and  Panama  paid a 48 basis-point spread
on Jan. 18, the data show.  Uruguay is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the risk
assessor’s highest non-investment grade, while JBIC is ranked
Aa2, the third-highest investment grade, Bloomberg data show.  ---Editors: Ed Johnson, Hugh Chow  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 