-- 
Van Der Moolen Governance Was Flawed Before Bankruptcy, Dutch Probe Says

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-05-17T19:32:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/van-der-moolen-governance-was-flawed-before-bankruptcy-dutch-probe-says.html
Van der Moolen Holding NV (MOO)  lacked
sufficient risk management and its governance had flaws in the
period leading up to the Dutch stockbroker’s bankruptcy in 2009,
according to an investigation ordered by the Enterprise Chamber
of the Amsterdam Appeals Court.  Managers didn’t seem in control of Van der Moolen’s
dividend-arbitrage activities, and attention to  capital
management  and external financing was limited, court-appointed
investigators Kees Scholtes and Sietze Hepkema said in a report
dated May 13 and obtained by Bloomberg News today.  The period under investigation ran from January 2005 to
September 2009, when the 117-year-old Dutch stockbroker was
declared bankrupt after posting three straight years of losses.
Dutch investor group VEB and insurer ASR Nederland NV asked the
Enterprise Chamber to investigate the firm’s management. They
now can ask the court to assert mismanagement, which may lead to
damage claims.  The firm operated without a chief executive officer or
management board after Richard den Drijver stepped down on July
16, 2009, leaving supervisory board members Peter Zwart and
Arjen Paardekoper temporarily in charge. Den Drijver acted as a
managing director and major shareholder rather than as CEO of a
listed company, the investigators said.  Board Departures  Scholtes and Hepkema “regret” that they didn’t get to
interview Den Drijver, they said. There were signs Den Drijver
didn’t accept critical comments from other executive board
members, illustrated partly by the departure of two existing
board members within a year after he took the helm, according to
the report.  The company canceled the acquisition of stakes in GSFS
Asset Management BV and Global Securities Arbitrage BV in March
2009, saying the moves “will not lead to the intended positive
impact on the shareholders’ value of Van der Moolen.”  Van der Moolen’s administrator Paul Schaink didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Van der Moolen was founded on July 1, 1892, by F.J. van der
Moolen as a stockbroker, according to the Amsterdam Stock
Exchange. It became the No. 4 market maker on the  New York  Stock
Exchange in 2001 after buying specialists including Cohen,
Duffy, McGowan & Co. and Scavone, McKenna, Cloud & Co.  Van der Moolen transferred its unprofitable NYSE specialist
unit to  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in December 2007, quitting
floor trading in New York after more than a decade as a switch
to electronic dealing eroded the traditional business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net 
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  