-- 
Venezuela’s Recovery From Latin America’s Longest Slump Gaining Momentum

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-05-17T19:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/venezuela-s-recovery-from-latin-america-s-longest-slump-gaining-momentum.html
Venezuela ’s gross domestic product
expanded at the quickest pace in almost three years in the first
quarter as  government spending  backed by higher oil prices
helped the economy emerge from Latin America’s longest recession
faster than expected.  The country’s GDP rose 4.5 percent in the first three
months of the year from the same period in 2010, the central
bank said today in an e-mailed statement. Growth was more than
twice as fast as the 1.7 percent median estimate of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rise in the price of oil to the highest level since
2008 has increased Venezuela’s revenue even as its oil sector
contracted. First-quarter growth was the fastest since the 7.2
percent expansion posted in the second quarter of 2008 and
should bolster President  Hugo Chavez ’s popularity ahead of next
year’s elections, said Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani .  “Venezuela is turning the page and is in recovery,”
Giordani said today during a press conference in Caracas.
“Growth will contribute to President Chavez’s leadership in the
2012 elections.”  Domestic Demand  Imports rose 22 percent in the first three months of the
year, boosting internal demand as more foreign currency was made
available to businesses through the Foreign Exchange Board,
known as Cadivi, and the central bank administered  currency
market , known as Sitme, according to a central bank report
released today.  Leading the first-quarter jump in growth, commerce expanded
10.4 percent in the January-through-March period from a year
earlier while manufacturing rose 7.6 percent.  The construction sector shank 7.7 percent even as Chavez
launched a campaign to eradicate Venezuela’s housing deficit of
2 million homes. Oil, the main driver of Venezuela’s economy,
declined 1.8 percent.  Venezuela posted a current account surplus of $7.5 billion
in the first quarter, the central bank said. The capital account
posted a deficit of $10.5 billion in the first three months of
the year, according to the central bank.  ‘One Element’  The central bank revised 2010’s first-quarter GDP to a
contraction of 5.1 percent from a negative 4.79 percent. The low
base of comparison is partly reflected in this quarter’s
figures, said Juan Pablo Fuentes,  Latin America  Economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “This reflects a strong expansion in spending, which has
been possible due to the rise in oil prices,” Fuentes said in a
phone interview from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “An economy
that sustains itself from basically one element, which is
government spending, is extremely fragile and risky.”  Venezuela’s economy contracted in the second quarter of
2009 after oil prices had fallen to a low of $31.36 in December
2008 from a high of $126.46 the previous July. GDP contracted
1.7 percent in 2010.  Venezuela will grow more slowly this year than any other
major economy in Latin America, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Venezuela’s economy will expand 1.8 percent in
2011 compared with an average of 4.8 percent in  South America ,
the IMF said in its  World Economic Output report .  Venezuela, South America’s biggest oil producer, was the
last country in the region to emerge from recession after the
global financial crisis.  Growth Horizon  Chavez said on April 6 that GDP may expand 3 percent to 4
percent this year on higher  oil prices .  The government, which controls the sale of dollars at the
official rates of 4.3 bolivars per dollar and 5.3 per dollar as
part of currency controls introduced in 2003, increased outlays
12.3 percent in the first two months of 2011, Chavez said.  The government plans to spend 30 billion bolivars ($7
billion) as it seeks to build 153,000 new homes this year to
eradicate a housing deficit. It will spend 16 billion bolivars
on agriculture and $4 billion in electricity projects, Chavez
said.  The central bank will lower  reserve requirements  by 3
percentage points to 14 percent, freeing up about 10 billion
bolivars ($2.33 billion) that banks can lend for housing
construction, bank President Nelson Merentes said May 3.  The government on Jan. 1 devalued the currency for the
second time in a year by eliminating the preferential rate on
so-called essential goods such as food and medicine by 40
percent, to 4.3 bolivars per dollar from 2.6, unifying its two
fixed foreign exchange rates in a bid to pull the economy out of
recession.  Inflation, as measured by the national  consumer price
index , rose 1.4 percent in April from a month earlier, according
to the central bank, and 22.9 percent from April 2010, the
biggest year-on-year increase among 78 economies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 Cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  