-- 
Venezuela Plans to Grant Brokerage Permits After Yearlong Market Shutdown

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-05-17T17:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/venezuelan-securities-regulator-to-grant-new-brokerage-permits-this-year.html
Venezuela’s  securities regulator  will
grant new licenses for brokerages to operate in the government’s
 public securities exchange  to companies that can prove they have
sufficient capital and haven’t been involved in  money laundering 
or other illegal activities, a government official said.  Authorities plan to complete by July an audit of brokerages
that began last year when President  Hugo Chavez  closed an
unregulated  currency market , said the person, who asked not to
be identified because he isn’t authorized to comment publicly on
the matter.  Chavez shuttered more than 50 securities firms last year,
accusing them of sparking inflation, fueling capital flight and
laundering money. In the midst of the examination of the
financial industry, Chavez transferred authorization for trading
in dollar-denominated bonds to the central bank exclusively.  About 20 brokerages of the 100 firms that operated in 2009
will be granted licenses to operate in the market and will
eventually be allowed to buy dollar-denominated securities
issued by the government on behalf of clients, the person said.  “Trading of bonds to obtain foreign currency was the only
business that really made brokerages money since the  capital
controls ,”  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of Caracas-based
consulting and economic research firm Ecoanalitica, said in a
phone interview. “This would be the only way for these firms to
survive, albeit under much tighter regulation.”  Bond Auctions  The state-run public securities exchange, which was created
in January, may eventually hold auctions to sell dollar-
denominated bonds that value the bolivar at a weaker level than
the central bank rate of 5.3 bolivars per dollar, the official
said. Venezuelans buy dollar bonds from the government and state
oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA in bolivars and sell them
abroad to international investors to obtain foreign currency.  Chavez, who installed capital controls in 2003, pegs the
currency at 4.3 bolivars to the dollar. The dollar sells for
about 8.5 bolivars in the black market.  Many Venezuelans save in dollars or invest in durable goods
like cars or real estate to protect themselves from inflation.
Consumer prices rose 22.9 percent in April from a year earlier,
the most of 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The public securities exchange has traded 27.5 million
bolivars ($6.4 million) in corporate notes this year from a
local Toyota Motor Corp. unit and packaging company Envases
Venezolanos.  Venezuela  also has a private bourse, the Bolsa de
Caracas.  Inspections  The securities regulator conducted more than 3,400
inspections of brokerages in 2010, according to the yearend
report from the  Finance Ministry . Seven brokerages asked the
regulator to withdraw their operating licenses this year.  The regulator is preparing to set new  capital requirements 
for brokerages, the government official said.  At least 10 brokerage directors, including four executives
from what was the country’s largest firm, Econoinvest, are in
prison and being charged with illegal currency trading and
association with delinquency, according to the Attorney
General’s office.  “It’s riskier to run a brokerage because of the new
regulations that increase civil and penal responsibilities,”
Oliveros said. “The reward might not be enough to compensate
for the risk they’ll have to take on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  