-- 
Verizon Sees Spectrum Shortage Pushing Industry Acquisitions

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-17T20:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/verizon-sees-spectrum-shortage-pushing-industry-acquisitions.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  Chief
Operating Officer Lowell McAdam said a shortage of airwaves made
 AT&T Inc. (T) ’s planned buyout of T-Mobile USA Inc. “inevitable.”  Smaller wireless carriers will probably also combine,
McAdam said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  conference  in Boston
today. Companies will work to use capital more efficiently and
acquire enough spectrum to handle traffic on their mobile
networks, he said.  AT&T defended its decision to buy  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile unit in a $39 billion deal to Congress last week to
address concerns that the combination would stifle competition.
 Dan Hesse , chief executive officer of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , said
the deal could put the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier in a
position to be acquired.  “Everybody’s worried about the AT&T/T-Mobile merger,”
said McAdam, who has been tapped to fill the CEO position at
Verizon when current chief  Ivan Seidenberg  retires this year.
“To me, that was inevitable. That was kind of like gravity. The
spectrum in the U.S. is not in the hands of carriers that can do
something with it.”  Carriers like Verizon are pushing for access to more
wireless spectrum, which can help them accommodate a larger
number of users and applications that take up more space on the
network, such as video streaming.  New Smartphone Option?  Verizon, which is based in  New York  and co-owns its
wireless business with Vodafone Group Plc,  rose  14 cents to
$37.11 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The stock has risen 3.7 percent this year.  McAdam also said he hopes a third operating system for
smartphones gains enough popularity to compete with  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows platform or software from Samsung Electronics
Co. may take that position, he said.  The Android operating system will be found on almost half
of all smartphones sold worldwide by the end of 2012, according
to researcher Gartner Inc. Apple’s software will be the second
most popular, with 19 percent of the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 