-- 
Vodafone Profit Drops Less Than Estimated on Mobile Data Services Demand

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-17T12:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/vodafone-full-year-sales-rise-3-2-to-74-36-billion.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, reported a smaller-than-estimated
decline in full-year profit as the company sold mobile data
services at a faster pace than some European rivals.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 0.4 percent to 14.7 billion pounds ($23.8
billion) in the 12 months through March, compared with analysts’
estimates for 14.6 billion pounds. Mobile data sales surged 26
percent to 5.12 billion pounds.  “Vodafone is more aggressive in its bundling of data and
its tiering of tariffs,” said Morten Singleton, an analyst at
Investec Securities in London. The company “looks better
positioned” than others to benefit from the changing behavior
of consumers.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , is banking on the
popularity of smartphones that can surf the Web and download
music and games to bolster data sales and make up for sluggish
voice call revenue. Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao plans
to increase the percentage of sales from smartphones in  Europe 
to about 70 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2013 from 30
percent last year.  Vodafone shares rose as much as 2.4 percent to 172.2 pence
in London trading today and were up 1.1 percent as of 1:03 p.m.  Data Strategies  Operators are working out strategies to offer data packages
that generate the highest returns and some are more successful
than others.  Royal KPN NV last month lowered its full-year profit
forecast, saying that wireless revenue was “lower than expected
following accelerated change in customer behavior.” Investec’s Singleton said the largest Dutch phone company had been
“mispricing” its service packages as subscribers move away
from voice and text message services toward data offerings.  Telefonica SA,  Spain ’s largest phone company, posted a 19
percent increase in mobile data revenue for 2010. Mobile data
revenue at Deutsche Telekom AG, Europe’s biggest phone company,
rose 29 percent to 4.4 billion euros in 2010, including the T-
Mobile USA division which the company this year agreed to sell
to  AT&T Inc. (T)   “We have worked well and ahead of time on preparing for
the transition of data with integrated price plans and tiered
plans and we have looked at the economics of data well ahead of
time,” Colao said today. He added that “markets remain
competitive and the economic environment, particularly across
southern Europe, is challenging.”  Higher Dividend  The company will pay a final dividend of 6.05 pence a
share, increasing the full year-year dividend by 7.1 percent to
8.90 pence, in line with analyst estimates.  Colao has sold minority assets to unwind some of the
takeovers by his predecessors. Arun Sarin pushed Vodafone into
markets such as Ghana and  Turkey . Christopher Gent led Vodafone
through a six-year $300 billion acquisition spree.  Vodafone sold stakes in China Mobile, reduced interests in
 Japan ’s Softbank Corp. and in April agreed to sell a 44 percent
stake in French operator SFR for 7.95 billion euros to Vivendi
SA. The sale brought the total value of Vodafone’s disposals to
about $22.8 billion since September.  Colao, who became deputy CEO in October 2006 and was
promoted to the top job in July 2008, has generated 13 percent
in annualized returns for Vodafone shareholders under his watch,
according to Bloomberg data. That compares with a 7.1 percent
increase under Sarin and a 26 percent slump under Gent.  Writedown  Vodafone’s full-year net income dropped 8.7 percent to 7.9
billion pounds on impairment charges in some European countries.
Vodafone said it will write down the value of its businesses in
Spain,  Greece ,  Portugal ,  Italy  and Ireland by 6.1 billion
pounds, following higher discount rates. The company’s Ebitda
margin will continue to decline in the current financial year,
although at a lower rate than in the previous year, Colao said
today.  Faced with unemployment at more than 20 percent and the
deepest budget cuts in three decades, Vodafone’s Spanish unit
has struggled to attract customers to higher-priced smartphones.
In Italy, the operator is battling increased price competition
from  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)  Italy and Spain are the second- and
third-biggest markets for the company after  Germany .  Vodafone’s fourth-quarter service revenue growth was
unchanged at 2.5 percent in the three months through March
compared with the prior period. Analysts had estimated 2.1
percent growth. Service sales include revenue from voice, data,
messaging and broadband offerings and exclude handsets and
accessories.  Forecast  The operator today forecast operating profit in the 12
months ending March 2012 to be in the range of 11 billion pounds
to 11.8 billion pounds. Free  cash flow  is predicted to be in the
range of 6 billion pounds to 6.5 billion pounds.  Vodafone’s cost of sales climbed 34 percent between 2008
and 2010, according to Bloomberg data, as handset subsidies and
license and mobile frequency costs soared. The company is
switching to tiered pricing plans based on the amount of data
used and quality of service.  Vodafone has retained its stake in its U.S. venture  Verizon
Wireless  even after failing to receive a dividend from the
company since 2005, while partner  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
focuses on paying down debt. Verizon said in January it may pay
a “fair dividend” to Vodafone. The British carrier will
continue its commercial relationship on procurement.  iPhone Sales  Verizon Wireless started selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone, which
runs on the company’s third-generation network, in February,
ending AT&T’s four-year U.S. exclusivity for the device. Verizon
also in March introduced its first fourth-generation handset,
the HTC Corp. ThunderBolt, and has been rolling out the faster
network to boost sales of data plans and draw new customers.  Wireless operators pay handset manufacturers such as Apple
for a phone and then sell them to consumers for less to
encourage people to sign up for longer-term contracts. Vodafone
said last year that the highest profitability came from mid-tier
smartphones rather than high-tier devices such as the iPhone or
the Nexus S from Samsung Electronics Co. and Google Inc.  Vodafone today didn’t give details on the U.S. subsidies
for the iPhone. The company’s full-year costs to win and retain
customers rose 8.5 percent to 13.3 billion pounds.  Subscriber costs may start to stabilize as Vodafone
benefits from its scale and global reach that allows it to get
better deals, according to  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein. Smartphone contracts help to lock in
customers for the long-term, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  