-- 
Wal-Mart Entry May Lead to ‘Destabilizing’ Import Surge, South Africa Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-05-17T14:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/wal-mart-entry-may-lead-to-destabilizing-import-surge-south-africa-says.html
South Africa ’s Trade Minister Rob Davies said  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s bid to buy a majority stake
in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  may result in a “surge” in imports
that could have a “destabilizing” impact on the economy.  “Companies have got to comply with the  labor laws ,”
Davies said in an interview on Johannesburg-based 702 Talk Radio
today. An increase in imports may undermine the country’s job
creation goals, he said.  The South African government and labor unions oppose Wal-
Mart’s proposed 16.5 billion rand ($2.3 billion) acquisition of
a 51 percent stake in South  Africa ’s largest wholesaler. As many
as 4,000 jobs could be lost should Massmart shift just 1 percent
of its procurement to imports, a government witness said during
Competition Tribunal hearings on the purchase.  “These fears are unfounded and unsupported by any evidence
to the Tribunal, and are indeed largely based on historical
misperceptions and distorted accounts of Wal-Mart,” Jeremy Gauntlett, senior counsel for the two companies, said at the
hearings yesterday.  President  Jacob Zuma ’s administration has pledged to create
5 million new jobs over the next decade to cut unemployment to
15 percent. The jobless rate rose to 25 percent in the first
quarter, the highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg, from
24 percent in the previous three months. South Africa’s current
account deficit narrowed to its lowest level in seven years in
the fourth quarter as miners boosted platinum and coal exports.  ‘Sense Will Prevail’  “Sense will prevail and there will be an agreement,” said
Sasha Naryshkine, a portfolio manager at the Johannesburg-based
Vestact Ltd., which manages more than 1 billion rand of assets
for private clients. “Who wants to chase away Wal-Mart, the
worlds’ biggest commercial employer?”  Wal-Mart employs more than 2.1 million people, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It intends to expand Massmart’s
South African business, which will be accompanied by job growth,
 Andy Bond , Wal-Mart’s executive vice-president responsible for
the U.K. and Africa, said at the hearing on May 11.  “Even the most ardent socialist realizes that chasing away
jobs is not the smartest thing to do, because that’s what this
deal is in the long run -- job-creation,” Naryshkine said.
“The question to ask then is whether Wal-Mart will accept
onerous conditions,” he said.  Wal-Mart and Massmart may  “reluctantly walk away from the 
deal if there are conditions on local procurement,” Gauntlett 
said. Imposing conditions that Wal-Mart buys South African goods
will contravene international trade accords and give competitors 
an unfair advantage, he said.  Expansion Plan  Wal-Mart’s acquisition of  Chile ’s Distribucion y Servicio
D&S SA in 2009 resulted in a doubling of exports from the Latin
American country of its products, D&S Chief Executive Officer
Enrique Ostale Cambiaso said at the hearings. Exports are
expected to double again this year while the company is also
able to provide lower prices locally for consumers, he said.  The acquisition of Massmart is Wal-Mart’s second-biggest
after the $11 billion takeover of U.K. retailer Asda in 1999.
Wal-Mart aims to use Massmart to lead its expansion in sub-
Saharan Africa. Massmart Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison
said on May 9 that the company plans to expand trading space by
20 percent over the next three years. Growth in floor space will
boost sales by a similar margin and will also increase jobs
while securing current posts, said Pattison.  The Competition Tribunal will give its final ruling on the
transaction by May 31. Wal-Mart fell 0.6 percent to $55.72 as of
10:01 a.m. in  New York . Massmart, which has declined 2 percent
over the past six months, added 0.4 percent o 140.25 rand.  Switch in Stance  The  Competition Commission , which in February recommended
to the Tribunal that the transaction should be approved without
any conditions, yesterday revised its stance on the transaction.
The  commission , which probes bids and makes proposals to the
Tribunal, wants 503 Massmart workers who were fired last year to
be reinstated and force existing labor agreements to be honored
for the next three years.  Wal-Mart and Massmart yesterday offered not to cut jobs for
two years and pledged to uphold existing labor agreements for as
long as the Competition Tribunal sees fit, according to the
companies’ closing argument submissions. While the companies
still maintain no conditions should be imposed, it also offered
to establish a 100 million rand supplier development fund if the
transaction is approved, according to the submissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  