-- 
Wal-Mart First-Quarter Profit Rises 3.8%, Bolstered by International Sales

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-17T20:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/wal-mart-first-quarter-earnings-from-continuing-operations-98-cents-share.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, posted a 3.8 percent gain in first-quarter
profit, beating analysts’ estimates as growth abroad helped make
up for U.S. sales declines.  Profit from continuing operations rose to 98 cents a share,
including a 1-cent foreign exchange gain, Wal-Mart said today.
That compared with the 95-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales abroad climbed 6.2 percent on a constant
currency basis, boosted by China,  Chile  and  Mexico .  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year dropped
1.1 percent, the eighth decline in a row. Customers are still
struggling with economic uncertainty, buying more generic items
instead of their more costly name-brand counterparts, executives
said today on a pre-recorded call.  “The report was adequate at best,”  Brian Sozzi , an
analyst at Wall Street Strategies, said in a note to clients
today. “Other players continue to steal market share” in the
U.S. The New York-based analyst recommends selling the shares.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , also forecast
that the change in second-quarter fiscal 2012 comparable-store
sales in the U.S. would be between negative 1 percent and
positive 1 percent. Profit will be $1.05 to $1.10 a share, Wal-
Mart said. Analysts on average anticipate $1.08.  Retail Hurdles  Profit in the quarter ended April 30 climbed to $3.43
billion from $3.3 billion, or 87 cents a share, a year earlier.  The pace of job growth and higher gas prices remain hurdles
for discount retailers. The jobless rate climbed to 9 percent in
April, the first increase since November. Regular fuel reached
$3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008, according to AAA,
the nation’s biggest automobile organization. Customers are
making fewer trips to stores because of the surge in gas prices,
U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon  said today on the call.  More than half of Wal-Mart’s U.S. sales come from food. The
company has raised prices on some grocery items, particularly
dairy and meat, as food suppliers boost their own prices to cope
with raw-ingredient costs, Chief Financial Officer Charles Holley said on a separate call with reporters.  Wal-Mart fell 52 cents to $55.54 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have advanced 3
percent this year, compared with a 5.7 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Duke’s Strategy  Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke plans to open smaller
stores and expand Wal-Mart’s Internet presence to attract
shoppers. Big-box retailers including  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Staples Inc. (SPLS) 
and Best Buy Co. have looked to smaller stores as consumers trim
their spending and purchases shift to Web retailers such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Simon said Wal-Mart will “accelerate” the development of
Neighborhood Market grocery stores, which average around 40,000
square feet, or one-third the size of a typical supercenter. He
said same-store sales at Wal-Mart’s 183 Neighborhood Market
locations rose 4 percent in the quarter, as they attracted more
shoppers. Wal-Mart will open about 40 smaller stores this year.  Last week, Wal-Mart agreed to buy a stake in Chinese Web
retailer Yihaodian, and last month the chain acquired Kosmix, a
Silicon Valley e-commerce startup focused on social media. Wal-
Mart has also begun offering home delivery of fresh groceries in
 San Jose ,  California .  Web Presence  Wal-Mart’s website attracted more customers and larger
order sizes in the first quarter, Simon said. The company
doesn’t disclose sales for the online unit. Duke told investors
in April that growing Wal-Mart’s online business in the U.S. and
internationally is one of his top priorities.  Wal-Mart’s international business comprises more than 4,600
stores in 15 countries. Total sales in the quarter topped $100
billion, with about one-fourth coming from overseas. The
retailer has opened 487 stores abroad over the past 12 months,
international chief Doug McMillon said in a prerecorded call
today.  “International remains the key growth driver for our
company,” said Duke, 61. “Despite improvements in some areas
of the economy, core U.S. customers are still stretched. We
still have work to do.”  Wal-Mart is speeding up its store openings in  China , where
it had 333 outlets at the end of April. The China operations
generated $7.5 billion revenue, or 1.8 percent of the company’s
$420 billion total, last year, according to Asian chief Scott Price. Sales in China surged 12 percent in the quarter.  Sales in Chile, which Wal-Mart entered with its 2009
acquisition of retailer D&S, advanced 12 percent on a constant
currency basis. In Mexico, revenue increased 6.9 percent.  Japan 
was the only international unit to post a sales decline in the
quarter, owing to the earthquake and tsunami this year.  “The best thing they have going for them is the
international side of the business,” said Maggie Gilliam,
president of retail consultant Gilliam & Co. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  