-- 
Wheat Damage Claims May Signal Worse Harvest Than Forecast

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-17T20:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/wheat-damage-claims-in-kansas-may-signal-worse-u-s-harvest-than-forecast.html
Wheat crops in the U.S. Great Plains
are showing signs that production may plunge more than the
government forecast last week as hot weather and a lack of rain
erode plant quality and force farmers to harvest early.  As of May 15, U.S. winter-wheat was in the worst condition
since 1996, with 44 percent of fields rated poor or very poor by
the government. The  National Weather Service  estimates rainfall
in the past two months was less than half of normal in much of
Texas,  Oklahoma  and Kansas, where insurance adjuster David Reed
said he’s had 300 farmer claims for drought damage in his area
this season, already 10 times more than last year.  “I went out to look at fields, and it looked like the tips
of the heads were burnt” after temperatures last week topped
100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius), said Reed, an area
claims supervisor in Stockton, Kansas, for Rural Community
Insurance Services, a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co . “It’s kind of
scary. I would think that the abandonment numbers probably are
going to be fairly high.”  After a Russian drought led to a drop in global output in
2010, the prospect of smaller crops in the U.S., the world’s
largest exporter, has sent wheat futures up 63 percent in the
past year. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on May 11 raised its price
forecast, citing “persistent adverse weather” in many growing
areas. Dry spells in Europe and excessive rain in the northern
U.S. and  Canada  also fueled prices, boosting costs for food
makers including  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  and Panera Bread Co.  Declining Output  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast on May 11 that
hard, red winter-wheat output will drop 25 percent to 762
million bushels, the smallest since 2006. Mark McMinimy, a
Washington-based agribusiness analyst with MF Global Holdings
Ltd., said the USDA will likely cut that estimate by 4.9 percent
to 725 million because of the dry spell. Hard, red winter wheat,
the most common U.S. variety, is grown primarily in the Plains
and is used to make bread.  Further downgrades to Great Plains supplies would be
“supportive” to futures, especially if planting delays are
prolonged in  North Dakota  and Canada, McMinimy said. Wheat
futures for July delivery jumped 3.7 percent today to close at
$7.64 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices reached a
two-year high of $9.1675 on Feb. 14.  ‘Too Late’  “It’s getting to the point where, across a large section
of the wheat belt, it’s too late for rain to do any good,”
McMinimy said. “Crop conditions continue to decline. I don’t
think it would be too surprising to see production figures
decline again.”  Last week, Goldman Sachs raised its three-month wheat
forecast to $8 from $7.75, while the six-month and 12-month
forecasts were increased to $8.35 from $7.50.  Dry weather already is forcing farmers to harvest two weeks
ahead of normal in  Texas  and Oklahoma, according to Stillwater,
Oklahoma-based wheat marketer Plains Grains Inc.  Kansas, Texas and Oklahoma produced 608.4 million bushels
of wheat last year, or 28 percent of the total U.S. supply,
according to the USDA. Those states are the biggest growers of
the hard, red winter variety. This year, the USDA expects
production to drop 63 percent in Texas, 38 percent in Oklahoma
and 27 percent in Kansas, compared with 2010.  About 8 percent of crops in Texas had been collected as of
May 13, and harvest began last week in Oklahoma, said Mark Hodges, the executive director of Plains Grains, a nonprofit
group that takes wheat samples from elevators to determine the
quality of the U.S. crop.  ‘Severe Stress’  The early harvest “is a very strong indicator that the
crop was under severe stress,” Hodges said. “Since we’re two
weeks ahead of normal, that tells you immediately that we’re
going to have less-than-average yields.”  Kansas , the biggest winter-wheat grower, may produce 261.8
million bushels this year, the least since 1996, the USDA said.
The Wheat Quality Council, a Pierre, South Dakota-based trade
group, estimated Kansas production at 256.7 million, based on a
survey of 55 analysts following a three-day tour of fields.  The USDA’s “wheat report is pretty backward looking at
this point,” said Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global
Commodity Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette,  Indiana . “The
USDA is going to have to square up some issues with the European
wheat crop and the U.S. wheat crop. It doesn’t seem like, to me,
that they factored in enough supply reductions.”  T-Storm Outlook  About 52 percent of the hard, red winter-wheat growing area
from  South Dakota  to Texas received less than half of the normal
amount of rainfall in the past 30 days, said Mike Tannura, the
president of T-Storm Weather in  Chicago . Areas of Nebraska and
Kansas may get up to 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain from
storms beginning May 19, while southwest Kansas, Texas and
Oklahoma will be “mostly dry over the next week,” he said.  “You can begin harvesting wheat at the end of May in the
southern Plains, so even if you get an inch of rain now, it’s
way too late,” Tannura said. “They needed it weeks or months
ago.”  The USDA estimates that U.S. wheat exports in the year
ended May 31 will be 45 percent higher than a year earlier. If
reduced grain supplies send prices higher, demand from food
processors and livestock feeders will likely slow, said  Diana Klemme , a director at Grain Service Corp., a consulting company
and brokerage in Atlanta.  “For hard wheat, we will not be able to have the same pace
of consumption we had this year, because we would have zero
left,” Klemme said. “Wheat feeding will have to dial back,
because the wheat just isn’t there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  