-- 
Wisconsin Asks Court to Throw Out Unions’ Lawsuit to Block State Labor Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-17T01:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/wisconsin-asks-court-to-throw-out-unions-lawsuit-to-block-state-labor-law.html
Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker ’s
administration asked a state court judge to throw out a lawsuit
filed by unions challenging the legality of a law limiting
public workers’ collective bargaining rights.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  filed the
dismissal request today with Dane County Circuit Judge Peter C.
Anderson in Madison. The state argued that a court order issued
by another judge, Maryann Sumi, blocked the law.  “The court has no jurisdiction to determine the
constitutionality of an act not in effect,” Van Hollen said in
the filing. Madison, the state capital, is the Dane County seat.  The law championed by Walker, a first-term Republican,
requires annual recertification votes for union representation
by public employees and makes payment of union dues voluntary.
Firefighters and police officers are exempt from the law.  Unions representing public works employees, firefighters
and other public safety officers sued on March 25, claiming the
state senate passed the legislation signed by Walker on March 11
without a constitutionally required quorum.  Bruce Ehlke, a lawyer for the union plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking
comment after regular business hours.  Sumi had stayed enforcement of the legislation on March 18
after a lawsuit was filed by  Dane County  District Attorney
Ismael Ozanne, alleging the law was drafted in violation of the
state’s open meetings law. She later declared the law wasn’t in
force in a March 31 ruling.  Wisconsin’s  Supreme Court  on June 6 will hear arguments on
whether it can take control of the Ozanne case and, if
warranted, dismiss it.  The union case is Laborers Local 236, AFL-CIO v. State of
Wisconsin, 11-cv-1421, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel.
Ozanne v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit
Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  