-- 
Xstrata Profit Seen at Record as Coal Surges: Freight Markets

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-05-17T02:03:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/xstrata-profit-seen-at-record-as-coal-surges-freight-markets.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s biggest
exporter of coal burnt in  power plants , will earn more than ever
this year as record cargoes from Australia combine with a 32
percent jump in prices.  Shipments from Australia, the second-largest supplier after
Indonesia, will rise 4.9 percent to 149 million metric tons in
2011, the government forecasts. That won’t be enough, creating a
third consecutive year of global shortages,  Barclays Capital 
estimates. Higher prices will help Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata report an 83 percent gain in net income this year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Coal-mining companies in Australia are making hay while
the sun shines,” said  Tim Schroeders , a Melbourne-based  fund
manager  at Pengana Capital Ltd., which oversees about $1.1
billion of assets. “Global demand is expanding rapidly and
prices are reflecting tightness in supply. Companies will be
looking to sell every ton they can produce.”  Production will fall 33 million tons short of demand this
year, part of a pattern of commodity shortages encompassing
everything from copper to palladium, according to Barclays.
That’s generating more profit for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio
Tinto Group and allowing Glencore International Plc to sell as
much as $11 billion of shares. About $15.3 billion of merger
deals were announced in coal this year, up from $9.7 billion in
the year-earlier period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eastern Port  Prices at the eastern port of Newcastle, an Asian benchmark,
will average $131 a ton this year, compared with $99 in 2010,
Barclays said in a report May 13. Global exports will advance
1.7 percent to 725 million tons and imports increase by the same
magnitude to 757 million tons, the bank estimates.  The forecast for a surge in coal prices comes amid a rout
in commodity markets. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials fell 11 percent in the first week of May, the biggest
drop since December 2008. Crude oil futures traded in New York
fell 15 percent and natural gas 9.9 percent.  While mining companies may be making more money than ever,
the shipping companies are contending with a glut rather than
shortages. Coal is typically shipped on capesizes and panamaxes,
rates for which have tumbled as fleet growth outpaced demand.
About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to the
Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Returns for owners of capesizes, three times the size of
the Statue of Liberty, slumped 71 percent this year to $5,829 a
day, according to the  Baltic Exchange . Rates for panamaxes, the
largest commodity ships to pass through the Panama Canal, fell
8.7 percent to $13,434 a day, according to the London-based
bourse, which publishes rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  Carrying Capacity  Carrying capacity in dry bulk will rise 13 percent this
year, compared with a 5 percent gain in trade, according to the
research unit of Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.
The new ships were ordered in 2007 and 2008, when rates rose to
about $234,000 a day for capesizes and $95,000 for panamaxes.  “Increasing coal exports will aid freight rates but won’t
necessarily make them higher,” said  Jeffrey Landsberg ,
president of Commodore Research & Consultancy, a  New-York  based
company specializing in bulk commodity shipping. “A massive
amount of new ships were ordered and now they are being
delivered, but the extra tons of coal won’t be enough to suck up
all that extra capacity.”  Forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on future transport costs, anticipate panamax rates no
higher than $13,603 through 2016. Capesize returns will advance
to $18,061 by then. Owners of capesizes need about $25,000 to
cover expenses such as crew and financing for ships valued at
$60 million, according to HSBC Shipping Services Ltd.  Capesize Rates  Shipping rates are volatile, with those for capesizes
rising or falling 46 percent or more in nine of the last 10
years. Panamaxes fluctuated 48 percent or more in all except one
of the last 10 years.  There are threats to the anticipated growth in demand for
coal. China raised  interest rates  four times since October,
seeking to cool consumer prices that increased 5.3 percent in
April from a year earlier. Inflation has exceeded Premier  Wen
Jiabao ’s 4 percent target each month this year. Economic growth
will slow to 9.3 percent in the last three months of the year,
compared with 9.8 percent this quarter, according to the median
of seven economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan , the world’s biggest coal importer, is still
contending with damage caused by a magnitude-9 earthquake and
23-foot tsunami that hit March 11. The country will buy 119
million tons this year, compared with 125 million tons in 2010,
Barclays estimates. Economic growth will drop to 1.25 percent
this year, from almost 4 percent last year, the median of 20
analysts’ estimates shows.  Supply Shortage  That won’t be enough to eliminate the anticipated supply
shortage. Xstrata will report net income of almost $8.57 billion
this year, compared with $4.69 billion last year, according to
the median estimate of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Coal accounted for almost 26 percent of Xstrata’s
revenue last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares of Xstrata rose 40 percent in the past 12 months,
outpacing the 28 percent gain in the 126-member Bloomberg World
Mining Index. The increase isn’t keeping up with profit growth,
with the  stock trading  at eight times estimated earnings, down
from almost 13 at the end of 2010. Twenty-six of 27 analysts
tracked by Bloomberg rate the stock a “buy” or “hold.”  Rio, based in  London , will report a 35 percent gain in net
income to $19.3 billion in 2011 and Melbourne-based BHP a 73
percent advance to $22 billion in its fiscal year ending in June,
the mean of estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Coal Producers  PT Bumi Resources, based in Jakarta and  Indonesia ’s biggest
coal producer, rose 46 percent in the past 12 months. The stock
is trading at 17 times estimated earnings, down from 21 times at
the end of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  This year’s biggest coal acquisition so far was Abingdon,
Virginia-based Alpha Natural Resources Inc. agreeing to buy
Richmond, Virginia-based Massey Energy Co. for about $7.1
billion in cash and stock in January.  Australian coal production has already rebounded from mine
closures caused by the worst floods in a half century in the
eastern state of Queensland at the end of last year.  Xstrata’s first-quarter thermal-coal output in Australia
rose 16 percent to 9.4 million tons from a year earlier, the
company said in a statement May 4. BHP’s production rose 25
percent to 3.98 million tons in the same period, while Rio Tinto
Coal  Australia  mined 1 percent less at 4.02 million tons,
reports from the companies last month showed.  Global power generation from coal will rise by 25 percent
from 2009 to 2035, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
said in a report last month.  “Coal demand is strong and will stay that way,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group, said from  Melbourne . “Industrial demand in  Asia 
will be very energy-intensive, and that means a lot of coal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  