-- 
Yale Leads Rebound in Donations as $100 Million Gifts Multiply

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-05-17T16:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/yale-leads-rebound-in-donations-as-gifts-multiply.html
Yale University  and the University of
 Pennsylvania  are leading a rebound in contributions to colleges
as donors who held back during the recession are writing checks
again following two years of a rising stock market.  Gifts to universities will probably increase 5.7 percent in
the fiscal year ending June 30, after slumping the past two
years, said John Lippincott, president of the  Council for
Advancement and Support of Education . At least six schools got
donations of $100 million or more this year, including the
University of Pennsylvania, which said on May 11 it received
$225 million for its medical school.  Columbia University  has increased its fundraising goal to
$5 billion, up from the $4 billion announced in 2006, and
 Harvard University  is planning its first capital campaign in
more than a decade. At Yale, gifts and pledges are expected to
double this year to more than $700 million, which would set a
record, said Inge Reichenbach, director of development.  “It’s remarkable the rebound we have had in the past
year,” Reichenbach said in a phone interview. “It’s like day
and night.”  The rise in giving tracks the gains in the equity markets,
Lippincott said. After plunging more than 50 percent from its
high in October 2007, the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  has
almost doubled from a March 2009 low.  Many donors say they’re becoming more comfortable again
with their financial situation.  Stability Returns  David Morse, a former asset manager at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., donated a total of $150,000 from 2005 to 2007 to
build a squash court at Hamilton College, in Clinton,  New York .  The next year, Morse, 49, cut his annual contributions to
$10,000 as the financial crisis hit and Lehman filed for
bankruptcy. Now, Morse, who works in New York for former Lehman
unit Neuberger Berman Group LLC, said he felt secure enough to
pledge an additional $50,000 for financial aid.  “The stability is there, the firm is in good shape,
markets have improved,” Morse said.  Charitable contributions to U.S. colleges and universities
fell 12 percent in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, from an
all-time high of $31.6 billion in fiscal 2008, the biggest
annual decline in at least half a century, Lippincott said.
Donations rose less than 1 percent in fiscal 2010, he said.  Bard Gift  Bard College received a pledge today of $60 million from
billionaire investor  George Soros , the school in Annandale-on-
Hudson, New York, said in an e-mailed statement. The gift, which
will support Bard’s Center for Civic Engagement, is dependent on
the college raising $120 million from other donors.  Other universities that announced $100 million
contributions this year are the  University of California ,  Los
Angeles , and cross-town rival, the University of Southern
 California , which each received two donations of that size or
greater. Ohio University, in  Athens ; Ohio State University, in
Columbus; and Western Michigan University, in Kalamazoo, also
received donations of $100 million or more this year.  The University of  Southern California  has been presented
with almost $500 million since Oct. 15, when its president, C.L. Max Nikias, was inaugurated. USC may raise $1 billion by
September, when the institution plans to announce a campaign,
Nikias said.  Contributions to Yale were depressed because of the global
financial crisis, even for the wealthiest alumni of the  New
Haven ,  Connecticut , university, Reichenbach, the school’s
development director, said.  March Madness  “This past recession was of a magnitude that made everyone
shell shocked,” Reichenbach said. “The great uncertainty was
paralyzing. No matter how wealthy you are, losing a third or
half your net worth can have quite an impact on people.”  Yale received $320 million in gifts and pledges in the
fiscal year that ended in June 2010. It raised almost that much
in one month this March, when it hauled in a record $270
million, Reichenbach said. The university received $648 million
in the first nine months of the 2011 fiscal year, better than
2008’s record of $603 million, and should surpass $700 million
as a $3.5 billion campaign concludes, she said.  The  University of Pennsylvania  is “significantly ahead”
of last year’s fundraising pace this fiscal year, which ends
June 30, because of the $225 million gift from investor  Raymond Perelman , and his wife, Ruth, said John Zeller, vice president
for development and alumni relations at the university in
Philadelphia.  The donation is the largest single gift in the Philadelphia
institution’s history and should help the university surpass its
record of $557 million, set in fiscal 2009, Zeller said.  Capital Campaigns  To take advantage of this year’s rebound, New York-based
Columbia extended its fundraising campaign -- which was set to
end this year with $4 billion -- by two years and an additional
$1 billion. Harvard is planning a new capital campaign, though
neither a timeline or start date has been set, the school said
in an e-mailed statement. Its last campaign, completed in 1999,
raised $2.6 billion.  Harvard, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , the richest U.S.
university, raised $596 million in the 2010 fiscal year, the
school said in the statement.  Harvard Business School received $50 million in October
from the Tata Group,  India ’s largest company, the Sir Dorabji
Tata Trust, and the philanthropic arms of the Tata Group.
Harvard Medical School got $30 million in October to start a
center for primary care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  