-- 
Yamaha Expands U.S. ATV Production on Weaker Dollar, Higher Transport Cost

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-18T13:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/yamaha-motor-expands-u-s-atv-production-as-dollar-falls-crude-oil-rises.html
Yamaha Motor Co. is expanding U.S.
production of all-terrain vehicles as a weaker dollar and higher
transport costs make manufacturing the off-road products in
their biggest market more enticing than building in  Japan .  The company announced today plans to make 80 percent of its
all-terrain vehicles at its Newnan, Georgia, factory. Remaining
production will move to the U.S. from Japan in the next two
years.  “We wanted to put the production into the market” with
the biggest demand, Mike Martinez, general manager for ATVs for
Yamaha Motor Co. USA, said in an interview before a ceremony at
the plant. The move, initially disclosed in February 2010, is
unrelated to the magnitude-9 earthquake that crippled parts of
Japan after March 11, he said.  Yamaha Motors’ decision highlights an emerging trend, as
U.S. southern states become “some of the cheapest locations for
manufacturing in the developed world,” according to a report by
the  Boston Consulting Group  on May 5.  “As a result of the changing economics, you’re going to
see a lot more products ‘Made in the USA’ in the next five
years,” Harold L. Sirkin, a partner at the firm, said in a
statement accompanying the report. “For some, the economics
have already reached the tipping point.”  Yamaha Motor of Iwata City, Japan, is the world’s second-
biggest maker of power-sports products such as motorcycles,
watercraft and snowmobiles. It’s made products in the U.S. since
1986, and began manufacturing ATVs in 1998.  Hiring Workers  At the factory about 40 miles (64 kilometers) southwest of
Atlanta, the move will “save” 90 jobs and may lead to 200
workers being hired back, Martinez said. The U.S. is the world’s
biggest market for the four-wheel, off-road vehicles, used for
hunting and backwoods transport or sport.  Higher commodity prices, a strong yen and mounting research
costs will result in smaller-than-anticipated profit for 2011,
President Hiroyuki Yanagi told reporters in  Tokyo  on Feb. 15.
The company’s first-quarter net income jumped 79 percent to 13.4
billion yen ($165.6 million), according to a filing to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange May 12.  Martinez said rising gasoline prices and a falling dollar
made it more expensive to import fully built all-terrain
vehicles into the U.S., which represents 80 percent of global
off-road vehicle sales. The company will continue to import
Japanese-made engines, while the rest of the parts are made by
125 different suppliers in the U.S., he said.  The yen gained about 13 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of 2010. The currency broke through 80 per dollar
this month for the first time since speculation that Japanese
investors would repatriate funds drove it to a record 76.25 on
March 17 after the earthquake.  Yamaha Motor shares rose 39 yen (48 cents) to 1,530 yen
($18.85) on the Tokyo Stock Exchange at 8:35 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  