-- 
Yandex Said to Finish Taking IPO Orders

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-17T20:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/yandex-said-to-finish-taking-ipo-orders-early-on-investor-demand.html
Yandex NV, the owner of  Russia ’s most
popular search engine, plans to finish taking orders for shares
earlier than scheduled because of investor demand in its initial
public offering, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The order book for The Hague-based company’s U.S. IPO will
close on May 20, instead of next week as planned, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information is
private. Yandex has already received enough orders for all of
the shares being offered, one person said. The IPO is set to
price next week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yandex’s offering, which seeks to raise as much as $1.15
billion, follows an initial offer by Chinese social-networking
website Renren Inc. earlier this month and a planned IPO by
LinkedIn Corp. this week. Yandex will use proceeds to invest in
technology, infrastructure and possibly acquisitions, according
to its filing.  The company is selling 52.2 million shares for $20 to $22
each and will list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
YNDX. Morgan Stanley,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  were hired to lead the offering.  The $21 midpoint of the offering range would value Yandex
at $6.75 billion. About 70 percent of the shares in the offering
are being sold by existing investors including Baring Vostok
Capital Partners and Tiger Global Management LLC, according to
the share-sale filing.  The Yandex.ru website attracted 38.3 million unique
visitors in March, and the company generated 64 percent of all
search traffic in Russia in 2010, Yandex said in its prospectus.  Revenue at Yandex, most of which comes from advertising,
jumped 65 percent in the first three months of 2011 from a year
earlier, to 3.89 billion rubles ($138 million), the prospectus
showed. Net income increased 62 percent to 820 million rubles.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
declined to comment, as did John Gallagher of Deutsche Bank and
 Andrea Rachman  at Goldman Sachs. An e-mail and phone call to
Yandex’s public relations office in Moscow outside of regular
business hours weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 