-- 
Dollar Falls on Speculation Fed Will Trail ECB in Raising Interest Rates

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-18T07:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/yen-falls-to-one-week-low-on-concern-japan-gdp-report-may-show-contraction.html
The dollar fell against the euro for
a third day on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will trail the
 European Central Bank  in tightening monetary policy.  The Dollar Index dropped before the U.S. central bank today
releases minutes from its April 26-27 meeting after which
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the economy still requires
monetary support. The euro was supported by prospects the ECB
will raise  interest rates  even as the region’s debt crisis
persists. New Zealand’s dollar advanced for a second day versus
the greenback after a report showed producer prices rose in the
first quarter.  “We don’t hear any talk about rate increases in the U.S.,
while such expectations are supporting the euro,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “The Fed is printing dollars aggressively, but we have
yet to see inflation concerns rise. That means the U.S. is far
away from exiting stimulus measures.”  The greenback fell to $1.4275 per euro as of 8:18 a.m. in
 London  from $1.4237 yesterday in  New York . The dollar weakened
to 81.15 yen, from 81.42 yen. Japan’s currency fetched 115.81
per euro, after touching 116.41, the lowest since May 11.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, declined 0.3
percent to 75.2.  Rate Expectations  Swaps traders are betting the ECB will raise its target
rate by 96 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse
AG index showed. Another index forecasts 32 basis points of
increases by the Fed for the same period.  “People are expecting another rate increase by summer”
from the ECB, said Keiji Matsumoto, a currency strategist in
 Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “That’s acting as a buffer
against the euro’s decline, while the fiscal issue weighs on the
currency.”  Bernanke, at his first press conference following a policy
decision last month, said the economy still requires monetary
support while the need to contain inflation means further easing
is unlikely. Fed policy makers kept the target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent. The
rate has remained at that level since December 2008.  The dollar has lost 4.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
weakened 4.3 percent, while the euro is 2.8 percent stronger,
the gauges show.  Greece ’s Debt  European finance ministers for the first time floated the
idea of talks with bondholders over extending Greece’s debt-
repayment schedule.  Europe  would consider “reprofiling” Greek
bond maturities as part of a package including stepped-up sales
of state assets and deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime
Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said May 16.  “Policy makers are putting off the issue of Greece, and
nothing has been decided,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market
economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.,  Japan ’s
second-largest publicly traded lender. “I expect the euro to
drop below $1.40 by June and stay below that level.”  The U.S. currency also weakened versus the yen as the yield
premium on the U.S. bonds over Japan’s shrank, curbing the
relative allure of the nation’s assets.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year U.S. bonds
instead of similar-maturity Japanese debt narrowed to 1.97
percent from 2.11 percent on May 12.  Japan’s Economy Contracting  The yen earlier touched a one-week low against the euro
before a report tomorrow forecast to show Japan’s economy shrank
in the first quarter.  Japan’s gross domestic product contracted an annualized 1.9
percent in the three months ended March 31 after shrinking 1.3
percent in the previous quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists. The report may bolster bets the  Bank of Japan 
will trail its counterparts in normalizing monetary policy. The
central bank is set to end a two-day policy meeting on May 20.  “Market participants are sensitive to monetary policy
outlooks,” said Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based　market analyst
at IG Markets Securities Ltd. “When it comes to exit strategy,
Japan is far behind. That weighs on the yen.”  New Zealand ’s dollar advanced after  Statistics New Zealand 
said today producer input prices gained 2.2 percent in the first
three months of the year from the prior quarter, and output
prices advanced 1.7 percent.  New Zealand’s currency rose to 78.85 U.S. cents, from 78.49
cents. The so-called kiwi was at 63.94 yen from 63.96 yen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 