-- `Fed’s Tapering of Sugar Drip No Threat to Stocks'
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n
-- 2013-07-15T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/-fed-s-tapering-of-sugar-drip-no-threat-to-stocks-.html
Investors should focus on equities
and look beyond Federal Reserve stimulus, as gains will continue
on improving U.S. private finances, the falling allure of bonds
and an emerging-market recovery, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Quantitative easing was not the sole reason for the almost
150 percent rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 2009
as stock prices recovered before both the second and third
rounds of stimulus began, Andrew Goldberg and Daniel Morris,
global market strategists at JPMorgan Asset Management, said.  “Markets seem worried that less sugar from the Fed will
hurt stocks,” Goldberg said in  London  on July 10. “But any
tapering is in response to better economic data and markets will
learn it’s better to be healthy and not need Fed medicine than
it is to be ill and on pain killers. Earnings have been the real
driver behind stock returns.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index slumped 8.8 percent from
May 21 through June 24 as investor concern grew that the Fed
will start tapering its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases
this year and end them in mid-2014. The gauge has rebounded 6.8
percent since then. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 10
that the central bank’s monetary police will remain “highly
accommodative.”  Analysts have consistently upgraded their estimates of
earnings for S&P 500-listed companies since 2009. They increased
their forecast of annual earnings per share from $57.01 in May
2009 to $110.50 now, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. will continue to lead  stock gains , as European
shares lag because analysts haven’t upgraded their earnings
estimates, and  China’s economy  struggles to stoke domestic-consumer demand, the analysts said.  Private Debt  The debt burden in the U.S. is shifting from individual and
corporate borrowers to the government, Morris said. This will
free up cash in households and companies, which can then
increase spending and investment, he said.  U.S.  household net worth  surged to an all-time high of
$71.3 trillion in the second quarter, according to Federal
Reserve data provided by JPMorgan. This represents a 37 percent
rebound from a low reached in March 2009.  U.S. treasury yields have risen in the last two months,
with the 10-year note surging 111 basis points between May 2 and
July 5, to the highest level since Aug. 1, 2011.  Rising Treasury yields have driven investors to sell bonds
and buy stocks, Morris said.  Bond Outflow  The  Investment Company Institute , the national association
of American fund managers, estimates that long-term bond funds
in the U.S. experienced a  net outflow  of $66.6 billion in the
five weeks through July 2. Meanwhile, weekly estimated flows
into equity funds have turned positive.  “There has been a dramatic outflow from bonds,” Morris
said. “People have been selling  government bonds  and
investment-grade corporate bonds. So a rotation is starting to
happen.”  In  emerging markets , stock valuations are compellingly low
after they performed poorly relative to U.S. equities because of
worsening economic data from  China , Morris said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 10 percent so far
this year, compared with a 17 percent gain for the  S&P 500 . The
price ratio between the two gauges has dropped to the lowest
level since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As China rebalances growth and promotes domestic
consumption, it has many more levers to stimulate growth”
including a reduction in  interest rates  that are higher than in
 Europe  and the U.S., Morris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  