-- ‘Tabloid Twins’ Weiner, Spitzer Lead in NYC Democrat Poll
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/-tabloid-twins-weiner-spitzer-lead-in-nyc-democrat-poll.html
Anthony Weiner and  Eliot Spitzer ,
who both resigned elective offices amid sex scandals, lead the
 Democratic Party ’s nominating campaigns for  New York  mayor and
city comptroller, a Quinnipiac University poll shows.  Weiner, 48, who quit as a congressman in 2011 after posting
lewd photos of himself on the Internet, received 25 percent to
City Council Speaker Christine Quinn’s 22 percent, with 21
percent undecided, according to the poll released today.  Spitzer, 54, who in 2008 resigned as governor after
revelations that he consorted with high-priced prostitutes,
leads Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer 48 percent to
33 percent for comptroller, the poll shows. Spitzer jumped in
the race July 7. The primary is about eight weeks away.  “Notoriety has earned the ‘tabloid twins’  good initial
numbers in the polls,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the
Quinnipiac Polling Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in an
interview. “Whether those numbers hold up in the Sept. 10
primary election is the big question.”  Weiner and Spitzer were each the last to enter their
respective races and have captured most of the media’s
attention. The telephone survey July 8-14 of 738 registered
Democrats has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage
points.  Year-Long Campaign  The mayor of the most populous U.S. city is elected to a
four-year term and has chief responsibility over a workforce of
about 300,000 with a $70 billion operating budget and more than
$74 billion in long-term municipal debt. Six of the candidates
had been campaigning for about a year when Weiner joined the
race May 22.  Among the other Democratic mayoral aspirants,  William Thompson  -- the party’s 2009 mayoral nominee -- was third at 11
percent; city Public Advocate Bill de Blasio had 10 percent;
Comptroller  John Liu  got 7 percent; and 1 percent backed former
City Councilman Sal Albanese.  The comptroller audits the mayor and all municipal agencies
and oversees the five pension funds, which hold assets of about
$140 billion. Stringer had been campaigning without opposition
since November until Spitzer declared his bid. The poll shows 16
percent were undecided.  Although Democrats hold a 6-to-1 voter registration edge
over Republicans in the city, a Democrat hasn’t been elected
mayor since 1989, when David Dinkins, a former city clerk,
became New York’s first black chief executive. The last year a
Republican served as comptroller was 1945.  Influential Office  Spitzer, known as the sheriff of  Wall Street  while serving
as attorney general from 1999 to 2006, has said he wants to use
the office and its billions of dollars in investments to
influence corporate policies on executive pay, consumer safety
and environmental and labor practices.  Weiner has described himself as “a disruptive candidate”
for mayor, and has called for workers to pay more for health
insurance and the establishment of a government-run health
insurance system for all  New Yorkers . A former city councilman,
he was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from a
Brooklyn-Queens district in 1998.  He has asked voters to forgive him for the scandal that led
to his 2011 resignation from Congress, when he sent photographs
of his crotch to women using the Twitter Inc. website, then lied
about it saying his account had been hacked.  Black voters favored Spitzer, 61 percent to 26 percent for
Stringer, the poll indicates. Among women, Spitzer also led
Stringer, 44 percent to 32 percent, and among men, Spitzer
topped Stringer 53 percent to 33 percent.  In the mayor’s race, blacks backed Weiner over Quinn 31
percent to 16 percent, the poll shows. Thompson, the only black
in the race, got 14 percent from that demographic group; 11
percent supported Liu and 8 percent went for de Blasio.  Erick Salgado, a Latino preacher from the Bronx, wasn’t
counted in the mayoral poll.  The election is the first in 12 years in which  City Hall ’s
top job will be vacant. Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is legally
barred from seeking a fourth term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  