-- AAA States Beating Market for First Time Since 2008: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/aaa-states-beating-market-for-first-time-since-2008-muni-credit.html
The highest-rated U.S. states are
set to beat the rest of the $3.7 trillion municipal market for
the first time since 2008 as the worst bond rout in more than
two years draws investors to safer debt.  State general obligations with a AAA grade have lost 2.3
percent in 2013, compared with a 3.3 percent drop for the
broader market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. It
would be the first time in five years for the segment to
outperform all local debt on an annual basis. The index includes
debt from 14 states, including Utah, which sold bonds last week,
as well as Maryland and Texas, which plan to borrow this month.  The performance is a reversal from earlier this year, when
investors shunned such bonds as the  Federal Reserve ’s policy of
keeping its benchmark lending rate near zero boosted demand for
riskier credits with higher yields. The shift is reminiscent of
2008, when the recession and the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. drew buyers to top-rated debt.  “In this kind of market, people would rather have high
quality than lower quality,” said Hugh McGuirk, Baltimore-based
head of municipal investments at T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which
oversees about $20 billion of local debt. “The more quality you
have, the better you are.”  Record Revenue  States are recovering from the 18-month recession that
ended four years ago, bolstering their haven status. Their  tax
revenue  from January to March rose for the 14th straight
quarter, Census Bureau data show. States’ combined collections
this year will surpass the record of $670 billion from 2008,
according to Todd Haggerty, who tracks budget issues for the
Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .  At the same time, states are restraining spending on
capital projects and employees.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
report last week it sees “limited appetite” from states for
more debt. The governments cut  15,000 workers  from payrolls in
June, the biggest drop since October, and now employ the fewest
people since March 2005, Bureau of Labor Statistics data show.  “The revenue has been coming in, but they haven’t been
starting a lot of new capital projects, which leads you to
believe they’re using those funds to help with pension issues or
create rainy-day funds,” said Tim McGregor, who oversees about
$30 billion as director of municipal fixed-income at Northern
Trust Corp. in  Chicago .  Buying Opportunity  With investors pulling record amounts of cash from muni
mutual funds, local securities lost 3.3 percent in the three
months through June, the most since 2010.  McGregor said last month’s soaring  interest rates  created
an opportunity to buy state general obligations. Yields on
benchmark 10-year  munis  started June at 2.22 percent, and rose
as much as 0.73 percentage point on investor bets that the Fed
would slow its bond buying.  Texas, which is set to offer about $91 million of general
obligations this week, saw its interest rates rise in the past
month. The state’s 10-year debt  yields  about 2.9 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The interest rate reached
3.02 percent last month, the highest this year.  “Some of those state G.O.s that were at attractive yields
are probably going to provide good long-term value,” McGregor
said.  Utah Evidence  The demand was evident as  Utah  issued general-obligation
bonds last week. The state, one of eight with top grades from
the three biggest rating companies, earned yields below AAA
munis on debt maturing through 10 years.  The $226 million tax-free offer included a portion maturing
in July 2023 that was priced to yield 2.67 percent. That
interest rate was about 0.12 percentage point less than on
benchmark munis, the data show.  Yields remain below their 20-year average. That means the
best returns will still come from segments that are considered
less creditworthy than general obligations, said Michael Zezas,
head of muni strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York.  “The extra return you can get from high-quality names in
sectors that tend to be a little bit riskier are going to do
better than owning what you would normally consider to be the
cleanest, highest-quality names in the states market,” Zezas
said in an interview.  Health Benefit  In an example of the additional yield, health-care bonds
rated AA and due in 10 years have an interest rate of
3.51 percent, Bloomberg Fair Value index data show. That
compares with 3.11 percent on general obligations with a similar
rating and maturity.  One benefit of top-rated general obligations is that
they’re easier to trade when individuals pull money from the
market, McGregor said. Investors yanked an unprecedented $13.5
billion from all muni mutual funds in the past three weeks,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  During the selloff, the extra yield investors required to
own securities in Bank of America’s broad-market index rather
than AAA state debt reached 1.34 percentage points. That was the
widest gap in about a year, showing top-grade general
obligations outperformed among munis.  Texas  joins the Houston-area’s Grand Parkway Transportation
Corp. in borrowing this week as muni issuers offer a combined
$11.4 billion of bonds, the most in three months.  Grand Parkway’s $2.9 billion offer, the year’s biggest
issue, may include debt maturing in as long as 40 years.  At  4.35 percent , yields on benchmark 30-year munis are
close to the highest since May 2011. The interest rate compares
with  3.63 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 120 percent, close to a 12-month high. The greater the
figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  