-- Abbott to Buy Eye Laser, Stent Companies for $560 Million
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-15T20:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/abbott-to-buy-eye-laser-stent-companies-for-about-560-million.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  agreed to buy
two closely held companies, Idev Technologies and OptiMedica
Corp., for about $560 million to expand its device offerings for
treating blood vessel and eye diseases.  Abbott, the medical device and nutritional products maker
that split off its drug unit on Jan. 1, will pay $310 million
for Idev, gaining a stent to treat blockages in leg arteries,
the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based company said in a statement.
OptiMedica agreed to be acquired for $250 million, plus $150
million for reaching certain development and sales targets, in a
deal that will give Abbott a laser system for cataract surgery.  The acquisitions allow Abbott to expand in two of the
fastest growing areas for medical device makers, as demand and
prices for established technologies like heart stents continue
to lag. The $500 million market for peripheral artery disease, a
blockage in the leg arteries that affects about 27 million
people in the U.S. and  Europe , is fueled by rising obesity and
diabetes rates. The aging population will continue to drive the
need for surgery to treat cataracts, a clouding in the eyes.  “These technologies are leading edge and are going to add
nicely to our existing vascular and ophthalmology businesses,”
John Capek, executive vice president of medical devices for
Abbott, said in a telephone interview.  The company plans to build on the new products, “allowing
these technologies to be available to broader patient
populations,” he said.  2013 Completion  Abbott plans to close on the acquisitions of Webster,
Texas-based Idev and OptiMedica, based in Sunnyvale,  California ,
by the end of the year. They will have no impact on the 2013
earnings per share forecast, the company said.  Abbott  rose  less than 1 percent to $35.48 at the close of
trading. The shares have risen 13 percent since Jan. 1, when the
company split.  Idev’s Supera Veritas stent is under U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  review for treating blockages in the main artery
in the leg and is currently available to treat a narrowing of
the bile duct in cancer patients. The device, which is made with
a woven wire technology designed to mimic the body’s natural
movement, is already approved in Europe for use in the legs.  Abbott has completed enrollment for its first-in-man study
of the Absorb scaffold, a dissolving stent, for use in the legs,
Capek said. The company will have the results by the end of the
year and will decide then whether to start the research needed
for FDA approval.  Cataract Market  The $4 billion  cataract  market is comprised mostly of the
intraocular lens business, making up about $2.3 billion of the
total, Capek said. In many cases, hospitals use lenses from the
company that supplies the surgical products, he said.  Only about 20 percent of cataract surgeries are done via
laser in the U.S. now, with surgeons making the incisions in the
eye manually during most of the 22 million operations performed
worldwide each year. The number of laser surgeries are growing
rapidly because of the precision and control offered by the
technology, he said.  Abbott’s sales of intraocular lenses and supplies for
cataract surgery is about $600 million annually, he said.  “It’s the fastest growing and most profitable part of our
vision care business,” he said. “This acquisition will augment
and supplement what we have.”  After the Jan. 1 split, Abbott retained the original
company’s medical devices, nutritional products, diagnostic
tests and generic drugs.  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , based in North Chicago,
 Illinois , retained the brand name drugs, including the best-selling Humira for rheumatoid arthritis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  