-- Lac-Megantic Victims to Seek Crash Compensation in Class Action
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-15T17:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/lac-megantic-victims-to-seek-crash-compensation-in-class-action.html
Two residents of Lac-Megantic, the
Quebec town devastated by  Canada ’s worst train disaster in a
century, are seeking permission to proceed with a class action
lawsuit on behalf of victims.  Guy Ouellet, whose partner Diane Bizier died when a 73-car
crude oil train operated by Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway
Ltd. derailed and exploded July 6, and Yannick Gagné, the owner
of the Musi-Café bar that was destroyed, filed an application
for class action today, according to one of their lawyers Daniel
Larochelle, also a resident of the town in which as many as 50
people died in the explosion.  “The suffering endured by this community and the suffering
that is still ongoing has been truly incomprehensible,”
Larochelle said in a press release. “I want this legal action
to bring some hope to my community as we start to rebuild.”  Three of Gagné’s employees died in rail accident, the worst
in Canada since 1910.  Larochelle has assembled a legal team that includes
Montreal-based Consumer Law Group Inc., Rochon Genova LLP of
Toronto, and the  New York  firm Lieff Cabraser Heimann and
Bernstein LLP, according to the statement.  Claims would be for property and business losses, as well
as for recovery of damages sustained by those who lost family
and friends or were injured in the explosion, Jeff Orenstein, a
lawyer at Consumer Law Group, said in a phone interview today.
It’s too early to determine a specific amount for damages,
Orenstein said.  Other plaintiffs, potentially including insurance
companies, will be added to the list as the firm continues to
develop its case, he said. The suit needs to be certified as a
class action before proceeding, Orenstein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  