-- Accused Sept. 11 Platters May Be Barred From Hearings
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-07-15T23:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/accused-sept-11-platters-may-be-barred-from-hearings.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
others accused of masterminding the terror attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon will be excluded from pretrial
hearings when classified information is disclosed, a judge said.  The ruling by U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, who is
presiding over a military tribunal in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
means the five men won’t be present for hearings about their
treatment in U.S. custody, said James Connell, a lawyer for one
of the accused. The defendants say they were tortured while held
at secret Central Intelligence Agency sites around the world.  “It is the U.S. government’s abuse of the defendants in
secret detention which makes the hearings classified in the
first place,” Connell said in a statement today disclosing the
ruling. “This ruling is the latest in a series of military
commission decisions favoring secrecy over transparency.”  The defendants are accused of organizing the Sept. 11,
2001, hijacking of passenger airplanes that killed almost 3,000
people when they were crashed into the World Trade Center in
 Manhattan , the Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania .  The five, who have been held by the U.S. for about a
decade, may face the death penalty if convicted. A military
trial is at least a year away.  The issue was argued during a week of hearings last month.  “Mr. Mohammed has the right to be present when we’re
talking about matters that deal with his torture,” his lawyer,
David Nevin, told Pohl at the time.  ‘In Line’  Colonel Todd Breasseale, a Pentagon spokesman, said in an
e-mailed comment today that Pohl’s ruling, while still
classified, “is in line with similar decisions reached in
federal court when classified material had to be disclosed.”  At last month’s hearing, a prosecutor, Joanna Baltes, said
the government wasn’t seeking to exclude the defendants from the
trial whenever classified evidence is presented. Rather, she
said, the government wanted “protections” for classified
information at the pretrial stage.  The case  is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  