-- Thunderbirds Fly as Air Force Resumes Flights After Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-15T19:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/air-force-resumes-flying-planes-grounded-from-budget-cuts.html
The U.S.  Air Force ’s Thunderbirds
demonstration team is heading back into the air as the service
resumes training flights that had been grounded by across-the-board budget cuts.  Combat aircraft from multiple commands are flying again
after the service obligated $208 million for flight hours from a
$1.8 billion shift in budget allocations authorized by Congress,
the Air Force said today in a statement.  While the Thunderbirds are resuming training flights, the
squadron won’t be restoring its canceled schedule of air shows
for this year. It is acting “with the anticipation that it may
be able to resume a limited number of aerial demonstrations next
calendar year,” Major Darrick Lee, a spokesman for the
Thunderbirds, said in a separate statement  on its website .  The cancellation of pilot flying hours for training began
soon after the automatic budget cuts, called sequestration, were
triggered in March. The Pentagon is absorbing about $37 billion
in cuts through Sept. 30, the end of this fiscal year.  “Since April we’ve been in a precipitous decline with
regard to combat readiness,” General  Mike Hostage , commander of
the Air Combat Command at Joint Base Langley-Eustis in  Virginia ,
said in the statement. “Returning to flying is an important
first step, but what we have ahead of us is a measured climb to
recovery.”  About 300 combat and training aircraft from multiple combat
units will have flying hours restored, Lieutenant Colonel Edward
Sholtis, an Air Combat Command spokesman, said by e-mail.  Planes may be grounded again after Oct. 1, when the
beginning of a new fiscal year will require an additional $52
billion in Defense Department cuts, unless Congress and
President  Barack Obama  agree on an alternative deficit-reduction
plan.  ‘Band-Aid Solution’  Hostage said the shift in funds to finance flight hours
means less money for investments aimed at modernizing the force.  “We are using investment dollars to pay current
operational bills, and that approach is not without risk to our
long-term effectiveness,” he said in the statement. “We can’t
mortgage our future.”  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , a senior Republican on the
Armed Services Committee, issued a statement praising the Air
Force for “working creatively to keep our pilots in the skies,
if only temporarily, but this decision is a Band-Aid solution
that cannot be sustained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  