-- America Movil Sells Two-Part Bond in Europe as Yields Decline
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-07-15T16:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/america-movil-plans-two-part-bond-sale-in-europe-as-yields-fall.html
America Movil SAB (AMX)  and Italian
transportation company Ferrovie dello Stato SpA sold bonds in
Europe after yields on corporate debt in the region fell to the
lowest in almost a month.  The wireless carrier controlled by Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim  priced the equivalent of 1.1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of bonds denominated in euros and pounds for the first
time in a year, while state-run Ferrovie sold its first notes
since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
European non-financial company debt dropped to 2.02 percent, the
lowest since June 19, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  Reassurances from central banks including the Federal
Reserve and the European Central Bank this month that stimulus
measures will remain for longer than expected have helped
stabilize European bond markets. Corporate credit risk in the
region fell today after  China ’s economy expanded 7.5 percent in
the second quarter, matching analyst forecasts.  “The market today is looking pretty positive because of
the Chinese GDP number which came through overnight,” said
Harpreet Parhar, a credit strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in
London. “It wasn’t brilliant but it was in line with consensus
and that provided some relief as there were some fears that the
number could come in worse than expected.”  Two-Part Sale  America Movil sold 750 million euros of 10-year bonds that
were priced to yield 135 basis points more than the mid-swap
rate and 300 million pounds ($453 million) of notes maturing
July 2033 after initially marketing the deal at 500 million
pounds, according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private. The
sterling bonds were priced to yield 170 basis points more than
benchmark gilts.  Ferrovie sold 750 million euros of seven-year securities
priced to yield 268 basis points more than swaps, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Araceli Ruiz Vazquez, a Mexico City-based spokesman for
America Movil, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call or
an e-mail seeking comment outside office hours. Stefano Biserni,
a spokesman for Ferrovie in  Rome , wasn’t immediately able to
comment on the financing.  The cost of insuring European corporate debt against losses
fell, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of contracts on 125
investment-grade companies declining 3.3 basis points to 105
basis points at 5:20 p.m. in London, the lowest since June 7.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV,
the world’s largest raw cotton trader, has mandated banks to
arrange a possible bond sale in Europe. The Rotterdam-based
trader will begin meeting with investors tomorrow, according to
a person familiar with the matter. It would be company’s first
sale of bonds in the region, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in  London  at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  