-- Anadarko to Face Investor Suit Over BP Spill, Judge Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-07-16T15:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/anadarko-to-face-investor-suit-over-bp-spill-judge-says.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , a partner
in the BP Plc well that blew up in 2010 and triggered the
largest U.S. offshore oil spill, must face a lawsuit claiming it
misled investors, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston dismissed
most of the investors’ allegations yesterday while finding they
had sufficient reason to sue over a statement by an Anadarko
senior vice president, Robert Daniels, after the spill that the
company had no involvement in design or procedures at BP’s
Macondo well.  “The court finds that one statement in the complaint, made
by defendant Daniels, is adequately pled” under the federal law
governing securities-fraud claims, Ellison said in his ruling.
“Full dismissal is therefore not warranted.”  The investors accused Anadarko, which held a 25 percent
interest in London-based  BP (BP/) ’s well, of understating its role in
the project and falsely claiming it faced minimal financial
liability from the 2010 blowout off the Louisiana coast. The
securities-fraud suit, a  class action , was filed seeking
recovery of billions of dollars of lost share value.  Anadarko disputed the investor claims and asked Ellison to
throw out the case.  “We are pleased that almost all of the claims in the
Goodwin case have been dismissed,” John Christiansen, a
spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, said in an e-mail, citing the name of a plaintiff. “We will continue to
defend the sole remaining claim.”  30 Days  Ellison gave the plaintiffs 30 days to re-plead, or re-argue, dismissed allegations.  “We’re pleased the court has held that Anadarko has to
answer these allegations,” John Browne, an investor attorney,
said in a phone interview. “We’re going to evaluate our options
about re-pleading.”  The April 2010 blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and generated hundreds of lawsuits against
BP; Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the
rig; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services for the project.  The lawsuits also named Anadarko and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX
Offshore 2007, which had a 10 percent share in the well, as
defendants. Anadarko agreed to pay BP $4 billion to settle its
share of oil-spill claims by private parties. MOEX settled for
$1.07 billion.  Anadarko fell from $73.94 on April 20, 2010, to $34.83 on
June 9, 2010, losing $19.3 billion in market capitalization, the
shareholders said.  Class Status  The investors bringing the lawsuit, led by the pension
funds of U.S. Virgin Islands retirees, seek to represent all
investors in Anadarko from June 12, 2009, to June 9, 2010.  The investors claimed Anadarko wasn’t a passive partner in
the Macondo well. It “expressly approved and funded a series of
extremely risky decisions made in connection with drilling the
well,” the investors said in court filings. Those decisions
“contributed directly to the disaster,” they said.  Once the spill occurred, Anadarko attempted to prop up its
shares by continuing to downplay its role in the project, the
investors said.  The plaintiffs focused on a statement by Daniels in a May
4, 2010, conference call. Daniels said well design and
procedures were completed before Anadarko became involved in the
project, the plaintiffs said, citing the call.  ‘Not Involved’  “When you typically approve these as a non-operator, you
basically approve just the capital spending level in the
targeted zones from a geological perspective, as opposed to
looking at the detail, well design or procedures. We were not
involved in that at all on this well,” Daniels said, according
to Ellison’s decision.  Ellison found Daniels’s statement could be considered
misleading.  “Viewing the statement in isolation, the inference that
Daniels spoke with knowledge that his statement was misleading,
or with reckless disregard for whether it was true, is ‘cogent
and compelling’ -- particularly because he spoke so directly and
did not use any qualifying or hedging words,” Ellison said.  The judge said that while the statement was “actionable,”
it was “apparently an isolated occurrence, not repeated by
Daniels or any other Anadarko executive.”  Ellison found no merit in the investors’ other claims,
including allegations that Anadarko misrepresented its
commitment to safety and its risk-management practices, and was
responsible for misstatements by BP.  Ellison also rejected the plaintiffs’ claim that Anadarko
misstated its insurance coverage for the disaster.  The case is In re Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Class Action
Litigation, 12-cv-00900, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  