-- ANC Decline May Accelerate Post Mandela: K2 Intelligence
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-07-15T10:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/anc-decline-may-accelerate-post-mandela-k2-intelligence.html
While South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  is likely to get a short-term boost if former
president  Nelson Mandela  dies before next year’s general
election, the event may accelerate the decline of the party, K2
Intelligence said.  Africa’s oldest political party will seek to defend the
65.9 percent share of the vote it won in 2009. The ANC has had
close to two-thirds of the vote since the first all-race
elections in 1994, which saw Mandela become the nation’s first
black president.  “The significance of Mandela’s passing lies in the fact
that it could subtly influence the African National Congress’s
transition,” according to analysts headed by Jules B. Kroll at
the London-based research company. The ANC may move from “an
indestructible hegemonic political force into a political party
that stands a reasonable chance of being defeated in the 2024
general election.”  Mandela, 94, has been in the hospital in  Pretoria , the
capital, for over a month as he receives treatment for a
recurring lung infection. It’s his fourth time in hospital since
December. The Nobel Peace Prize winner “is responding to
treatment” his wife Graca Machel said on July 12. Mandela’s
condition is stable yet critical, according to President  Jacob Zuma .  In next year’s election, however, the ANC may benefit, the
analysts said.  ‘Conciliatory Event’  “Far from releasing violent, disgruntled, racially
inspired undercurrents, his death will probably act as a
healing, conciliatory event for the country,” London-based  K2
Intelligence , said in an e-mailed note to clients sent to
 Bloomberg News  late last week. “It’s probable that Mandela’s
passing will in fact provide a small boost for the ANC in the
run up to the election in April 2014.”  The main opposition  Democratic Alliance  is likely to
increase its share of the vote next year to at least 23 percent
from 16.7 percent, according to K2.  The DA “is making surprisingly strong inroads considering
its origins as a predominantly white party,” the analysts said.  Mandela’s “absence could in fact become a virtue -- not
for the ANC but for the country,” K2 said. “It signals a
necessary maturation in  South Africa ’s politics: the ANC’s
transition from effective omnipotence, to having to deal with an
increasingly powerful opposition.”  K2 was founded and is chaired by Kroll, who also started
corporate intelligence agency Kroll Inc. He sold Kroll to Marsh
& Mclennan Companies Inc. in 2004, with the unit generating $1
billion in revenue in 2008, according to the K2 website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  