-- Mandela Family Disputes Mar His Legacy
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-07-16T11:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/mandela-family-disputes-mar-his-legacy.html
As Nelson Mandela lies in critical
condition in a Pretoria hospital, his family is cashing in on
his legacy and fighting over custodianship of his brand and
assets worth millions of dollars.  One of his daughters and three of his grandchildren are
using the former South African president’s name in such pursuits
as wine marketing and a reality television show,  “Being
Mandela.”  His relatives also were embroiled in two lawsuits to
secure control over his trust funds and the burial places of the
remains of three of his children.  Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu says the feud is
almost like spitting in Mandela’s face, while Zwelinzima Vavi,
general secretary of the country’s largest labor union grouping,
says there couldn’t be a worse  insult  to his legacy. South
African media mock the fuss with  cartoons  such as one entitled
“Squabble, the Mandela Family Game.”  “It’s all about money,” Keith Gottschalk, a politics
lecturer at the University of the Western Cape in Cape Town,
said in a phone interview. “Some of Mandela’s relatives have
tarnished their reputations and shown themselves as being
greedy.”  Mandela, 94, has been revered as a global icon since he
emerged from 27 years in jail to shepherd South Africa from
white-minority rule to democracy and served a single term as
president following multiracial elections in 1994. After
retiring in 1999, he raised tens of millions of dollars for
charity. The revenue came from a clothing line called 46664 --
his prison number, commemorative coins, books and concerts.  Lung Infection  He has been hospitalized since June 8. President Jacob Zuma’s office says he is in critical yet stable condition and is
responding to treatment for a lung infection. Mandela last made
a public appearance in 2010.  Mandela’s condition improved significantly over the
weekend, making it possible he’ll be discharged from the
hospital this week, the Johannesburg-based New Age newspaper
reported today, citing his grandson Mbuso Mandela.  Mandela’s state pension has been supplemented by revenue
from his best-selling 1994 autobiography, “Long Walk to
Freedom,” and charcoal sketches and watercolors he made of
Robben Island, where he was imprisoned for 18 years. The pieces
of artwork each sold for several thousand dollars, with buyers
including talk show host Oprah Winfrey and retailer  Woolworths
Holdings Ltd. (WHL)   Long Walk  “There are very few people who have not heard of Mandela
and almost without exception he is revered,” Roger Sinclair, a
former marketing professor and consultant to Prophet Brand
Strategy, said in a phone interview from Cape Town. “There is
absolutely no doubt that if you take Nelson Mandela’s name and
image and you put that onto something that you sell, you are
able to sell it at a premium. Clearly millions will be made.”  Mandela’s granddaughters, Zaziwe Dlamini-Manaway and Swati
Dlamini, have a  clothing line  called “Long Walk to Freedom.”
Its website says it brings “a touch of Madiba Magic” to
clothing, using Mandela’s clan name. They also star in Cozi TV’s
“Being Mandela” reality show, which provides a window on the
family’s life.  Mandela’s daughter, Makaziwe, and her daughter, Tukwini,
sell wine under the  “House of Mandela”  label, which displays
the family tree on its website.  Family Name  Mandela’s relatives deny tarnishing the family name.  “Our grandparents have always said you know this is our
name too and we can do what we think is best for the name as
long as we treat it with respect and integrity,” Swati Dlamini
said in a YouTube video clip to promote the reality show.
“That’s what we think we are doing. They are very supportive of
what we do.”  In April, Makaziwe and her half-sister, Zenani Dlamini,
filed a lawsuit seeking to remove their father’s lawyers, George
Bizos and Bally Chuene, and former Human Settlements Minister
Tokyo Sexwale as directors of two companies he set up. The
daughters argued that they were not properly appointed.  The three denied the allegation, saying that Makaziwe and
Zenani were acting in bad faith and seeking to access Mandela’s
money, contrary to his instructions. The former president made
it clear to his daughters in 2005 that he didn’t want them to
control his affairs, Chuene wrote in his answering affidavit in
the case.  Artwork Sales  Mandela’s daughters were represented by lawyer Ismail Ayob,
whom the former president fired and sued in May 2005 for failing
to properly account for sales of his artwork. Ayob denied any
wrongdoing, saying in court papers that Mandela was forgetful
and behaved irrationally.  Mandla Mandela, the former president’s grandson, declined
to join the lawsuit, saying he wasn’t prepared to become
involved in a squabble over family money.  Mandla found himself on the receiving end of family
litigation this month when Makaziwe and several relatives won
the exhumation and return of the remains of three of Mandela’s
children. Mandla had moved them in 2011 from Qunu, where Mandela
has a home, to the nearby village of Mvezo, where Mandla is
chief and his grandfather was born.  The day after the remains were returned, Tutu, one of South
Africa’s most revered public figures and winner of the 1984
Nobel Peace Prize for his role in fighting apartheid, said in an
e-mailed statement: “Please, please, please may we think not
only of ourselves. Your anguish now is the nation’s anguish, and
the world’s. It’s almost like spitting in Madiba’s face.”  Childhood Home  Makaziwe didn’t respond to a text message or answer calls
to her mobile phone. Mandla was not commenting on the court case
or family rift, his spokesman, Freddy Pilusa, said by phone.  Mandla has spearheaded the development of a museum and
youth hostel at Mvezo, and having Mandela’s children buried
there would help attract visitors and create jobs for his
subjects. In Qunu, Mandela’s childhood home, a museum and
 conference center  have been built.  The Mandela family rift may stem from its size and the fact
that Mandela was absent for much of the time that his children
and grandchildren were growing up, said Tawana Kupe, deputy
vice-chancellor at the  University of the Witwatersrand.   Mandela, married three times, had six children, 17
grandchildren and 14 great grandchildren. Evelyn, his first
wife, both of his sons, one of his daughters and two of his
great-grandchildren have died.  “It may be that his relatives don’t know each other very
well and they haven’t developed the kind of relations that would
mitigate against the kind of strife that we see today,” Kupe
said in a phone interview from Johannesburg.  Mandela acknowledged that he failed to meet his obligations
to his family.  “My commitment to my people, to the millions of South
Africans I would never know or meet, was at the expense of the
people I knew best and loved most,” he wrote in “Long Walk to
Freedom.” “My family has paid a terrible price, perhaps too
dear a price for my commitment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  