-- Manufacturing in New York Area Expands Less Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-expands-more-than-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded at a slower-than-expected pace in August as companies
felt the effects of weak demand.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  fell to 8.2 from 9.5 last month. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey  and
southern  Connecticut . The  median  projection in a Bloomberg
survey of 50 economists called for a reading of 10.  Factories continue to weather the effects of the U.S.
fiscal drag and weak overseas demand. The outlook may improve
later in the year amid gains in construction,  auto sales , and
 consumer spending . Overseas, the euro area’s economy emerged
from a record-long recession in the second quarter, providing
another potential boost to U.S. manufacturers, which account for
about 12 percent of the economy.  “ Europe ’s not going to be as big a drag as it has been in
the past. The negatives are getting smaller across the board,”
Josh Dennerlein, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in New
York, said before the report. “We’ll get a pickup in the back
half of the year on improving U.S. growth.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 50 economists for
August data ranged from 1 to 12.5. The index rose for the third
straight month.  The Empire State gauge of new orders decreased to 0.3 in
August from 3.8 the previous month. A measure of shipments fell
to 1.5 from 9 the prior month.  The index of prices paid rose to 20.5 from 17.4, while
prices received climbed to 3.6 from 1.1.  A measure of factory employment jumped to 10.8 from 3.3.  Factory executives in the New York Fed region were more
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now climbed to 37.4 from 32.  Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due later today, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing. The
national report is scheduled for release Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  