-- Archer Surges as CEO Opens Door to Improved Earnings: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-15T13:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/archer-surges-as-ceo-opens-door-to-improved-earnings-oslo-mover.html
Archer Ltd (ARCHER)  rose to its highest price
in almost six weeks in Oslo trading after the oilfield services
provider named a new chief executive, which RS Platou Markets AS
said raises the prospect of a profit improvement.  Shares in the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company rose as much
as 6.2 percent, the steepest gain since July 5, and traded 5.7
percent higher at 4.43 kroner as of 2:37 p.m. in the Norwegian
capital, the stock’s highest level since May 30. More than 1.3
million shares have traded so far today, 24 percent more than
the three-month average daily volume.  Archer today named David King, who was previously head of
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) ’s Completion and Production Division, its new
CEO. King replaces Fredrik Halvorsen, who is also the head of
 Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)  and was appointed interim CEO of Archer after
Jorgen Rasmussen left the position in January 2012.  “We view the appointment of an industry heavyweight like
 David King  as a major step in the right direction,” Turner Holm, an analyst at RS Platou, said in a note to clients today.  Archer’s management has “room to improve profitability
even without significant improvements in market conditions”
after reporting margins for earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization “well below mid-size peers,”
said Turner, who has a neutral rating on the stock.  Archer, 40 percent-owned by Seadrill Ltd., is trimming its
operations after a decline in prices for land-based oil services
in  North America . The company, whose stock has dropped 59
percent in the last 12 months, sold its North American rental
and tubular unit for $244 million to an affiliate of Clearlake
Capital Group to cut debt, it said May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  