-- Arsenal to Return With Improved Offer for Suarez: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-15T10:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/arsenal-to-return-with-improved-offer-for-suarez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Set on Suarez  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger will test Liverpool’s resolve
to keep Luis Suarez with an improved bid of 35 million pounds
($53 million) for the Uruguay striker, the  Guardian reported .  The Gunners, who have an agreement in principle with Real
Madrid’s Gonzalo Higuain, have contacted Liverpool to indicate
their readiness to pay 30 million pounds for Suarez and were
told that the figure was too low, the newspaper added.  Wenger hasn’t pushed through the deal to sign Higuain
because he believes Suarez would be a better buy, the  Sun
reported .  Gerrard’s New Contract  Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard agreed to a new two-year
contract and will sign the deal before the club embarks on its
pre-season tour of Asia and  Australia  this week, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The 33-year-old Gerrard, who has entered the final year of
his agreement, has been in talks with Liverpool officials since
the end of last season, the newspaper added.  City Targets Strikers  Manchester City is closing in on deals totaling more than
40 million pounds to acquire Sevilla striker Alvaro Negredo and
Fiorentina forward Stevan Jovetic, the  Sun reported .  City manager Manuel Pellegrini wants to have both players
signed by the end of this month as the club tries to replace
Carlos Tevez and  Mario Balotelli , the newspaper added.  Keen on Fabregas  Manchester United renewed its interest in Cesc Fabregas,
having lost out to Bayern Munich in the fight to sign his
Barcelona teammate Thiago Alcantara, the Independent reported.  Barcelona said yesterday that Bayern agreed to pay 25
million euros ($32.6 million) for Thiago, 22, and there has been
an acceptance at United that Fabregas is the type of player the
club needs as it enters a new era under manager David Moyes, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  