-- Martoma Shouldn't Get E-Mail Tied to Academic, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-15T18:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/martoma-shouldn-t-get-e-mail-tied-to-academic-u-s-says.html
Mathew Martoma, the former SAC
Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager charged with  insider
trading , should be denied access to communications involving the
professor who allegedly tipped him off about a drug trial, the
government said.  The former manager is seeking access to material including
the  University of Michigan  neurologist’s communications with a
lawyer that he says isn’t covered by the attorney-client
privilege. The professor, Sid Gilman, reached a non-prosecution
deal with the U.S. in its insider-trading probe.  Martoma asked U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in
 Manhattan  to order prosecutors and the University of Michigan
“to produce to the defendant all communications between Dr.
Gilman and his attorney” located on an “imaged” or copy of a
laptop computer Gilman used while at the university. Prosecutors
on July 12 filed papers urging the judge to refuse.  “The defendant has, in conflicting fashion, moved to
compel the government to produce certain communications between
Dr. Gilman and his attorneys while simultaneously asserting that
the government lacks standing to interpose objections to this
demand,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown wrote. “The
defendant is wrong.”  Federal investigators made copies of the laptop and other
computer hard drives which Gilman had access to, during the
federal investigation, Devlin-Brown wrote.  “It is a case where a witness has expressly asserted
privilege over documents in the possession of the government
and/or University of Michigan and where the government is itself
respecting this assertion and not reviewing the documents at
issue,” he said in the filing.  Devlin-Brown said that Gilman will file his own separate
motion regarding his position on Martoma’s right to have access
to the communications.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Gilman, and  Richard Strassberg ,
a lawyer for Martoma, didn’t immediately return voice-mail
messages left at their offices seeking comment about the
government’s filing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-02985, and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-08466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). For
Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  