-- Tarullo Says Any QE Tapering Would Depend on Economic Gains
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-07-15T16:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/tarullo-says-any-qe-tapering-would-depend-on-gains-in-economy.html
Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo, who has always voted in favor of bond purchases by the
Fed, said the central bank’s plan to taper its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying hinges on gains in the economy as it moves
further into a period of fiscal restraint.  Changes in the monthly amount of purchases are “data
driven, dependent on the economy, as we see the economy develop
then we will make our judgment,” the Fed governor said today in
 Washington . “We are not specifying no matter what happens on
this particular date we are going to have a change in the flow.
It will still be a very  accommodating policy .”  “No one is talking about selling the securities we’ve been
buying,” Tarullo, 60, said at a briefing hosted by Politico.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last month the Federal
Open Market Committee may begin reducing its bond buying “later
this year” and halt the program around mid-2014 if the economy
performs in line with central bank forecasts. The 59-year-old
Fed chairman may provide more details on the plan in his semi-annual testimony to the House of Representatives and Senate on
July 17-18.  U.S. central bankers last month forecast the economy would
grow between 2.3 percent and 2.6 percent this year and as much
as 3 percent to 3.5 percent in 2014, according to central
tendency estimates. They forecast the unemployment rate would
average 7.2 percent to 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter of this
year and 6.5 percent to 6.8 percent in the final three months of
next year.  Reducing Debt  The  jobless rate  stood at 7.6 percent in June. Tarullo said
households and businesses have made progress reducing debt,
mitigating one headwind to economic growth. The question is to
what extent fiscal restraint will slow growth and hiring, he
said.  “It is undeniable that those fiscal effects have had a
drag and a significant one,” he said. “But for all of us the
question is going to be: Can  the economy  with such underlying
momentum as it built up work through the peak period of fiscal
constraint” likely to hit in the second and third quarters?  “That’s the question that I am going to be asking myself
as we come up into the next several FOMC meetings,” said
Tarullo, who as a governor has a permanent vote on monetary
policy.  “What does the data say about whether that underlying
momentum is enough to sustain positive growth through this
period?” he said.  Financial Crisis  Tarullo also said U.S. regulators should focus on
protections around banks’ short-term wholesale funding as they
finish implementing reforms prompted by the financial crisis.  “The big area I think we need to do more on is short-term
funding,” he said. Letting a bank lean heavily on transactions
such as repurchase agreements could “make the institution and
the system susceptible to runs” of the kind that toppled Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Fixing that vulnerability, which banks still face, is a
more important goal for protecting the financial system than
reinstituting the separation between commercial and investment
banking, he said.  The FOMC has tied the benchmark lending rate, which has
been near zero since December 2008, to indicators for employment
and prices. The committee has said it will consider raising the
main interest rate should unemployment decline to 6.5 percent or
the long-term inflation forecast exceed 2.5 percent.  Reaching one of those thresholds will be a moment for a
committee to “sit and think” and consider a broad range of
data, he said. There are many contingencies that could keep the
policy rate low even if the thresholds are hit, he said.  ‘Still Subdued’  “Inflation might still be subdued,” Tarullo said. “We
might see there is a good bit of slack in the labor market,
perhaps labor force participation has still not bounced back,”
he said, adding there are good reasons to believe it will.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,682.82 at 12:08 p.m. in New York, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell two basis points to 2.56 percent.  Tarullo is the Fed governor in charge of supervision and
regulation at the Board of Governors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  