-- Stocks Retreat With Dollar as Crops Lead Commodity Gains
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-07-16T21:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/asian-futures-climb-on-u-s-advance-as-yen-holds-decline.html
U.S. stocks fell, halting the
longest rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since January,
as Coca-Cola Co. slid after earnings declined and a Federal
Reserve official called for cuts to stimulus. Treasuries were
little changed, the dollar weakened and crops rallied.  The  S&P 500  fell for the first time in  nine sessions ,
losing 0.4 percent to 1,676.26 in  New York  after closing at a
record yesterday. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 0.7 percent,
retreating from a six-week high. The dollar slipped against 15
of 16 major peers, while 10-year Treasury yields were little
changed at 2.53 percent. Cocoa, coffee, nickel and soybeans led
the S&P GSCI index to a 0.3 percent gain.  U.S. equities extended losses as Fed Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George, who has voted against quantitative
easing this year, told Fox Business Network that cuts to the
central bank’s bond buying are appropriate as the economy picks
up steam. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak to Congress
tomorrow. In Europe, German investor confidence unexpectedly
dropped in July, data from the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research showed.  “Hawkish comments from Kansas City Fed President George as
to the timing of adjustments to the Fed’s bond purchases are
putting modest pressure on the indices,”  Ryan Larson , the
Chicago-based head of U.S. equity trading at RBC Global Asset
Management (U.S.) Inc., said in an interview. His firm oversees
$290 billion. “Outside of that, earnings are in the early
stages and many are waiting for  Chairman Bernanke ’s testimony to
Congress tomorrow for further direction about future Fed
policy.”  Earnings Season  Per-share earnings have topped estimates at about 72
percent of the 36 companies in the S&P 500 that have released
earnings so far in this reporting season,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the world’s most profitable
securities firm before the financial crisis, slipped 1.7 percent
even after earnings beat estimates. Fixed-income, currency and
commodity trading revenue was $2.46 billion, down 23 percent
from the first quarter. That compared with an estimate of $2.67
billion from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analyst  Keith Horowitz .  Coca-Cola lost 1.9 percent after its earnings report showed
how unseasonable weather and slowing economic growth restrained
sales around the globe. Johnson & Johnson was little changed
after its earnings more than doubled in the second quarter after
it sold its stake in Elan Corp. and the company boosted its
profit forecast.  Cintas Corp. (CTAS)  retreated 1.7 percent after the
uniform maker forecast earnings for the current fiscal year that
were below estimates.  The U.S. earnings season “seems to have started off quite
well, and we need the fundamentals to come through to support
where prices have gone over the past year,” said Keith Poore,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in
Wellington, which manages more than $130 billion.  Economy Watch  The consumer-price index in the U.S. increased 0.5 percent
after a 0.1 percent gain the prior month, Labor Department
figures showed today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 0.3 percent rise. The biggest advance in gasoline
prices in four months accounted for about two-thirds of the gain
in the CPI. The core measure, which excludes food and fuel, rose
0.2 percent, matching the May gain and the survey median.  Another report from the Fed showed output at factories,
mines and utilities climbed 0.3 percent, the biggest advance
since February, after being little changed in May. The gain
matched the median forecast of 86 economists in a survey.
Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total output,
increased more than projected.  The Stoxx 600 erased an earlier advance of 0.1 percent as
travel, media and telecommunications shares helped lead losses.
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  slid 3.4 percent to a 16-year low in Milan
after putting a plan to spin off its fixed-line assets on hold.  German Confidence  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
36.3 from 38.5 in June. That’s the first decline in three
months. Economists forecast a gain to 40, according to the
median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed after
five consecutive daily gains.  India ’s Sensex Index slid 0.9
percent while the rupee jumped 1 percent, helping to lead gains
in developing-nation currencies, after the central bank raised
two  interest rates . The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.3
percent and  Russia ’s Micex Index advanced 0.5 percent and
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa increased 0.3 percent.  The dollar weakened 0.8 percent to 99.10 yen. The U.S.
currency slid 0.8 percent to $1.3162 per euro.  Australia ’s dollar climbed against all 16 of its major
peers as investors pared bets the  Reserve Bank  will cut
borrowing costs after the minutes of its most recent meeting
were released today.  Cocoa, soybeans, coffee and nickel rose at least 2 percent
to lead gains in 17 of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P
GSCI.  Copper climbed 1.2 percent to $6,998 a metric ton, the
first gain in three days. West Texas Intermediate crude slipped
0.3 percent to $106 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  