-- Asiana Crash Won’t Halt Insurance-Rate Drop, Willis Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-15T14:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/asiana-crash-won-t-halt-insurance-rate-drop-willis-says.html
The crash of an  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) 
 Boeing Co. (BA)  777 plane in  San Francisco  won’t stem a long-term
trend of falling airline insurance premiums, reinsurance broker
 Willis Group Holdings Plc (WSH)  said today.  The July 6 crash, which resulted in three deaths after the
twin-aisle airliner struck a seawall short of a runway, slammed
into the ground and spun off the tarmac, “will do little to
alter the downward trend in premium prices in the airline
insurance market,” Willis said today in a statement.  Insurance rates have been declining with airline claims for
more than three years because of fewer aircraft accidents,
insurance broker Aon Risk Solutions said in May. Crash rates
last year fell to 0.20 accidents per million flights from 0.37 a
year earlier, according to the  International Air Transport
Association , which reported no losses of aircraft due to
accidents among its members last year versus 0.41 per million
flights in 2011.  “At this point, it is difficult to see how a single
catastrophic event could reverse this prolonged period of rate
softening,” Phil Smaje, head of the reinsurer’s Willis
Aerospace division, said in the statement.  Losses in the first half of 2013 totaled about $488
million, while premiums in the period fell 5 percent, equivalent
to an industrywide decline for insurers of $13 million, Willis
said. Average insurance costs per passenger declined 12 percent,
it said.  “The low loss levels combined with abundant capacity and
growth in exposures continues to provide perfect conditions for
buyers and challenges for underwriters,” Smaje said.  Compounding the downward pressure on insurance prices are
new providers that have “served to further increase competition
and drive premium prices down,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  