-- Asiana Says KTVU Damaged Its Reputation With Offensive Broadcast
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-15T07:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/asiana-says-ktvu-damaged-its-reputation-with-offensive-broadcast.html
Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  said a
California television station “seriously damaged” the
carrier’s reputation by broadcasting incorrect names of the
pilots on its jet that crashed in San Francisco on July 6.  Asiana decided to take “strong steps” to sue  KTVU-TV 
because the report was racially discriminating, Lee Hyo Min, a
spokeswoman for the South Korean airline, said in  Seoul  today.
The company will take legal action in the U.S., she said.  KTVU channel 2 issued an apology on July 12 after its noon
newscast that misidentified the Asiana pilots. The network said
it made “several mistakes” when it got the information,
according to a  statement  on its website. Calls to the TV station
in Oakland weren’t answered outside regular office hours today.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board also
apologized for “inaccurate and offensive names that were
mistakenly confirmed” as those of the pilots of the crashed
jet, the Board said in a July 12  statement .  “In response to an inquiry from a media outlet, a summer
intern acted outside the scope of his authority when he
erroneously confirmed the names of the flight crew on the
aircraft,” NTSB said.  Three people were killed while more than 300 survived the
wreck at  San Francisco  International Airport, the first fatal
airline accident in the U.S. since 2009. It was Seoul-based
Asiana’s first crash since a Boeing Co. 747 cargo plane went
down at sea in July 2011.  The Asiana Boeing 777 crashed as it struck a seawall short
of a runway, slammed to the ground and spun off the tarmac.
South Korean investigators plan to probe the pilots after they
undergo medical checkups, the transport ministry said. The
pilots returned to Seoul on July 13, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  