-- Asian Stocks Gain as China Growth Data Matches Forecasts
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-15T10:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/asian-stocks-little-changed-as-investors-await-china-growth-data.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with a regional
equities gauge climbing for the fourth time in five days, after
a report showed  China’s economy  grew 7.5 percent in the second
quarter, matching economists’ estimates.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
advanced 2.4 percent in  Hong Kong . BYD Co., an electric-car
maker partly owned by  Warren Buffett , jumped 11 percent in Hong
Kong after China’s State Council was reported to endorse the use
of new energy in government vehicles.  Treasury Wine Estates
Ltd. (TWE) , the world’s second-biggest listed winemaker by revenue,
posted a record slump in Sydney after saying it would write off
A$160 million ($145 million).  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  rose 0.2
percent to 439.8 as of 6:33 p.m. in Hong Kong as about three
shares gained for every two that fell. Japanese equity markets
are closed for a holiday.  “They are going to engineer a soft landing in China,”
Nick Maroutsos, managing director and co-founder of Kapstream
Capital, which oversees more than $4.5 billion, said in an
interview in Sydney. “We’re advising investors to stay
relatively nimble. We’re still very positive on the Asian
region.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  declined 5.8
percent this year through last week as China’s money-market
rates surged to a record and after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said policy makers may start reducing stimulus if
the  U.S. economy  shows sustained improvement.  Regional Gauges  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.1
percent. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.3 percent to close at a record
1,680.19 in  New York  on July 12. Financial stocks rose the most
of the 10 industry groups on the S&P 500 after  Wells Fargo & Co .
reported earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.  South Korea’s Kospi index rose 0.3 percent and Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
increased 0.8 percent and Singapore’s Straits Times Index was
little changed. Taiwan’s Taiex Index added 0.4 percent.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  advanced 0.1 percent, with
trading volume 46 percent below the 30-day average. Tencent
Holdings Ltd., operator of China’s No. 1 mobile messaging
application, jumped to a record as the State Council pledged to
upgrade Internet and telecommunications infrastructure.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 1 percent. Citic
Securities Co. and Haitong Securities Co., the nation’s biggest
securities firms, both rose 4 percent after the government
almost doubled investment quotas for foreign investors to buy
equities and bonds.  China Growth  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific excluding Japan Index gained 2.8
percent last week, leaving the gauge trading at 11.9 times
average estimated earnings compared with 15.2 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 13.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, which includes Japanese companies, capped a third
straight weekly gain, the longest  streak  since March.  China’s economy, the world’s second-largest, expanded 7.5
percent in the three months to June 30, matching the median
forecast of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “You should be used to this sort of data,”  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief investment officer at Platypus
Asset Management Ltd. that manages about $1 billion, said by
telephone. “It’s well and truly priced in to the market. It’s
safer to buy the dips than it has been for a good while.”  The Shanghai Composite of mainland-listed companies dropped
10 percent this year through last week. Stocks retreated amid a
surge in money market rates last month that spurred economists
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and China International Capital
Corp. to predict China’s gross domestic product will expand 7.4
percent this year, which would be the weakest annual rate since
1990.  Foreigners Miss  China’s 20-year economic boom has boosted the wealth of its
1.3 billion citizens at the fastest pace worldwide, according to
the  International Monetary Fund . Foreigners earned less than 1
percent a year investing in Chinese stocks, a sixth of what they
would have made owning U.S. Treasury bills.  The ruling Communist Party is sacrificing short-term
economic growth as it seeks to make the nation’s long-term
expansion more sustainable, in part by curbing credit, Gary Dugan, the Singapore-based chief investment officer for Asia and
the Middle East at Coutts & Co., said in a July 10 interview.  “With a new plan to rebalance the economy, we’ve got
something of a cloud over” stocks, Dugan said.  Raw-material shares posted the third-largest gain among 10
industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index,
gaining 0.4 percent.  Jiangxi Copper climbed 2.4 percent to HK$12.84 in Hong
Kong.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s biggest gold producer,
added 2.6 percent to HK$1.61. Nan Ya Plastics Corp. increased
3.2 percent to NT$64 in Taipei.  Electric Cars  Consumer-discretionary companies posted the largest gains
on the regional gauge. BYD surged 11 percent to HK$31.95.
China’s State Council urged an acceleration of energy-saving
measures, China National Radio reported July 12, citing a
cabinet meeting chaired by Premier  Li Keqiang . The development
should be supported by policies and participation of private
capital, the report said.  Tencent, the best-performing stock on the Hang Seng Index
this year, surged 3.7 percent to HK$321.40. Private investment
in the telecommunications industry will be encouraged and the
construction and upgrading of Internet and communications
infrastructure will be accelerated, according to a July 12
statement on the central government website.  Kangwon Land Inc. (035250) , a South Korean casino operator, slumped
8 percent to 29,200 won as the Maeil Business newspaper reported
the government is seeking to levy a tax on casinos.  LG Display Co. (034220) , the No. 2 maker of flat-panel displays,
dropped 1.1 percent to 28,100 won in Seoul as analysts at
Samsung Securities downgraded its recommendation on Korean
technology shares.  Treasury Wines sank 12 percent to A$5.11, a record one-day
decline. A A$160 million writedown, greater than the company’s
expected net income this year, was taken to address excess stock
in the U.S., Treasury Wine’s largest division by sales, the
Melbourne-based company said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  