-- AstraZeneca CFO Lowth Will Leave U.K. Drugmaker for BG
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-07-15T15:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/astrazeneca-cfo-lowth-to-leave-drugmaker-to-join-bg-group-as-cfo.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  Chief Financial
Officer Simon Lowth will leave the U.K.’s second-biggest
drugmaker at the end of October to join natural-gas producer  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  as CFO.  A search for Lowth’s successor is under way, London-based
AstraZeneca said today in a  statement . The effective date of
Lowth’s appointment remains to be confirmed, BG Group said today
in a separate  statement .  Lowth, 51, joined AstraZeneca in 2007 after working at
Scottish Power Plc and consulting firm McKinsey & Co. He steered
the company on an interim basis after the June 2012 departure of
Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan . Pascal Soriot, a former
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  executive, was chosen in August to replace
Brennan, and Lowth returned to the CFO role.  “Simon has made a significant and lasting contribution to
AstraZeneca’s success, helping put the company on a stronger
footing for the future,” Soriot said in the statement. “I will
miss our interactions and I would like to thank him for all his
support over the last few months.”  AstraZeneca fell 0.2 percent to 3,262 pence at the close in
 London . The stock has gained 17 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends, compared with a 29 percent return for the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. BG Group rose 0.6 percent
to 1,185 pence, and has  returned  17 percent this year.  Lowth’s Pay  Lowth will be paid his base salary and benefits until the
end of October and will receive no payments for the remainder of
the notice period, AstraZeneca said. He won’t be eligible to
receive an annual bonus for 2013 and all outstanding long-term
incentive awards made under the share performance plan and
AstraZeneca investment plan will lapse in accordance with rules
on departures, the company said.  “The timing is unexpected, but I thought he would move on
at some point,” after being passed over for the permanent CEO
job,  Alistair Campbell , a London-based analyst at Berenberg,
said in a phone interview.  Lowth will succeed Den Jones, who has been interim CFO
since February at BG Group, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas
producer.  “BG Group is an outstanding company in a sector that I
know well and I look forward to working with the team to build
on its successes,” Lowth said in the BG Group statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  