-- AT&T’s Spectrum Deal With Leap Muddles Value of Acquisition
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-07-16T20:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/at-t-s-spectrum-deal-with-leap-clouds-true-value-of-acquisition.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s agreement to sell some
of  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) ’s airwaves as part of its
acquisition of the wireless carrier has clouded the true value
of the deal.  In addition to paying $15 a share in cash, AT&T will sell a
block of Leap’s spectrum in Chicago and add the proceeds to the
transaction price. The question now is how much money the
spectrum will fetch, and what that means for Leap’s valuation.  Wireless airwaves -- the frequencies that let mobile
devices connect to networks -- are a finite resource and
increasingly prized by carriers. Investor speculation that
Leap’s spectrum will generate about $2 a share, along with the
long-shot prospect that a rival bid may emerge, helped the stock
more than double to $17.28 by the close of trading today. Still,
there’s little agreement on the quality of the Leap airwaves,
which may suffer from interference with television frequencies.  “The challenge is finding somebody who wants to buy it,”
said Tim Farrar, an analyst at Telecom, Media & Finance
Associates Inc. in  Menlo Park , California.  Leap acquired the license to the spectrum from  Verizon
Wireless  last year for $204 million. That price works out to
about $2.58 a share, valuing the AT&T transaction at $17.58.
AT&T, the second-largest wireless carrier, is selling the
airwaves because it doesn’t need them. It expects the Leap
acquisition to be completed in six to nine months.  Differing Opinions  Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC, isn’t optimistic the
airwaves will sell for $204 million this time around. He doesn’t
expect a price of much more than $1.25 a share. S&P Capital IQ
analyst James Moorman, meanwhile, estimates that the airwaves
could get $4 a share after the interference question is settled.  “The Chicago license will sell for much more than the $204
million Leap paid for it once interference is cleared,” he said
in a report.  Brad Burns , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment.  Greg Lund , a Leap spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a message seeking comment.  Buying Leap will give AT&T about 5 million customers and
help it expand in the pay-as-you-go market, where subscribers
don’t have long-term contracts. The cash portion of the bid,
which totals about $1.2 billion, represents an 88 percent
premium over Leap’s shares before the deal was announced. The
stock had closed at $7.98 at the end of last week.  “Both the Chicago spectrum as well as the potential that
there may be another bid contribute to the stock trading high,”
said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst at Hudson Square Research in
New York.  T-Mobile’s Move?  The most likely company to offer a counterbid for Leap is
 T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in Chicago. T-Mobile already merged with Leap rival
MetroPCS Communications Inc. earlier this year.  “Owning Leap would improve the depth of its current
portfolio,” she said in a report.  Anne Marshall, a T-Mobile spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Leap, based in  San Diego , first agreed to buy the Chicago
airwaves from Verizon in December 2011 as part of a swap of
assets. The value of the spectrum is uncertain because it has
potential interference with television channel 51. Verizon has
been trying to sell similar airwaves without much success
because of the interference concerns, Fritzsche said.  “We believe it is unlikely Leap will be able to sell this
for much more than the original cost,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  