-- Aussie Gains After Excessive Drop, Before China GDP Report
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-15T00:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/aussie-gains-after-excessive-drop-before-china-gdp-report.html
The Australian dollar rose from near
its weakest level since September 2010 on speculation recent
declines have been excessive and before  China  reports on its
second-quarter gross domestic product.  The Aussie gained against all its 16 major peers, paring a
drop against the group from late last week, after China’s
official Xinhua News Agency corrected a report citing Finance
Minister  Lou Jiwei  as saying the country’s growth target this
year is 7 percent, lower than the official goal of 7.5 percent.
Gains in the currency were limited before the Reserve Bank of
 Australia  releases minutes of its July policy meeting tomorrow.  “There’s always a little nervousness before the China
data,” said Stan Shamu, a Melbourne-based market strategist at
IG Markets Ltd. “If we see a disappointing reading from China’s
GDP, it will be another reason for the Aussie dollar to go
through another round of selling.” Shamu recommends selling the
currency if it rallies toward 91.60 cents.  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to 90.86 U.S. cents
as of 10 a.m. in Sydney from last week, when it fell as low as
89.99 cents. The currency climbed 0.4 percent to 90.13 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 78.04 cents and gained 0.2
percent to 77.42 yen.  The Aussie tumbled 10 percent in the past three months, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi slid 4.6
percent.  In an English-language story released July 13 and dated the
previous day, Xinhua said it corrected a quote attributed to Lou
to “there is no doubt that China can achieve this year’s growth
target of 7.5 percent” from its original story dated July 11
that cited him as saying “there is no doubt that China can
achieve the growth target, though the 7 percent goal should not
be considered as the bottom line.”  GDP in the world’s second-largest economy may have  expanded 
7.5 percent in the April-June period from a year earlier, down
from 7.7 percent in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of today’s
release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  