-- Bangladesh War Crimes Panel Sends Top Islamist to Jail for Life
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-07-15T08:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/bangladesh-war-crimes-panel-sends-top-islamist-to-jail-for-life.html
A  Bangladesh  tribunal sentenced the
former chief of the country’s biggest Islamic party to spend the
rest of his life in jail for crimes against humanity committed
during the country’s war of independence four decades ago.  Ghulam Azam, 91, was found guilty of torture and the murder
of unarmed people during the 1971 struggle, prosecutor Sultan
Mahmud said at media briefing. He was charged with collaborating
with the Pakistan army during the conflict when the Jamaat-e-Islami sought to prevent the birth of Bangladesh.  This latest and possibly most explosive sentence from the
war crimes panel may reignite clashes between Jamaat supporters
and security forces that have followed previous verdicts. Jamaat
called a countrywide daylong shutdown to protest the ruling.
Street violence erupted in parts of the country on the eve of
the judgment, the  Daily Star  newspaper reported.  The clashes have exposed deep divisions in Bangladesh over
the war and how to deal with calls for justice. Rallies of up to
100,000 people have been held in Dhaka by both those pushing for
the death penalty for war criminals and Islamic groups who
accuse the government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed of
using the tribunal to weaken opponents.  The government expressed its dissatisfaction with today’s
ruling.  “We are frustrated by the verdict,” Additional Attorney
General M.K. Rahman said in comments broadcast live on
television. “Ghulam Azam deserved the highest penalty -- death.
The judges took into account his age.”  Hospital Stay  At the end of British colonial rule in 1947, East and West
 Pakistan  were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,241 miles) of
Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted to quell a
nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered by the
jailing of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who had led his Awami League
to victory in elections. The war ended nine months later with
the creation of Bangladesh after Indian forces helped defeat
Pakistan’s army.  Dressed in white, Azam was pushed into court in a
wheelchair, guarded by police and members of other security
forces, according to images broadcast by the Ekattor TV channel.
The former Jamaat leader was admitted to hospital after his
January 2012 arrest. He had been treated close to Shahbag
Square, where protesters have for months been demanding the
death penalty for those found guilty by the tribunal.  Azam was indicted on five charges, including involvement in
murder and torture of unarmed people, and conspiracy to commit
genocide, according to a court document. One of the charges
stacked against Azam involved the torture and murder of 38
people in the central district of Brahmanbaria, where he spent
his childhood and attended a religious school, the document
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  