-- Barnier Urges U.S. to Allow Financial Rules in Trade-Pact Talks
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-15T17:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/barnier-urges-u-s-to-allow-financial-rules-in-trade-pact-talks.html
The European Union’s top financial
services official today urged the U.S. to drop its opposition to
including financial regulation within the scope of free trade
talks.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, pressed
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew on the matter at a meeting
today in Washington, according to an EU official. Barnier told
Lew that including rulemaking for banks and markets in the
negotiations would be an opportunity to better align standards
and wasn’t a pretext to weaken them, according to the official,
who couldn’t be named in line with EU policy.  A last-minute accord on swaps rules brokered by the EU and
U.S. last week showed the need for “a pre-agreed framework to
discuss and resolve” disagreements on financial regulations,
Barnier said in a speech earlier today. Such a framework would
“avoid brinkmanship and uncertainty in our financial markets,”
he said.  The U.S. and 28-nation EU, which already have the world’s
largest bilateral economic relationship, are seeking to deepen
ties and overcome sluggish growth on both sides of the Atlantic.
The accord, known as the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment
Partnership, would create a zone with about $33 trillion in
annual output.  Financial Regulation  During the meeting with Barnier, Lew said financial
regulatory cooperation should continue in existing global forums
such as the Group of 20 economies and the Financial Stability
Board, according to a statement from the  U.S. Treasury .
Lew said such an approach would be consistent with existing
international timelines, the statement said.  Barnier repeated previous requests for the U.S. to rethink
planned rules for U.S-based subsidiaries of overseas banks,
warning that the proposals would leave EU banks at a competitive
disadvantage, according to the EU official.  Barnier also urged progress in aligning U.S. and
international accounting standards, warning that some in the EU
are questioning the future of the  International Accounting
Standards Board  if headway isn’t made soon. The IASB sets
accounting rules applied in over 100 countries including within
the EU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  