-- Bhutan Opposition Wins Power With Promise of Closer India Ties
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-07-15T04:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/bhutan-opposition-wins-power-with-promise-of-closer-india-ties.html
Bhutan’s opposition party swept to
power in the country’s second national elections with a promise
to build closer ties with neighboring India.  The People’s  Democratic Party  won 32 of the 47 seats in the
national parliament, up from two seats at the last election,
Kuensel, a local newspaper,  said  on its website. The ruling Druk
Phuensum Tshogpa party won 15 seats in polling on July 13, it
said.  “I would like to avail of this opportunity to assure you
of the steadfast and unflinching support of India and its
citizens for the steady steps that Bhutan is taking to further
strengthen democratic processes and institutions,” Indian Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a  statement .  Sandwiched between  China  and India and with a population of
725,000, Bhutan developed a  “Gross National Happiness”  index
to gauge the success of its economy. The index, praised by fans
such as Nobel laureate economists  Joseph E. Stiglitz  and Amartya Sen, takes into account elements such as stress and physical
exercise to measure the standard of living.  The PDP is supportive of the Bhutanese monarchy, which in
turn is in favor of better relations with India, the Indian
Express newspaper reported today. During campaigning, the party
blamed the defeated administration of Prime Minister Jigme Thinley for failing to secure an extension of Indian subsidies
on fuels, and vowed to have the assistance restored.  Bhutan held parliamentary elections in 2008, completing the
country’s peaceful transition from an absolute to a
constitutional monarchy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  