-- Broncos Suspend Two Executives Following Drunk-Driving Arrests
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-15T19:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/broncos-suspend-two-executives-following-drunk-driving-arrests.html
The  Denver Broncos  suspended
executives  Matt Russell  indefinitely and Tom Heckert for one
month, both without pay, following separate drunk-driving
arrests.  Russell, the National Football League team’s director of
player personnel, was arrested July 6 and charged with driving
under the influence, according to the  Associated Press . Heckert,
the team’s director of pro personnel, was arrested June 11 for
drunken driving, the  news agency  said, citing the Douglas
County, Colorado, Sheriff’s Department.  The NFL has no plans to impose additional penalties, the
Broncos said today in a news release.  “The Broncos will support Matt and Tom during their
suspensions and beyond as necessary,” the team said in a
statement. “They will be provided with treatment resources as
needed in the form of education, counseling and other
rehabilitation programs.”  The team also said it will closely monitor legal
proceedings in determining each man’s future role.  “Although they have expressed great remorse, this in no
way excuses their conduct,” team President Joe Ellis said.
“The decisions they made away from the workplace undermined the
integrity of our organization and the NFL as well as the values
instilled by  Pat Bowlen  during his ownership.”  Heckert, 45, a former general manager for the Philadelphia
Eagles and  Cleveland Browns  who was hired two months ago, had a
blood-alcohol level of .162, which is twice the legal limit,
according to the Denver Post.  Russell’s Case  Russell’s blood-alcohol level was measured at .246 after
allegedly hitting one car and a few minutes later hitting a
policeman’s patrol vehicle, according to the newspaper. The
officer was taken to a local hospital with neck and back pain
before being released, the Post said. The arrest came the day
after Russell’s 40th birthday.  “I was extremely concerned when Tom Heckert notified me of
his arrest in June,” said  John Elway , the team’s executive vice
president of football operations. “We talked about it as a
staff, reinforced the intolerable nature of his actions and
notified the league as we began the disciplinary process.”  Elway said that Russell’s case “was especially disturbing
considering the timing and severity of those allegations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  