-- California High Court Refuses to Revive Gay Marriage Ban
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/california-high-court-refuses-to-revive-gay-marriage-ban.html
The  California  Supreme Court refused
a request by backers of Proposition 8 to reinstate the measure,
which banned gay marriage, after they lost a fight in the
nation’s highest court to block same-sex weddings.  Proposition 8 supporters filed a lawsuit July 12 asking the
state’s high court to order county clerks to enforce the gay-marriage ban, claiming the measure was still valid because a
U.S. Supreme Court ruling last month didn’t find it was
unconstitutional. They sought an immediate injunction
reinstating the law while the lawsuit proceeds.  “Although we would have preferred for the California
Supreme Court to issue a stay so that the state’s marriage
amendment would be respected sooner rather than later, the
proponents of Proposition 8 will continue to urge the court to
uphold the rule of law,” Austin Nimocks, an attorney for
Alliance Defending Freedom, a legal group representing
Proposition 8 proponents, said yesterday in an e-mail.  “We remain hopeful that the court will recognize that
Proposition 8 remains the law of the land in California and that
county clerks must continue to enforce it,” he said.  The court denied the request for an injunction reinstating
the law in a one-sentence filing that didn’t give a reason.  The U.S. Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision last month,
reinstated a 2010 ruling by a federal judge in  San Francisco 
allowing same-sex marriage, without deciding whether gays have a
constitutional right to marry or even ruling directly on the
voter-approved proposition. After the decision, an appeals court
in San Francisco lifted its hold on the judge’s decision and
state officials ordered gay marriages to resume.  Proposition 8 supporters alleged in their lawsuit that the
2010 ruling only applies to the two gay couples who sued to
overturn the law and doesn’t require the 56 county clerks who
weren’t defendants in that case to stop enforcing the ban.  Same-sex marriage was legalized by the California Supreme
Court in 2008, before Proposition 8 was approved by 52 percent
of voters in November of that year.  The petition case is Hollingsworth v. O’Connell, S211990,
California Supreme Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  