-- Canada Existing Home Sales Rise 3.3% in June
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-07-15T14:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/canada-existing-home-sales-rise-3-3-in-june.html
Canadian existing home sales rose
3.3 percent in June, almost matching the previous month’s gain
that was the fastest in more than two years, as the nation’s
housing market defies predictions of a major correction.  Average  home prices  rose 0.6 percent in June and are up 4.8
percent from a year earlier, the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  said in a statement today. June’s gain follows a 3.6
percent  increase  in May, the biggest since January 2011.  Recent data suggests the nation’s housing market, while
moderating, remains robust.  Building permits  rose for a fifth
month in May while  housing starts  fell less than economists
predicted in June. Gregory Klump, chief economist at the Ottawa-based realtor group, said an increase in  mortgage rates  by banks
may have triggered purchases.  “Increases in mortgage  interest rates  likely prompted some
buyers with pre-approved mortgages to jump off the sidelines and
into the market in June,” Klump said in the statement.  Higher borrowing costs may slow demand later this year, he
said. Average mortgage rates have increased to 4.01 percent from
about 3.9 percent at the beginning of June, according to the
 Bank of Canada  weekly report on chartered bank administered
interest rates.  Bank of Canada officials have said there are signs of a
“constructive evolution” in household finances after a surge
in home starts and re-sales fueled by rising consumer debt.
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for a
fourth time last year. Existing home sales were down 0.6 percent
from a year earlier, CREA said today.  The increase in sales volume in June was led by a 6.4
percent rise in Vancouver and a 3.4 percent gain in Montreal.
Toronto sales grew 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  