-- Canadian Dollar Declines After Biggest Weekly Gain Since 2011
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-15T21:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/canadian-dollar-declines-after-biggest-weekly-gain-since-2011.html
The Canadian dollar declined,
trimming a gain last week that was the biggest since December
2011, as U.S. retail sales rose less than projected in June,
underscoring a second-quarter slowdown in the economy of
Canada’s largest trading partner.  The currency weakened for a second day as the yield
advantage of U.S. 10-year notes  compared  with Canadian
government debt was 12 basis points, approaching the 19-basis-point difference on July 5 that was the highest since 2011. The
 Bank of Canada  will retain its 1 percent benchmark interest-rate
target, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey before the
announcement July 17.  “We’ve just kind of been holding ground since the data
release this morning,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto. “Almost every
currency has stayed within a fairly narrow range.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, dropped 0.3 percent
to C$1.0427 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained 1.8
percent last week. One loonie buys 95.91 U.S. cents.  Futures Positions  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  their
bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on a
decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain --
so-called net shorts -- was 23,829 on July 9, compared with net
shorts of 16,250 a week earlier.  Canada ’s 10-year benchmark bonds rose, as yields fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.41 percent. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 added 14 cents to C$92.02  Sales at U.S. retailers climbed 0.4 percent last month,
short of the 0.8 percent gain that was the median estimate of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, according to Commerce
Department figures issued today in  Washington . The  U.S. economy 
is forecast to growth 1.8 percent this year, while Canada’s
gross domestic product is projected to expand 1.7 percent.  The Bank of Canada interest-rate announcement this week,
Governor Stephen Poloz’s first since taking office June 3, will
retain year-old language crafted by his predecessor  Mark Carney 
that indicates the next move in the central bank’s overnight
policy rate will be upward, according to all but one of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Central Bank  “The overnight index swaps market is pricing in about a 20
percent chance of a rate hike in the next 12 months, which has
been holding true for about five to six sessions,” Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Sutton said. “That will be an important piece to
watch.”  Loblaw Cos. agreed to buy Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. for
C$12.4 billion ($11.9 billion) in the second-biggest grocery
acquisition of the past decade as Canadian retailers brace for
increased competition from the U.S. Loblaw, the country’s
largest supermarket company by market value, will pay C$61.54 a
share in cash and stock for the leading Canadian drugstore
chain, the companies said today in a statement.  “The Bank of Canada has repeatedly harped on the lack of
investment and willingness of companies to use cash,” said Adam Button, a currency analyst at forexlive.com in  Montreal . “If
this means companies are starting to loosen up, that’s a
positive signal for Canada and the Canadian dollar.”  Jim Flaherty  will remain as Canada’s finance minister,
Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a Twitter post. Flaherty
is the only member of Harper’s cabinet to have survived every
cabinet shuffle since the governing Conservatives took power in
2006.  “The rumor is there won’t be any major changes on the
economics team with this cabinet shuffle,” Button said. “The
market likes Jim Flaherty.”  The Canadian dollar has gained 2 percent during the past
three months among 10 developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has added
4.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  