-- Carbon Too Cheap to Support Acid Projects, Johnson Matthey Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-07-15T12:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/carbon-too-cheap-to-support-acid-projects-johnson-matthey-says.html
United Nations carbon emission
prices need to more than triple to keep nitric-acid factories
from halting projects that reduce their greenhouse-gas
emissions, according to  Johnson Matthey Plc. (JMAT)   “The Certified Emission Reduction price needs to be up in
the range from 2 euros ($2.61) a metric ton to 5 euros to make
the projects viable,” Garry Crooks, sales & marketing manager
of nitro technologies at Johnson Matthey in London, said today
by phone. The credits traded at 55 euro cents a ton on July 12
at ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  CERs, issued by facilities that reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions, plunged 84 percent in the past year amid a surplus of
the credits and allowances in the European Union carbon market,
the world’s biggest. Projects that cut emissions at nitric acid
plants have supplied about 7.9 percent of the credits in the
UN’s Clean Development Mechanism, according to UN data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Companies and governments buy UN carbon offsets to help
comply with domestic limits on the amount of  greenhouse gases 
they are allowed to emit. One offset represents the reduction of
one metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent.  Nitric acid producers have already stopped using the
catalyst to cut nitrous oxide emissions in the manufacturing
process because the cost is more than they get for issuing the
CERs, Crooks said. Nitric acid is used to make fertilizer,
explosives and to purify gold and platinum.  “As things stand, all of the CDM projects are under review
and the majority are likely to either suspend or terminate these
projects by the end of 2013,” he said. “I would be surprised
if more than 20 percent of the 37 projects Johnson Matthey are
supplying the catalyst with are running by the end of the
year.”  Should the factories stop curbing emissions, heat-trapping
gases in the atmosphere will rise, Crooks said. “We all will
lose out.”  Nitrous oxide has a global warming potential about 310
times carbon dioxide, according to the U.S.  Environment
Protection Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  