-- Carnival Fire Damage in 2010 Blamed on Worker by Coast Guard
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-15T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/carnival-fire-damage-in-2010-blamed-on-employee-by-coast-guard.html
Fire damage on the  Carnival (CCL)  Splendor
in November 2010 was exacerbated by a crew member who reset a
fire alarm panel, the U.S. Coast Guard said.  A mechanical failure in a diesel generator led to the fire,
the Coast Guard said today in a  report . A fire protection system
on the ship wasn’t activated until 15 minutes after the initial
blaze began because the alarm had been reset. The delay let the
fire spread, which led to the loss of power.  A series of mishaps at sea have reduced Carnival Corp.’s
bookings and projected profit this year. Last month, Vice
Chairman Howard Frank said profit would be 50 cents a share
lower than previously projected because of repair costs and
higher marketing expenses.  The Coast Guard recommended that Carnival remove a 40-second time delay in its fire protection systems, as well as
make other changes, such as increasing the crew’s familiarity
with fire control procedures. There were no injuries or
fatalities on the Splendor, which reached  San Diego  on Nov. 11,
according to the report.  Carnival, based in Miami, said it was reviewing the report
and had already implemented numerous actions in its fleet as a
result of its own investigation of the incident.  A fire in February knocked out power on the Carnival
Triumph during a  Gulf of Mexico  cruise. About 4,200 passengers
and crew were stuck at sea with limited food and toilet access.  The company today pointed to a $300 million fleet-wide
enhancement of its emergency power and fire-safety systems
announced in April.  No Injuries  “There were no injuries as a direct result of the Carnival
Splendor or Triumph incidents and, at Carnival, the safety and
comfort of our guests is our paramount focus,” the company
said.  Last month Micky Arison stepped down as chief executive
officer of Carnival after 34 years at the helm of the company
his father founded. He was replaced by board member Arnold W. Donald. Arison remains chairman of the company.  Carnival declined 0.1 percent to $36.04 at the close in  New
York . The shares have fallen 2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  