-- Carney BOE Guidance Seen Pushing QE on Back Burner
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-16T12:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/carney-boe-guidance-seen-pushing-qe-on-back-burner-u-k-credit.html
Mark Carney ’s push to give greater
insight into the U.K. policy outlook may put quantitative easing
on the backburner after four years as the Bank of England’s
primary support for the economy.  The BOE governor probably voted to hold bond purchases at
375 billion pounds ($566 billion) at the July 4 Monetary Policy
Committee meeting, according to 30 of 45 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Minutes of the meeting, when the BOE gave
unprecedented guidance on  interest rates , will be published in
 London  tomorrow.  Carney joined the 319-year-old institution on July 1 and
his statement aimed at steering investors’ expectations helped
push the 10-year gilt yield to the lowest in almost three weeks.
A vote against QE would further set him apart from his
predecessor,  Mervyn King , whose attempt to increase stimulus was
foiled by an MPC majority citing rising inflation expectations.  “Forward guidance is a done deal,” said  Alan Clarke , an
economist at Scotiabank in London. “To some extent it reduces
the chance of more QE because rather than actually delivering
easier policy, you’re verbally intervening to keep yields lower.
It’ll be easier to get a consensus around guidance than QE.”  The MPC minutes will also probably show the panel split 7-2
on QE this month, according to 15 of 20 economists in another
survey. In June, the division was 6-3, when David Miles and  Paul Fisher  voted for more gilt purchases, along with King at what
was his last meeting.  Forecasts Changed  The BOE last expanded QE in July 2012 when it began a
three-month round of purchases. Since then, it started a program
with the U.K. Treasury aimed at boosting credit. The central
bank won’t expand bond purchases again this year, according to
the median of 20 economists in another survey. In May,
economists forecast an increase of 25 billion pounds by the end
of 2013.  The change in the outlook for QE comes as the economy shows
signs of improvement. Measures of  services , manufacturing and
construction all strengthened in June, while the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research estimates  economic
growth  accelerated to 0.6 percent in the second quarter.  “The hawks aren’t likely to want to inject a lot of extra
stimulus. They worry about the effect of QE on other financial
markets and the search for yield, and that makes them less
keen,” said Rob Wood, chief U.K. economist at Berenberg Bank
and a former BOE official. “Forward guidance could be a way of
ensuring that the required stimulus remains priced in.”  Guidance Review  The BOE, which is analyzing the use of thresholds in policy
guidance for a review due to be published next month, took a
step toward managing investor expectations on July 4.  In response to a surge in yields after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled on June 19 the U.S. central
bank may start tapering its monthly stimulus program this year,
the BOE said the “implied rise in the expected future path of
 bank rate  was not warranted by the recent developments in the
domestic economy.”  “All the discussions we are having at the moment are more
about whether we should be giving forward guidance and using
thresholds and whether we should be giving more stimulus rather
than discussing what the exit strategy will be,” Fisher told
lawmakers at Parliament’s Treasury Committee in London today.
“We’ll get to that no doubt when we get closer to exit.”  Investor Bets  The yield on the  10-year gilt  dropped 6 basis points to
2.28 percent as of 1:24 p.m. London time. That’s 72.3 basis
points higher than equivalent German bunds, down from 76.9 basis
points at the end of last week. The yield fell to 2.29 percent
on July 12 after rising to as high as 2.59 percent on June 24.  Investors have also pushed back bets on the timing of a
rate increase. The BOE’s benchmark is currently 0.5 percent. The
implied yield on the short-sterling futures contract expiring in
March 2015 was 0.78 percent today.  The BOE will publish the MPC minutes at 9:30 a.m. in London
tomorrow. At the same time, the  Office for National Statistics 
will release labor-market numbers that economists predict will
show falling  jobless claims  in June and an unchanged
unemployment rate of 7.8 percent in the quarter through May.  Data today showed  inflation  accelerated less than
economists forecast to 2.9 percent in June from 2.7 percent in
May. That compares with the BOE’s target of 2 percent.  Economists see Carney aligning the BOE closer to the Fed by
tying guidance to economic developments, according to Bloomberg
survey published on July 12. The U.S. central bank in December
linked policy to inflation forecasts and unemployment.  Still, QE remains among the BOE’s tools to use and the
central bank has restarted it before after a lengthy pause,
including a two-year gap to October 2011.  David Tinsley , chief
U.K. economist at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former BOE
official, expects purchases to resume next month.  “If they don’t do more in August to signal their intent on
Guidance, it will slip to being a crisis response measure, like
in the past,” he said. “It would probably slip off the agenda
for a quarter unless the data weaken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  