-- Chemical Board to Rebuke Unacceptable Delay on U.S. Rules
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/chemical-board-to-rebuke-unacceptable-delay-on-u-s-rules.html
The Obama administration’s lack of
action to impose recommended changes to make refineries,
chemical factories and sugar plants safer is set to get a public
rebuke from the U.S.  Chemical Safety Board .  The independent investigative  agency said  yesterday it will
consider labeling as “unacceptable” the inaction of the
 Occupational Safety and Health Administration  on seven
recommended moves in the past decade, when it holds a July 25
public meeting. The board will also vote on whether to designate
an OSHA standard on combustible dust at sugar refineries and
related factories its “Most Wanted” safety change, the first
time it will make that distinction, according to a statement.  For advocates pushing President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to act on these and related measures to protect
workers and the public, the board’s likely condemnation
highlights what they call unnecessary delays.  The safety board “has made a number of recommendations to
OSHA over the years on life-threatening issues, and OSHA hasn’t
really responded through the regulatory process,” Matt Shudtz,
a senior policy analyst for the Center for Progressive Reform,
said in an interview.  The safety of chemical plants, refineries and fertilizer
factories has taken on a new priority in Washington following
several deadly mishaps, including the fire and explosion at a
fertilizer depot in West,  Texas , in April that killed 14 people.  14 Deaths  The board investigates industrial accidents and issues
recommendations to regulators, such as the Environmental
Protection Agency and OSHA, as well as companies, states and
local authorities. The Washington-based agency lacks the
authority to force regulators or companies to make changes.  Four of the seven recommendations on next week’s agenda
would apply to combustible dust, which caused three major
industrial explosions in 2003, killing 14. OSHA has been
considering a rule to regulate these facilities since 2009, and
hasn’t yet  submitted  even its initial proposal to the White
House for review.  Ammonium nitrate, which fueled the West explosion, is now
regulated by local, state and federal agencies in a “patchwork
that has many large holes,” board Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso
said at a Senate hearing last month. However, regulating that
chemical isn’t on the agenda next week: The investigation into
that incident continues, and the board hasn’t made any
recommendations to include on a ‘most wanted’ list, according to
Hillary Cohen, an spokeswoman for the board.  Jesse Lawder, an OSHA spokesman, didn’t respond to
questions about the board’s proposed changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  