-- China June Home Sales Rise 24% as Buyers Defy Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T07:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-june-home-sales-rise-24-as-buyers-defy-government-curbs.html
China’s home sales transaction value
rose 24 percent in June from the previous month, the biggest
monthly gain this year, signaling that the government’s latest
property measures are failing to deter buyers.  The  value of homes  sold climbed to 624.4 billion  yuan  ($102
billion) last month from 503 billion yuan in May, based on the
difference between the National Statistics Bureau’s data for the
first half of the year and the first five months. The June value
was almost the same value of the sales in the first two months
of the year combined. Housing sales in the first six months rose
46 percent to 2.82 trillion yuan from a year earlier, according
to the data.  China stepped up a three-year campaign to cool  home prices 
in March, with the capital city of Beijing among 35 provincial-level cities issued the toughest measures. The strong growth of
home sales may not be sustained in the second half of the year
as the country’s economy slows and liquidity squeezed, said
Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK
Securities Research.  “The credit tightening will have some impact on developers
in the second half because a longer approval period for mortgage
or development loans will hit home sales,” said Hu in a
telephone interview.  Slowing Economy  China ’s economic growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from last year, the government’s data showed today,
while M2 money supply rose 14 percent in June, down from 15.8
percent the previous month, People’s Bank of China numbers
showed in Beijing on July 12.  Investments in homes, office buildings, malls and other
real estate gained 20 percent to 3.68 trillion yuan in the first
half, compared with a 17 percent gain a year earlier, according
to the statistics bureau data announced at a press conference in
Beijing today. New property construction rose 3.8 percent to 959
million square meters (10.3 billion square feet).  “We still face fairly big pressure to tighten the  property
market , and we should further tighten it according to the
regulations of the State Council,” said  Sheng Laiyun , the
bureau’s spokesman at a press conference in Beijing today.  An  index  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  was 0.7 percent higher at the close of trading, compared
with the 1 percent increase by the benchmark.  Home sales volume rose 30 percent in the first half from
last year to 460.9 million square meters, the government data
showed today. Property sales value including office buildings
and retail space rose 43 percent to 3.34 trillion yuan from a
year ago.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  