-- China Solar Demand Support Increase Sends Stocks Soaring
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T18:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-to-back-solar-panel-makers-with-35-gigawatt-of-installs.html
Chinese solar manufacturers rose as
the world’s biggest maker of panels announced plans to boost the
power it gets from the sun, a move that may help the industry
cut a supply glut and increase profits.  China  plans to add 10 gigawatts of solar power a year
during the next three years, according to a  statement  from the
State Council posted on the government’s website today. Both
Xinyu-based  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  and Wuxi-based Suntech Power Holdings
Co. rose more than 19 percent in New York trading.  The plan would boost China’s solar capacity fivefold to
more than 35 gigawatts installed by 2015. Added demand will help
alleviate industry oversupply that contributed to a 20 percent
plunge in the average  price  of solar panels last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think they’re going to sustain these high levels of
growth and soak up some of the excess capacity, maybe getting up
to 8 to 9 gigawatts a year,” Angelo Zino, an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in New York, said today in an interview.  China will provide credit support to profitable
photovoltaic manufacturers and encourage restructuring and
overseas investment, according to the statement. It didn’t
specify what period the government will consider to measure
profitability.  ’Stable’ Prices  “While the Chinese government is determined to boost the
domestic market, it is not sufficient to eliminate oversupply,”
said Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. “Panel prices will stay stable in 2013.”  Chinese manufacturers will follow in the footsteps of  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , who have pursued development of
large-scale solar projects to reach higher margins, Zino said.  “If you’re going to buy China solar names, you buy them in
the belief that they become more vertically integrated, turn
themselves around and become more profitable,” he said. “I
don’t think it eliminates oversupply, but it continues to shrink
that demand-supply difference over time.”  China will also offer tax breaks to solar companies that
acquire others, merge or reorganize their operations, the State
Council said. The government has encouraged makers of
polysilicon, the raw material used to make panels, to form
partnerships or combine with “advanced chemical enterprises.”  Suntech’s American depositary receipts gained 17 percent to
$1.35 at 1:34 p.m., the biggest intraday rise since May 21. LDK
climbed 18 percent to $1.72. Both ADRs are equivalent to one
ordinary share.  In Chinese trading,  Risen Energy Co. (300118)  jumped 10 percent, its
daily limit and the most since Feb. 18, to 6.71  yuan  in
Shenzhen.  Hareon Solar Technology Co. (600401)  closed 4.4 percent higher
at 6.47 yuan in  Shanghai .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  