-- China Oil Refining Rises to Four-Month High as Maintenance Ends
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T06:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-oil-refining-rises-to-four-month-high-as-maintenance-ends.html
China processed crude at the fastest
pace in  four months  in June as more refiners in the world’s
second-largest oil consumer completed plant maintenance.  Refining increased to 39.6 million metric tons in June,
according to data published on the website of the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics today. That’s equivalent to 9.7
million barrels a day, the most since February and 4.8 percent
more than in May.  “The recovery in throughput is due to a reduced overhaul
capacity in June,” Jean Zou, an oil analyst at ICIS-C1 Energy,
a Shanghai-based energy consultant, said by phone from
Guangzhou. “The nation’s throughput in the third quarter will
be close to the level of the second quarter as refineries have
scheduled similar maintenance capacities.”  China ’s 83 biggest refineries shut 1.5 million tons of
crude-processing capacity for maintenance in June, the least in
the second quarter, according to Zou. Refiners idled 2 million
tons in April and 2.2 million in May. The nation typically
closes plants for repairs in the second quarter before fuel
consumption peaks during the summer.  China’s apparent oil demand, or domestic throughput plus
net imports, was about 10 million barrels a day last month, the
data show. That’s an 11 percent increase from the same month
last year.  Refiners processed 237 million tons of crude in the first
half of 2013, a 4.1 percent gain on the year, according to the
data. Crude throughput will rise to almost 9.6 million barrels a
day in the third quarter, up 490,000 barrels from the same
period last year, the  International Energy Agency  said in its
monthly report on July 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  