-- China Slowdown Brings Ordos Bust as Li Grapples With Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-16T05:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-slowdown-sends-ordos-to-bust-as-li-grapples-with-credit.html
Posters of the Chinese character for
good luck adorn shops bolted shut in the northern city of Ordos,
where cranes stand silently above half-finished developments and
doors on workers’ dormitories creak in the wind.  Apartment sales have come to a virtual halt in the central
district, real-estate agent  Zhang Wei  says. With the
municipality’s revenue falling, the Inner Mongolian city that
saw a surge in building during  China ’s record  credit boom  is now
a showcase for the speculative financing Premier  Li Keqiang  is
trying to curb.  “In the past few years there was a lot of coal so people
came from all over the country,” says Gao Wei, 30, smoking in
an office that deals in second-hand construction machinery and
had no clients that day. “Now the economy has collapsed,
they’ve all gone.”  Ordos’s implosion stands at one extreme of a national
slowdown that a government report yesterday signaled may deepen
this quarter, with  industrial output  gains last month matching
the weakest since the 2009 global recession. The challenge for
Li’s administration is to assure growth is resilient enough for
the world’s second-largest economy to weather busts in local
finance and industries ridden by overcapacity.  Most Efficient  “What has to drive growth now is greater productivity and
more efficient investment with a financial system that channels
money to the most efficient companies,” said  David Loevinger ,
former U.S. Treasury Department senior coordinator for China
affairs and now an emerging-markets analyst at TCW Group Inc. in
 Los Angeles .  China’s  growth  slowed for a second quarter to 7.5 percent
in April-to-June, yesterday’s National Bureau of Statistics
report showed. Factory production rose 8.9 percent in June from
a year earlier, equal to the lowest since 2009 excluding January
and February, when the Chinese New Year holiday distorts
statistics.  The report boosted speculation that the government will act
to defend its 7.5 percent growth goal for 2013. Nomura Holdings
Inc. forecast China will lower banks’ reserve-requirement  ratio 
four times by a total of 2 percentage points through June 2014.
Bank of America Corp. said authorities will “introduce some
fiscal expansionary policies on a limited scale.”  The government has already started to fine-tune policies
and support growth, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note yesterday.
State Council announcements this month encouraging investment in
public housing, energy saving, environmental protection and
technology infrastructure will help counter the slowdown, HSBC
said.  Forecasts Cut  Nomura yesterday cut its  growth  estimate for next year to
6.9 percent from 7.5 percent, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered
its forecast to 7.2 percent.  Other growth risks come from slowing consumption and income
gains. Consumption contributed 45.2 percent of GDP growth in the
first half after accounting for 55.5 percent in the first
quarter, according to the statistics bureau. Per capita
disposable  income  of urban households rose 6.5 percent in the
first half after adjusting for prices, compared with 9.7 percent
in the first half of 2012, government data show.  “We are all undergoing the temporary pains of
restructuring,”  Sheng Laiyun , a statistics bureau spokesman,
said at a briefing yesterday in Beijing.  Cities’ Debt  Nine provincial capital cities last year had debt
equivalent to more than 100 percent of a measure of annual
revenue, and some cities were facing more difficulty repaying
debt because of slower revenue from land sales, the National
Audit Office said in a report last month.  Apple Daily , a  Hong Kong  newspaper, reported today that
Huaxi in eastern China, known as the nation’s richest village,
is at risk of failing as most of its factories are empty. Sun
Haiyan, Communist Party vice secretary for Huaxi, said in a
phone interview that the report is unfounded and the village’s
efforts to restructure its economy are going well.  Fueled by a boom in coal production, Ordos saw a building
spree in recent years, with an expanded airport, a sports
stadium and the new area of Kangbashi where high-rise apartments
surround an artificial lake. Many local residents owned two to
three homes each, said Bai Pusheng, a real estate agent.  Now the local government’s revenue is falling because the
property crash has scuppered land sales, while residents no
longer have compensation to buy property and make loans,
according to real estate agent Zhang. About 70 percent of
Dongsheng district’s real estate market was funded by private
lending that has now stopped, he said.  Ordos’s January-May fiscal revenue dropped by 15.8 percent
from a year earlier, according to official statistics.  Boom Halted  When the government sold land over the past few years, it
always used the funds for infrastructure construction, Zhang
said from the sales office of a new apartment complex with 1,000
units. “Now they don’t have any money.” Meantime, the city’s
coal rush has dried up amid sluggish domestic demand, with
prices dropping to an almost four-year low.  That hasn’t stopped efforts to keep the boom going.
Authorities are planning construction for residents to see green
spaces every 300 meters and a park every 500 meters, according
to Guo Xiaojun, a publicity official from the Dongsheng
government.  Financing Difficulty  Such projects may be getting harder to finance. Some Ordos
district governments had to borrow money from companies to pay
municipal employees’ salaries, Economy & Nation Weekly,
published by the official Xinhua News Agency, said in a July 5
report on its website. The Dongsheng government didn’t respond
to a request for comment made through Guo on the magazine’s
story.  Much of Ordos’s borrowing has been through local government
financing vehicles, special-purpose companies set by authorities
across China to fund infrastructure construction. The entities
have amassed debt that the National Audit Office estimated was
10.7 trillion  yuan  ($1.7 trillion) at the end of 2010.  While state-owned policy bank  China Development Bank 
“greatly supports” the projects of local government vehicle
Erdos Dongsheng City Construction Development & Investment Group
Co., other banks have become stricter and won’t lend for public-works projects such as roads and parks, said Dai Haishu,
financial controller and senior accountant at the company.  Economic Impact  “Our projects should have no risk,” he said from his
office overlooking unfinished concrete apartment blocks. “The
economy has had an impact but we don’t have to repay all our
money at once.”  A February 2012 bond prospectus for investors in Erdos
Dongsheng forecast “fast growth” for the district and rapid
gains in local government revenue. The company is continuing to
borrow, and CDB loans have maturities of as long as 10 years,
Dai said.  “Ordos is a warning to other places in terms of how to
guide the local economy and in what not to do,” said Yao Wei,
China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “The local
governments are still not waking up to what they should do in
this new environment.”  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from  Kevin Hamlin , Zhou Xin,
Nerys Avery, Sarah Chen and Shen Hu in Beijing and Andy Sharp in
 Tokyo . Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  