-- China Tontine Plummets After Warning of Loss: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-07-15T07:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-tontine-plummets-after-warning-of-loss-hong-kong-mover.html
China Tontine Wines Group Ltd. (389)  fell
to the lowest level in more than three years after the wine
producer said weak demand and the government’s austerity
campaign will result in a first half loss.  China Tontine dropped as much as 16 percent to 33  Hong Kong 
cents, headed for the lowest close since its listing in November
2009, before trading at 34 Hong Kong cents at 3:16 p.m. local
time. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.02 percent.  Wine sales in China have come under pressure as economic
growth has slowed and the government has taken steps to rein in
lavish spending by officials and state-owned companies as part
of a fight against corruption. China’s gross domestic product
slowed to 7.5 percent in the second quarter, matching
economists’ forecasts, from 7.7 percent in the first quarter,
according to data today from the National Bureau of Statistics.  A China Tontine statement after the market closed on July
12 attributed its expected loss for the six months ended June to
“weaker demand for domestic wine products amid the slowing pace
of economic growth,” as well as to a slump in sales of mid-range and high-end wines due to “government-imposed
restrictions on entertainment and hospitality as part of its
anti-corruption drive.” The company’s financial position
remains stable, it said.  China  Tontine bought a 60 percent stake in Yantai Baiyanghe
Winery Co. in September, expanding its product range of wines
and brandies and giving it access to premium imported French
wines.  The company, based in China’s northeastern Jilin province,
sells sweet and dry wines under the Tongtian and Tongtian Hong
labels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  