-- China Ships Pass Via Strait North of Japan as Tensions Run High
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T05:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-ships-pass-via-strait-north-of-japan-as-tensions-run-high.html
Japan  confirmed that Chinese ships
passed through a strait just north of its territory for the
first time, a possible show of force after Japan expressed
concern that  China  is expanding its reach in the region.  Five Chinese naval vessels were spotted heading east
through the Soya Strait north of Hokkaido Island on July 13,
Japan’s Self-Defense Force said yesterday. It was the first time
Japan had confirmed such a passage though Chinese ships may have
passed through unnoticed before, Takashi Inoue, a spokesman for
the Self-Defense Forces, said by phone.  The passage through the strait, also called La Perouse,
followed Chinese naval drills with  Russia  and may exacerbate
tensions running high over a territorial dispute and China’s
growing military power. Chinese forces are developing new ship,
missile and aircraft-carrier technology in a modernization drive
that Communist Party leaders insist is peaceful.  “Since roughly 2008, the number and size of Chinese task
forces transiting through the Japanese islands has increased,”
Taylor Fravel, a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  who studies China’s territorial claims, said in an e-mail. “Such reminders of China’s growing naval power certainly
strikes a nerve in Japan.”  Relations between Japan and China have deteriorated since
last September after Japan bought three islands claimed by China
from a private owner. Chinese marine surveillance ships have
stepped up incursions into Japanese waters with regular patrols
in Japanese-controlled waters surrounding the islands, known as
Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan.  Status Quo  China is trying to change the status quo in the region by
force in cases where its interests conflict with those of
neighboring countries, Japan said in a defense paper on July 9.
China Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying responded that
Japan is hyping the “China threat.”  Russian naval vessels were also spotted traveling through
the Soya Strait, according to a statement on Japan’s Defense
Ministry website today. The strait, a 27-mile gap between
Hokkaido and the southern tip of Russia’s Sakhalin Island,
connects the  Sea of Japan  and the Sea of Okhotsk.  Seven Chinese  warships  left Vladivostok July 12 after China
and Russia concluded their largest-ever joint naval exercises,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency said. Other warships were
dispatched to do open-sea training, the Chinese People’s
Liberation Army Daily website said July 12.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  