-- China’s Economy Depends on Its Politics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-15T13:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/china-s-economy-depends-on-its-politics.html
The news that China’s gross domestic
product grew 7.5 percent from April to June -- down from 7.7
percent in the first quarter -- has provoked fewer gasps of
horror than one might have expected. Chinese officials have been
talking down the importance of the number for days. The mainland
economy might ultimately grow 7 percent this year instead of at
its usual double-digit rate, they’ve  hinted . Nothing to worry
about.  These officials, from Prime Minister Li Keqiang on down,
are speaking to two audiences: the global financial elite, and
the tens of thousands of junior officials who administer
Communist rule in China. Top leaders like Li understand that the
Chinese economy needs to slow down. Too much money is flowing
into unproductive investments -- ghost apartment blocks empty of
residents, mills churning out steel that no one wants -- and
local officials, striving to meet high GDP growth targets, are
often to blame. By implying that such targets are no longer
sacrosanct, Li means to encourage a focus on the quality rather
than the quantity of growth.  He’s hoping to engineer a “soft landing’’ for  China ’s
jumbo-jet economy, a gliding slowdown in which consumption, not
misdirected investment and white-elephant projects, becomes the
primary driver of growth. The effort is laudable and long
overdue. Unless Beijing pushes ahead with political as well as
market reforms, however, it is doomed to failure.  Mixed Messages  All those officials out in the provinces are receiving
mixed messages. For years they’ve been judged on their ability
to meet the official growth targets; not surprisingly, most of
them did so. While some falsified figures outright, many others
funneled cheap credit to state-owned companies and crony
developers. Since the 2008 financial crisis, credit has
 ballooned  to an estimated 173 percent of GDP from 115 percent.
This, party leaders have declared, must stop.  Yet local officials continue to be judged by something else
-- their ability to maintain stability. On any given day there
are 500 “mass incidents” in China (an official term, elastically
defined). Authorities often try to buy peace with payoffs, or by
sanctioning make-work projects to keep protesters employed and
quiescent.  Li acknowledges that his reforms will cause pain when
projects are canceled and inefficient enterprises shuttered. Yet
the government has provided no new means for ordinary Chinese to
vent their grievances -- quite the contrary. Thousands of online
censors are  policing social networks  like Sina Weibo more
intensely than ever. Efforts to promote greater democracy at the
village and county level have stalled. Legal reforms that
allowed people some hope of pursuing their claims in court have
been  slowed  and in some cases reversed.  Chinese President Xi Jinping seems to believe that the
party can recapture the affection of the masses by intensifying
its ideological commitment. Xi has launched a Maoist-style
“mass line’’ campaign to eliminate “formalism, bureaucratism
and hedonism and extravagance.’’ If that fails, local officials
can always rely on  batons . China spends more on internal
security than it does on external defense.  Top leaders show signs of realizing that this can’t go on.
Li recently encouraged Politburo members to read Alexis de
Tocqueville on the French Revolution, notes Minxin Pei, a China
scholar at Claremont McKenna College. Faced with mobs at the
gates, local officials are only too likely to turn the credit
back on, adding to the  nearly $2 trillion  in debt that local
governments are estimated to have accumulated.  Democratic Discipline  Xi and Li must rebalance their efforts at reform. They have
talked about imposing market discipline on lending decisions, by
allowing interest rates to rise, for instance. The recent
tightening of  credit conditions , now partly reversed, was
presumably a clumsy attempt to do just that. Broader social
reforms are needed as well. Relaxing household-registration
restrictions (hukou) would  normalize  the position of China’s 250
million migrant workers and encourage them to spend more of
their savings; former World Bank China director Yukon Huang
believes that alone could boost consumption as a share of GDP by
2 to 3 percentage points. A stronger social safety net would
also lessen the need to save.  Just as critically, leaders in Beijing need to bolster the
discipline of democratic accountability. A freer press would
challenge the vested interests that are sure to resist Beijing’s
newly decreed sobriety. Only empowered and legitimate courts
will convince Chinese that their grievances will get a fair
hearing.  Ultimately, the vote alone can create a truly effective
safety valve for citizens’ mounting frustrations. For years
Beijing has bought stability with economic progress. Now that
the country faces years of painful de-leveraging, its people
cannot be expected to meekly accept that the party has their
best interests at heart. Even the  Study Times , a newspaper run
by the Central Party School, warned last week that Xi’s mass-line campaign was “not an effective substitute that can realize
the function of democracy.’’  Western investment analysts have been reassuring their
clients that China isn’t about to crash, that its leaders retain
enough control to oversee much-needed reforms. The truth is, if
Xi and Li are to succeed, they will have to surrender some of
that control to their people.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 