-- Choice Properties REIT Lifting IPOs Above TSX: Corporate Canada
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-07-15T20:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/choice-properties-reit-lifting-ipos-above-tsx-corporate-canada.html
Real estate investment trusts led by
 Choice Properties REIT (CHP-U)  are helping initial public offerings
outpace  Canada ’s benchmark index for the first time in four
years on speculation dividend payers will hold up better than
commodity shares as global economic growth slows.  Eight stocks that began trading in Canada in 2013 have
advanced 3.5 percent as of July 12, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg on companies with a market value of at least C$100
million ($96.1 million). That compared with a 0.2 percent gain
in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) , the first time
since 2009 IPO stocks have outperformed the commodity-heavy
benchmark over a comparable period.  More than half of the initial offerings this year have been
REITs. The largest, Choice Properties, which holds the real
estate properties of grocer  Loblaw Cos. (L) , had risen 1.5 percent
this year after its C$400 million initial offering on July 5.
Choice gained 1 percent to C$10.15 at 4 p.m. in Toronto trading
today.  “Anything yield-oriented is still doing well, outside of
that it’s hard to get anyone excited about putting money into
resource exploration companies or energy companies,” said Anil Tahiliani,  fund manager  with McLean & Partners in Calgary, who
helps manage about C$1 billion.  The S&P/TSX’s slight gain this year  compares  with a 12
percent advance in the MSCI World Index, which tracks equity
markets from developed nations. Raw-materials and energy stocks
make up 58 percent of equities in the S&P/TSX.  China GDP  Gross domestic product in  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of commodities, is expected to grow 7.6 percent this
year and next, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, down from a five-year average of 9.3
percent from 2008 to 2012.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its projection for
global growth in 2013 for a fifth time on July 9, to 3.1 percent
from 3.3 percent in April. China’s growth was lowered to 7.8
percent from 8 percent.  Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  signaled July 11 the
world’s second-biggest economy may expand less than the
government’s 7.5 percent target this year and that growth as low
as 6.5 percent may be tolerable in the future.  Canada’s economy is expected to grow 1.7 percent this year
and accelerate to 2.4 percent growth in 2014. The  U.S. economy 
will advance 1.8 percent and 2.7 percent this year and next.  Gold IPOs  “Companies that come to market are coming from sectors
that work,” said Brian Huen, managing partner at Red Sky
Capital Management Ltd. in Toronto. He helps manage C$220
million with the firm, and participated in the offerings for
Choice Properties, Information Services Corp., and Ski-Doo maker
 BRP Inc. (DOO)  “People certainly aren’t bringing any gold IPOs to
market. So investors are focusing on buying deals in the right
markets, as opposed to the wider market which has exposure to
resources.”  The underwriters have also done a good job of properly
pricing IPOs, including underpricing in some cases, to create
after-market demand that will send the stocks higher, Huen said.  “This is a one-time opportunity that you don’t have in the
public market,” he said. “As long as the banks are pricing
them properly and there’s investor appetite, they will do
well.”  The weak returns of several REIT IPOs this year through
July 12, including a 5 percent drop for WPT Industrial REIT and
a 5.3 percent decline for Agellan Commercial REIT, has been a
matter of timing, said Matthew Merkley, a lawyer who specializes
in advising on REIT initial offerings with the firm Blake,
Cassels & Graydon LLP in Toronto.  Wider Market  “The trading down, it’s about the wider market and not
about their individual performance,” Merkley said.  Craig MacPhail, a spokesman with WPT Industrial, said Scott Frederiksen, chief executive officer at the company, could not
immediately be reached for comment.  A voicemail message left with Frank Camenzuli, chief
executive officer at Agellan Commercial, on July 12 wasn’t
immediately returned.  Dividend-yielding stocks, including REITs,  utilities ,
 telephone companies  and  industrials , slumped in June after the
U.S. Federal Reserve said it may begin tapering its bond
purchasing program as early as this year.  “The whole interest-sensitive sector has been greatly
oversold,” said David Baskin, president of Baskin Financial
Services in Toronto. His firm manages about C$500 million.
“People who got carried away selling will at some point
recognize that the distributions of REITs are still much higher
than you’ll get from a bond.”  REITs Slump  REITs, which are taxed differently by the government,
invest in income-producing real estate and pay out most of their
income to investors through unit distributions.  Since tumbling to an 18-month low on June 24, the S&P/TSX
Capped REIT Index rallied 4.8 percent through July 12. The
index, which tracks 15 of Canada’s largest real estate trusts,
has slipped 7.7 percent this year, compared with a 30 percent
plunge in  materials  stocks.  “Choice went to market recently and it’s sort of clogged
the pipeline of new REITs a bit, cast a bit of a shadow,”
Merkley said. “I expect we’ll see a lot of pent-up supply and
demand come the fall.”  BRP, a former division of  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  that manufactures
jet skis and other recreational vehicles, is the best-performing
IPO stock in Canada this year, soaring 24 percent to C$26.61
from its initial offering of C$21.50 on May 22. It doesn’t pay a
dividend. Information Services, which provides registry services
to the province of Saskatchewan, has risen 3.1 percent since
trading began on July 9.  Market Share  “We believe BRP should trade at a premium to its
competitors given its strong brand equity, leading market share
and top-ranked position in several power sports categories,”
said Anthony Zicha, analyst with Scotia Capital Inc., in a note
to clients July 9.  Zicha initiated  coverage  of BRP with a sector outperform
rating, the equivalent of a buy, and a one-year price target of
C$29. He expects the company will increase its sales at a rate
of 8.5 percent a year through 2015. The stock has six buys and
one hold recommendation, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  IPO stock performance in Canada remains mediocre when
compared with global performance. Year-to-date, global IPOs of
$100 million or more have advanced 12 percent in trading,
compared with the 3.5 percent growth of Canadian IPOs. Canadian
IPOs through the same period have underperformed world IPOs
since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is going to continue,” said  Paul Taylor , chief
investment officer with BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto.
His firm manages about C$16.5 billion. “The factors that caused
the Canadian equity market to falter are still in place and that
is weak commodity prices and a housing market stalling. These
are two things that the Canadian economy, equity market and by
association the IPO market will struggle with. The opportunities
are better elsewhere.”  Saturated Market  With 12 REIT IPOs in Canada since the beginning of 2012 and
at least another coming from retailer  Canadian Tire Corp. (CTC)  in the
near future, Taylor said the market has become saturated.  “Throughout the year the windows of opportunity for IPOs
will open or close,” Bill Demers, the Canadian IPO leader for
Ernst & Young LLP,  said in a phone interview from Toronto.  The current window for REIT IPOs is “kind of closed for
the next couple of months until people see REIT prices come
back, which may not happen until this fall when people are less
concerned about rates going up,” said Tahiliani with McLean &
Partners. “The rising tide lifts all boats, whether it’s an IPO
REIT or a regular REIT it will do well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  