-- Citigroup Sustains $2.4 Billion First-Half Currency Hit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-15T21:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/citigroup-sustains-2-4-billion-first-half-currency-hit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the U.S. lender that
operates in more than  160 countries , posted a $2.41 billion
first-half equity deduction from currency swings, approaching
analyst Charles Peabody’s forecast for a year of foreign-exchange pain.  Profit growth, including a 42 percent increase in second-quarter net income, still enabled the New York-based company to
boost common equity during the period. Accounting rules require
banks to subtract unrealized losses on some assets from
shareholder equity instead of from profit.  Peabody, who leads research at Portales Partners LLC,
predicted last month that a drop in the value of emerging-market
currencies would cost Citigroup $5 billion to $7 billion in
regulatory capital this year. The bank said at the time that it
hedges against foreign-exchange losses. The capital deduction
increased to $1.7 billion in the second quarter from $711
million in the first, according to  figures  from the company
today.  “The currencies that hit us the most this quarter would
have been the peso, maybe a little on the  Indian rupee , the
reais had some impact on us,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said on a conference call with reporters, referring to
 Mexico ’s peso and the plural word for  Brazil ’s real. “It was
fairly widespread.”  Peabody said in an e-mail that he expects losses to
accelerate in the second half of this year as the dollar becomes
stronger and volatility in Asian currencies increases.  Stock Gains  The Mexican peso slid 4.9 percent against the dollar in the
quarter while the the Brazilian real plunged 9.4 percent. The
Indian rupee tumbled about 8.6 percent, and the South Korean won
fell 2.6 percent. At the current pace, the bank would report the
worst translation loss in five years, exceeding the $3.5 billion
deficit in 2011.  Peabody’s forecast has been driven by Citigroup’s bigger
presence in  developing countries  than competitors. Non-U.S.
markets provide more than half of the firm’s profit.  He’s had a  sell rating  on Citigroup stock since March 2012,
in contrast with peers who predict the company will outperform
competitors. The bank has climbed 31 percent this year as of
4:44 p.m.,  outpacing  the 24 percent gain in the 81-company
Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  Because of U.S. accounting rules, currency losses don’t
necessarily reduce Citigroup’s reported  net income . Instead,
they show up in accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI,
and erode book value, which measures total assets minus
liabilities. Under rules proposed by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , known as Basel III, Tier 1 common equity
will be affected by AOCI gains or losses.  Rising Rates  The bank also sustained a $2.1 billion deduction from
equity caused by unrealized losses on securities classified as
available for sale. Gains and losses on so-called AFS securities
are excluded from net income and instead counted in equity. U.S.
banks have been reporting losses on their AFS securities because
rising interest rates have eroded the value of their bond
portfolios.  A drop in bond values helped cut $6.5 billion from equity
at San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , according to reports from those banks last
week. Like Citigroup, both banks had enough profit in the
quarter to make up for those losses and boost regulatory
capital.  $4.18 Billion  Citigroup posted $4.18 billion in second-quarter net income
that helped boost common equity, along with a $1.2 billion
contribution from changes to the value of pension holdings and
cash-flow hedges, the company reported. Common equity rose to
$191.6 billion at the end of June from $190.2 billion in March,
according to a presentation. The bank’s Basel III Tier 1 common
ratio climbed to 10 percent from 9.3 percent.  The increase in regulatory capital and book value was seen
as vindication by some analysts who disagreed with Peabody’s
concerns about the potential foreign exchange hit.  “The impact of FX and rates on tangible book value turned
out to be much ado about nothing,” Chris Kotowski, an analyst
with Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York  who rates Citigroup
“outperform,” wrote in a research note today. “We have long
maintained that Citigroup has been in many  emerging markets  for
decades, that their revenues and expenses are in local currency
and that we don’t think that management gets vastly concerned
with the FX translation of the balance sheet on a quarterly
basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  