-- Citigroup Chosen to Manage Jefferson County Debt Refinancing
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-15T21:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/citigroup-chosen-to-manage-jefferson-county-debt-refinancing.html
     July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc. will manage a $2
billion refinancing  of Jefferson County, Alabama , sewer bonds,
part of the locality’s plan to end the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy.  Jefferson County commissioners voted today to select
Citigroup, the third-biggest underwriter of U.S. municipal bonds
last year. Citigroup was the lowest bidder, offering to
underwrite the debt for $7 per $1,000 of bonds, according to
county officials. The county has budgeted $19 million for
banking fees related to the deal.  “If anyone can bring that loan, it’s Citi,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors. “Citi is a large and dedicated
market maker in the high-yield space.”  Jefferson County, which encompasses Birmingham, filed a
plan on June 30 to exit bankruptcy by cutting $1.2 billion in
principal payments to investors holding about $3 billion in
defaulted sewer bonds. The debt was issued mostly in 2002 and
2003 to refinance older bonds sold to raise money for a court-ordered overhaul of the county sewer system, which was
riddled with corruption.  The county’s plan is based on a settlement announced last
month that included  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)  seven  hedge funds  and
a group of bond insurers, which together hold about $2.4 billion
of the debt. JPMorgan, which led the derivative-laden
refinancings that helped push the county into bankruptcy, agreed
to forgive $842 million of the $1.22 billion it is owed.  Secret Payments  JPMorgan also agreed to a $722 million  settlement  in 2009
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to end a case
over secret payments to friends of Jefferson County
commissioners in the sale of floating-rate sewer bonds and
 interest-rate swaps .  “Not only did Citigroup offer the county the lowest price
and a guaranteed sale, they were not involved in any of the
previous questionable transactions,” said Jefferson County
Commission President  David Carrington  in an interview.  Hedge funds owed about $872 million will collect more than
80 cents on the dollar, and will help backstop the refinancing
to ensure the county can raise all of the money it needs,
according to the agreements. The insurers will get $165 million
out of their $315 million in claims.  Refinance Rush  Jefferson County is set to refinance before  interest-rates 
climb higher. Yields on bonds rated below investment grade, or
not rated, rose to 6.55 percent on June 24, their highest in
more than 11 months, according  Standard & Poor’s Municipal Bond
High Yield Index .  Yields rose and prices fell as investors pulled about $1.2
billion from high-yield muni funds in the week through June 26,
as municipal bonds joined a fixed-income selloff fueled by bets
that the  Federal Reserve  will slow its bond buying.  The index has since declined to 6.46 percent as of July 12.  Under the terms of the plan approved by the commission last
month, the county plans to issue $1.84 billion of debt in a mix
of three different securities.  The county projects issuing about $1.4 billion of new debt,
paying interest on a periodic basis with coupons ranging from 5
percent to 6.451 percent, according to documents filed with the
bankruptcy court.  Citigroup Commitment  Another $300 million of zero-coupon bonds will be issued,
along with $175 million of zero-coupon bonds that that convert
to a security that pays interest on a periodic basis, according
to documents filed with the court. Citigroup committed to
purchase bonds that it can’t sell, said county Commissioner
Jimmie Stephens. The bankruptcy judge doesn’t need to approve
the selection of Citigroup, he said.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp .,  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  and the  Royal
Bank of Canada  also bid.  “This commission has removed all the fraud,” Stephens
said in an interview. “We’ve changed a complex variable debt
into a simple fixed-rate instrument.”  The financing plan depends on the county raising sewer
rates 7.41 percent annually for four years and 3.49 percent
annually after that. The county can cancel the refinancing if
projected borrowing costs rise by more than 0.5 percentage point
because of higher interest rates or if consumption by water and
sewer customers declines.  After the deduction of annual operating expenses for the
sewer system, the remaining sewer revenue will be equal to the
amount needed to pay debt service and annual capital expenses,
according to documents filed with the court.  Scott Helfman, spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham at 
 kedwards27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  