-- Citigroup’s Toxic Asset Unit Costs Jump to $1.25 Billion
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-15T18:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/citigroup-s-toxic-asset-unit-costs-jump-to-1-25-billion.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, said first-half costs at a unit holding
some of the lender’s most toxic loans and securities multiplied
by almost 10 times from a year ago on higher legal expenses.  The Special Asset Pool’s operating expenses climbed to
$1.25 billion for the  first six months  of the year from $129
million in the same period last year, according to figures on
the New York-based bank’s website. That’s more than double the
unit’s $619 million in total costs for 2012 and 2011 combined.  Swelling expenses in the unit, one of three that house
distressed and unwanted assets in the Citi Holdings division,
point to the continuing legal costs facing Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Corbat . Total expenses rose 1 percent to $24.4
billion even as Corbat cuts thousands of jobs and sells
businesses in an effort to make the bank more efficient.  “One of the legacy issues that we’ve got is continuing
litigation coming out of our business in Holdings,” Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 59, said on a conference call
with reporters. “We continue to put aside legal reserves to
cover our potential exposures there.”  While Gerspach declined to comment on what’s producing the
spike in legal costs, he said “it’s fair to assume” that
private-label securitization remains one of the bank’s “legacy
issues.”  Private-label mortgage-backed securities aren’t guaranteed
by government-sponsored enterprises such as  Fannie Mae  or
 Freddie Mac . Investors can force banks to repurchase the
underlying mortgages if they are faulty.  Faulty Mortgages  Citigroup agreed this month to pay Fannie Mae $968 million
to compensate the taxpayer-backed mortgage firm for more than a
decade of claims tied to faulty home loans. The bank hasn’t
reached a settlement with Freddie Mac or with investors who
bought private-label securities.  The original principal balance of private-label claims
against Citigroup was $900 million for the first half of the
year, according to a company  presentation . Claims were $1.5
billion during 2012, the lender said.  Citigroup stands to lose about $2.94 billion from private-label claims, according to Kevin Barker, an analyst with Compass
Point Research & Trading LLC. He told clients in a research note
last August that the lender needed to add $2.6 billion to its
reserves to cover future losses.  “It’s definitely a concern,” Barker said in a phone
interview. “I’d expect these charges to continue for most banks
that haven’t put up enough reserves related to private-label
litigation.”  Assets Decline  The costs at the Special Asset Pool grew even as losses in
 Citi Holdings  tumbled 37 percent to $570 million for the second
quarter. That’s the smallest loss at the division since 2009,
according to the company’s financial reports. Assets fell 31
percent from a year earlier to $131 billion.  Citigroup executive Keith Pinniger runs the Special Asset
Pool, which traces its roots to Citigroup’s bailout in 2008,
when U.S. taxpayers guaranteed some of the bank’s riskiest
holdings. Then-CEO Vikram Pandit created the unit as a home for
those assets along with “other non-strategic” investments,
according to a statement at the time.  Assets in the pool fell 53 percent to $15 billion,
according to a financial supplement. Remaining investments
include mortgage-backed securities, equities and corporate
loans, according to the presentation. Some of the securities are
worth a  fraction  of their original value, the presentation
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  