-- Co-Op Investor Group Asks FCA for Consumer Financial Advice
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-15T10:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/co-op-investor-group-asks-fca-for-consumer-financial-advice.html
A group of Co-Operative Bank Plc
bondholders called on the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority to
ensure individual investors get independent financial advice on
how to respond to the bank’s plans to plug its capital deficit.  Mark Taber, organizer of the group of bondholders, wrote to
Martin Wheatley, chief executive officer of the regulator, to
ask that individual investors be told their options and not
frightened into selling their holdings at a loss, he said in a
July 12 letter seen by Bloomberg News today.  “We have received the letter and will be responding in due
course,” Chris Hamilton, a spokesman for the FCA, said today.
The regulator doesn’t comment on individual firms, he added.  Co-Operative Bank said last month it will swap some debt
for equity as part of a plan to raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3
billion) of capital after the failure of its bid for 632 Lloyds
Banking Group Plc branches exposed the deficit. The bank has
about 7,000 bondholders with holdings of 25,000 pounds or less.  Taber wrote to Andrew Bailey, CEO of the U.K.’s Prudential
Regulation Authority last week asking for a review of the
lender’s plan and hasn’t received an answer, the letter said.  His group is one of at least three seeking to negotiate a
better terms in the restructuring. Aurelius Capital Management
LP, a New York-based hedge fund, and some other bondholders are
considering hiring a legal adviser, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. A third bondholder committee comprising
U.K. insurance companies is being formed by the Association of
British Insurers, the Financial Times said last month.  Co-Operative Bank’s capital has been depleted by soured
consumer and commercial real estate loans stemming from the
purchase of Britannia Building Society in 2009. Loan impairments
more than quadrupled to 468.7 million pounds in 2012, the
company said in March. The bank had a pretax loss of 673.7
million pounds in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  