-- Coffee-Shop Boost Drives Demand for High Quality Beans in Brazil
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-15T17:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/coffee-shop-boost-drives-demand-for-high-quality-beans-in-brazil.html
An increase in the number of coffee
shops in  Brazil  is boosting demand for higher quality beans in
the world’s leading producer and threatening the U.S.’s position
as the world’s top consumer, according to Mintel Group Ltd.  Coffee consumption in the South American nation is growing
faster than in the U.S. and Brazil will be the world’s leading
consumer in the next few years, the London-based researcher said
today in an e-mailed statement. A quarter of Brazil’s coffee
drinkers say they prefer premium coffee, with a third of these
saying they consume premium drinks at a coffee shop, a Mintel
survey showed.  “While Brazil has traditionally supplied the world with
high-quality coffee beans, it is now beginning to envision new
customers: Brazilians themselves,” said Lucas Marangoni, a
senior drinks analyst at Mintel. “Coffee shops represent one of
the main drivers of changing attitudes towards premium coffee.”  Coffee consumption in Brazil was 1.23 million metric tons
last year, while demand in the U.S. was 1.45 million tons,
Mintel estimates. Five in six Brazilians drink coffee and three
in five consume it daily, the Mintel survey showed.  “As Brazilians get more demanding about their coffee, the
country’s better quality arabica beans will increasingly be used
to service its burgeoning domestic market,” said Jonny Forsyth,
a global drinks analyst at Mintel. “The global supply of the
best quality arabica beans is hugely dependent on Brazil, and by
reducing supply at a time of huge, and still rising global
demand, this could force a sharp rise in global coffee bean
prices down the line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  