-- Commerzbank Climbs After U.K. Loans Deal, Stake Sale
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y ,   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-15T16:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/commerzbank-climbs-after-report-of-government-plan-to-sell-stake.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rose in  Frankfurt 
trading after it agreed to sell U.K. real estate loans and a
report said the German government is considering selling a stake
to a foreign bank.  Commerzbank climbed 4.7 percent to 6.25 euros, the biggest
increase in almost two weeks, valuing the company at 7.1 billion
euros ($9.2 billion). It pared its decline this year to 42
percent, the second-biggest drop on the 47-member Stoxx 600
Banks Index after  Spain ’s  Bankia SA. (BKIA)   The sale of the U.K. loans marks progress in the lender’s
plan to sell or wind down assets to comply with conditions for
state aid Commerzbank took in 2009 and to raise capital levels.
The company, in which  Germany  still holds a 17 percent stake,
paid back some of the funds it took to weather the financial
crisis in May after selling 2.5 billion euros of shares.  “Today was a good day for Commerzbank,” said Michael Seufert, an analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank in Hanover,
Germany who recommends investors hold the bank’s shares.
“That’s mostly the sale of the U.K. loans but a little bit of
takeover speculation doesn’t hurt either, even if it is unlikely
to happen.”  Germany’s second-largest lender sold 5 billion euros of
loans to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Lone Star Funds at a 3.5 percent
discount to book value, Commerzbank said in a statement today.  Low Discount  The “low” discount of the deal helps ease one of the
“key concerns about Commerzbank, namely that they won’t be able
to sell their non-core portfolio without racking up large
losses,” said Seufert.  Commerzbank said it now expects to reduce a portfolio of
real estate, shipping and public finance to “significantly less
than 90 billion euros” at the end of 2016 versus an earlier
goal of 93 billion euros. The division comprised 143 billion
euros of assets at the end of March, according to a presentation
the Frankfurt-based company published on its website last month.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  spoke with  UBS
AG (UBSN)  Chairman  Axel Weber  as the government considers selling
shares to a foreign bank, Focus magazine reported two days ago,
without saying how it got the information.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government took 25
percent of Commerzbank in 2009 in return for providing an 18.2
billion-euro bailout. The stake declined in May, when the bank
sold shares in its fifth capital increase in four years.  Government Goal  Finance Ministry Spokesman Marco Semmelmann declined to say
whether Schaeuble talked with Weber and whether Germany has any
immediate plans to sell shares to a foreign bank. Nils Hendrik
Happich, a spokesman for Commerzbank in Frankfurt, declined to
comment. The stake is held by the government’s rescue fund
Soffin.  “It has always been the government’s goal to restrict the
stabilization measures granted during the financial crisis to a
period as limited as possible,” Semmelmann said from Berlin in
response to e-mailed questions. “However, it is currently not
conceivable when Soffin’s remaining holding in Commerzbank will
be divested.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Commerzbank’s debt rating to A- from
A in May, after the bank announced the capital increase, saying
the company will struggle to increase earnings on a sustainable
basis. Commerzbank posted a second straight loss in the first
quarter after booking costs related to firing staff.  Dieter Hein, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,
Germany, said the government is unlikely to sell a stake prior
to parliamentary elections in September, when Merkel will seek a
third term as chancellor. The government would take a 3.8
billion-euro loss on the shares, now worth 1.2 billion euros, if
it sold them today, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  is eliminating
staff and winding down shipping and real estate units to help
return the bank to profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Bentley in Frankfurt at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  