-- Copper Futures Decline as China’s GDP Expansion Eases
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-15T17:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/copper-futures-decline-as-china-s-gdp-expansion-eases.html
Copper futures fell for the second
straight session on concern that demand will ebb after economic
growth slowed for the ninth time in 10 quarters in  China , the
world’s biggest user of industrial metals.  Gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the prior
three months, the government said today. That matched the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Industrial
production (CHVAIOY)  slowed in June for the third time in four months.  “The base metals have started the week with a softer tone,
coming under pressure after a choppy start on the back of
weakening Chinese economic data and a stronger  dollar ,”  Leon Westgate , a London-based analyst at Standard Bank Plc, said in a
report today. “Concerns over the trajectory of  China’s economy 
continue to mount.”  Copper futures for September delivery declined 0.3 percent
to $3.1445 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . On
July 12, the price fell 0.7 percent.  Hedge funds  and large speculations cut wagers on falling
copper prices by 2.5 percent to 26,284 Comex futures and options
contracts in the week ended July 9 from a week earlier, U.S.
figures showed on July 12. On April 2, the net-short position of
38,951 contracts was the most in data compiled by Bloomberg
since June 2006.  “The complex appears schizophrenic in that speculative
short positions have surpassed their levels during the great
recession in 2008-09,” Xiao Fu, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in  London , said in a report. “However, this contrasts to the
tightness in the physical market, as indicated by elevated
premiums. We expect the ensuing tussle between the two factors
is likely to keep copper prices range-bound, but vulnerable to
short-covering rallies.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months slid 0.5 percent to $6,917 a metric ton ($3.14 a pound).
Through July 12, the price fell 12 percent this year.  Aluminum, nickel, lead, zinc and tin also dropped in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  