-- Court Rejects Nomura Asset Seizure Amid Doubt on Paschi Fraud
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S e r g i o   d i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-07-15T11:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/court-rejects-nomura-asset-seizure-amid-doubt-on-paschi-fraud.html
An Italian appeals court rejected a
request to seize assets from  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , accused by
prosecutors of colluding with some executives of  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA  to hide losses.  Two former bank executives, who prosecutors claim were
tricked by Nomura, and other former Paschi managers, knew of a
connection between its 2009 restructuring of an investment that
was losing money and the purchase of Italian bonds through
Nomura, judges at the court in Siena wrote in their ruling.  Losses from derivatives prompted Monte Paschi to seek state
aid of 4.1 billion euros ($5.4 billion) in February. Prosecutors
had sought authorization to seize as much as 1.95 billion euros
of Nomura assets, consisting mostly of funds pledged by Monte
Paschi to Nomura as security for the derivatives contracts and
deposited in  Germany .  Judges cited at least one e-mail in which an allegedly
hidden mandate agreement on the so-called Alexandria deal was
mentioned, enabling the bankers to link the transactions and
their objective.  The Bank of  Italy  was aware of the connection after an
inspection of Monte Paschi that was completed in March 2012,
eight months before the mandate agreement was allegedly found in
a safe, the judges wrote in the 26-page ruling on July 13. In
January, the Rome-based central bank said the true nature of the
deals had come to light “only recently” after hidden documents
were found.  No Evidence  Judges said there is “strong doubt” that Nomura committed
fraud when it arranged the transaction and there’s no evidence
of usury based on international market practice on repo and swap
transactions. Still, Paschi should have booked a 220 million-euro net loss in 2009 that instead was hidden, the judges said.
The appeal court ruling comes after three former Monte Paschi
executives were charged last month with allegedly obstructing
regulators by hiding the mandate agreement. They face trial
starting in September.  A spokesman for Nomura declined to comment. Siena
prosecutors declined to comment. An official for the  Bank of
Italy  declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  