-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall; Ally Plans $1.375 Billion Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-15T21:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-retail-sales-rise-below-forecast.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell as  Citigroup (C)  Inc. reported better-than-estimated
earnings. Auto lender  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  is planning to sell
$1.375 billion of bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 77.1 basis points at 4:31 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest closing level since 76.3 on May 30.  Credit investors are looking to financial results for signs
of the strength of the economic recovery and borrowers’ ability
to repay debt. Citigroup, the third-largest bank by assets,
posted adjusted earnings of $1.25 a share for the second
quarter, beating the $1.18 average estimate of 27 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  U.S. retail sales increased 0.4 percent in June, following
a 0.5 percent rise in May, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . A survey of economists by Bloomberg called
for a 0.8 percent advance.  “People are more comfortable with the Fed going forward.
As a result of today’s retail sales, you might see the Fed
revise its gross domestic product forecasts” lower, Matthew Duch, who helps oversee $12 billion as a  money manager  at
Calvert Investments Inc. in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Data Driven’  The credit-swaps measure typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo , who has always
voted in favor of bond purchases by the Fed, said today that any
reduction in the central bank’s asset buying would be “data
driven” and “dependent on the economy.”  “Good reports from the banks so far, Bernanke’s comments
last week, and enough data points to see the economy is very
slowly improving, which limits the amount and timing of tapering
one would expect from the Fed,”  Joel Levington , managing
director of corporate credit research at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York, wrote in an e-mail.  Ally Offering  Ally and  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  led borrowers
planning debt sales.  Ally, the auto lender majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers,
intends to sell $1 billion of fixed-rate, three-year securities
to yield 3.5 percent and $375 million of floating-rate notes
yielding 268 basis points more than the three-month London
interbank offered rate, according to a person with knowledge of
the offering. The Detroit-based lender has been pursuing asset
sales as it seeks an initial public offering to help repay a
$17.2 billion bailout.  Proceeds from the sale may be used to redeem outstanding
notes, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  Canadian Imperial Bank (CM)  sold $1.5 billion of debt in two
parts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
issued $750 million in three-year, floating-rate securities
yielding 52 basis points more than Libor and an equal portion of
1.35 percent, three-year notes to yield 72 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries.  Smithfield Swaps  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, fell 6 basis points to 370.8 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show. That’s the lowest level on a closing
basis since it reached 369.8 on May 27.  Default swaps tied to the debt of  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) ,
the hog processor being acquired by Shuanghui International
Ltd., increased the most in more than three weeks as Moody’s
Investors Service said it will review the credit rating of the
Smithfield, Virginia-based pork producer for possible downgrade.  The cost to protect the company’s debt from default for
five years rose 31 basis points to 328 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI)  and collects prices quoted on the privately negotiated
market. That’s the largest intraday increase since climbing 61
basis points June 20.  Moody’s said if the transaction with Shuanghui is completed
as currently contemplated then it will reduce Smithfield’s
unsecured ratings to B2 from B1, according to a statement today.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt decreased 1.9 basis points to 547.6 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  