-- Crude Rises for Second Day as Manufacturing Expands
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-15T19:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/crude-falls-as-u-s-retail-growth-slows-amid-china-data.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for a second day as  manufacturing  in the  New York  region
expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months. Brent oil
settled at a three-month high.  Prices climbed 0.4 percent as the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York’s general economic index advanced to 9.5, the highest
level since February. Oil also rose as Islamists in  Egypt , which
controls the  Suez Canal , called for mass protests to demand the
reinstatement of ousted President Mohamed Mursi. Prices fell
earlier after U.S. retail sales rose less than projected.  “Crude’s been adjusting to the economic data,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The manufacturing number is more
forward-looking. It reinforces the story of modest growth with
future upside.”  WTI for August delivery gained 37 cents to settle at
$106.32 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume
of all futures traded was 15 percent below the 100-day average
for the time of day. The contract climbed $1.04 on July 12,
capping a 13 percent rally over three weeks.  Brent for August rose 28 cents to $109.09 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the highest settlement
since April 2. Volume was 7.9 percent below 100-day average.
Brent’s premium over WTI narrowed to $2.75 from July 12’s $2.86.
The spread was $1.99 on July 10, the smallest based on closing
prices since November 2010.  July Manufacturing  The July manufacturing index was higher than last month’s
7.8. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The median
projection in a Bloomberg  survey  of 50 economists called for a
reading of 5.  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country,
accounted for a fifth of the world’s demand in 2012, according
to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Demonstrations in Egypt, which may target military sites,
are building on efforts by the Muslim Brotherhood to squeeze the
army after it pushed Mursi from power on July 3 following a wave
of protests against his rule. A combined 2.24 million barrels a
day of oil were shipped from the  Red Sea  to Europe and  North
America  in 2011 via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean
pipeline, Energy Department data show.  “Things are still messy in Egypt and that’s supportive for
oil,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter, Florida-based director of
Energy Analytics Group LLC.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said price risks for  Brent crude 
in the second half of the year have changed “to the upside”
amid production losses in some Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries nations and political threats to supply.  Reductions in output from Libya, Iraq and Nigeria have the
potential to limit availability, the bank said today in an e-mailed report.  Hedge funds  increased bullish bets on WTI to the highest
level since May 2011, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said July 12. Money managers boosted their  net-long
positions  on WTI, or wagers that prices will rise, by 6.9
percent to 281,918 futures and options combined in the seven
days ended July 9, the CFTC said in its Commitments of Traders
report.  Bullish bets on Brent outnumbered short positions by
176,988 lots, the ICE Futures Europe said.  Retail Sales  Prices declined as much as 1.2 percent in intraday trading
on reports that U.S. retail sales increased less than expected
and  China ’s economic growth slowed.  Sales grew 0.4 percent last month, the Commerce Department
reported. That’s slower than the 0.8 percent gain forecast by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Consumer spending  is the
biggest part of the economy.  China’s gross domestic product increased 7.5 percent from
April to June, the slowest in three quarters, as growth in
factory output and fixed-asset investment weakened, the National
Bureau of Statistics said. It extended the longest streak of
sub-8 percent annual expansion in at least two decades.  Oil consumption in China, the second biggest oil-consuming
country after the U.S., surged 11 percent from a year ago to
about 10 million barrels a day last month, the statistics data
showed.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.3 percent, compared with 21.2 percent on July
12, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 435,914
contracts as of 2:32 p.m. It totaled 647,156 contracts on July,
3.3 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was a
record 1.87 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  