-- CSC Protests $3.5 Billion U.S. Navy Award to Hewlett-Packard
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-16T01:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/csc-protests-u-s-navy-s-3-5-billion-award-to-hewlett-packard.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  and  Harris
Corp. (HRS)  are challenging a $3.5 billion award to  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  for running the U.S. Navy’s communications network.  The protests were filed today to the U.S. Government
Accountability Office, according to Ralph White, the agency’s
managing associate general counsel for procurement law. The GAO,
which arbitrates contract disputes, has until Oct. 23 to make a
decision on the protests, White said.  Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard has operated
the Navy’s network since 2008, receiving almost 40 percent of
its $2.6 billion in direct federal awards in the year ended
Sept. 30 from the agreement, according to Bloomberg Industries.
It is HP’s biggest U.S. government contract.  Heather Williams, a spokeswoman for  Falls Church , Virginia-based CSC, declined to comment about the details of the protest
in an e-mail. Jaime O’Keefe, a spokeswoman for Melbourne,
Florida-based Harris, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail or
phone call seeking comment about the reason for the challenge.  The decision to award the five-year contract to manage the
Navy’s 800,000-user network to HP was announced June 27.  The “solicitation and evaluation process was rigorous and
thorough,” Bill Toti, a vice president for the unit of Hewlett-Packard that won the contract, said in an e-mailed statement. HP
“has every confidence in the Navy’s evaluation and selection.”  Hewlett-Packard’s team for the so-called Next Generation
Enterprise Network includes  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , International
Business Machines Corp.,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   Harris and CSC’s bid for the work included  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) , Verizon Communications Inc. and  Dell Inc. (DELL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  