-- Cynthia Lufkin Memorial Recalls Cancer Work, Leadership
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-07-15T13:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/cynthia-lufkin-memorial-recalls-cancer-work-leadership.html
Sprigs of white flowers hung at the
end of each pew, and in one were the three blond, blue-eyed
children of Cynthia Lufkin, who died on July 3 at age 51 of
complications from lung and  breast cancer .  “She was the best person I knew,” said her eldest
daughter, Schuyler.  The memorial service on July 12 was held at St. Andrew’s
Dune Church in Southampton, New York, the same Episcopal church
where 13 years ago Dan Lufkin married her. He spoke softly
during the service of his wife’s strength, bravery and optimism.  The many figures in the church from business, philanthropy
and the arts attested to the couple’s range of interests.
William Donaldson, a co-founder with Dan Lufkin of Donaldson
Lufkin & Jenrette, and former top executives of the firm Carl Tiedemann and Carl Menges were there to support their “longtime
friend and old-time partner,” Donaldson said. Also present were
venture capitalist  Alan Patricof  and real-estate developers
David Walentas and Richard LeFrak.  Cynthia Lufkin, who was diagnosed with breast cancer in
2005, served as co-chairman of the Breast Cancer Research
Foundation. Her fellow co-chairman, Kinga Lampert, and board
member Leonard Lauder had begun the day of the memorial with a
meeting about the foundation’s website.  Great Leader  Many donations have been made in her memory, so the
foundation has created a fund named after Lufkin that will
support research in immunotherapy. The nonprofit ended the June
30 fiscal year raising more than $50 million for research.  “She was a great leader, always unflappable, no matter
what her health situation,” Lauder said.  “Two weeks ago she was calling me to say, ’I spotted
someone in the paper who might help, let’s send some
research,’” said Myra Biblowit, the foundation’s president.  Lufkin took on the leadership of the foundation’s annual
luncheon after the death from cancer of BCRF’s founder, Evelyn Lauder. The luncheon on Oct. 15 will be dedicated to Lufkin, who
graduated from Trinity College in Hartford,  Connecticut , with a
degree in biochemistry.  The lunch, which honors scientists, “was her favorite
event. She asked questions of the scientists and she went deep
in the most productive way,” Biblowit said. “It’s a luxury to
have someone like that.”  Lufkin also helped develop fitness and nutrition services
at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  to help women with
breast cancer. Even for those who didn’t know them personally,
Lufkin and Lauder did much to make the Cancer Center a place of
hope.  Public Relations  Working at Tiffany & Co. in public relations, Lufkin built
friendships in society, and after she left that job worked on
behalf of a number of New York-based charities. Gillian Miniter
served with her on the Central Park Conservancy Women’s
Committee. The Lufkins served as co-chairmen of the Juilliard
School’s Centennial Gala.  With Allison Rockefeller and Muffie Potter Aston, she
raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for the Museum of the
City of New York. Their refined parties evoked the glamour of
old  New York .  Attractive, charming and possessed of a wonderful laugh and
smile, Cynthia Lufkin stood out at these events, yet what made
her a prized friend were the bonds she forged in private.  Aston during the service recalled a phone call in which
Lufkin offered the use of her home in Amagansett for a month.  “I told her with new twins, I did not think there would be
beds for them to sleep in,” Aston said. “Cyn called back to
tell me she’d just rented two cribs for a month. I don’t know
about you, but I don’t know anyone else who rents furniture for
house guests.”  Hot Dogs  During the service, the Reverend Peter Larsen said he was
working the hot-dog stand at a community event when he was
called to officiate at the Lufkins’ wedding as a last-minute
replacement.  “I changed clothes -- I smelled liked hot dogs -- and I
came to the church,” he said. “I’m a happily married man, but
she was beautiful, and I met Dan, too.”  Lufkin sent a photograph of her and her husband listening
to the children’s choir at the wedding, which hangs in the
church’s hall.  Architect Jaquelin T. Robertson, former dean of the
 University of Virginia  School of Architecture, also spoke at the
service, which concluded with a hymn accompanied by the organ.
Outside the church, attendees moved to a reception next door at
the Bathing Corporation of Southampton. Children played on the
beach.  “I’m so glad everyone is here to honor Cynthia,” said Dan
Lufkin as he stood on one of the club’s outdoor decks.  Wendy Carduner, chairman of the club Doubles at  Manhattan ’s
Sherry Netherland Hotel, helped introduce the couple.  “I’ve known Dan for 40 years. Dan needed someone who could
jog and also look fabulous in Chanel. She just had to be really
versatile and love life. And when I met Cynthia, I knew it
needed to be her. She made him the happiest he’s ever been.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographers for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on French culture,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Robert Heller  on
music,  Patrick Cole  on philanthropy and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  