-- Czech Finance Minister Turns to Donors to Quell Campaign Attacks
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-07-15T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/czech-finance-minister-turns-to-donors-to-quell-campaign-attacks.html
Jan Fischer, installed as Czech
finance minister last week, urged donors who helped pay off
debts from his presidential campaign to reveal the origin of the
money after parties accused him of a conflict of interest.  Fischer, who unsuccessfully ran in the country’s first
direct presidential election this year, became a minister on
July 10 when the interim cabinet of Premier Jiri Rusnok took
office. He received about 5.3 million koruna ($270,000) between
July 4 and July 9, with 1.3 million koruna as a cash deposit,
according to Fischer’s account on his campaign website.  “I’m the only presidential candidate who’s being
repeatedly attacked by the media and accused of a conflict of
interest and alleged obligations to the donors,” Fischer said
in an e-mailed statement today. “To end these unfounded attacks
against me, I have publicly asked the donors, where there are
any uncertainties, to dispel any doubts.”  By naming the technocrat cabinet, President Milos Zeman
snubbed lawmakers from the three former ruling-coalition
parties, who said they commanded a majority to stay in power
after a spying and bribery scandal sank Petr Necas’s pro-austerity government last month. The Social Democrats, the
largest parliamentary party, demanded early elections and
attacked Fischer for what they said were unclear campaign
finances.  The yield on 10-year government koruna debt, which reached
an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, rose 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.074 percent today, holding 51 basis
points below comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Drab’s Cash  Fischer asked entrepreneur Ladislav Drab to disclose the
origin of the cash deposit he had placed in the presidential
campaign account, according to the statement. Another supporter,
Stefan Havlik, must specify whether his contribution was a gift
or a loan, Fischer said, adding he’ll return the money if the
two don’t provide the clarifications by 4 p.m. on July 17.  Fischer has addressed his issues from the past and there’s
nothing further to add to it, Rusnok was cited as saying by
Lidove Noviny July 13.  The Czech Republic’s political turmoil, which erupted after
the fall of Necas’s cabinet a month ago, risks extending the
country’s longest  recession  on record. While the poll-leading
Social Democrats demand early elections, the party lacks the 120
votes in the 200-seat lower house of parliament needed to
dissolve the chamber. Lawmakers will debate a proposal to
dissolve the assembly on July 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  