-- Danske Bank Keeps Dividend Plan as Rule Appeal May Take a Year
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-07-15T09:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/danske-bank-keeps-dividend-plan-as-rule-appeal-may-take-a-year.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  still plans to pay a
dividend for 2013 even as the level of capital it holds as a
buffer against losses may be uncertain for as long as a year.  The bank is appealing an order by the Financial Supervisory
Authority to increase its risk-weighted assets, a demand that
would reduce the amount of capital the bank holds relative to
the portfolio, the Copenhagen-based lender said July 12. The
process “is probably going to last around one year,” Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said in an interview.  Still, Danske Bank  foresees  being in a position to return
some of this year’s profit to shareholders, Ramlau-Hansen said.
“That’s a decision for the board of directors, but we still
expect to pay a dividend if our results materialize as
expected,” he said.  Danske Bank’s performance has been the  worst  among Nordic
banks since 2007, the last year it paid a dividend, as it
struggled to rebuild capital amid the collapse of property
markets in  Denmark  and Ireland and increasing regulatory
requirements. Being designated by a government committee as a
too-big-to-fail financial institution may result in additional
capital demands of as much as 5 percent.  The bank  plans to pay  about 40 percent of its profit as
dividend once it reaches financial targets, including return on
equity of more than 12 percent in 2015 and a one-level increase
in credit ratings. Danske’s return on equity was 4.3 percent at
the end of the first quarter.  FSA Order  The FSA ordered Danske, whose balance sheet is almost twice
the size of Denmark’s economy, to increase risk-weighted assets
by 100 billion kroner ($17.5 billion) to about 897 billion
kroner over time, Danske said in June. Danske didn’t specify the
time frame. The demand lowers the ratio of total capital to
risk-weighted assets to around 19.1 percent from 21.6 percent at
the end of March, the bank said.  Danske Bank is  rated  A- at  Standard & Poor’s , Baa1 at
Moody’s Investors Service and A at  Fitch Ratings .  The bank is complying with the order even as it challenges
the ruling. The decision to appeal “has nothing to do with the
capital adequacy of the bank as such,” Ramlau-Hansen said.  “We have very sufficient capital,” he said. “It’s just a
question of what is, so to say, the minimum requirement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  