-- Denmark Invites Bank Free-for-All in Rules Fight: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-07-15T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/denmark-invites-bank-free-for-all-in-rules-fight-nordic-credit.html
Denmark ’s central bank is inviting
financial instability by urging the nation’s lenders to ignore a
European rule easing how risks for small- and medium-sized
business loans are calculated, an industry group said.  Encouraging the banks to be tougher than the directive on
SME loans would open the door to them underestimating risks
elsewhere, Michael Friis, head of prudential regulation at the
Danish Bankers Association, said in an interview.  The central bank in June told lenders to disregard a
section of the capital requirements directive -- approved by
European lawmakers last month -- that reduces risk weights by 24
percent because implementing it would  weaken  Denmark’s financial
system. Access to credit remains high in a historical
perspective, Deputy Governor Hugo Frey Jensen said last month.  “If the banks ignore the SME rebate, then by the same
logic banks should also ignore  capital charges  that they don’t
think properly reflect the risk associated with their
business,” Friis said in an interview this month.  Denmark’s financial industry has yet to recover from a
lending glut in the last decade that has sunk more than a dozen
banks and forced at least another 12 to merge. Last year, loan
loss impairments climbed 11 percent, and small and medium-sized
Danish banks continue to hold a disproportionate share of weak
loans, the Financial Supervisory Authority  said  in May.  Securitization Embrace  Europe ’s economic slump has led lawmakers to embrace
measures once considered taboo in the wake of the financial
crisis. Denmark in March proposed bundling and selling small
business loans as the stigma of securitization fades.  The European Parliament included the SME provision in the
fourth capital requirements directive in April, with council
following in June over objections from the European Banking
Authority. The banking group  said  in September that the
directive already makes allowances for SMEs and recommended
other measures to support small businesses.  Lack of credit poses a risk to SMEs which supply 85 percent
of new jobs, according to the European Commission. The euro area
is facing a second year of contraction this year and is
estimated to shrink 0.6 percent, the  International Monetary Fund 
said July 9.  “This extra rebate has been included,” Friis said, “for
political reasons. The purpose is to neutralize the effects of
the capital buffers so as not to harm SME lending.”  Avoiding Politics  Avoiding politics and attaining the uniformity in
regulation envisioned by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, whose recommendations triggered the directive, has
been an uphill battle.  U.S. regulators proposed July 9 the country’s biggest banks
hold equity equal to at least 5 percent of assets, compared with
an international target of 3 percent. Sweden sought tougher
requirements in Europe’s capital directive because its banking
industry is four times the size of its economy.  The SME capital provision instructs banks to reduce charges
for exposures by multiplying the amount by a factor of 0.7619.
That effectively lowers risk weights by 24 percent, according to
the Danish central bank.  “This is surprising since, from a risk perspective, a
general reduction in risk weights on loans to small and medium-sized enterprises doesn’t appear to be justified,” the central
bank said last month in its annual review of the country’s banks
and mortgage lenders.  Capital Base  While domestic lenders have improved their capital levels,
“much” of that stems from a decline in risk-weighted assets as
a result of falling lending volumes, the bank said in its June
financial stability report. While most banks hold enough equity
to meet coming requirements, it warned lenders will probably
need excess capital.  “The reduction of risk weights does not provide for a more
resilient financial system, on the contrary,” the Copenhagen-based central bank said. The provision also may cast doubt on
whether risk-weighted assets actually reflect real risk, the
bank said.  Banks’ risk weighting of assets is coming under increased
scrutiny to avert what Danish FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard, who also sits on the EBA’s supervisory board, called
in November “backdoor” dilution of capital requirements.  FSA Order  The FSA last month ordered  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  to increase its
risk-weighted assets by 13 percent after concluding the bank,
the country’s largest, hadn’t correctly accounted for possible
losses. The Copenhagen-based bank said Friday that it will
appeal the ruling to Denmark’s company appeals board. The demand
would lower the bank’s ratio of total capital to risk-weighted
assets to about 19.1 percent from 21.6 percent at the end of
March, the bank said in June.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which draws up
global banking guidelines, said this month it will address
complaints about banks “gaming the system” with risk-weighting
models. Regulatory measures may be necessary to even out
“material” differences among global lenders, it said July 5.  The SME reduction “may also erode confidence in risk-weighted assets as a measure of bank asset risk,” according to
the Danish central bank.  Ignoring the directive carries its own risks, Friis said.
Regulators concerned banks hold too little capital after taking
the rebate can always raise lenders’ individual solvency
requirements, he said. Those are imposed by national agencies to
reflect banks’ particular business models and risks.  “Picking out separate issues in the regulation that you
don’t think applies for your bank -- and therefore not including
in the calculation of your capital requirement -- isn’t how it
should be done,” Friis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  