-- Detroit Creditors Get New Worry in Alabama Fee Ruling
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-07-15T14:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/detroit-creditors-get-new-worry-in-alabama-fee-ruling.html
Detroit bondholders may have a new
worry after a judge ruled that Jefferson County,  Alabama , could
have paid legal bills for its bankruptcy from cash that was
going to pay warrant holders owed $3 billion.  The ruling should concern bond investors whose revenue was
previously protected from use by municipalities, said  R. Dale
Ginter , a bankruptcy lawyer at Downey Brand LLP in  Sacramento ,
 California . It may force those bondholders to reconsider waging
an extensive legal fight to protect their interests, said
Ginter, who represented retirees in the bankruptcy of Vallejo,
California.  “It puts a lot of leverage in favor of the debtor,”
Ginter said. “It puts bondholders in the position of paying for
both sides of their litigation.”  The ruling could apply to any municipal bankruptcy with
debt being paid by pledged revenues such as parking fees,
airport lease payments or water and sewer charges, Ginter said.
 Detroit  is in talks to get bondholders and current and former
city workers to accept $2 billion in exchange for wiping out the
$11.5 billion they may be owed. Kevyn Orr, Detroit’s emergency
financial manager, said he may put the city into bankruptcy if
they can’t strike a deal.  Detroit has about $5.4 billion worth of water and sewer
bonds that Orr has said would be paid in full under the city’s
reorganization proposal. Orr, 55, is aware of the Alabama ruling
and has no plans to dip into water and sewer funds to pay legal
fees, Bill Nowling, his spokesman, said in an e-mail last week.  Legal Fees  Orr already has rung up a $1.4 million tab for the first
six weeks of work by the city’s attorneys, Nowling said. Should
Detroit file for bankruptcy, the city’s legal fees may reach $10
million to $30 million a year, depending on the amount of
litigation, Doug Bernstein, a bankruptcy lawyer with Plunkett
Cooney in Bloomfield Hills,  Michigan , said in an interview.  Cities and counties that file for bankruptcy under Chapter
9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code have more legal protections than
companies that file under Chapter 11. Chapter 9 creditors can’t
offer their own reorganization plan and aren’t entitled to form
an official committee whose legal fees are paid by the bankrupt
city or county.  Jefferson County filed the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in November 2011 partly to force warrant holders to
accept a cut in sewer-system debt that county officials said the
system couldn’t afford to pay. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett in Birmingham, Alabama, said last month that some of the
sewer revenue could have gone to county bankruptcy lawyers.  ‘A Change’  “This is a change from what people were assuming,” said
Matt Fabian, managing director of Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors. “It absolutely affects Detroit.”  Jefferson County may not be able to take advantage of the
ruling because it has agreed that accumulated sewer revenue
would be distributed to creditors without deducting the kinds of
expenses Bennett said he would allow.  By January 2012, two months after its bankruptcy filing,
the county had spent about $22 million on legal fees related to
the restructuring of the sewer debt. To date, it has paid about
$1 million a month in legal and other court-related bills,
County Commissioner David Carrington said in an e-mail.  Carrington’s figure doesn’t include millions of dollars in
fees related to the sewer debt that the county paid before the
bankruptcy.  Appeal Planned  Last week, the trustee for Jefferson County’s warrant
holders, two insurance companies that guaranteed repayment of
the debt and warrant holder JPMorgan Chase Bank NA filed a
notice in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Birmingham saying they
planned to appeal Bennett’s fee ruling.  Bennett issued the ruling a year after handing down a
related opinion that some interpreted to say just the opposite.
Municipal bond investors at the time assumed the judge had
barred the city from spending sewer revenue on legal fees or in
any way not authorized by the original debt contract, said
Municipal Market Advisors’ Fabian.  Bennett said the earlier decision had been misinterpreted.
The previous opinion addressed whether the county could set
aside sewer money by estimating legal fees that may be incurred
in the future without proper justification, he wrote.  Two insolvent cities, Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , and
Stockton, California, may have debt that could qualify under
Bennett’s ruling, Ginter said.  Stockton Debt  Harrisburg’s 2011 Chapter 9 filing was thrown out of court
after a judge ruled the city council didn’t have authority to
declare bankruptcy. Stockton, with debt that includes dedicated
revenue from a parking garage, is negotiating with creditors on
a plan to reduce debt and exit bankruptcy.  “It’s potentially pretty big,” Ginter said of the ruling.  Jefferson County supplanted Orange County, California, as
the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy. Orange County entered
court protection in 1994 after losing $1.7 billion on interest-rate bets.  While Orange County’s petition initially listed more debt
than Jefferson’s, much of that liability was reduced in the
early weeks of the case. Thanks partly to lawsuits against
financial firms, Orange County creditors were paid in full.  Detroit’s would be the biggest Chapter 9 case ever.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  