-- Yen Drops Versus Dollar on Central-Bank Divergence
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-15T21:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/dollar-rises-before-u-s-retail-sales-data-aussie-climbs.html
The yen weakened for a second day
against the dollar amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce monetary stimulus while the Bank of  Japan  maintains its
bond-buying program, which tends to debase the currency.  The greenback pared gains versus the euro after U.S. retail
sales rose less than forecast. The dollar was the best-performing major currency over the past six months amid bets the
Fed will dial back its asset purchases.  Australia ’s dollar rose
against most major peers after growth in  China , its top trade
partner, matched economists’ estimates in the second quarter.  “The Fed is inching toward less accommodation, and the BOJ
is still full-steam ahead on accommodation,”  Richard Franulovich , chief currency strategist for the northern
hemisphere at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “On a day without much news, that will
drive the price action.”  The yen sank 0.7 percent to 99.86 per dollar at 5 p.m. New
York time, following a 0.3 percent loss on July 12. It
appreciated to 98.27 on July 11, the strongest since June 27.  The greenback was little changed at $1.3061 per euro after
rising earlier as much as 0.6 percent. The dollar gained 0.2
percent on the final day of last week. The euro strengthened 0.6
percent to 130.46 yen.  Financial markets in Japan were closed today in observance
of a national holiday.  Biggest Winner  The U.S. currency has rallied 6.3 percent this year, the
most among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has been the
second-best performer, advancing 5.2 percent, while the yen has
dropped 9.1 percent.  The Brazilian real rallied the most among major  emerging
markets  as Credit Suisse Group AG and Nomura Holdings Inc.
forecast the currency will strengthen from an almost four-year
low. It gained 2.1 percent,,the biggest increase since June
2012, to 2.2201 per dollar. The real touched 2.2803 on July 10,
the weakest level since April 2009.  Mexico ’s peso rallied to a one-month high as slower U.S.
retail-sales growth eased concern the Fed will end stimulus that
has buoyed emerging-market assets. The currency appreciated 1.2
percent to 12.6672 per dollar and touched 12.6558, the strongest
intraday level since June 17.  U.S.  retail sales  rose 0.4 percent in June from May, less
than forecast, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . A Bloomberg survey called for a 0.8 percent advance.  Risk Appetite  “Below-consensus activity and growth data prove positive
for risk appetite by reducing the likelihood of an imminent
withdrawal of highly accommodative U.S. monetary policy,”
 Samarjit Shankar , a Boston-based managing director and senior
currency strategist at the Bank of New York Mellon Corp., wrote
today in a client note.  The Fed purchases $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month as part of its quantitative-easing program to
cap borrowing costs. While Bernanke on July 10 damped
speculation the central would slow its buying, minutes released
the same day of the Fed’s last policy meeting showed “about
half” of participants indicated “it likely would be
appropriate” to end the purchases late this year.  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary
policy report to Congress next week, starting July 17 at the
House Financial Services Committee.  BOJ Pledge  Bank of Japan  policy makers at a meeting last week stuck
with their pledge to expand the monetary base by 60 trillion yen
($605 billion) to 70 trillion yen per year in their effort to
stem deflation.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, was little changed at
1,037.81. It dropped 1.6 percent last week, the biggest slide
since June 7.  “Markets will look to buy dips in the dollar,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy in  London  at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, the fifth-most accurate currency
forecaster in a Bloomberg Rankings survey for the second
quarter. “We will see a weekly squeeze back to the topside as
far as dollar-yen is concerned provided we don’t get any nasty
surprises from Bernanke.”  The Aussie jumped as much as 0.8 percent to 91.22 U.S.
cents before trading at 90.98 cents, up 0.5 percent.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency corrected a report from
last week that cited Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  as saying the
country’s growth target this year is 7 percent, a figure lower
than the official goal of 7.5 percent set in March.  China’s  gross domestic product  grew 7.5 percent in the
April-June period, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing today, matching the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. It expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $31 billion, compared with $28 billion on July 12,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $9.4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 31 percent. Euro-dollar options
totaled $2.5 billion, or 8.1 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 41 percent higher than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
21 percent below average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  