-- EADS Wins U.K. Satellite Funds as Reusable Rocket Also Gets Aid
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/eads-wins-u-k-satellite-funds-as-reusable-rocket-also-gets-aid.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  satellite equipment and a U.K. project to develop a new
rocket engine will get an infusion of cash as the British
government increases spending on space technology.  Astrium, the space unit of Toulouse, France-based EADS, was
awarded a 134 million-pound ($202 million) contract to develop
instruments for future European weather satellites, while
closely held Reaction Engines Ltd. will get 60 million pounds
for work on a reusable launcher, the Department for Business,
Innovation & Skills said in a statement today.  The U.K. has emphasized support to the space industry by
establishing a national agency and increasing its contribution
to the  European Space Agency . The government estimates the
sector contributes more than 9 billion pounds to the economy
each year.  “To meet our target of capturing 10 percent of a growing
world market we must harness new opportunities in new areas of
space,” David Willetts, the minister for universities and
science, said in the statement. “We want to be a world leader
in growth and innovation in space.”  Astrium will provide sensors for ESA’s new MetOp second-generation satellites to help more accurately forecast weather,
Willetts intends to announce today in Glasgow. The funding is
linked to Britain getting work on European projects equivalent
to its ESA contribution.  Flight Trials  The capital injection for Sabre, as the synergetic air-breathing rocket engine is known, is aimed at financing the
first prototype of a reusable propulsion system to replace
expendable launchers, the minister said. Flight trials are
planned to start in about 2020.  The powerplant combines  features  of a typical jet engine,
such as drawing in oxygen, which it mixes with liquid hydrogen
to produce thrust, before transitioning to on-board liquid
oxygen once outside the atmosphere, Reaction Engines said on its
website.  “The Sabre engine has the power to revolutionize our lives
in the 21st century the way the jet engine did in the 20th
century,” Willetts said. The engine could allow creation of
space-planes able to fly up to Mach 5, or five times the speed
of sound.  The government estimates the technology could generate
21,000 “high value engineering and manufacturing jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  