-- EFSF Cut to AA+ by Fitch in Wake of France’s Loss of Top Rating
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-07-15T17:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/efsf-cut-to-aa-by-fitch-in-wake-of-france-s-loss-of-top-rating.html
Europe’s temporary rescue facility
lost its AAA rating in a move by Fitch Ratings to match it to
the level of  France  after the country lost its own top grade
last week.  The European Financial Stability Facility was downgraded by
one level to AA+, Fitch said in a statement in London today. The
company attributed the decision as a consequence to its July 12
cut to the rating of Europe’s second-largest economy.  “EFSF’s ratings rely on the irrevocable and unconditional
guarantees and over-guarantees provided by euro-area member
states,” Fitch said. After France’s downgrade, “the EFSF’s
long-term debt issues are not fully covered by AAA guarantees
and over-guarantees and, for debt issued before October 2011, by
the cash reserve.”  The EFSF, backed by the guarantees of euro member states,
will be replaced in time by the European Stability Mechanism
that started last year and relies on paid-in capital by European
governments to fund bailouts. Investors often ignore ratings
decisions, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the U.S.
lost its top grade at Standard & Poor’s in 2011.  Fitch said that 100 percent of long-term debt issued by the
EFSF is now guaranteed by countries rated at least AA+.  If any other EFSF backer rated AAA or AA+ gets downgraded,
“and if the coverage by AA+ guarantees falls below 100 percent,
Fitch would also review the long-term rating assigned to EFSF
debt issues,” Fitch said.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard and Poor’s. That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in  London  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  