-- Mursi Supporters’ Battle With Police Leaves Seven Dead
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y ,   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-07-16T09:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/egypt-s-brotherhood-plans-rally-as-cabinet-takes-shape.html
Supporters of  Egypt ’s ousted
President Mohamed Mursi fought with security forces and at least
seven were killed, as persistent violence overshadowed the army-backed interim government’s effort to stabilize the nation.  The clashes, which were most intense in Cairo’s Ramsis
Square, also left at least 261 wounded, according to the Health
Ministry. Muslim Brotherhood partisans have held daily protests
since Mursi’s July 3 ouster by the army, which came after
hundreds of thousands rallied to demand his removal.  Yesterday’s unrest turned parts of central Cairo into a
tear gas-scented, rock-strewn battleground on the day U.S.
Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  visited the city to urge
dialogue. He said the U.S. is committed to helping Egypt with
its “second chance” at democracy, without offering any
“American solutions.”  The military-appointed prime minister-designate, Hazem El-Beblawi, has been wrapping up Cabinet appointments for a
government which he told reporters could be sworn in as early as
today. Mursi’s supporters are demanding that the nation’s first
democratically elected civilian president be reinstated.  “There seems to be no leader as yet with the credibility
to bring all sides of the country together,”  Paul Sullivan , a
specialist in Middle East security issues at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington , said in a phone interview. “If the
parties do not start compromising, the gap will get wider to the
point that it may be far too wide to mend.”  Tear Gas  Clashes also broke out between Mursi supporters and
opponents last night in the Nile delta city of Damanhour, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  said.  Tear gas spread across part of Cairo’s 6th of October
Bridge above Ramsis Square after security forces tried to stop a
pro-Mursi march by about 5,000 people. The demonstrators marched
early today toward the presidential palace and a Republican
Guards complex where dozens of Brotherhood supporters were
killed in clashes with security forces last week.  The army warned that protests at military bases or
installations, or attempts to attack them, will be met with
“firmness and force.”  ‘Basic Principles’  Burns, the highest ranking U.S. official to come to Cairo
since Mursi’s removal, met Egyptian leaders including Defense
Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi and interim President Adly Mansour.
He said the transition process must be inclusive, indicating
that the Muslim Brotherhood should play a part. He said the U.S.
will “stand behind certain basic principles, not any particular
personalities or parties.”  Egypt was a close U.S. ally under  Hosni Mubarak , who was
driven from power in February 2011 amid mass protests. The
country has received billions of dollars of mostly military aid
since the 1970s.  The ultra-conservative Salafist Nour party and the
secularist Tamarod movement, which both supported the military’s
overthrow of Mursi, refused to meet with Burns, according to the
Middle East News Agency and Tamarod’s website.  Burns said Egypt has a chance to “renew its economy after
a period during which many needs of the Egyptian people were not
addressed.”  IMF Delay  Egypt’s economy has been stuck in its worst slowdown in two
decades since Mubarak’s fall, and failed to revive under Mursi.
Unemployment is at a record high and foreign reserves are less
than half their levels in December 2010. Persian Gulf countries
have pledged $12 billion in aid since Mursi’s ouster.  Ashraf el-Arabi, the designated planning minister, said
circumstances weren’t conducive to a new round of talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  on Egypt’s bid for a $4.8 billion
loan, according to MENA. The negotiations may be completed after
a transitional period, he said.  The cost of protecting Egyptian debt against default for
five years has tumbled 255 basis points since Mursi’s ouster to
670, according to data provider CMA. Yields on Egypt’s dollar
bonds due in 2020, which surged above 10 percent in the days
before and after the army intervention, have dropped to about
8.6 percent.  “The jury is still out on whether the government will be
able to provide investors with the confidence that can allow the
economy to stabilize,” Stephen Bailey-Smith, London-based
 emerging markets  strategist at  Standard Bank , said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Cairo at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  