-- Egyptian TV Bias Balloons as Broadcaster Balance Forsaken
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-16T13:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/egyptian-tv-bias-balloons-as-broadcaster-balance-forsaken.html
On the day that  Egypt ’s Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi was removed from power by throngs of
protesters and an army decree, news anchor Ibrahim Eissa was so
overcome he summoned balloon-waving studio staff to join him on
set for an emotional rendition of a national song.  Flanked by colleagues flashing victory signs, holding flags
and singing “Madad,” or “Strength,” the mustachioed
television presenter ended his July 3 edition by telling
viewers, “We have triumphed on this day of pride.”  He wasn’t alone. Amr Adeeb interrupted his daily news show
to chant “Long live Egypt, our sorrow is over,” as he draped
himself in the Egyptian flag. Over on the Dream 2 channel, Hala
Sarhan sang the national anthem over footage of anti-government
protesters celebrating in  Tahrir Square .  Television bias mirrors, and may even be deepening, rifts
between Egypt’s liberals and conservatives. About 25 of the
country’s 200 private satellite channels are widely viewed,
according to Gamal Eid, executive director of the Cairo-based
 Arab Network for Human Rights . Their news and talk shows are
drawing bigger audiences while making less effort to appear
neutral. Some don’t bother at all.  “There’s a clear overlap between the journalist or the
anchor as a professional and as a political activist or player,
which is having a damaging effect on the street,” Eid said in
an interview. “This is not just the Islamist or anti-Mursi
channels, it’s the case with all media outlets. I’ve seen
incitement on both sides.”  Base Shootings  Bias was clear in the coverage of violence outside the
Cairo headquarters of the Republican Guards on July 8, when more
than 50 people, mostly Mursi supporters, were shot dead.  The most popular channels -- CBC, Tahrir, ONtv, and Al
Kahera wal Nas, which airs Eissa and Adeeb’s shows -- didn’t
examine conflicting accounts of what provoked the shooting, the
deadliest incident since the removal of Mursi. Instead, they
endorsed the army’s account and blamed unrest on the Muslim
Brotherhood, from which Mursi hails.  Pro-Mursi protesters in Cairo have been carrying photos of
anchors they deem hostile to the Brotherhood, who they say are
fomenting social tensions. At a rally last week, speakers
slammed “the lying secular media.” Today, Mursi supporters
were planning to march to the Egyptian Media Production City in
Cairo to protest at what they called misleading media coverage.  Not that the Muslim Brotherhood has fared any better.
“Pro-Mursi media have used an anti-sectarian message and hate
speech to help rally support, while calling opposition members
pagans, Christians and infidels,” Eid said.  ‘Very Poor’  “The media is definitely playing a big role in how
audiences understand what is happening, some news anchors are
even more influential than political leaders,” said  Fatima El-Issawi , who leads a London School of Economics research project
titled Arab Revolutions: Media Revolutions.  There were hopes the removal of President  Hosni Mubarak  in
2011 would lead to the creation of an independent, impartial
media in Egypt, El-Issawi said. Instead, nothing changed.  “This was the first real challenge for national media and
the result is very poor,” she said in an interview. “We
wouldn’t expect it to be inclusive, 100 percent balanced or give
the same timing to different parties, but it has become a
propagandistic media; it is very alarming.”  Base Shootings  The rift inside Egypt is mirrored in broadcasters abroad.  After the Republican Guards shooting, Qatar-based Al
Jazeera interviewed Brotherhood members who said the attack was
unprovoked, while  Al Arabiya , which is owned by Saudi Arabia,
showed images it said indicated armed Islamists had fired on
government troops. Qatar gave $8 billion to Mursi’s government
and  Saudi Arabia  pledged $5 billion just after his ouster.  At least three Islamist channels supporting Mursi -- Misr
25, al-Naas and al-Hafez TV -- were suspended after his removal,
accused of inciting violence. Al-Jazeera’s local Mubasher
channel was raided by security forces, and during a military
news conference last week, anti-Mursi journalists demanded its
reporters be forced out of the event. Chants of “Out! Out!”
accompanied them as they left.  Even, so a number of journalists are drawing lessons from
the portrayal of Egypt’s latest revolt.  “We were reporting the Muslim Brotherhood account as if it
was the plain truth,” said Fatma Nabil, who in September 2012
became the first woman to appear on Egyptian state TV in a
hijab, or Islamic veil, and recently resigned from  Al Jazeera .
“After events at the Republican Guards headquarters, I realized
I could no longer be part of such one-sided coverage.”  From across the media divide, Lilian Daoud, host of the
Soura Al-Kamla talk show on  ONtv , is also speaking out.  “Now that most of the channels supporting Mursi are
silenced, I feel I have the responsibility more than at any
other time to give space to the other side,” Daoud said. “We
don’t want to switch from religious fascism to military and
social fascism backed and fueled by media.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  