-- Telecom Italia Goes Back to Square One With Spinoff Stalled
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-07-16T12:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/telecom-italia-puts-grid-spinoff-on-hold-after-regulator-ruling.html
Two months ago,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) 
Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe had a plan to revive the
phone company. He started an in-depth review of a wireless
merger with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and the board approved a
proposal to spin off the fixed-line business.  Much of that has unraveled within the past two weeks. The
proposed combination with Hutchison’s 3 Italia unit has ended
amid disagreements over price and antitrust concerns. Late
yesterday, Telecom Italia said a decision by the country’s
communications regulator last week to cut access fees to the
Milan-based carrier’s network has stalled the spinoff plan by
affecting its feasibility.  Halting the creation of a new company, with assets valued
at 14 billion euros ($18 billion) and as many as 20,000 workers,
may be negotiating tactics to win regulatory reprieve, said
Andrea Rangone, a professor of business strategy at the
Politecnico University of Milan. Yet, the setback -- shortly
after the botched linkup with Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison -- may shift investors’ focus back to a stock
that is trading at the lowest level in almost 16 years and a
company whose net debt is triple its market value.  “Telecom Italia’s heavy debt load, already teetering on
the edge of a downgrade to junk, may be pushed over the edge”
after its second-quarter earnings report,  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London , wrote in a report
entitled “Telecom Italia: How Much Worse Can It Get? Worse”
published yesterday before Telecom Italia announced putting the
spinoff plan on hold. The company reports earnings Aug. 1.  ‘More Ambitious’  Telecom Italia shares fell as much as 4.1 percent to 48.3
cents, the lowest level since July 1997, and traded 3 percent
lower as of 2:38 p.m. in Milan. The stock dropped 4.7 percent on
July 12, the day after the Agcom authority cut the price Telecom
Italia rivals must pay to rent so-called “last-mile” access to
its copper network by 6.5 percent.  “A bigger crisis -- more writedowns, a canceled dividend
and a  ratings downgrade  -- are probably necessary before Telecom
Italia does something more drastic,” Bernstein’s Bienenstock
wrote in the report.  Bernabe told a parliamentary panel in  Rome  today the
carrier isn’t taking a step back on the spinoff project, though
it needs to verify the regulatory position. Bernabe called the
proposed grid separation “more ambitious” than one carried out
by  BT Group Plc. (BT/A)  In 2005, the former U.K. phone monopoly created
the Openreach unit to provide competitors with access to its
lines into homes and businesses under an agreement with the
regulator.  Rivals ‘Surprised’  In a joint statement, rivals  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  VimpelCom
Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA division and  Swisscom AG (SCMN) ’s
Fastweb unit said they are “surprised” that Telecom Italia’s
board had decided to condition its spinoff plan to the
regulatory framework.  Franco Lombardi, the head of minority shareholder group
Asati, said in a letter to the board yesterday that the stock’s
slump “makes Telecom Italia easy prey for non-European
operators at a cheap price.”  Telecom Italia was betting on using the spinoff to win
lighter regulatory scrutiny, allowing the carrier to focus on
faster-growing services such as  data and wireless . While phone
companies have tried separating fixed-line businesses before,
fully carving out an access network -- considered strategic by
many governments -- would be unseen among European carriers.  As part of the separation proposal, Telecom Italia was in
talks to sell a stake in the new company to state-owned lender
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti.  Revenue Impact  While Telecom Italia said the effect of the July 11 Agcom
ruling would be equivalent to about 110 million euros in annual
revenue -- Telecom Italia reported almost 30 billion euros in
2012  sales  -- the decision was significant because it’s the
first major ruling since the carrier decided to proceed with the
spinoff. Telecom Italia has argued that a separation of the
assets would help it bargain for lighter regulations.  An eventual sale of a stake in a new company from the
spinoff would bring proceeds to help pare Telecom Italia’s net
debt, which stood at 28.8 billion euros at the end of March.
Moody’s Investors Service rates Telecom Italia debt Baa3, the
lowest investment grade, with a negative outlook.  “Telecom Italia´s rating remains weakly positioned as
reflected in the negative outlook and is amongst the most
vulnerable in  Europe ’s telecom´s sector,” Carlos Winzer, a
senior vice president at Moody’s, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  