-- England Hangs in to Beat Australia by 14 Runs in Ashes Opener
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-07-15T00:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/england-hangs-in-to-beat-australia-by-14-runs-in-ashes-opener.html
James Anderson ’s 10th wicket of the
match gave England a 14-run victory against Australia in a
tension-filled finale to their Ashes cricket series opener.  With Australia needing another 137 runs to win on the final
day, Anderson removed three batsmen before the last pair of  Brad Haddin  and  James Pattinson  took the touring team to the brink of
victory with a 65-run stand at  Trent Bridge  in Nottingham.
Anderson sent down the match-winning delivery when he had Haddin
caught behind for 71 with the aid of a successful review.  “We just hung in there,” England captain  Alastair Cook 
said at the post-match ceremony. “Jimmy was outstanding. He
swings it both ways on an immaculate length and makes it very
hard to score.”  England ’s first victory in an Ashes opener since 1997 had
echoes of the home team’s two-run win against Australia in 2005
at Edgbaston and put it 1-0 up in the best-of-five contest. The
second Test starts July 18 at Lord’s in  London .  Anderson, who was named man of the match after completing
match figures of 10-158, took England closer to victory
yesterday morning by taking three wickets for six runs during a
13-over burst that straddled the old and new balls.  “We needed someone to stand up and I went to sleep last
night thinking I wanted it to be me and just dreaming about
trying to take those last four wickets,” Anderson said in
comments on the England and Wales Cricket Board’s website.
“They batted really well all day, but we were just delighted to
get over the line in the end.”  Cook’s Catches  Australia resumed on 174-6 yesterday chasing 311 for the
victory. Ashton Agar and Haddin batted for the first hour before
Agar, who made 98 in the first innings on his Test debut, was
caught by Cook off Anderson for 14, leaving the score on 207-7.  Two overs later, Anderson and Cook again combined to
dismiss Mitchell Starc. Although Cook dropped a chance off  Peter Siddle , the England captain soon made amends by diving to his
right to catch an edge from the same batsman, again off the
bowling of Anderson.  With England needing one more wicket and leading by 80
runs, Haddin and Pattinson counterattacked with a 50-run stand
off 46 deliveries to give Australia the chance of an unlikely
victory. The tourists had been set what would have been a record
fourth-innings total to win a Test at Trent Bridge after Ian Bell top scored with 109 in England’s second-innings 375.  Haddin survived a run-out chance when Jonny Bairstow missed
the stumps and had another let off when  Steven Finn  botched a
catching chance near the boundary from his sweep shot.  Australia  reached 291-9 at the lunch break, 20 runs away
from victory. They’d added five more runs to the total when
Anderson got the decisive wicket of Haddin.  Successful Review  Umpire Aleem Dar declined to raise his finger after England
appealed for a catch behind to wicketkeeper Matt Prior and Cook
sent for a video review of the decision. The Hot Spot television
technology and pitch microphone revealed a fine edge off
Haddin’s bat, sparking celebrations among the England players.  The wicket also consigned Australia, which was swept 4-0 by
 India  in March and changed its coach three weeks ago, to five
straight Test defeats for the first time since 1984, when it
lost six in row to West Indies.  Australia captain  Michael Clarke  said going so close in the
opening match shows his team has the ability to bounce back
against England.  “We feel we were so close to winning this Test,” Clarke
said. “The guys are full of energy and we want to have success
on this tour. I can guarantee they’ll be counting down the next
four days to start the second Test.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  