-- Merkel’s Unseen Power Beate Baumann Misses No Chancellor Details
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-07-15T06:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/merkel-s-unseen-power-beate-baumann-misses-no-chancellor-details.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is
counting on one of her most reclusive and longest-serving aides
to help her win re-election in September.  In two decades at Merkel’s side as the former East German
scientist rose to the top, Beate Baumann, 49, has amassed
influence that belies her title of the chancellor’s office
manager, acting as policy adviser, speech-writer, coalition
negotiator and gatekeeper, according to four people who have
worked with her. That makes Baumann, a teacher of English and
German by training who shuns public appearances and interviews,
the most influential aide at the Chancellery in Berlin as Merkel
seeks a third term in Sept. 22 elections.  Merkel’s reliance on her confidante has helped shape German
policy from the cautious response to the euro-area debt crisis,
which forced both women into a crash course on the financial
markets, to the chancellor’s decision to avoid military action
in  Libya . Baumann’s overriding mission is to ensure that
Merkel’s decisions sell with German voters, said two people
familiar with Merkel’s decisions who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the deliberations are private.  Kajo Wasserhoevel, a former  Social Democratic Party 
official, said he experienced the extent of Baumann’s power when
she showed up to negotiate the first-term coalition of Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats  with his party in 2005. “Baumann had
Merkel’s power of attorney,” Wasserhoevel said in an interview.  She’s “detail-oriented, reliable and keeps things
confidential,” said Wasserhoevel, who had managed the SPD’s
election campaign. “She always had an eye on everything.” Her
job includes “observing the political landscape and heading off
threats early,” he said.  Eyes, Ears  As Merkel’s eyes and ears, Baumann has deeper ties with the
chancellor than her top policy advisers and press secretary,
according to two people who know both of them. She molds the
chancellor’s public message, edits her speeches and critiques
her media interviews, said a Chancellery official who spoke on
condition of anonymity. The two women retreat once a year to
brainstorm at Dierhagen, a Baltic beach resort in Merkel’s
electoral district.  Otherwise, Baumann is said to travel rarely and joins
Merkel only on trips deemed critical. That includes her visit to
 Athens  last October, Merkel’s first trip to  Greece  during the
euro crisis in a show of support for the country after three
years of debt turmoil, austerity and soaring unemployment.
Baumann also went with Merkel to  Israel  in 2008 for the
chancellor’s  speech  to the Knesset, the official said. Merkel’s
foreign-policy and economic advisers travel with her to all
international summits.  ‘Most Important’  “Baumann is certainly one of the least known and most
important people in the Berlin political landscape,” Richard Hilmer, head of pollster Infratest Dimap, said in an interview.  The two women’s bond goes back to the early 1990s, when
then-Chancellor  Helmut Kohl  brought Merkel into his first
Cabinet after the  Berlin Wall  fell and East and  West Germany 
reunited in 1990.  Merkel had grown up under communism and worked in an East
Berlin physics lab before being named deputy spokeswoman of East
 Germany ’s first and last democratically elected government. Now
she was looking for aides she could trust in the post of women’s
affairs minister that Kohl created for her.  Baumann, born in 1963 in the western city of  Osnabrueck 
near the Dutch border, joined Kohl’s  Christian Democratic Union 
as a student because she supported the stationing of U.S.
ballistic missiles in Germany that provoked protests in the
early 1980s, an official who works with Baumann said. Like
Merkel, she was an outsider to Bonn, then still Germany’s
political capital. When Baumann was brought to Merkel’s
attention, the Cabinet novice hired her to run her office.  Tears Breakdown  Merkel came to rely on Baumann for more than her
appointments. As environment minister in 1995, a frustrated
Merkel broke down in tears during negotiations at a United
Nations global-warming conference in Berlin, according to her
late biographer Gerd Langguth. In front of the assembled German
delegation, Baumann told Merkel to pull herself together,
Langguth wrote. She went back and won over global delegates,
producing a deal she still ranks as one of her proudest moments.  The relationship was cemented when Kohl was engulfed in a
party financing scandal, clearing the way for Merkel to become
CDU head in 2000. Baumann helped Merkel navigate the party’s
crisis and was there when Merkel drafted a daring  opinion piece 
for the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper in December
1999 that called for the CDU to break with Kohl, the architect
of German reunification.  Criticize Merkel  Baumann has “a huge significance” for Merkel and her rise
to power, Laurenz Meyer, a former CDU general secretary, said in
an interview. Though nine years younger than her boss, she
remains the only aide who dares to criticize Merkel to her face,
said two people who have worked with both of them.  The euro-area debt crisis that erupted in Greece in 2009
put Merkel on the spot as other countries pressed a reluctant
Germany to approve sovereign bailouts and keep the currency
union whole. Baumann supported a “step by step” solution to
the crisis, the Chancellery official says. The phrase remains a
staple of Merkel’s speeches, signaling her rejection of joint
euro-area debt and insistence on boosting competitiveness in the
rest of  Europe .  True to Merkel’s style, Baumann steers clear of symbols of
power. She usually comes to work at the glass-and-concrete
Chancellery near the  Brandenburg Gate  in a gray Volkswagen Golf
compact and heads to the 8:30 a.m. morning meeting, joining
other key Merkel aides such as Steffen Seibert, the government’s
chief spokesman, Ronald Pofalla, Merkel’s chief of staff, and
top CDU party leaders, according to the Chancellery official.
Her seventh-floor office is three doors down from Merkel’s and
overlooks the Tiergarten park, a former hunting ground of
Prussia’s rulers that abuts where the Berlin Wall used to stand.  Not Infallible  Baumann isn’t infallible. When she suggested that Merkel
ask former Bundesbank chief Hans Tietmeyer to head a  task force 
on financial-market regulation in 2008, the  Social Democrats ,
then allied with Merkel, shot down the proposal. The SPD cited
Tietmeyer’s board seat at Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, the
Munich-based lender that was taken over by the government in
2009, according to a former CDU official who spoke on condition
of anonymity. Merkel instead chose  Otmar Issing , the former
European Central Bank chief economist.  While other CDU members criticize Baumann’s role only
privately, Gertrud Hoehler, a former adviser to Kohl and author
of a book portraying Merkel as the “godmother” of an
“authoritarian system,” views the chancellor’s most-trusted
aide as part of that power structure. “Beate Baumann takes the
fight to anyone who she believes can hurt to her boss,” Hoehler
said in an interview.  Euro Crisis  With elections less than three months away, Germans back
Merkel’s response to the euro crisis, making her Germany’s most
popular politician and the election front-runner, though  polls 
suggest she may not be able to extend her alliance with the Free
Democrats, her preferred junior coalition partner.  As Merkel gears up for a six-rally tour along the North
German seaside on July 19 and 22, Baumann, as a civil servant,
has no official campaign role. Even so, she will keep a watchful
eye in the background on everything from Merkel’s public
appearances to her campaign posters.  Carl Graf von Hohenthal, a partner at public relations firm
Brunswick Group in Berlin, witnessed the relationship when he
attended a dinner with Merkel and Baumann.  “She brought Baumann with her, we said ‘hello’ and then
Baumann sat down with us and didn’t say another word for the
entire meal,” he said in an interview. “Merkel doesn’t
tolerate people who come on strong, but make no mistake: Baumann
has a lot of power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  