-- Erotic Novel -- in Verse! -- is David Rakoff’s Legacy
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-07-15T12:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/erotic-novel-in-verse-is-david-rakoff-s-legacy.html
When he died last August, David
Rakoff, the wicked comic essayist and fixture on public radio’s
“ This American Life ,” left behind a novel-in-stories with a
long title -- “ Love, Dishonor, Marry, Die, Cherish, Perish ” --
and a peculiar form: rhymed couplets.  The verse is frankly doggerel, which is part of what makes
it so piercing: It sneaks up on you. To call tales this
delicately laced together a novel may be stretching it, but the
theme of time binds them so firmly that the word seems just. The
structure is loose, but it isn’t random.  The setting moves from slaughterhouse to penthouse, and the
rotating cast, each of its members fully alive, includes a
drunken brute, a raped child, a disconsolate caretaker, her
slutty son, a discarded mistress, a stonehearted social climber,
the good man she betrays and the good man she marries: the full
range of social class and character.  Rakoff was doubtless inspired by his friend Maggie
Robbins’s scintillating 2005 novel in doggerel, “ Suzy Zeus Gets
Organized ,” and probably a little bit as well by  Dr. Seuss .  Robbins is a more sophisticated versifier and a wittier
rhymer. Rakoff’s rhythms galumph -- sometimes they trip and go
splat -- leading you to wonder whether he was writing fast
because he knew his time was short. He succumbed to cancer at
the unacceptable age of 47.  San Francisco  And so he must have felt a pang of kinship when he gave one
of his characters, a gay man named Clifford, an early case of
AIDS. Rakoff was gay, too, and he has a wonderful time sending
Clifford, a Southern California native, into the orgy of  San
Francisco  before the epidemic:  You can feel Rakoff tingle at his own venom when Clifford
lets a homophobic homemaker have it:  “Love, Dishonor” contains 11 stories in all, moving from
about a century ago almost all the way to now. The earlier ones
have more amplitude; as the book goes on the tales grow shorter
and more elliptical, leading you to wonder, again, whether
Rakoff sped up because he was running out of time.  The main argument against this hypothesis is that the late
tales are no less powerful than the early ones. Rakoff’s humor
was always shot through with the same melancholy that hooded his
basset-hound eyes, but in this book the passage of time has a
special sadness.  The cleverly Proustian plot uses a photograph of a half-nude girl as its madeleine -- a madeleine that, as it gets
passed from hand to hand over the decades, has less and less
meaning for the characters but more and more for the reader.  We’re all dust, Rakoff seems to be saying, and we won’t be
remembered, although -- never a full pessimist -- maybe some of
our art will.  Even at six vivid verbs, the title doesn’t do justice to
the breadth of this short, acrid, elusive, entrancing book. It’s
motored by acts of viciousness and of startling kindness. But
all of them, good or bad, fade in the end; the only evidence
that remains is that happy-sad photograph.  Doggerel is silly on its face. Behind its face, this novel
is anything but.  “Love, Dishonor, Marry, Die, Cherish, Perish” is
published by Doubleday (113 pages, $26.95). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on French culture,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Robert Heller  on
music and  Patrick Cole  on philanthropy.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 