-- European Stocks Advance as China GDP Matches Forecasts
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-15T16:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/european-stock-index-futures-climb-on-chinese-gdp-report.html
European stocks  climbed to their
highest level in almost six weeks, following the biggest weekly
advance for the region’s equity benchmark in two months, as
Chinese economic growth matched forecasts.  U.K. banks gained after Rightmove Plc doubled its forecast
for the increase in British  house prices  this year. Commerzbank
AG rose 4.7 percent as the lender sold 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) of loans to Wells Fargo & Co. and  Lone Star  Funds.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.4 percent to 297.38 at
the close of trading in London, after earlier advancing as much
as 0.7 percent. The gauge jumped 2.7 percent last week after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  backed sustained
monetary stimulus for the world’s largest economy.  “Equities are the asset class of choice in a world where
more liquidity is being printed no matter what the Fed does,”
Marino Valensise, who oversees about $60 billion as chief
investment officer at Baring Asset Management Ltd., told
Francine Lacqua in an interview on Bloomberg Television in
London.  “There will be volatility, but I don’t expect another
European crisis in the next few months.”  Stocks climbed as a report showed  China ’s  gross domestic
product  expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier. That equaled the  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News
survey and the government’s target rate for 2013. The economy
expanded at a 7.7 percent pace in the first quarter, according
to the National Bureau of Statistics.  Chinese Growth  The country’s Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  signaled on July
12 that the world’s second-biggest economy may expand at a
slower pace this year than the government has targeted.  “It’s very fashionable to be bearish on China nowadays,”
said Baring’s Valensise. “The reality is 7.5 percent is in line
with an earlier target and the five-year plan says 7 percent.
This is an economy which is maturing, so it’s natural and
obvious that the rate of growth will slow down.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 13 of the 18 western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and  France ’s CAC 40
rose 0.6 percent.  Germany ’s DAX climbed 0.3 percent.  Fitch Ratings  lowered France’s credit rating on July 12,
citing concern about the lack of growth and the accumulation of
debt in Europe’s second-largest economy.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc led a  gauge of U.K.
lenders  higher today after Rightmove predicted that asking
prices for British homes will increase 4 percent this year. It
had forecast a gain of 2 percent. The property-website operator
also reported that asking prices rose to a record in July.  RBS Advances  RBS (RBS) , which is owned by the state, jumped 5.1 percent to 320
pence. Lloyds Banking Group Plc, the nation’s biggest mortgage
lender, added 2.5 percent to 69.4 pence, while Barclays Plc
increased 1.2 percent to 309.8 pence.  Commerzbank climbed 4.7 percent to 6.25 euros after Wells
Fargo and Lone Star agreed to set up a consortium to buy the
German lender’s Hypothekenbank Frankfurt real-estate portfolio
in the U.K. The  transaction  will close in the third quarter.  The stock also advanced after Focus magazine reported that
the German government has discussed selling shares in the bank
to UBS AG. A spokeswoman for Germany’s finance ministry said
that there were no current plans to sell the holding.  SEB AB gained 2 percent to 70.75 kronor after  Sweden ’s
fourth-largest bank by market value reported that net income
jumped 28 percent to 3.79 billion kronor ($567 million) in the
second quarter. That beat the  average analyst estimate  of 3.21
billion kronor.  Kuehne & Nagel  Kuehne & Nagel International AG added 2 percent to 112.30
francs after the world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder said
profit increased 6.3 percent to 153 million Swiss francs ($161
million) in the second quarter. That met the  average estimate  in
a Bloomberg survey.  Mediaset SpA (MS)  surged 6.9 percent to 3.44 euros after UBS AG
raised its target price on the broadcaster controlled by former
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to 3.60 euros from 2.40
euros. The brokerage said Mediaset may reveal improved
advertising sales when it posts  first-half results  on August 1.  Man Group Plc slid 4 percent to 88.3 pence after Russian
coal miner Sibanthracite Plc pulled its initial public offering.
The GLG  Emerging Markets  Growth Fund, part of Man Group, had
sought to raise as much as $214 million by selling its 25
percent stake in the IPO. The fund will now try to find another
buyer for the holding, which is its biggest asset, two people
with knowledge of the matter said on July 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  