-- Ex-AIG Chief Greenberg Sues Eliot Spitzer for Defamation
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-15T19:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/ex-aig-chief-greenberg-sues-eliot-spitzer-for-defamation.html
Former  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg sued
Eliot Spitzer, accusing the onetime New York governor of making
false and defamatory statements as part of a campaign to damage
his reputation.  Greenberg, 88, sued Spitzer, 54, who is running for New
York City comptroller, in New York State Supreme Court in Putnam
County on July 12 seeking unspecified damages for statements
Spitzer made last year in the New York Law Journal and on the
CNBC and Current TV cable networks accusing him of fraud.  The statements “are part of a long-standing malicious
campaign by Mr. Spitzer, through the publication of false and
defamatory statements, to discredit Mr. Greenberg and damage Mr.
Greenberg’s reputation and career, while attempting to bolster
Mr. Spitzer’s own reputation and career,” Greenberg said in his
complaint.  The Court of Appeals in  Albany , the state’s highest court,
last month ruled that Greenberg must face a fraud suit Spitzer
brought when he was attorney general in 2005. Greenberg had
argued the suit was fatally flawed by court approval of a
$115 million settlement of a class-action lawsuit that resolved
claims against him and former AIG Chief Financial Officer Howard
Smith.  Eric Schneiderman, who took over the case when he became
attorney general, contends that Greenberg and Smith bear
responsibility for the transaction with General Reinsurance
Corp. in 2000 and 2001 that inflated AIG’s loss reserves by
$500 million.  In a phone interview, Spitzer declined to comment on the
defamation case.  The case is Greenberg v. Spitzer, 1436/2013,  New York  State
Supreme Court, Putnam County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  