-- Ex-FTC Commissioner Appointed to New U.K. Antitrust Committee
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-07-15T14:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/ex-ftc-commissioner-appointed-to-new-u-k-antitrust-committee.html
Bill Kovacic, a former commissioner
at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, was appointed as a non-executive director at the soon-to-be-created antitrust
regulator, the Competition and Markets Authority.  Kovacic and four other non-executive directors were
appointed to the watchdog’s board, the U.K.’s Business
Secretary, Vince Cable, said today in a  statement . The CMA,
which is scheduled to begin operating on April 1, 2014, will
combine the  Competition Commission  and some of the antitrust
functions of the  Office of Fair Trading .  Philip Lowe , the director general for energy at the
European Commission, Carolyn Fairbairn, a non-executive director
for Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Alan Giles, a non-executive
director for the Office of Fair Trading, and Annetje Ottow, head
of the Authority for Consumers and Markets Academy in the
Netherlands, were also named non-executive directors at the CMA.  “An effective competition regime is essential for a strong
economy and to protect consumers,” Cable said in a statement.
“The U.K. regime is already world-class, and is underpinned by
robust enforcement of the law but there is still scope for
improvement.”  David Currie and Alex Chisholm were previously named
chairman and chief executive of the CMA. Three executive
directors are yet to be named. The government is planning a
consultation on the U.K.’s long-term plans for competition.  Last month, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
that the budget of the CMA will be increased by 16 million
pounds ($24 million) in the 2015 to 2016 financial year, the
government said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  