-- Ex-Refco Lawyer Gets Year for Aiding $2.4 Billion Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-15T20:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/ex-refco-lawyer-gets-year-for-aiding-2-4-billion-fraud.html
Joseph Collins , Refco Inc.’s former
outside lawyer, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison for
helping ex-Chief Executive Officer Phillip Bennett and other
company officials defraud investors of $2.4 billion.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska in  Manhattan  today also
imposed two years of supervised release on Collins, who was
convicted at a retrial last year after his 2009 fraud conviction
was reversed. In passing sentence, Preska cited the defendant’s
history of charitable works.  “There’s no doubt that, but for this matter, Mr. Collins
is a certifiable saint,” she said “In this case, a lengthy
prison sentence is not necessary.” She also allowed Collins to
remain free pending appeal.  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005 two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco Inc., as it was known after the
IPO, filed one of the biggest bankruptcies in U.S. history after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  Collins was found guilty in November of one count of
conspiracy and two counts each of  securities fraud ,  wire fraud 
and filing false statements with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. He was acquitted of bank fraud and two
wire-fraud charges.  No Knowledge  Formerly of the Chicago law firm Mayer Brown LLP, Collins
claimed he had no knowledge of the fraud, which he said was set
in motion and concealed by Bennett and senior executives Robert Trosten and Santo Maggio. All three men pleaded guilty. Trosten
and Maggio agreed to cooperate in the case against Collins.
Maggio died last year.  Bennett is serving a 16-year prison sentence while his
former partner, Tone Grant, is serving 10 years. Preska said
that in her view the other men were “Refco insiders” while
Collins hadn’t been directly involved in orchestrating the
scheme or profited from it in any way.  Prosecutors claimed Collins drafted legal documents that
allowed Bennett to deceive investors and helped him transfer
losses to the Bennett-owned firm. Mayer Brown wasn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  Alleged victims of the scheme included Boston-based Thomas
H. Lee Partners, which paid $507 million for a 57 percent stake
in Refco in 2004.  The retrial was granted by a U.S. appeals court after it
found that the judge in the first trial improperly instructed a
deliberating juror outside the presence of Collins’s lawyers.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-01170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  