-- Ex-RP Martin Brokers Farr, Gilmour Charged in Libor Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-07-15T16:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/ex-rp-martin-brokers-farr-gilmour-charged-in-libor-probe.html
Two former RP Martin Holdings Ltd.
employees in  London  today became the first brokers to face
criminal prosecution in the global probe into manipulation of
the London interbank offered rate.  Terry Farr, 41, and James Gilmour, 48, were charged at a
London police station with conspiracy to defraud, the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office said in an e-mailed statement. Farr and
Gilmour, both from Essex, are the second and third suspects to
be charged in the U.K. investigation.  The brokers were arrested in December along with Tom Hayes,
the former UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. trader. Hayes was charged
with eight counts of conspiracy to defraud by the SFO last
month. Hayes, who remains free on bail, is charged with working
with employees at JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc, Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank
AG, as well as Tullett Prebon Plc, ICAP Plc and RP Martin over a
four-year period to manipulate yen Libor rates.  Hayes has also been charged by the U.S. Justice Department,
which is running a parallel criminal investigation. Today’s
charges come just over a year since the SFO said it would open
an investigation, after Barclays Plc was fined 290 million
pounds ($438 million) by U.S. and U.K. regulators.  Unqualified ‘Minnow’  Farr “will place his trust in the court to determine a
just outcome,” his lawyers at Bindmans LLP said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is regrettable that of all the very many
organizations and individuals who may have contributed to the
failings of Libor-setting, the SFO has chosen to charge Mr.
Farr, an unqualified interbank broker who had no responsibility
whatsoever for setting Libor rates, a minnow in a very large
pond, for doing what he believed to be his job.”  Farr and Gilmour are scheduled to appear at a London
criminal court on July 19, the SFO said. Gilmour’s lawyer, Sean
Curran, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Andrew Honnor, a spokesman for RP Martin, a U.K.-based
interdealer broker, declined to comment.  At a hearing earlier this month, a lawyer for the SFO said
the documentation in the case against Hayes was voluminous.  Hayes, who worked in the Tokyo offices of UBS and
Citigroup, tried to manipulate rates “with the intention that
the economic interests of others would be prejudiced and/or to
make personal gain for themselves or another,” the SFO said in
the indictment.  Four of the charges against Hayes cover the period from
Aug. 8, 2006, until Dec. 3, 2009, while he worked at UBS, and
the other four from Dec. 1, 2009 until Sept. 7, 2010, when he
was at Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  