-- Texas Abortion Clinics Need Million-Dollar Fixes to Stay Open
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/texas-abortion-clinics-need-million-dollar-fixes-to-stay-open.html
Requirements for wider hallways,
janitor closets and back-up generators will likely be the
downfall of Amy Hagstrom Miller’s abortion business in  Texas .  Texas lawmakers last week approved a law requiring that
abortion clinics become hospital-like outpatient surgical
centers, with detailed rules for how the buildings are designed.
Owners of the state’s 36 clinics, including five run by Miller,
would need to spend millions of dollars to comply -- adding
features such as showers, single-sex locker rooms and special
airflow systems -- or either relocate or shut down.  “Comments about how abortion providers have enough money
to just build these facilities are bogus,” Miller, 46, said via
e-mail. “Over the past 10 years all we’ve done is grow, and I’m
proud of what we have built. We did our first layoff yesterday
and it was heartbreaking.”  Clinic operators around the state are now forced to
consider whether they can pay the bill. Even if they succeed,
providers face another hurdle under the new law: Their doctors
are required to gain admitting privileges at a nearby hospital.
Clinics’ ability to comply will determine whether women can
obtain legal abortions in the state.  Texas would become the largest and most-populous state to
approve comprehensive clinic regulations once the measure is
signed by Republican Governor  Rick Perry , a supporter. It’s part
of a widening thrust by abortion foes in Republican-led states
to make it harder for women to obtain abortions by cracking down
on providers. Texas already had abortion laws aimed at patients,
such as a mandatory 24-hour waiting period between consulting
with a doctor and undergoing the procedure.  Clinic Requirements  In the past few years, similar structural requirements for
clinics have been blamed for closings in  Virginia  and
 Pennsylvania . North Carolina lawmakers are considering giving
state health officials the power to impose similar rules.  Opponents of the Texas measure, approved after weeks of
debate and protests, said it’s designed to end legal abortion.
Supporters said it improves the quality of care.  “The first goal of this legislation is to increase safety
for women,” said Abby Johnson, legislative director of
Americans United for Life, a Washington-based group that drafts
model anti-abortion legislation for states. “Our second goal is
to reduce the number of abortions. It shouldn’t be that easy to
get an abortion.”  Perry denied that most abortion facilities will close
because of the law during an appearance on  CNN ’s “ State of the
Union ” program yesterday. “History will prove” that assertion
is wrong, he said.  State Standards  Twenty-six states require abortion clinics to meet at least
some structural standards equivalent to those for surgical
centers, according to the New York-based Guttmacher Institute,
which researches and compiles reproductive health data. The
regulations nationally vary widely and in some cases haven’t
been fully implemented.  Texas was already counted among the 26 states because of a
2004 law requiring abortions past 16 weeks be performed in
surgical centers.  Other laws have been challenged in court. In  Kansas ,
structural requirements have been  blocked  since 2011 and are
still in litigation, said Kate Bernyk, a spokeswoman for the
Center for Reproductive Rights, which fights abortion laws in
court.  Advocates of clinic regulations often point to safety
concerns, citing rogue providers like Kermit Gosnell of
Philadelphia, who was convicted of murder in May after a trial
that detailed his unorthodox late-term abortion methods at an
unsanitary facility.  Hallway Impediment  In that case, emergency workers were delayed because the
hallways were too narrow for a stretcher, showing the need for
the requirements, said Kristi Hamrick, a spokeswoman for
Americans United for Life.  Doctors such as Gosnell are the exception, according to
data from Guttmacher, which favors abortion rights. Fewer than
0.3 percent of abortion patients experience a complication that
requires hospitalization, according to data cited by the
organization.  “A wave of laws is now bluntly focused on driving
providers out of business via a thicket of regulations designed
not to benefit patients but, as some of their proponents admit
openly, to make it impossible for many providers to come into
compliance,” said Rachel Benson Gold, director of policy
analysis for Guttmacher, in a report last month. The laws “are
a solution in search of a problem.”  Clinic Providers  While Planned Parenthood is the largest single provider of
abortions in the U.S., most women undergo the procedure at
independent clinics, which function more like local small
businesses. Unable to access the same government grants, tax-exempt donations and political clout, they often have a harder
time affording renovations required by recent state laws.  Most won’t be able to afford the cost, said  Charlotte  Taft,
who runs the Washington-based Abortion Care Network, which
represents independent providers nationally.  Building a new surgical center with four operating rooms
would cost $6 million to $8 million, said Jason Cagle, chief
financial officer for United Surgical Partners International,
which operates 64 centers in Texas, more than any other company.
Abortions aren’t performed at the Addison-based company’s
facilities.  Cost Comparison  “A clinic is much less,” Miller said. “I just bought the
Fort Worth clinic last year for $398,000. It is 4,000 square
feet and in the same city, two miles apart, from where Planned
Parenthood just built their surgical center for $7.5 million.”  In 2004, when Texas required abortions past 16 weeks be
performed in surgical centers, none of the clinics could comply.
Now, six facilities around  San Antonio ,  Dallas  and Houston meet
the standard.  Fewer than 2 percent of the 72,470 Texas women who had
abortions in 2011 were pregnant for more than 16 weeks,
according to the most recent data available from the state
Department of Health and Human Services.  Miller, the chief executive officer of Whole Woman’s
Health, operates a surgical center that performs abortions, in
addition to her five clinics. She has examined the costs of
renovating the buildings she owns and said she doesn’t think
she’ll be able to afford it.  “I hope I can figure out how to beat this or how to comply
with reasonable expenses -- if anyone can I am sure it is Whole
Woman’s Health and my team,” she said. “But this business is
really, really hard.”  Profit Year  Last year, her six Texas facilities combined made a 3.3
percent profit and in 2011 a 6.4 percent loss, she said. She has
140 employees and 24 doctors on her payroll.  Miller began working in abortion care at age 21 -- as a
receptionist at a  Planned Parenthood  in her native  Minnesota  --
and went on to found Whole Woman’s in 2003 in Austin.  She also operates clinics in Baltimore and  Minneapolis , and
has been an outspoken critic of the Texas law. She testified
against it to lawmakers, participated in rallies in recent weeks
at the statehouse in Austin, and opened the doors of her clinics
to the public to argue that altering them is unnecessary.  Miller said it took her six years to find a surgical center
where she could perform abortions, in an office park in San
Antonio across the parking lot of an abortion clinic she runs.
In 2010, she bought the license for the center that previously
housed a pain-management clinic after architects estimated her
cheapest option, to retrofit an existing building, would cost
$1.5 million.  Clinic Contrast  The differences between Miller’s clinics and surgical
center are noticeable.  There are three procedure rooms in the San Antonio clinic
that each hold at most three people -- a doctor, nurse and
patient -- next to a narrow bed, a small sink and supplies such
as gauze and bandages.  At the surgical center, the operating rooms are larger and
resemble a hospital emergency room. There’s equipment to
administer anesthesia and monitor heart rate and  blood pressure .
There are two movable overhead surgical lights. Wider hallways
than in the clinic allow stretchers to pass.  There’s no difference in the number of complications
patients experience at the clinic versus the surgical center,
Miller said. The procedure typically involves removing the
contents of the uterus without requiring cutting or stitches.  The surgical center has had a $400,000 annual loss since it
opened, even though patients who go to that facility pay more
for the procedures. The losses are covered using profit from the
five clinics -- meaning if all of them were surgical centers,
she couldn’t stay in business, she said.  ‘Long Haul’  “But all the same, I am in it for the long haul, for the
true lifting of shame and stigma off of women and sexuality,”
she said. “It will take years. I hope it will happen in my
lifetime.”  Last month, Lauren Banks, 25, a customer-service
representative at a call center, was waiting to consult with a
Whole Woman’s Health doctor about an abortion at the clinic in
San Antonio. She was about 10 weeks pregnant and planned to have
an abortion the next day, after she and her husband decided they
were unable to raise the child. They already have three boys and
would like to become more financially stable, she said.  “The clinic is fine the way it is,” Banks said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  