-- Mexican Peso Rallies on Infrastructure Plan, Eased Fed Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-15T22:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/mexican-peso-rallies-on-infrastructure-plan-eased-fed-concern.html
Mexico ’s peso climbed to a one-month
high as a U.S. retail slowdown eased concern that the Federal
Reserve will curtail stimulus and President Enrique Pena Nieto
announced a $315 billion infrastructure plan.  The currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 12.6672 per U.S.
dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the strongest closing level
since June 13. The peso extended its advance this year to 1.5
percent, the only gain among 16 major dollar counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark peso bonds due in 2024
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.77 percent.  “The more weak data that comes out, the market is going to
speculate that the stimulus will last a little longer,”  Ramon Cordova , a trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico, said in a telephone interview. “It helps high-yielding
currencies like the peso.”  The peso has gained 1.8 percent since July 10, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. needs “highly
accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future.”
Mexico’s currency tumbled 2.6 percent on June 19, when Bernanke
said the U.S. central bank may begin to slow its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases this year and end them in 2014 if
economic growth meets policy makers’ goals.  The peso also advanced today as Pena Nieto said in Mexico
City that the infrastructure plan includes investment by the
government and private companies in energy and about $100
billion in communications and transportation projects such as
new ports and rail lines.  Share Rally  Shares of Empresas ICA SAB, the nation’s biggest
construction company, and Industrias CH SAB, Mexico’s largest
steelmaker, rallied after the announcement.  “It should be very good for the peso, very good for the
stock market,” Luis Estrada, the head of currency and
derivatives trading at Banco Ve Por Mas SA in Mexico City.
“This will help Mexican businesses, especially those in
construction.”  Mexico’s policy makers held the target lending rate at a
record low 4 percent on July 12, saying in their statement that
keeping it unchanged was appropriate as they measure the risks
of a prolonged economic deceleration and new inflationary
pressures. The Fed has maintained its benchmark rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  U.S. retail sales rose 0.4 percent last month, following a
0.5 percent increase in May that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a 0.8 percent advance. Mexico’s northern neighbor is its
biggest trading partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  