-- Tarullo Says Regulators Must Do More on Short-Term Funding
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-15T15:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/fed-s-tarullo-says-regulators-must-do-more-on-short-term-funding.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said U.S. regulators should focus on protections around
banks’ short-term wholesale funding as they finish implementing
reforms prompted by the global financial crisis.  “The big area I think we need to do more on is short-term
funding,” Tarullo, the Fed governor responsible for financial
regulation, said today in Washington at an event sponsored by
Politico’s “Morning Money.”  Tarullo said letting a bank lean heavily on transactions
such as  repurchase agreements  could “make the institution and
the system susceptible to runs” of the kind that toppled Bear
Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Fixing that
vulnerability, which banks still face, is a more important goal
for protecting the financial system than reinstituting the
separation between commercial and investment banking, he said.  In response to a question about efforts by Senators
 Elizabeth Warren  and  John McCain  to revive the  Glass-Steagall
Act , which separated banking functions, Tarullo said the
Depression-era law wouldn’t have prevented the 2008 crisis
because it was more about “short-term, runnable funding.”  Collateralized borrowing in the wholesale markets accounts
for about 36 percent of funding at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to regulatory filings. That compares
with 13 percent at Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp ., where deposits account for a majority of funding.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, both based in New York,
have said secured funding is more stable than before the credit
crisis because they have increased both the duration of their
lending and the number of counterparties from which they borrow.  Binary Status  Financial regulators have done “a good bit” to combat the
notion that some U.S. banks are too big to fail, Tarullo said
today. Bank capital has more than doubled since the crisis, and
new rules seek to keep it high.  Too big to fail isn’t a “binary status” where a bank
either is or isn’t in the category, because the determination is
contingent on what’s going on in the wider financial system at a
given moment, Tarullo said.  “We still do need to do more to get to the point at which
the risks posed by some of these institutions are confined to
what we would think of as manageable proportions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  