-- Deutsche Bank Among Lenders Given Two-Year U.S. Swaps Phase-Out
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-16T13:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/fed-gives-four-banks-two-year-phase-out-for-certain-swaps-trades.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the European
continent’s biggest bank, is among lenders given an extra two
years by the  Federal Reserve  to separate derivatives trading
from U.S. units that get government backing.  The Fed, in letters posted to its website this week, said
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Standard Chartered PLC (STAN) ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  Bank of
Montreal ,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Natixis (KN)  SA
and  Bank of Nova Scotia  must determine whether to halt swaps
activity or move it to properly capitalized affiliates. Under
the Dodd-Frank Act swaps push-out rule, interest-rate and some
credit swaps can still be traded inside the banks.  “The potential impact of granting a 24-month transition
period is less adverse than the potential impact of denying the
transition period,” Robert Frierson, secretary of the Fed board
of governors, wrote in the letters, delaying a deadline that
otherwise required the push-out by today. Forcing the banks to
cut off trades sooner could risk “operational problems and
market disruption,” he wrote.  Dodd-Frank, enacted in 2010, expanded swaps oversight as
U.S. lawmakers sought to make markets less vulnerable after the
2008 credit crisis. The push-out rule, included in the law by
former Senator  Blanche Lincoln , requires that equity, some
commodity and non-cleared credit derivatives be walled off from
bank units with access to  deposit insurance  and the Fed’s
discount window.  The Fed’s letters are almost identical to those the central
bank sent to U.S. companies such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp.   The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency granted the
two-year phase-out period last month to national banks it
oversees, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re based on stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events like changes in the weather or interest rates. Options
and futures are the most common types of derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  