-- Finra Expands Trace, U.K. Ring Fencing, FACTA: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/finra-expands-trace-u-k-ring-fencing-facta-compliance.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the non-governmental regulator of brokerages, is
moving to disclose trade information on additional types of
securitized debt.  Finra’s board has authorized its staff to seek approval
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for the update
to data released through its Trade Reporting and Compliance
Engine, or Trace, according to a  posting  July 11 on its website.
The proposal will cover bonds backed by assets including  car
loans  and student borrowing, Finra said. It won’t extend to
home-loan bonds known as collateralized mortgage obligations.  Finra has been expanding Trace to securitized debt after
the opacity of trading in securities including  home-loan bonds 
without government backing contributed to the 2008 financial
crisis.  The regulator has already started releasing trade-by-trade
information on government-backed mortgage securities and
 aggregated data  on a broader range of securitized debt.  The Trace system started in 2002, providing the first real-time data on most corporate bond trading to anyone with  Internet
access .  Compliance Policy  U.K. Seeks to Tighten Client-Money Rules After Lehman, MF Global  The U.K. markets regulator is seeking to strengthen rules
for protecting ring-fenced client accounts after the financial
collapses of Lehman Brothers International Europe and MF Global
Holdings Ltd. exposed failings in the current framework.  The Financial Conduct Authority said it is seeking input
from the industry on whether to make changes to current rules to
allow client money to be returned faster if a firm is bankrupt.
Client-asset rules apply to about 1,500 banks, brokerages and
other companies in the U.K. which hold more than 100 billion
pounds ($151 billion) of client money, the regulator said in a
 statement  July 12.  “Under the current regime, accuracy is effectively
prioritized, leading to a regime that takes months, and in some
cases years, to return client money,” the regulator said in a
consultation paper.  The agency stepped up enforcement of client-money rules
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
The New York-based bank’s former U.K. unit failed to segregate
billions of dollars of client funds from its own accounts,
leaving creditors with competing claims that resulted in years
of litigation. The issue resurfaced in the administration of MF
Global’s U.K. unit.  The regulator has said that it will overhaul rules on the
treatment of margin assets posted by failed companies for their
derivatives trades. It also proposed that investment companies
could divide up clients’ money into ring-fenced sub-pools, so
not all clients would face the same losses in the event of
insolvency.  Dodd-Frank Overseas Swap Guidance Approved After Europe Deal  The top U.S. derivatives regulator approved final
guidelines allowing greater reliance on overseas rules for
cross-border trades a day after breaking an impasse July 11 with
European authorities on how to oversee the $633 trillion global
swaps market.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, meeting in
 Washington , voted 3-1 to complete guidelines allowing many
cross-border trades to be governed by overseas rules when
they’re comparable to U.S. rules. The document will determine
how dozens of regulations increasing collateral and conduct
standards apply to the trades by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and other banks and  hedge funds .  The agreement was being considered a day after U.S. and
European officials announced last week they had reached a deal
on how to jointly oversee the market. Their agreement broke a
deadlock on the reach of the CFTC’s rules, a source of
controversy among European and Asian regulators.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  was criticized by foreign
officials and banks for overreaching and seeking to apply Dodd-Frank Act regulations too expansively in cross-border trades.
The document makes it less probable that markets will be
fragmented than earlier CFTC proposals would have resulted in,
Mark Wetjen, one of three Democratic commissioners, said in
remarks prepared for the meeting.  The commissioners also approved, by a 3-1 vote, a separate
document phasing in the guidance through the end of the year,
with some of the first requirements taking effect in mid-September.  Compliance Action  FSOC’s Role in Money-Fund Rule Sparks Probe by  House Republicans   House Republican investigators have asked five U.S.
financial regulators to produce records showing the extent to
which their rulemaking has been influenced by the  Financial
Stability Oversight Council .  The House Government Oversight and Reform Committee sent
the request July 10 after obtaining what its members say is
evidence of interference by the FSOC in rulemaking by the
Securities and Exchange Commission last year. Those records show
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and her aides coordinated with
FSOC officials to build support for and write a money-market
mutual funds rule before other SEC commissioners had seen the
proposal.  FSOC is an umbrella group of financial regulators led by
the  Treasury secretary . It was created by the Dodd-Frank Act to
identify and respond to threats to financial stability. The SEC
is an independent agency charged with overseeing  capital
markets .  Judy Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  IRS, Treasury Delay FATCA Tax-Evasion Law by Six Months  The  Internal Revenue Service  is giving overseas banks a
six-month delay to the start of the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act, the Treasury Department said. The law is
designed to curb  tax evasion  by Americans abroad.  The extension of the act, or FATCA, follows a previous one-year delay announced in 2011. The latest extension, to July 1,
2014, will allow foreign banks time to comply with the law
“while helping ensure efficient implementation,” the Treasury
said in a statement July 12.  Financial institutions including  Toronto-Dominion Bank of
Canada  and  Allianz SE (ALV)  of Germany have expressed concerns that
FATCA is too complex.  FATCA, passed by the  U.S. Congress  in 2010, will require
financial institutions based outside the country to obtain and
report information about income and interest payments accrued to
the accounts of American clients. Banks and account holders that
don’t comply would face a withholding tax of as much as 30
percent.  Courts  Texas Money Manager Sued by Regulators Over Forex Fraud Claims  A Texas money manager was sued by U.S. regulators over
claims that he defrauded investors in a foreign-exchange trading
scheme.  Kevin G. White siphoned away about $1.7 million of the $7
million he raised from investors since September 2011 by falsely
claiming his currency trading strategy yielded returns of more
than 393 percent since its inception in January 2009, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a complaint filed at
federal court in Texas July 9 and unsealed late in the day on
July 11.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a parallel
action freezing the assets of White and his firms, KGW Capital
Management LLC, Revelation Forex Fund LP and RFF GP LLC.  The SEC lawsuit was unveiled one day after Commissioner
 Luis Aguilar  faulted the agency for failing to adopt a rule
required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to address abusive sales
practices and risks associated with the retail foreign-exchange
market. The CFTC adopted related rules in 2010.  Both agencies are seeking trading bans, disgorgement of
ill-gotten gains and unspecified financial penalties.  A phone call to Kelly Crawford, the court-appointed
receiver at Scheef & Stone LLP, wasn’t immediately returned. A
phone call to a Plano, Texas, number listed to White wasn’t
answered. The SEC said White had no known defense counsel.  Annaly Directors Sued by Investor Over Management Shift  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  directors were sued by a
shareholder over the real-estate investment trust’s plan to be
managed by a separate firm that would employ its current
executives.  Investor Jeffrey L. Doppelt filed the lawsuit in  New York 
State Supreme Court in Manhattan July 11, accusing the directors
of breaching their fiduciary duties and seeking to rescind the
move.  Investors in New York-based Annaly, the largest REIT that
buys mortgage debt, approved the management shift in May. The
move left Annaly, which ended 2012 with $133.5 billion of
assets, with a management structure similar to rivals.  The plan transferred the company’s entire management
capability to the separate firm “for no consideration,”
according to the complaint. The directors made no effort to
assess the value of that capability, which the company has paid
millions of dollars for in the past, Doppelt said in the filing.  “The externalization permits the manager to engage in
other investment management business by managing the assets of
third parties for a fee,” Doppelt said in the complaint. “This
business of earning investment management fees, a corporate
opportunity belonging to Annaly, has been usurped by Annaly’s
executives.”  Jay Diamond , a spokesman for Annaly, didn’t immediately
return telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
suit.  The case is Doppelt v. Denahan, 652447/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  