-- Fitch Sees Lack of Investment Hampering French Railways
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-15T17:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/fitch-sees-lack-of-investment-hampering-rench-railways.html
France ’s railway network may suffer
from a lack of future investment as the country seeks to reduce
its debt and cut the deficit, said Christophe Parisot, primary
analyst of the national railway operator  SNCF  at  Fitch Ratings .  “The French state spends directly about 10 billion euros
($13 billion) per year in the railway sector,” Parisot said in
a phone interview today. “All of this remains of course
constrained by the need to cut deficits and reduce the debt
burden. State endowments are being pressured, and this
represents a threat for future investments in the railway.”  The network has come under scrutiny after a train crash
that killed six people near Paris three days ago showed the
deterioration of some moderate-speed train lines, spurring a
debate about a lack of network maintenance as France faces
ballooning levels of public debt.  “We need to do much more for the maintenance of regular
rail lines,” President  Francois Hollande  said in an interview
broadcast live on TF1 and France 2 yesterday. The accident was
caused by an “equipment breakdown,” Hollande said. “The first
conclusion is that we must favor regular railway lines” in
coming years, he said.  Hollande’s comments come five days after the French
government said it would slow the development of high-speed
train lines to upgrade intercity connections.  Track Connection  The technical glitch that caused the July 12 crash involved
a 10-kilogram (22-pound) piece of metal linking two connecting
tracks, which “broke away,” said Guillaume Pepy, chairman of
SNCF, adding that technical and judicial investigations will
focus on the malfunction.  The crash marked the country’s worst rail accident since
2002. Sixty-two people were injured,  Agence France-Presse 
reported, citing the prefecture of Essonne, the local government
authority.  “This catastrophe took place on a railway that was
qualified as ‘sick’ in 2011 by Pepy himself,” said Willy Colin,
spokesman for the French association of railway users, or Avuc,
in an interview with AFP on July 12. “What happened since then
in terms of maintenance? The oldest trains of the fleet, the
most vulnerable are running on these rails.”  The train, headed to Limoges from Paris, left the tracks at
5:14 p.m. on July 12 at Bretigny-sur-Orge, about 28 kilometers
(17 miles) south of Paris, with 385 passengers on board, SNCF
said. It was traveling at 137 kilometers per hour when the
accident took place, Jacques Rapoport, chairman of RFF, the
owner of France’s rail network, told reporters.  Paris-Austerlitz  All trains traveling to and from Paris-Austerlitz station
were canceled until further notice, SNCF said on Twitter on July
13. Traffic on the RER C regional line will be “very  disturbed
in the coming days” as well as services going to the center and
southeast of France from the station, SNCF said today in an e-mailed statement.  The crash came six days after a train operated by Montreal,
Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. jumped the tracks at Lac-Megantic,
 Quebec . The runaway train, which was hauling 72 cars of crude
oil, exploded, killing as many as 50 people.  In October 2006, a passenger train from Luxembourg and a
French freight train collided in the Lorraine region of
northeastern France, killing five people and injuring 20. In
November 2002, a fire on a passenger train traveling from Paris
to Munich killed 12 passengers and injured another 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  