-- Gallup to Pay $10.5 Million to Settle U.S. Contract Claim
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-07-15T16:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/gallup-to-pay-10-5-million-to-settle-u-s-contract-claim.html
Gallup Organization agreed to pay
$10.5 million to settle U.S. claims that it inflated contract
prices and engaged in prohibited employment negotiations with a
government official, the  Justice Department  said.  Gallup knowingly overstated costs in contract proposals to
the  U.S. Mint  and the State Department that were to be awarded
without competition, according to U.S. allegations in a  False
Claims Act  suit against the polling and market-research firm.
The company also improperly discussed employment with a then-Federal Emergency Management Agency official, Timothy Cannon, to
obtain a FEMA subcontract at an inflated price, the government
alleged.  “This case exposed a cozy arrangement between a contractor
and government employee where nobody was looking out for the
American taxpayer,” Ronald Machen Jr., U.S. Attorney for the
District of Columbia, said today in a statement.  Alena Naff, a spokeswoman for Gallup, said in an e-mail,
“By ending this civil action with no admission of wrongdoing,
Gallup can avoid further distraction and focus on serving its
customers.”  Cannon in April agreed to pay $40,000 to resolve
allegations that he tried to get a job with Gallup while
overseeing its FEMA subcontract. He was sentenced to probation
in a related criminal case.  The allegations against Gallup were originally brought
under the whistle-blower provisions of the False Claims Act by
Michael Lindley, Gallup’s former director of client services.  Lindley will receive $1.9 million as his share of the
government’s recovery.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Lindley v. Gallup Organization,
09-cv-01985, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  