-- German Anti-Euro Party Widens Policy Platform to Win Support
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-15T15:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/german-anti-euro-party-widens-policy-platform-to-win-support-1-.html
Germany ’s anti-euro Alternative for
Germany party is broadening its policy platform beyond the
fallout from the debt crisis as it seeks to surmount the 5
percent support level it needs to enter parliament this fall.  While continuing to focus its campaign for the Sept. 22
elections on the crisis and its ramifications for voters in
Europe’s biggest economy, the AfD, as the party is known in
German, today unveiled energy, health and defense policies.  The AfD has attracted more than 15,000 members since it was
founded in April amid concerns that  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
euro-rescue policies were placing too great a burden on German
taxpayers. Subsequent calm in European debt markets has shifted
the election debate away from the crisis and placed pressure on
the AfD to widen its offerings in other areas.  “We believe that we’re very close to the 5 percent
hurdle,” AfD chairman Bernd Lucke said at a press conference in
Berlin. Even so, voter awareness that the party exists is “not
yet satisfactory,” he said.  Most  polling companies  say between 1 percent and 3 percent
of voters back the AfD. Allensbach, the company that most
accurately predicted the 2009 election outcome, had the party
edging up 0.5 percentage point to 3.5 percent support in a July
12 survey.  Campaign Topic  “The concerns of citizens can clearly be felt,” said
Lucke, an economics professor at Hamburg University. “This
theme will be our main topic on the streets and town squares”
as the party gears up for election day, he said.  Italian and Spanish government bonds were little changed
today, a sign that investors may be willing to tolerate
political unrest in  Europe ’s most-indebted nations. Portuguese
10-year bonds trimmed a three-day decline that was sparked
partly by concern the country’s government could collapse amid
disagreement over austerity.  Southern European countries can’t cope with the competitive
pressure exerted by the euro and are suffering because they
can’t devalue the 17-nation single currency, Lucke said May 16
in a Bloomberg Television interview. Countries such as Spain,
Greece and Cyprus should quit the common currency to return to
economic health, he said.  While short of a comprehensive program, the party has
created committees to fill gaps in its platform outside its main
area of competence, Lucke said today he said. The AfD will
compete in the federal election in all of Germany’s 16 states,
he said.  Germany’s growing reliance on renewable energy under Merkel
has led to surging costs for consumers and risks scaring away
power-hungry industries, the AfD says in a paper drawn up by its
energy-policy committee. Renewable energy subsidies should come
from overall  tax revenue  instead of consumers’ electricity
bills, it says.  The party is also drawing up plans to overhaul Germany’s
dual health-insurance system, reorganize military procurement
and review Germany’s foreign military operations outside the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization area, Lucke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  