-- German Stocks Gain as Commerzbank Advances on Loan Sale
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-07-15T15:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/german-stocks-gain-for-a-sixth-day-on-china-gdp-data.html
German stocks  rose to a five-week
high as investors weighed U.S. data for signals on the health of
the world’s largest economy.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  advanced 4.7 percent after selling 5 billion
euros ($6.5 billion) of commercial real estate loans in the U.K.
at a discount of 3.5 percent.  Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  climbed 1.1 percent
after Bild am Sonntag reported that Qatar plans to buy 118
Leopard tanks. Fresenius SE increased after Jefferies Group LLC
raised its rating of the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.3 percent to 8,234.81, its highest
level since June 10. The gauge rallied 5.2 percent last week,
its biggest jump in 19 months. The measure has climbed 7.1
percent from a low on June 24 as central banks signaled they
won’t withdraw stimulus measures anytime soon. The broader HDAX
Index also added 0.3 percent today.  “Investors are content with bidding equities higher as
current economic data comes in close to expectations and the
assurance that asset-price supporting policy around the world
remains,” Daniel Weston, a portfolio manager at Aimed Capital
Management LLC in Munich, wrote in an e-mail.  In the U.S., data showed manufacturing in the  New York 
region expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months.The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index
climbed to 9.46 this month. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut . The median projection in a Bloomberg survey of 50
economists called for a reading of 5.  Another released showed retail sales rose 0.4 percent in
June after increasing 0.5 percent the previous month, a report
in  Washington  showed today. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
predicted a gain of 0.8 percent.  Chinese Economy  China ’s second-quarter  gross domestic product  rose 7.5
percent from a year earlier, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics in Beijing. That equaled the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. The economy expanded at a 7.7 percent
pace in the first quarter.  Commerzbank gained 4.7 percent to 6.25 euros. Germany’s
second-biggest lender sold the commercial property loans and
operations of its unit Hypothekenbank Frankfurt in Britain to
Wells Fargo & Co. and Lone Star Funds. The lender described the
discount as “low.”  Rheinmetall, the German maker of weapons for the Leopard 2
tank, added 1.1 percent to 36.62 euros. Bild am Sonntag also
said  Saudi Arabia  is interested in buying 800 Leopard tanks.  Praktiker AG jumped 34 percent to 18.9 euro cents after
Bild reported after the markets closed on July 12 that Isabelle
De Krassny and other investors offered to buy out Praktiker’s
bank debt. The German home-improvement chain formerly owned by
Metro AG, slumped 71 percent last week as it filed for
insolvency after the sale of a division collapsed.  Fresenius SE advanced 1.1 percent to 97.93 euros. Jefferies
raised its recommendation for the health-care company to buy
from hold.  Daimler AG led automakers in  Europe  lower, falling 1.8
percent to 51.40 euros. Continental AG, Europe’s second-biggest
car-parts maker, slid 1.7 percent to 109.8 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  