-- Portuguese Bonds Advance With Spain as Investors Bear Turmoil
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-15T15:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/germany-s-bonds-little-changed-before-dutch-french-bill-sales.html
Portuguese 10-year government bonds
rose for the first time in four days amid signs that investors
are willing to tolerate political unrest in  Europe ’s most-indebted nations.  Spanish securities rose for a second day, while Italian
bonds snapped a four-day decline.  France ’s bonds fell as  Fitch
Ratings  cut the country’s top  credit rating  last week, citing a
 lack of growth . German 10-year bund yields were about three
basis points from the lowest in almost a month as the
Netherlands and France auctioned treasury bills.  “There’s some stabilization,” said Owen Callan, an
analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “After a good bit of
weakness in  Spain ,  Italy  and  Portugal  last week we’re seeing a
bit of a recovery. People are taking a more measured approach to
how they trade them this week.”  The Portuguese 10-year yield dropped 21 basis points, or
0.21 percentage point, to 7.30 percent at 4:18 p.m. London time,
after jumping by 78 basis points in the three days through July
12. The 4.95 percent security due in October 2023 gained 1.32 or
13.20 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,305) face amount, to 83.41.  Portugal’s President Anibal Cavaco Silva said last week
that early elections would be undesirable and urged the ruling
coalition parties and the main opposition to reach a “national
salvation” pact allowing the country to complete its
international aid program.  Portugal requested a 78 billion-euro bailout from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  in April 2011
following a surge in debt levels and borrowing costs.  Spanish Allegations  Spain’s Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro last week
defended  Mariano Rajoy  as a wave of allegations about the prime
minister’s finances fueled concerns about corruption in Spain.  El Mundo newspaper reignited the debate over payments to
officials from Rajoy’s  People’s Party  when it published
photographs of a handwritten ledger which it said showed illegal
payments to Rajoy between 1997 and 1999.  Rajoy “is a very honorable politician, honest and
committed to the general interest of Spain,” Montoro said July
10 in televised remarks to reporters. “That’s what matters.”  Spanish 10-year yields were five basis points lower at 4.73
percent while rates on similar-maturity Italian bonds dropped
two basis points to 4.47 percent.  France was cut by one step to AA+ from AAA, Fitch said on
July 12, joining Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
in removing the country from the shrinking club of top-rated
governments. The outlook is stable.  French Yields  French 10-year yields rose two basis points to 2.21
percent, leaving the extra yield, or  spread , that investors get
for holding the securities instead of German bunds at 63 basis
points after reaching 65.6 basis points, the most since July 4.  Investors often disregard changes in ratings. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and
changes in credit outlook last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg published in December.  Italy had its long-term credit rating lowered to BBB, two
levels above junk, from BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s on July 9,
which cited weakening of economic prospects and an impaired
financial system. Italy’s 10-year yield rose six basis points
last week, the first increase since the period ended June 21.  Gains by the bonds of Europe’s most indebted countries may
be limited amid the region’s recession and as the  European
Central Bank  struggles to boost lending, according to Alessandro Giansanti, a rate strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  ‘Negative Consequences’  “The ECB has failed so far to revitalize the credit
lending in peripheral countries and the negative consequences on
their economies are becoming clear,” Giansanti said.
“Investors which have benefited from the rally in spreads are
keen to take profits on their positions.”  Portuguese securities handed investors a loss of 3 percent
this year through July 12, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Spanish bonds earned 5.3 percent and Italy’s returned
2.2 percent, while German securities dropped 0.8 percent, the
indexes show.  Germany ’s  10-year bund yield  was at 1.57 percent after
dropping to 1.54 percent on July 12, the lowest since June 19.  The Netherlands sold 2.04 billion euros of 106-day bills at
an average yield of minus 0.01 percent. A negative yield means
investors who hold the security until it matures will receive
less than they paid to buy it. The Dutch State Treasury Agency
also allotted 198-day bills at 0.01 percent.  France auctioned 7.8 billion euros of bills maturing
between 84 days and 343 days.  Volatility on Portuguese bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Greece and Finland, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  