-- Four Glaxo China Executives Held in Criminal Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-15T16:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/glaxo-case-part-of-wider-china-probe-on-drugs-market-daily-says.html
China detained four senior
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  executives on suspicion of economic crimes
involving 3 billion  yuan  ($489 million) of spurious travel and
meeting expenses, and receiving sexual favors.  The alleged offenses date to 2007 and involved 700 travel
agencies, Gao Feng, head of the economic crimes investigations
unit of the Public Security Ministry, said at a briefing in
Beijing today. The executives are Chinese nationals, the Xinhua
News Agency said. Glaxo is “deeply concerned and disappointed”
and will stop using agencies identified in the probe, the
company said in a statement.  The Glaxo case is the most high-profile probe into a
foreign company in China since four  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  executives
pleaded guilty in 2010 to receiving 92 million yuan in bribes.
The probe into London-based Glaxo is part of a broader effort to
clean up China’s drug industry, the People’s Daily, the
mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party,  reported  today, citing
an unidentified ministry official.  “There is always a big boss in criminal organizations and
in this case GSK is the big boss,” Gao told reporters. Audio
from the briefing was  uploaded online  by a correspondent for the
 Daily Telegraph . “In order to win the favor of GSK, some travel
agencies don’t just offer money to their executives, but also
sexual bribes.”  ‘Sufficient Evidence’  The Glaxo investigation was announced June 28 when police
in Changsha city, in central China, said senior executives were
being probed on suspicion of economic crimes. The ministry has
been handling the Glaxo case for more than half a year following
police investigations, Gao said.  “We have sufficient evidence to suspect these funds
involved illegal activities,” he said.  The ministry also found clues of money transfers involving
other foreign drugmakers, Gao said, without identifying them.  The detained executives are Liang Hong, vice president and
operations manager of Glaxo China; Zhang Guowei, a human
resources director; Zhao Hongyan, a legal affairs director; and
Huang Hong, a business development manager, Xinhua reported.  The crackdown aims to frighten companies into spurning
bribery and focusing solely on research and on producing cheaper
and better drugs, it said.  Glaxo fell 0.3 percent to close at 1,744.50 pence in London
trading. The stock has returned 34 percent  this year , compared
with a 21 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index.  No Proof  Some Glaxo executives admitted to corruption after Chinese
authorities found evidence of serious commercial bribery and
tax-related crimes, the Public Security Ministry said on its
website on July 11, without identifying the individuals.  They are suspected of trying to increase sales channels and
inflate prices by using avenues such as travel agencies to bribe
government officials, medical associations, hospitals and
doctors, and faking tax receipts, the ministry said on its
website today.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, has repeatedly said it
has found no evidence of bribery or corruption in China, most
recently on July 11, in response to the ministry’s comments.  “We are deeply concerned and disappointed by these serious
allegations of fraudulent behavior and ethical misconduct by
certain individuals at the company and third-party agencies,”
Glaxo said in e-mailed statement today. “Such behavior would be
a clear breach of GSK’s systems, governance procedures, values
and standards. GSK has zero tolerance for any behavior of this
nature.”  Reviewing Relationships  Glaxo will cooperate with the investigation, it said. The
company is reviewing all third-party agency relationships and
reviewing all transactions with travel agencies, Glaxo said.  Executives in  China  worked with Shanghai-based Linjiang
International Travel Agency to falsely inflate budgets meant for
organizing meetings and training in return for cash that could
be used for bribes, according to the People’s Daily report. The
newspaper also cited interviews with local police in Changsha
city and suspects in the case.  The newspaper report cited one of the detained Glaxo
executives describing how he listed some meetings as having more
attendees than were present to increase his allowance. Some
meetings for which he obtained funds never took place, the
report said.  ‘Resolutely Crack Down’  China wants to “resolutely crack down” on commercial
bribery in the sale of medicines because such action boosts drug
costs, increasing the burden on patients, Deng Haihua, a
spokesman at the National Health and Family Planning Commission,
said last week.  The head of Glaxo in China, a British national, left for
the U.K. after the investigations began, and Chinese authorities
have yet to receive information from the drugmaker’s
headquarters in relation to the case, Gao told reporters today.  Mark Reilly , the head of Glaxo’s China pharmaceuticals
business, returned to the U.K. on a routine, planned business
trip and has been working from company headquarters on the
response to the investigation, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the subject. The person
declined to say when or if Reilly will return to China.  “I need to remind foreign pharmaceutical companies that
because they occupy a leading position in the industry and reap
huge amounts of commercial profits, they should also bear a
great responsibility to society and the public,” Gao said.
“While we don’t expect them to set a moral example, we expect
them to obey the law.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  