-- Goldman Buy Rating Spurs Air Arabia to 5-Year High: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-07-15T11:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/goldman-buy-rating-spurs-air-arabia-to-5-year-high-dubai-mover.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  surged to the
highest level in almost five years as volume jumped after
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  upgraded the Middle East’s biggest no-frills carrier to buy.  Shares of the airline jumped 5.1 percent to 1.23 dirhams,
the strongest since October 2008, at the close in Dubai as
volume increased to 122 million shares, 4.9 times the stock’s
three-month daily average. Air Arabia was the biggest gainer in
percentage terms on the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which rose
0.7 percent, taking an eight-day rally to 8.7 percent.  Air Arabia’s stock has advanced 7.9 percent in the two days
since Goldman Sachs raised the shares to buy from neutral with a
price estimate of 1.54 dirhams, a 25 percent premium to today’s
closing price. Nine out of 13 analysts have a buy rating on the
carrier, which is based in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.A.E. and Qatar
were upgraded to emerging-market status last month by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Both the rating upgrade and the MSCI emerging-markets
inclusion spurred the shares today, according to Amer Khan, a
Dubai-based director at Shuaa Asset Management. Dubai’s bid to
host the  World Expo 2020  may be the next catalyst, which “would
bode particularly well for the likes of Air Arabia,” he said.  Dubai plans to double the number of visitors to 20 million
by 2020 and triple annual revenue from the industry to 300
billion dirhams ($82 billion) amid an economic recovery, the
government said in May.  Air Arabia’s first-quarter passenger traffic rose to a
record 1.45 million, the airline said in April. The company said
last month it plans to start flights to the capital of  Armenia 
in August, the fifth new route in 2013 and its 86th globally
from Sharjah,  Egypt  and  Morocco .  The airline may post a 9 percent increase in full-year
profit to 457 million dirhams, according to the mean  estimate  of
eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  