-- Greek Labor Unions to Hold General Strike Over Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-07-15T14:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/greek-labor-unions-to-hold-general-strike-over-state-job-cuts.html
Greek labor unions will hold their
third general strike of the year tomorrow as lawmakers in  Athens 
begin a two-day debate on legislation demanded by creditors that
includes plans to cut thousands of civil-service jobs.  Government services will shut and transport will be
disrupted with protests planned in the capital by public and
private-sector trade unions. The unions have also called for a
rally outside the parliament building on July 17 as the debate
on the bill approaches its climax. Lawmakers are due to carry
out a roll-call vote around midnight.  “The workers continue the struggle to put a final end to
these policies that kill labor and drive the economy to ever
deeper recession,” the Greek General Confederation of Labor,
the country’s largest private-sector union, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We demand a change to the politics of firings,
privatization and divestiture of the public sector.”  The strike is the latest challenge from unions to Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras, whose bill includes provisions to push
through a plan to put 25,000 public employees on notice for
possible dismissal. His government must pass the measures for
the country’s euro-area and International Monetary Fund
creditors to sign off on the latest loan disbursements from
 Greece ’s 240 billion-euro ($313 billion) bailout.  About 4,200 teachers, school janitors and ministry
employees will be placed in a “reallocation program” by the
end of July. They will be joined in September by as many as
8,300 members of the municipal police force under the plan,
which aims to deploy surplus staff to areas with needs.
Employees will have to accept any job offer provided or face
dismissal. Greek schools are shut until September for the summer
vacation.  Samaras’s coalition was shaken last month after the
departure of the Democratic Left Party following the closure of
state broadcaster ERT. Samaras’s New Democracy party must now
rely on its historic rival, the socialist Pasok party. The two
control 155 of the Greek parliament’s 300 seats.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will visit
Athens on July 18, the day after the vote, for the first time
since Greece sparked the euro area’s debt crisis three years
ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  