-- Guardian Joins $1 Billion Bet on Apartments Needing Love
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-15T20:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/guardian-joins-1-billion-bet-on-apartments-needing-love.html
Guardian Life Insurance Co. of
America is backing a venture that plans to assemble a $1 billion
portfolio of apartments in the Western U.S.  Guardian is taking an equity stake in TruAmerica
Multifamily, led by Robert Hart, and will invest alongside other
insurers and pension funds in properties selected by the
venture, said Robert O’Rourke, who oversees Guardian’s real
estate portfolio. The business will target mid-tier properties
in need of renovations in cities including  Los Angeles ,  San
Diego , Seattle and Denver, he said.  “We’re looking to be in class-B assets that need a little
TLC,” O’Rourke said by phone, using an abbreviation for tender
loving care. “We can make some capital investments that would
improve the cash flows, raise the rents.”  Guardian is betting on older buildings in urban areas and
prefers apartments because demand is strong and increasing rents
can provide a hedge against inflation, O’Rourke said.  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  is also investing in apartments as more
Americans avoid owning property, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 69, said in May.  “We do invest in other real estate asset classes, but
there’s a tremendous amount of caution, because we’re concerned
about locking in to long-term leases,” O’Rourke said. “The
opportunity to reset your rates in multifamily every year is a
really nice attribute.”  O’Rourke declined to say how much New York-based Guardian
is investing in TruAmerica. He said levered internal rates of
return are projected to be in the “mid-teens,” and TruAmerica
will invest about $300 million to acquire $1 billion in
multifamily properties.  Guardian currently has about $2 billion in market value of
real estate, and the TruAmerica deal provides the company with a
new way to find properties, O’Rourke said. Guardian had about
$35 billion in  investments  as of Dec. 31.  Hart, CEO of Los Angeles-based TruAmerica, led  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW) ’s multifamily management group from 2000
until June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  