-- Iceland Seeks Second Power Cable Study to Tap European Markets
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-07-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/iceland-seeks-second-power-cable-study-to-tap-european-markets.html
Iceland will order a second study on
building a power cable to  Scotland  after a feasibility report
showed a wide disparity in the profitability of the project.  There’s a “considerable degree of uncertainty” with an
estimated range of 4 billion kronur ($32 million) to 76 billion
kronur in expected annual export revenue, Industry Minister
Ragnheidur Elin Arnadottir said in an interview in Reykjavik.  “A divide that large can’t be used as the basis for a firm
decision, although it makes for a good first step in information
gathering,” she said.  The volcanic island has been considering building a link to
broader European markets to harness its untapped power reserves
and create another export source as it seeks to emerge from its
2008 financial and economic collapse. The link would be the
longest of its kind, stretching a potential 1,170 kilometers
(727 miles).  Iceland may take another step toward the European energy
market by the end of the year and the plan will also need to be
discussed at the Cabinet level and by parliament before any
final decisions are made, according to Arnadottir.  “A decision on the next step will be taken in the coming
weeks, although I’m a little skeptical when it comes to putting
down a timeframe,” she said.  Plugging In  The government estimates that 75 percent of Iceland’s
energy is undeveloped. Hydropower from its glaciers accounts for
about 73 percent of electricity production and the rest is
generated from geothermal sources. About 39 percent of the
available geothermal energy, which taps the earth’s heat, is
used to make electricity.  The island produced 17.2 terawatt-hours of electricity last
year, of which 79 percent went to power three aluminum smelters
and a ferrosilicon smelter. Output could be doubled, or tripled,
depending on whether Iceland exploits environmentally sensitive
areas, the National Energy Authority estimates.  “If Iceland wants to build a 700-megawatt or 1,100-megawatt cable to the U.K. or other European countries, we have
to realize the potential environmental impact such a project may
have,” said Arnadottir. “It’s not just a question of plugging
the cable into the next available socket.”  The U.K.  month-ahead  spot price values 17 terawatt-hours at
794 million pounds ($1.2 billion), according to data available
on Bloomberg. Landsvirkjun, a state-owned utility that produces
75 percent of Iceland’s electricity, estimates it would cost
$300 million to $400 million to build capacity for each extra
terawatt-hour.  Connecting the national grid to  Europe  will have to be done
“slowly and cautiously” and not risk taxpayers money,
according to Arnadottir.  “Constructing a submarine sea cable to the U.K. is a risky
investment of an unprecedented size for Iceland,” she said.
“It’s completely unacceptable to undertake a project of this
magnitude with a guarantee from Icelandic taxpayers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  