-- Microsoft, BSkyB, Orthodox Union: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-15T14:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/microsoft-bskyb-orthodox-union-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. filed a lawsuit July
12 accusing  U.S. Customs  officials of refusing to follow a trade
agency’s order to block imports of phones made by Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility unit.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington
issued the import ban in May 2012 after deciding that Motorola
Mobility devices infringed a Microsoft patent for a way mobile
phones synchronize calendar events with other computers.  U.S. Customs and  Border Protection , after secret meetings
with Google, continued to let the Motorola Mobility phones enter
the country even though Google has done nothing to remove the
feature at the heart of the ITC case, Microsoft said in its
complaint. The case illustrates what  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) 
and Lutron Electronics Co. in May called “increasingly
ineffective and unpredictable enforcement” of import bans
imposed by the trade agency.  Motorola Mobility convinced the agency that the order
didn’t apply to syncing through Google rather than Microsoft
servers, and to give it a grace period to allow changes to take
effect. Both of those requests had previously been rejected by
the ITC, according to Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  The ITC order is in effect until Microsoft’s patent expires
in April 2018. An appeal in the case is scheduled to be heard
Aug. 6 in Washington.  Meetings between Mountain View, California-based Google and
Customs were held in secret in April, with Microsoft not privy
to their existence until after the Customs decision June 24
allowing the continued importation of the phones, according to
Microsoft’s filings asking the court to halt the Motorola
Mobility shipments.  The ITC’s job is to protect U.S. markets from unfair
competition, including infringement of patents or theft of  trade
secrets . It has become a key forum for disputes between
smartphone makers.  Once the import bans are ordered, it’s common for both
patent owners and importers to lobby Customs and neither side is
told what the other is saying for fear of exposing trade
secrets, lawyers involved in ITC cases said in March.  The trade agency is compiling information on how well its
orders are being enforced and President  Barack Obama  last month
called for a review of procedures within the ITC and Customs. In
their joint letter to the ITC, Lexmark and Lutron said the
“current problems with enforcement of orders requires immediate
attention.”  The case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. Department of  Homeland
Security , 13-cv-01063, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Faro, Nikon Metrology Settle Suit Over Scanning Technology  Faro Technologies Inc. (FARO)  and Nikon Metrology NV settled a
five-year-old lawsuit over two patents related to scanning
apparatus.  The suit was filed by Nikon Metrology, formerly Metris USA
Inc., in July 2009. The companies compete in the business of
computer-aided three-dimensional measurement technology. In a
July 12 filing in federal court in  Boston , Faro said it reached
a settlement with Nikon Metrology and withdrew its motion for
attorney fees. No other details were given  In August, a jury in Boston found that Lake Mary, Florida-based Faro hadn’t infringed patent 7,313,264. The court
previously found, on a motion by Faro, that patent 6,611,617
wasn’t infringed.  Nikon Metrology, based in Leuven,  Belgium , asked the court
to overturn the verdict or grant a new trial. When both those
requests were rejected, the company turned to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, the Washington-based court that
hears appeals of patent disputes.  Faro said in a statement that the parties to the settlement
agreement agreed to keep the terms confidential.  The case is Metris U.S.A. Inc. v. Faro Technologies, 08-cv-11187, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  BSkyB Says M7 Group’s Skylink Service Infringes ‘Sky’ Trademarks  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  is challenging
Luxembourg’s M7 Group’s use of “Skylink” for its direct-to-home satellite television program in the Czech Republic and
Slovakia, the Advanced Television news website  reported .  The U.K.-based British Sky claims the term infringed its
“sky” trademark used with its BSkyB TV services, according to
Advanced Television.  Earlier a U.K. court found that Microsoft Corp.’s use of
“Skydrive” for its cloud storage system infringed British
Sky’s U.K. and European Union trademarks, the website reported.  A spokesman for British Sky told Advanced Television that
the Middlesex, U.K.-based company regarded any unauthorized use
of “Sky” as an infringement.  Namco Bandai Seeks European Registration for ‘Lost Swords’ Mark  Namco Bandai Holdings Inc. (7832) ’s Namco Bandai Games unit has
applied to register “Lost Swords” as a trademark in Europe.  The Japanese maker of computer games said in its
 application  that the name would be used for video-game machines,
amusement-park services, and games and related software.  Among the games produced by the Tokyo-based company are
Ultimate Ninja, Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventures, Dark Souls
and Armored Core Verdict Day.  The company produces games for consoles produced by  Sony
Corp. (6758) , Nintendo Co. and Microsoft Corp., as well  as Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone and mobile phones using  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Android operating
system.  Orthodox Group Sues Israeli Company Over Use of Kosher Mark  The  Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations in America ’s OU
Kashruth unit filed a trademark infringement suit against
Israeli food manufacturer Better & Different Ltd., Jewish
Business News  reported .  The suit, which was filed in Israel, claims that Better &
Different of Maale Edummim used the Union’s  trademark
designating kosher food  -- the letter U circled by the letter O
-- without paying licensing fees, according to Jewish Business
News.  The Union said Better & Different continued to use the mark
during 2012 and 2013, Jewish Business News reported.  The Union has asked the court to order the destruction of
infringing packaging, the recall of products bearing the mark
without authorization, licensing fees for the allegedly
unauthorized use of the mark for the past three years and money
damages, according to Jewish Business News.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Marilyn Monroe Photo Auction to Include Copyrights  More than 3,700 unpublished black-and-white and color
negatives and slides from photographer Milton H. Greene’s images
of the late  Marilyn Monroe  are going up for auction in Los
Angeles on July 27, the  Associated Press   reported .  What makes the auction unusual is that in addition to the
images themselves, the copyrights are also being sold, making it
possible for the buyer to create additional prints and sell or
license them, AP said.  Greene shot more than 5,000 images of the actress, who died
in August 1962. He didn’t commercialize his work and only a
handful of pictures were published in his lifetime, Joseph
Madelena told AP.  Madelena is the owner of Profiles in History, the auction
house that is holding the sale, AP reported.  Vatican Should Use Creative Commons for Encyclical, Blogger Says  A blogger who made downloadable copies of Pope Francis’s
recent encyclical -- “Lumen Fides” -- available on his website
is calling for new guidelines for the release of papal documents
after being warned he was infringing the Vatican’s copyright.  Brandon Vogt, author of “The Church and New Media:
Blogging Converts, Online Activists, and Bishops Who Tweet,”
 put the text  to the encyclical on BrandonVogt.com July 5, the
date the Vatican  released  this papal letter to the Roman
Catholic Church and to the world.  Vogt had converted the text to multiple formats for
downloading, including for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, Amazon.com Inc.’s
Kindle e-reader and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook. The letter is
unusual in that it’s the work of both Pope Francis and his
immediate predecessor, the recently retired Pope Benedict XVI.  Vogt said that within hours he heard from both the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Vatican, who accused him
of violating “both civil and moral law” and “stealing from
the pope.” They ordered him to remove the document from his
blog immediately.  In a  response  on his blog, he said that while he was clear
the Vatican and the bishops’ conference weren’t wrong to assert
their copyright to the encyclical, there must be a better way to
make the text available.  Vogt suggested that all such church documents be released
under a Creative Commons license. That would protect the
integrity of the document, while allowing people free access to
share it.  He said that under a Creative Commons license, people “may
copy, distribute, display, and perform only verbatim copies of
the work” and that  according to  the Creative Commons website,
more than 400 million licenses have deployed.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California,
at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  