-- Light SA Seeks to Keep Dam After Government Bid to Re-Auction
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-15T19:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/light-sa-seeks-to-keep-dam-after-government-bid-to-re-auction.html
Light SA (LIGT3) , the power distributor
serving  Rio de Janeiro , is seeking a new law that would allow it
to continue developing a 150-megawatt hydroelectric project that
the government wants to re-submit for auction along with other
dam concessions granted at the start of the last decade.  Light will meet with the energy ministry this week to
discuss ways it can retain ownership of the  Itaocara  project and
sell the power from it in an auction, Light’s Director of Energy
Evandro Vasconcelos said July 12 in a telephone interview.  The government wants to auction the concessions to eight
hydroelectric projects, including the Itaocara venture, that
were won in 2000-2004 and haven’t broken ground because of
difficulties getting environmental licenses, Vasconcelos said. A
law will have to be changed to allow Light to remain owner of
the project’s concession and use the auction to sell its energy.  “We’re discussing with the government some way that we can
start construction,” he said. “We’ve got all the licenses,
we’ve agreed terms with local communities. If another company
wins this concession they’ll have to do all this work again.”  Light is also seeking to reset the 35-year concession
period of the project from 2001 when the utility won the rights
to develop it on the Paraiba do Sul river, he said. The company
planned to start building the project in September and
auctioning it to another developer may push back construction by
two years.  Canceling Concessions  The government has offered developers including steelmaker
Gerdau SA and mining company  Vale SA (VALE)  to hand back about 1,882
megawatts of projects for re-auctioning, Thais Prandini,
executive director of Sao Paulo-based research company Thymos
Energia, said today in a telephone interview.  Companies have until Aug. 9 to cancel their concessions and
will be refunded costs of studying the projects, according to a
Ministry of Mines and Energy  regulation  published today in
 Brazil ’s official gazette.  A spokeswoman for Gerdau and spokesman for Vale declined to
comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  