-- Military Sex-Assault Inquiries Need Change, Watchdog Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/military-sex-assault-inquiries-need-change-watchdog-says.html
More than one in 10 Defense 
Department investigations of sexual assaults had “significant
deficiencies,” such as uncollected evidence, incomplete crime-scene examinations and inadequate witness or victim interviews,
according to the Pentagon’s inspector general.  After reviewing 501 sexual-assault cases completed in 2010,
the Defense Department’s watchdog office recommended changes to
improve crime-scene processing, evidence collection and
supervision. While 11 percent of those cases had “significant
deficiencies,” the remainder met or exceeded investigative
standards, the inspector general said in a report issued
yesterday.  The adequacy of military investigations has come under
increased scrutiny as the Pentagon tries to quell an uproar over
its handling of sexual assaults, most of which go unreported.  A Pentagon survey of active-duty troops released in May
estimated there were 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact
last year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in criminal
reports. The issue led to congressional hearings after military
officers working in sex-assault prevention programs were charged
with assaults themselves.  The inspector general’s report said its review of 56 cases
uncovered deficiencies in investigative practices that “likely
affected the outcome.”  The investigations were conducted by the Army Criminal
Investigative Command, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service
and the Air Force Office of Special Investigations.  Inconsistencies Cited  The thoroughness and documentation of investigative
interviews needs improvement, the watchdog agency said. Many
investigations “did not clearly establish the elements of the
offense and did not resolve investigative inconsistencies in
statements provided by victim(s), witnesses, and
subjects/suspects,” the report found.  The collection of physical evidence also needs improvement,
according to the report. It said military policies don’t require
the collection of clothing articles that a victim or suspect may
have worn shortly after an assault, if different from what was
worn during it.  The report also calls for better records checks and timely
notifications of sexual-assault response coordinators.  Army Major General David Quantock, commander of the Army
Criminal Investigative Command, said in a written response to
the inspector general that 93 percent of his command’s
investigations were judged adequate. He said his command issued
guidance in response to the report “re-emphasizing the need to
conduct timely and thorough sexual assault investigations.”  Susan Raser , executive assistant director for criminal
investigations at the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, said
the inspector general’s probe evaluated investigations against
standards that didn’t exist in 2010, when the reviewed cases
were completed. She said the report will still be used “to
further enhance adult sexual-assault investigations.”  An Air Force memo issued in response to the inspector
general agreed in part with some recommendations while taking
exception to some elements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  