-- Milk Price War Pits California Dairy Farms Against Cheesemakers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-07-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/milk-price-war-pits-california-dairy-farms-against-cheesemakers.html
Ray Souza’s voice cracks a bit when
he says it, when he tells how his family’s Turlock,  California ,
dairy farm is struggling to pay the bills.  “We go from black to red month by month,” the 66-year-old
said. “For us, it’s break even at best.”  Souza is like many other dairy farmers in the state who say
the price they’re paid for milk from cheese producers isn’t
enough to cover the soaring cost of feeding cows. Those
economics have caused a fifth of California’s dairies to shutter
since 2007, according to state agricultural figures.  California is the largest milk-producing state in the U.S.,
accounting for 20 percent of the national supply. Cheesemakers
buy about 43 percent of all the milk produced in California at
prices set under the state’s unique pricing system rather than
by federal formulas.  The  dairy industry  has petitioned the state to raise the
prices cheesemakers must pay to buy California milk and have
sought legislation to change a pricing system that dates to the
1930s. The producers say raising prices will harm them, the very
people the dairy farmers need to buy their milk.  “There needs to be a balance between producer prices and
what the market can bear in terms of the product we manufacture
and the market for those products,” said Rachel Kaldor,
executive director of the Sacramento-based Dairy Institute of
California, which represents processors. “In order for us to be
able to stay in business, we need to be able to buy milk at a
price that allows us to do that.”  Five Classes  Under  California ’s system, the state Food and Agriculture
Department sets the minimum price for five classes of milk. The
most expensive is fluid milk found at the dinner table. The
cheapest is cheese. The system was set up in part to encourage
more cheesemakers to open plants in California.  Farmers say the state system pays less than federal prices
for milk used to make cheese and for whey, a dairy byproduct.
California’s system worked for dairy farms a half-century ago,
when 60 percent of milk sold was fluid. Now, almost 80 percent
is sold for products such as butter, dry milk, powders and
cheese, the least profitable of the classes.  The system has left cheesemakers paying less for milk they
buy from California than elsewhere. California farmers in March
were paid 19 cents per gallon less for milk sold to cheesemakers
than those in  Washington ,  Oregon ,  Wisconsin ,  Minnesota ,  New
York ,  Pennsylvania ,  Vermont ,  Texas  and  Arizona , according to
state and federal figures.  Corn Soars  With the bulk of their product sold at the cheapest prices,
hundreds of dairy farms were unable to stay in business as
livestock feed costs rose. Corn prices, for example, reached a
record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 after last year’s drought, the
worst since the 1930s, lowered U.S. output by 13 percent.  Frantic to boost income, farmers have been flooding the
market with as much milk as they can, causing prices to decline
even more.  “The last-man-standing syndrome comes into play,” said
Sybrand Vander Dussen, president of the Ontario, California-based Milk Producers Council, which represents the state’s
family-owned dairy farms. “You are trying to last longer than
your neighbor.”  The farmers have been pressing California Food and
Agriculture Secretary Karen Ross to add as much as a $1.20
subsidy per 100 pounds to the price of milk used for cheese. The
price reached $15.91 in June.  ‘Antiquated’ System  Ross has said she doesn’t believe the problems facing the
dairy industry in California can be fixed simply by increasing
the minimum price. Last month, she again rejected their petition
and opted to add a temporary surcharge of 12.5 cents per 100
pounds on average for all five classes for six months.  “California dairies and processors must operate within
national and international markets that require the manufacture
of  milk products  to be competitive with those produced elsewhere
in terms of variety, price and quality,” Ross said in a letter
announcing her decision June 21.  She also acknowledged that the program needs to change.  “Our system of regulated milk pricing is an antiquated one
that impairs the ability of the dairy industry to rise to this
challenge,” she said.  The dairy farmers pressed Assemblyman Richard Pan, a
Democrat, to introduce a bill that would require the state’s
milk-pricing system to more closely match how the federal
program works. Pan’s bill was blocked by opposition from the
cheese industry.  First Step  Nevertheless, Pan helped negotiate a short-term fix that
has the cheese processors paying $110 million into a milk pool
to be shared by dairy farmers while a  task force  devises a
permanent fix.  “We needed to get immediate relief for California dairy
farmers,” Pan said in an interview. “This is a good first
step.”  Souza, the Central Valley farmer, said that in the last
year he’s seen three of his neighboring farms go out of
business. He watched one day as cattle trucks rumbled up to one
of those farms and repossessed the owner’s Jersey cows.  “She was sitting off to the side and crying,” Souza said
of the owner. “There is so much emotion right now in the
industry. These are folks who have worked their entire life in
dairy, sometimes multiple generations, and suddenly they don’t
have a farm anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento , California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  