-- IMF Says Spain Banks Must Bolster Capital as Risks Stay High
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/imf-says-spain-banks-must-bolster-capital-as-risks-stay-high.html
Spain should make banks bolster
their capital while preserving their capacity to lend by issuing
stock, reining in dividends and limiting cash payments for
senior executives, the International Monetary Fund said.  “Risks remain that banks may face pressure to support
capital ratios by further accelerating credit contraction,” the
IMF said in its third progress report on reforms of the Spanish
banking industry published today. “Supervisory actions to
strengthen solvency and reduce risks should prioritize measures
that increase nominal capital over ones that reduce  lending .”  Spain sought a bailout for its banking system last year on
concern that losses at former savings banks such as the  Bankia (BKIA) 
group would contaminate public finances at a time when the
government was seeking to bring down the country’s budget
deficit. While reform of the industry as part of the 41.3
billion-euro ($53.8 billion) bailout process remains on track,
“risks to the economy and hence to the financial sector remain
elevated,” the IMF said in its report today.  Regulators should encourage banks to follow the
recommendations on stock sales and restricting cash payouts by
allowing those that comply to convert more of their deferred tax
assets into transferable tax claims, said the IMF. Banks should
also be rewarded for stepping up provisioning and disposing of
soured assets, it said.  Spain should “focus supervisory actions to bolster
solvency and reduce risks on measures that, while boosting
banks’  capital  situation, do not exacerbate already-tight credit
conditions,” it said. “For banks with market access, new
equity issuance is the fastest path toward capital-building and
should be strongly encouraged.”  The Bank of Spain wrote to banks in June recommending they
limit dividend payments and saying cash payouts should not
exceed 25 percent of profit.  ‘Strongly Implement’  The Bank of Spain must “strongly implement” a review of
banks’ classification of their refinanced loans to ensure they
are being covered properly, the IMF said. Lenders in Spain have
restructured or refinanced 208.2 billion euros of loans, the
Bank of Spain said in May.  The IMF also called on Spain’s bad bank, known as Sareb, to
use more conservative assumptions for house prices in its
business plan “as these are still falling sharply and further
correction is likely.”  The IMF is publishing quarterly reports to monitor Spain’s
banking reform program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  