-- In Abe We Trust as Japan Buybacks Reach Eight-Year High
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-07-16T08:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/in-abe-we-trust-as-japan-inc-buybacks-climb-to-eight-year-high.html
Eight months into the biggest equity
 rally  in three decades, Japanese executives are gaining faith in
the nation’s recovery as they reward shareholders with stock
buybacks and pledge to increase capital spending.  Topix companies bought 1.78 trillion yen ($17.8 billion) of
their own shares in the half ended June 30, the most since 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With companies from
 Orix Corp. (8591)  to Toyota Motor Corp. to Nissin Foods Holdings Ltd.
holding a record 115 trillion yen, plans for capital projects
are rising at the fastest rate in seven years.  While investors realized last November that  Japan ’s economy
was starting to rebound, sending the Topix up 66 percent,
corporate leaders have been slower to respond to Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s spending and reform policies. It was only in June
that optimists among large manufacturers outnumbered pessimists
for the first time in two years, according to Japan’s quarterly
Tankan index. Bears say companies are only dumping cash because
inflationary policies will erode their savings.  “Abe is helping to change the trend of how companies spend
their money,” Taku Arai, Japanese equities investment manager
at Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd., whose British
parent overseas 236.5 billion pounds ($357.2 billion), said in
an interview in  Tokyo . “Japan’s managerial ranks are starting
to think more about shareholder returns.”  Japanese stocks advanced last week, with the  Topix (TPX)  index of
1,711 companies adding 1.1 percent to 1,201.99, as exporters
rose amid optimism a weakening yen will boost overseas earnings.
The measure climbed 0.7 percent today. Even after sliding 5.1
percent from its 2013 peak on May 22, the measure is still the
best-performing major equity benchmark in the world, having
risen 41 percent this year.  Historic Rebound  The Topix has gained more than 500 points since closing at
its lowest level in almost 29 years last June, boosted by Abe’s
pledge to double the  money supply  and end two decades of
deflation. About 196 trillion yen was added to share values as
analysts pushed forecasts for 2013 earnings growth to 57 percent
and the  Bank of Japan  said the economy is starting to recover.  “Abe and his reflationary policies are working to get
companies moving,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , a senior strategist at
Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $111 billion. “It’s been a while since the policies
started, and while there are many complaints about it, it is
starting to work.”  Topix companies bought back 1.78 trillion yen worth of
shares in the six months ended June 30, or 0.66 percent of the
gauge’s market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest level since 2005, when companies spent 3.06
trillion yen on repurchases.  Buyback Estimates  Share repurchases in Japan may double to 3.8 trillion yen
in year ending March 2014, funded by higher earnings and cash
balances, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an April 24 report.
Shareholder demands for the return of cash will rise in coming
quarters as inflation picks up, Goldman Sachs analysts Hiromi Suzuki, Kathy Matsui, Kazunori Tatebe and Tsumugi Akiba wrote.  Fujikura Ltd., the cable manufacturer based in Tokyo,
rallied the most in more than a year on Feb. 27, when it
announced a plan to buy back more than 3 billion yen. It
completed the repurchase in April. Nidec Corp., the world’s
biggest maker of hard-disk drive motors, has advanced 34 percent
since saying in January it will spend up to 20 billion yen on
its stock.  Returning Cash  Dividends will rise 8.7 percent this year, according to
estimates based on criteria such as options prices, comparisons
with competitors and management statements compiled by
Bloomberg. Payout ratios, or the cost of dividends relative to
earnings, for the Topix are 39.4 percent, higher than the Hang
Seng Index’s 34.5 percent and  S&P 500 ’s 36.3 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At 1.66 percent, the Topix’s dividend yield, or payout as a
percentage of share price, is more than twice the return offered
by Japan’s 10-year government bond. It compares with the 2.06
percent paid by the S&P 500, which is about 80 percent of the
yield on the U.S. government’s 10-year notes.  Japan Tobacco Inc.,  Asia ’s biggest listed cigarette maker,
raised its annual dividend by 35 percent to 92 yen this year. It
will rise another 8.7 percent by 2016, according to Bloomberg
forecasts. Astella Pharma Inc., based in Tokyo, will boost its
dividend every year through 2017 to 150 yen, according to
company and Bloomberg forecasts.  “The windfalls of Abenomics -- more  cash flow  from a
weaker currency and better growth -- are being reinvested for
future growth and to reward current shareholders,”  Jesper Koll ,
head of Japan strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, said in
an interview. “The change in mindset is absolutely enormous.”  Spending Plans  After cutting capital spending for three years starting in
2008, CEOs plan to boost it again. Japan’s largest companies
will increase outlays for plant and equipment by 5.5 percent in
2013, according to the Tankan quarterly survey released by the
central bank on July 1. The change from the first quarter, when
executives saw investments reduced by 2 percent, was the  biggest 
swing to a positive expectation since 2006, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Capital expenditures expanded by 19 percent last year among
Topix constituents, data from earnings statements compiled by
Bloomberg show. Machine orders surged 16.5 percent in May from a
year earlier, the biggest jump since 2011. Economists had
estimated a 3.3 percent increase.  Quarterly Retreat  In the first full quarter of Abe’s tenure,  capital spending 
excluding software fell 5.2 percent from a year earlier,
according to a report from the Ministry of Finance released June
3. Spending by Japan’s biggest companies dropped 4.9 percent in
January-March, the biggest decline since the quarter after the
March 2011 earthquake.  That may signal that while corporations are concerned an
exit from deflation will erode the value of their cash, they
still don’t want to spend to improve or expand their businesses.
Consumer goods makers from brewer Kirin Holdings Co. to
Ajinomoto Co., a food and food-additives producer, are skeptical
Abe will be able to reignite a domestic economy where more than
25 percent of the population is over 65 years old.  About a third of Ajinomoto’s capital expenditure in the two
years to March 31 was in its overseas food products segment,
more than twice what it spent domestically. The company is
focusing its efforts on  Southeast Asia , Masatoshi Ito, its
president, said in June.  ‘Hasn’t Recovered’  “Household consumption hasn’t recovered yet,” Kirin
President Senji Miyake said June 13 on the sidelines of a
consumer goods executives forum in Tokyo. “Overseas business,
rather than domestic, will definitely be our growth trigger.”  Kirin spent $12 billion over the past five years on
acquisitions abroad, versus less than 500 million yen at home,
according to data on announced deals compiled by Bloomberg.  “Capital expenditure is increasing but if you look at
their cash flow, their cash flow is obviously much larger,”
said  Ayako Sera , a strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank
Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $163 billion in corporate
pensions. “There’s no point keeping cash in inflation so they
are looking to reduce it. But with Japan’s long-term demographic
problems, even with Abenomics, companies see real growth as
difficult. That is why they are leaning toward share buybacks.”  ‘Very Difficult’  The president of Japan’s Government Pension Investment
Fund, Takahiro Mitani, said the central bank’s goal of reaching
2 percent inflation in two years is “very difficult.” It
rarely got that high in past expansions, he said in a Tokyo
interview June 21.  In the last five years of the 1980s, when Japan’s  gross
domestic product  climbed from about $1.3 trillion to $3 trillion
and the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average peaked at almost 39,000,
monthly readings for inflation averaged 1.2 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the decade to May 2013, the
average has been minus 0.1 percent, the  data  show, while the
Nikkei 225 is still down about 63 percent from its 1989 high.  Abe’s forecast victory in an upper-house election on July
21 may strengthen his hand to push through deregulation to
sustain a recovery that has so far been driven by monetary and
fiscal stimulus.  The government is considering various tax reforms to
promote  capital investment  including allowing companies to claim
depreciation in a lump-sum, Economy Minister Akira Amari said
July 1. Further tax incentives for capital expenditure may also
be considered, Finance Minister Taro Aso said June 28.  Shopping Malls  Aeon Mall Co., an operator of shopping centers in Japan,
plans to almost triple capital expenditure this fiscal year to
150 billion yen and open at least 20 new malls in Japan in the
next two years, according to a July 5 company conference call.
Seven & I Holdings Co., the operator of 7-Eleven convenience
stores, may more than double North American outlets, Chairman
Toshifumi Suzuki said in a May 30 interview. Capital spending
jumped 61 percent from a year ago in the three months ending May
31, Bloomberg data show.  Financial services company Orix reported capital
expenditures increased 22 percent in the 12 months ended March
31, as it develops solar-power plants in Japan. Only Nippon
Telegraph and Toyota spent  more  among Topix companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nissin Foods, whose founder Momofuku Ando invented the
instant noodle, aims to boost return on equity to 7.2 percent by
fiscal 2016 from 6.4 percent in 2013 and spend as much as 50
billion yen on capital expenditure during the period, according
to a mid-term plan announced on April 30.  “Japanese companies are both starting to invest in
themselves again as well as being more shareholder friendly and
returning more capital to shareholders,” Chris Konstantinos,
director of international  portfolio management  at Riverfront
Investment Group LLC in Richmond,  Virginia , said in a July 10
phone interview. His firm, which oversees $3.8 billion, has been
buying Japanese stocks this year. “It’s illustrative of a
return of business confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Lui in Tokyo at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  