-- India Inflation Reaches Three-Month High as Rupee Fans Costs
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-07-15T07:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/india-inflation-quickens-to-three-month-high-as-rupee-fans-costs.html
Indian inflation accelerated to a
three-month high in June, threatening to curb scope for a
further interest-rate cut as rupee weakness stokes import costs.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 4.86 percent from a year
earlier, exceeding May’s 4.7 percent climb, a Commerce Ministry
statement showed in New Delhi today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 30 analysts was 4.94 percent. The
Reserve Bank of  India ’s threshold level is about 5 percent.  The rupee’s drop of about 8 percent against the dollar in
2013 has made imports including oil more expensive and threatens
to fan wider price pressures even as economic growth falters.
The Reserve Bank will leave borrowing costs unchanged on July 30
for a second month after retail inflation quickened toward 10
percent, State Bank of India and Nomura Holdings Inc. predict.  “I don’t think the Reserve Bank can afford any cuts at
this time due to the levels of consumer prices and the rupee’s
decline,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at Kotak
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  The currency, which touched an all-time low of 61.2125 per
dollar on July 8, depreciated 0.4 percent to 59.8838 as of 12:50
p.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index gained 0.3 percent,
while the yield on the 8.15 percent bond maturing June 2022 rose
to 7.67 percent from 7.65 percent on July 12.  Inflation remains “high” even after easing somewhat and
controlling it is the priority, Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last week.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner, raised fuel
prices in June and July, citing the rupee.  Currency Woe  The currency was the world’s worst performer last month,
hurt by a record current-account deficit. The possibility of
reduced U.S. monetary stimulus has also sapped demand for assets
in  emerging markets  from  Brazil  to India.  Subbarao lowered the central bank’s benchmark  repurchase
rate  by 25 basis points in January, March and May each to 7.25
percent to bolster Indian expansion, which slowed to a decade
low in the financial year ended March.  Industrial output unexpectedly shrank in May while
consumer-price inflation accelerated to 9.87 percent in June,
signs that Asia’s third-largest economy continues to struggle as
exports drop, domestic demand moderates and supply bottlenecks
contribute to price increases.  Food prices climbed 9.74 percent in June from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Fuel and power rose 7.12
percent. Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of core
inflation, advanced 2.1 percent after a 2.35 percent gain in
May, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  