-- Wind Forecast Order Jeopardizes Industry, Tata Power Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-16T06:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/india-tells-wind-farms-to-forecast-power-or-face-fines.html
India ’s move to stabilize its  power
grid  by asking wind farms to accurately predict their output a
day in advance or face fines will deepen the slowdown in  Asia ’s
second-biggest wind market,  Tata Power Co. (TPWR)  said.  A directive took effect this week ordering wind farms with
a capacity of 10 megawatts or more to forecast their generation
in 15-minute blocks for the following day. Missing estimates by
more than 30 percent will incur penalties.  “Forecasting at 15-minute intervals is very challenging,”
and could cost a 100-megawatt farm an estimated 250 million
rupees ($4.2 million) a year, Tata Power said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Developers will see this as a further
handicap” and penalties will “jeopardize” the industry’s
growth, the nation’s second-biggest developer said.  India’s wind market is already reeling from a 42 percent
plunge in turbine installations in the last financial year after
the government withdrew subsidies. Some of the biggest
developers including Tata Power,  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , and  Goldman
Sachs Group (GS)  Inc.-backed ReNew Wind Power Pvt. have slowed plans
for new projects, while turbine sales plunged for  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Gamesa Corp Tecnologica SA. (GAM)   The order from India’s Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission took effect yesterday. Wind farms will use seasonal
records and weather forecasting tools for their estimates. Fines
will be paid to state utilities through a new Renewable
Regulatory Fund.  Biggest Blackout  Volatile generation led to the world’s biggest blackout
last year after grid collapses on two straight days cut off
power to half of the country’s 1.2 billion people. The
infrastructure can’t cope with intermittent wind- and sun-power
generation, which has doubled in capacity in five years to
almost 20 gigawatts.  “There are bound to be problems in the short term,” said
V. Subramanian, chief executive officer of the Indian Wind
Energy Association. “However, in the long run this is a
development that would make the wind sector a responsible
constituent of the grid.”  Transmission companies and the grid operators would accept
larger quantities of wind power, he said. It would also open up
new markets by facilitating the sale of wind power across state
borders, something that isn’t possible now, Subramanian said.  The directive also orders solar parks to estimate
generation. They won’t be fined as output is smaller and less
volatile, according to Rajiv Bansal, secretary at the Central
Electricity Regulatory Commission.  The task of forecasting wind and solar power is complex and
will impose a financial and operational burden on the renewable
companies, said Vibhav Nuwal, director of REConnect Energy
Solutions Pvt., which advises companies on the energy meters and
forecasting tools used to meet the new rules.  “The level of accuracy achieved by various projects that
have done trials leaves a lot to be desired,” Nuwal said.
“Projects may immediately face financial obligations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  