-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Little Changed on Output, Inflation
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-15T01:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-little-changed-on-output-inflation.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures were
little changed after official reports showed the nation’s
industrial output contracted unexpectedly in May and inflation
accelerated in June.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for July delivery fell less
than 0.1 percent to 6,017 at 9:15 a.m. in Singapore. The
underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. rose 1.3 percent to 6,009 on July 12. The S&P BSE
Sensex gained 1.4 percent to 19,958.47. The Bank of  New York 
Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares rose 1.7 percent.  Production (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines declined 1.6
percent from a year earlier after a revised 1.9 percent climb in
April, the statistics office said July 12. The median of 31
estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for a 1.4 percent gain.
Another report showed consumer-price inflation accelerated to
9.87 percent. The Sensex climbed 2.4 percent last week after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanreade said the  U.S.
economy  will continue to need stimulus.  “The factory production number shows how deep the slowdown
is,” Kishor Ostwal, managing director at CNI Research Ltd.,
said by phone. “At the same time, inflation is not coming down,
which will deter the central bank from cutting  interest rates .
Global liquidity concerns have eased a bit and that can support
any rally from here.”  The rupee’s plunge to a record low against the dollar this
year threatens to stoke inflation and prompted the  Reserve Bank 
of India to leave borrowing costs unchanged last month, snapping
a run of three reductions. The government has eased foreign-investment limits in industries such as aviation and retail,
seeking to steady the currency and spark an economic revival.  Price Data  Wholesale-price inflation probably accelerated to 4.94
percent in June from 4.7 percent in May, according to the median
estimate in another Bloomberg survey. The report is due today.  Software-makers led gains in Indian shares on July 12 after
Infosys Ltd.’s earnings rose and its sales forecast in dollar
terms beat analyst estimates.  The Sensex has gained 2.7 percent this year and  trades  at
13.4 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.9 times.  Global investors  sold $220 million of local shares on July
11, paring this year’s inflows to $13.3 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. International funds sold $1.8 billion in
June, which was the most since August 2011, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  