-- India Central Bank Imposes $8.3 Million in Fines for 22 Lenders
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-15T10:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/india-central-bank-imposes-8-3-million-in-fines-for-22-lenders.html
India ’s central bank  ordered  22
financial firms including  State Bank of India  and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s local unit to pay a combined $8.3 million in penalties for
flouting rules including anti-money laundering regulations.  State Bank, the nation’s largest lender by assets, will be
fined 30 million rupees ($501,000), while Deutsche Bank will
need to pay 10 million rupees, the Reserve Bank of India said in
a statement on its website today. Another seven banks were sent
notices to ensure compliance with the norms.  The crackdown in India follows efforts by financial
regulators and law enforcement agencies worldwide to curtail
money laundering and fraud.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest
bank, in December agreed to pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S.
probes of money laundering, while the U.K.’s financial regulator
said the bank will have to employ an independent monitor to
oversee compliance.  The Reserve Bank in June had separately penalized HDFC Bank
Ltd., the country’s biggest by market value, Axis Bank Ltd. and
ICICI Bank Ltd. for flouting the rules. Axis was ordered to pay
50 million rupees at that time, and HDFC Bank 45 million rupees,
with ICICI at 10 million rupees. Today, the largest fine was
levied against the government-controlled Indian Overseas Bank,
at 30.02 million rupees.  Banks in India are running a nationwide “money laundering
racket,” violating multiple rules including tax and banking
regulations, website Cobrapost reported on March 14. The banking
regulator is investigating the allegations and appropriate
action will be taken against those lenders that breached rules,
central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao had said at a press
conference on May 3.  Cautionary Letters  Cautionary letters were issued to seven banks - State Bank
of Patiala and the local units of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. - after the
central bank’s scrutiny didn’t expose any “serious” violations
or the firms’ explanations were found to be “satisfactory,”
the RBI said today. The regulator didn’t impose monetary
penalties on the seven lenders.  S&P BSE Bankex index, a gauge for banking stocks in the
country, gained 0.7 percent in Mumbai, with  State Bank of India (SBIN) 
shares climbing 1 percent to 1,912.30 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  