-- India’s Rupee Declines Most in a Week as Inflation Quickens
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-15T11:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/india-rupee-drops-most-in-almost-two-weeks-before-inflation-data.html
India ’s rupee dropped the most in a
week as a report showed inflation accelerated, limiting the
central bank’s scope to ease monetary policy.  Wholesale prices  rose 4.86 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with a 4.7 percent increase in May, official
data showed today. Price-increases had slowed in the four months
through May. Consumer price-inflation quickened to 9.87 percent
last month from 9.31 percent, while industrial output
unexpectedly contracted in May, official figures showed July 12.
The rupee will weaken in the coming months as the U.S. will pare
stimulus this year, according to  Emirates NBD PJSC. (EMIRATES)   The dollar-rupee exchange rate is “likely to remain
underpinned in the short term in line with other emerging-market
currencies,” Tim Fox, chief economist at Emirates NBD in Dubai,
wrote in a research report today. The increase in the inflation
rate is ’’something that the authorities may be sensitive to
while the rupee weakness remains.’’  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 59.8950 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest drop since July 8, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency, which fell to a
record 61.2125 on July 8, will sink to 62 in a month, Fox
predicts. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 12.53 percent.  The  Federal Reserve  still intends to start reducing asset
purchases, which debased the dollar and contributed to emerging-market inflows, in the final quarter of 2013 and possibly as
early as September as the world’s largest economy recovers, Fox
wrote. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the U.S. would
need accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future.  Sovereign Bond  India is considering selling sovereign bonds overseas for
the first time as policy makers weigh measures to stem the
rupee’s slide, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter
said last week, asking not to be named as the information is
confidential.  The sale is a possible supporting factor for the rupee,
 Vishnu Varathan , a senior economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in
 Singapore , said in a July 12 interview.  India’s trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in June
from $20.1 billion in May as gold and silver imports fell to
$2.45 billion from $8.39 billion, official data showed July 12.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.2 percent from
July 12 to 60.96 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts were little changed at 61.03.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  