-- Intel Works to Expand Role for Server Chips in Mobile
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-15T16:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/intel-works-to-expand-role-for-server-chips-in-mobile.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  doesn’t want to be left
behind by the mobile-device revolution. So the world’s largest
semiconductor maker is now working to put its server chips into
machines that help bring smartphone data closer to users.  The  company  is currently preparing a trial with Nokia
Siemens Networks Oy and  South Korea ’s SK Telecom Co., where its
chips are being deployed in base stations -- wireless network
antennas that include computers. The goal is to ease the
congestion caused by an explosion in demand for data and
services, said Intel Vice President  Rose Schooler .  For Intel, the effort is another attempt to offset the
impact that mobile devices are having on the personal-computer
market that provides the majority of its revenue. Intel’s server
chip business grew sales 7.5 percent to $2.59 billion in the
first quarter, compared with a 6 percent decline in sales of PC
chips to $7.99 billion. The company will report its second-quarter performance July 17.  Putting server chips into base stations “is a multi-hundred-million dollar opportunity for us at a minimum,” said
Schooler. Commercial use may begin next year, she said.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich has said he will
accelerate attempts to get Intel’s processors into smartphones,
where it has less than 1 percent market share, according to
 Strategy Analytics . The company has had to settle for a dominant
share -- more than 90 percent -- in the smaller market for
servers that supply phones and tablets with information from
data centers, according to Mercury Research.  Mobile Efforts  Success in this latest effort will hinge on Intel’s ability
to convince potential customers such as Nokia Siemens, Ericsson
AB, the largest maker of wireless networks, and Huawei
Technologies Co. to build new equipment based around its chips.  “They will have to sign on in a big way for this to take
off,” said Ken Rehbehn, an analyst at  Yankee Group . “To be
sure, it’s a goal of major operators, particularly in  Asia .”  Intel is testing its chips in smart base stations as the
strain on networks is forecast to increase. Globally, mobile
data traffic will  grow  13 fold from 2012 to 2017, a compound
annual growth rate of 66 percent, according to Cisco Systems
Inc. By the end of the forecast period, mobile traffic will be
five times the volume for the entire Internet in 2005.  Currently, phone networks deploy radio waves to connect
phones to base stations, which then use wires to access remote
computers where video, Web-search results and Facebook pages are
stored. A finite amount of radio spectrum limits how much data
can be transmitted at once.  Local Storage  With the newer base stations that Intel is putting its
server chips into, data relevant to local users is stored there
in an attached computer. The proximity would get the data to a
mobile phone more quickly and allow it to be disconnected,
freeing up space for the base station to connect other users,
said Schooler.  Examples include providing local weather information or
video, pictures and information on a nearby tourist attraction.
In tests, videos loaded 50 percent faster and Web search times
had seconds knocked off them, said Schooler.  “Fundamentally, the biggest issue is that there’s not
enough spectrum,” she said. “It’s about how do you add
intelligence and bring the cloud out to the user?”  Phone services operators will add computing to their
networks if it will increase revenue and localized, targeted
advertising will be one of the more lucrative uses, said  Joe
Hoffman , an analyst at  ABI Research .  “It really gets down to advertising,” said Hoffman.
“Suddenly you walk into a store and they know you’re there.”  Intel is banking on the rapid growth of small cells, which
are scaled down versions of larger base stations that service
providers are deploying to improve the capabilities of their
networks in areas of high demand such as city centers.  Still, wireless carriers may want to delay including
servers in new equipment as it adds cost and increases the
complexity of managing networks, said Hoffman. U.S. companies
including  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. are trying to cap
spending because they haven’t yet recouped investments in faster
4G networks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  