-- Italy to Spain Beckon as Yields Beat Germany: Real Estate
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-07-16T10:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/italy-to-spain-beckon-as-yields-beat-germany-real-estate.html
Europe’s biggest real estate
managers are making their first investments in southern Europe
since the financial crisis as low prices and diminishing risk
make commercial properties more attractive.  Axa Real Estate Investment Managers, the largest European
property fund manager, bought Barcelona office buildings from
the Catalan government for 172 million euros ($224 million) last
month, only its second purchase in the country in five years.
When the unit of Europe’s second-largest insurer considered
buying the same properties two years ago, it rejected the idea.  “There was too much uncertainty in the market at the
time,” said Anne Kavanagh, the Paris-based insurer’s head of
global asset management. “There’s an indication now that we’re
at or near the bottom, even though there might be more
volatility ahead.”  Insurance companies such as Germany’s  Allianz SE (ALV) , private-equity firms and sovereign-wealth funds are seeking deals in
Spain and Italy as the economic prospects for the countries
improve and the likelihood of a euro-currency breakup recedes.
Returns in the commercial hubs of  Madrid  and Milan have become
more attractive compared with other European cities after a
slide in investment in both countries last year boosted yields.  Axa Real Estate, which has 45 billion euros of assets under
management, agreed to buy an office park in Milan last month,
its first commercial property transaction in Italy since 2008.
Before the Barcelona acquisition, the French insurer’s only
transaction in Spain in the past five years was the purchase of
a chain of gasoline stations for 55 million euros in 2011.  Rome, Milan  Allianz, Europe’s largest insurer, in June bought a stake
in two buildings in Rome and Milan, its first Italian deals in
five years. Georg Allendorf, head of German property at Deutsche
Bank Asset & Wealth Management, said he’s considering buying
real estate in southern Europe for the first time since 2010.  Yields for prime offices were about 6.25 percent in Madrid
in the first quarter, up from 5.75 percent a year ago, and in
Milan they were unchanged at 6 percent. That compares with about
4.9 percent in  Frankfurt  and 4.75 percent in  London , according
to data compiled by CBRE Group Inc. The yield is the annual
income that a property generates as a proportion of its purchase
price. Yields tend to rise when values fall.  “There are many international investors who are coming
back, or coming into the market for the first time,” said Mauro Montagner, head of Allianz Real Estate in  Italy , which plans to
invest 500 million euros over the next several years. “They
realize it’s no longer like trying to catch a falling knife.”  Low Point  The renewed interest comes after commercial real estate
investment in both countries tumbled in 2012 to the lowest level
since at least 2001, according to research by DTZ. Investment
dropped by almost 70 percent to 1.2 billion euros in Italy and
by more than 50 percent to 2.3 billion euros in Spain.  Investment in both countries will begin to recover this
year and return to pre-crisis levels as early as 2014, said
Magali Marton, head of continental European research at DTZ. The
money spent on commercial properties could amount to 3.5 billion
euros in Italy and 2.5 billion euros in Spain in 2013, she said.  “The market is more dynamic than it seems from the
outside,” said Allianz’s Montagner. In one case, Allianz is
competing with eight other investors for an Italian property
that probably wouldn’t have attracted any interest a year ago,
he said.  Euro’s Survival  Buyers are drawn by the prospect of an improved economic
outlook in Spain and Italy and growing confidence that the euro
will survive, said Peter Damesick, chairman of Europe, Middle
East and Africa research at broker CBRE Group Inc. in London.  “It’s certainly a shift compared to 12 or 18 months ago,
when concerns about the euro zone and its integrity were running
at a very high level,” he said.  The Spanish economy is set to grow by 0.9 percent in 2014
after contracting two years in a row, according to the European
Commission. Italy will expand by about 0.7 percent after also
shrinking for two years. Concern that the euro would break up
began to abate in September, when ECB President Mario Draghi
pledged unlimited bond buying to prop up the 17-nation currency.  Since then, the difference between the extra yield
investors demand to hold Italian government bonds compared with
German debt has narrowed by about 110 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference, or spread, between
Spanish and German debt has narrowed by  180 basis points . That
shows that investors see diminishing risk in those countries.  The ECB expects to keep interest rates low for an
“extended” period, Draghi said on July 4. The central bank
that day left its main refinancing rate at 0.5 percent.  Risk Appetite  While countries such as  Germany  and the U.K. attract the
bulk of investments because of their reputations as havens,
buyers are increasingly willing to take on more risk to earn
higher returns.  “We’re starting to see a rotation from defensive to
riskier investment,” Kavanagh said.  The appeal of Italy, Europe’s fourth-largest economy, lies
in robust consumer spending and increased political stability
after the appointment of Enrico Letta as prime minister in April
ended months of political gridlock, DTZ’s Marton said.  “The political class has demonstrated its capacity to
manage the country and take the right decision to reduce public
debt,” she said.  Italy’s real estate market is more promising than Spain’s
because of the country’s strong industrial sector and because it
didn’t experience the construction boom that has burdened Spain
with an oversupply of buildings, she said.  Bad Bank  While the economic outlook in Spain is worse, with
 unemployment at 27 percent,  the real estate market may benefit
from discounted properties sold by Sareb, the bank set up by the
government last year to acquire 90 billion euros of soured real
estate assets from rescued lenders. Sareb is preparing to sell
1.5 billion euros of assets this year.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , a New York-based private-equity firm, plans to invest 1 billion euros to buy loans from
banks in Spain as well as from Sareb, a person with knowledge of
the matter said. The person asked not to identified because the
company hasn’t announced the plan to the public. Apollo declined
to comment.  Spain’s bank rescue fund, known as FROB, owns about 45
percent of Sareb, while other shareholders include 14 Spanish
banks.  Lowered Expectations  Owners of Spanish property are facing financial and
regulatory pressure to sell after holding assets for years to
avoid realizing losses. Others have lowered their expectations
as the country’s economic woes drag on.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday called on Sareb
to use more conservative assumptions for house prices in its
business plan “as these are still falling sharply and further
correction is likely.”  “There is more reality in European pricing than there was
12 months ago,” Axa Real Estate’s Kavanagh said. “When owners
start marketing an asset and getting the bids, they realize
where the market is. That process can take a while,” he said.  Axa Real Estate will achieve a gross initial yield of about
9.5 percent with its Spanish office purchase, according to two
people with knowledge of the transaction. A year ago, that deal
would have probably yielded 8.45 percent, according to one of
the people. They asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The yield is the income return on an
investment. Yields normally fall when prices rise.  Some companies are setting up new businesses ahead of an
anticipated increase in transactions. NAI Global, a real estate
adviser, added its first offices in Italy and Spain this year.  ‘Good Timing’  “It’s a very good time to expand into those markets,”
said Paul Danks, NAI Global’s managing director for Europe.
“The majority of the big-name investors have always been in the
market, but clearly over the last few years they haven’t been
active.”  Some of the transactions are likely to come from banks that
took over buildings or loans from troubled creditors and now
face pressure to reduce their real estate holdings to comply
with new rules. These include Basel III, the banking regulations
that come into effect in 2019.  CR Investment Management , a Berlin-based firm that manages
and restructures troubled properties and loans, opened an office
in Madrid in July.  “As loans secured on Spanish assets start to trade, many
of the capital sources we work with will require an operating
partner to assist them with underwriting and managing the loans
they are looking to buy,” said Richard Fine, head of CR’s
international operations in London.  Different Targets  Investors are targeting deals for hotels, homes, offices
and warehouses. Insurers such as Axa and Allianz are focused on
modern, high-occupancy office buildings on busy streets.
Private-equity firms such as Cerberus Capital Management and
 Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  are targeting distressed homes
held by Spain’s Sareb, a person familiar with the information
said in February.  Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund in May agreed to buy a 40
percent stake in Milan’s newly built Porta Nuova business
district. While the purchase price wasn’t disclosed, the project
is valued at about 2 billion euros, the Qatari fund and
developer Hines Italia SGR said in a statement in May. Qatar in
June also bought the W Hotel in Barcelona for about 200 million
euros, according to  Property Investor Europe .  In February, Luxembourg-based asset manager GWM Group
bought Italian logistics properties valued at about 220 million
euros after the owner had trouble repaying loans from  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and M&G Investments, according to a  February statement
from GWM .  In Spain, the past year has also seen the arrival of
investments from wealthy families in Latin American countries
such as Mexico, Chile and  Venezuela , Damesick said. As deals
close, more investors will be comfortable entering the markets,
he said.  “One of the issues that held the market back in the past
couple of years was a circular process of low liquidity creating
uncertainty about pricing in the market,” he said. “When
things go in the other direction, it gives more investors an
incentive to move in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  