-- Japan Prepares to Vote. Not That You Would Know.
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-07-15T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/japan-prepares-to-vote-not-that-you-would-know-.html
With elections to the upper house of
parliament on July 21, Japanese voters seem ready to hand Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe one of the bigger blank checks in memory.  No one has forgotten there’s an election. It’s impossible
to escape the cacophony of campaign sound trucks, blaring
slogans out of tinny loudspeakers. What’s most noticeable,
though, is the silence of the citizenry. Try finding the
slightest hint that  voters  are fired up. If recent contests have
been notable at all, it’s for setting low-turnout records. This
one could top them all.  This should be the ultimate issues election.  Japan 
confronts a fast-aging population; the world’s biggest public
 debt ; a skyrocketing energy bill, and a pension time bomb. Abe
has pledged vague but far-reaching reforms, including lowering
trade barriers, empowering women, deregulating industry and
possibly revising the pacifist constitution. There are questions
about how many U.S. soldiers Japan should host, and whether
loose monetary policy is creating a giant bubble.  Yet the Japanese are debating none of this. A victory for
Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  will be taken as vindication of
policies that he’s laid out only in the sketchiest terms. The
failure to hash out those reforms now isn’t just bad news for
Japan’s $5.9 trillion economy, but for the world, which could
benefit from greater Japanese engagement and more inspired
leadership in  Tokyo .  Foregone Election  Perhaps voters sense that the outcome is a fait accompli.
Polls overwhelmingly show the LDP headed for a resounding
victory and control over both houses of parliament. A sense of
defeatism among supporters of the opposition  Democratic Party  of
Japan, which governed from 2009 to 2012, may keep many from even
voting.  A landslide won’t necessarily reflect the feelings of a
nation that’s more wary than polls suggest. Certainly voters
seem willing to give Abe a chance to revitalize an  economy 
that’s been losing ground for 20 years. But that doesn’t mean
they support pet projects such as tweaking education to
encourage nationalism, or that they condone increasingly testy
exchanges with Japan’s trading partners -- and former colonies -
-  China  and  South Korea . Many worry Abe will fan the flames by
visiting Tokyo’s Yasukuni Shrine, which honors Japan’s war dead,
including several convicted war criminals.  Even on the economy, reservations abound. Abe’s headlong
push to join the U.S.-led  Trans-Pacific Partnership  is a case in
point. On economic grounds, across-the-board trade
liberalization is a no-brainer. But for a reasonably egalitarian
nation such as Japan, the idea of unfettered competition imposed
from outside remains controversial. To many, that means more
tainted food from China, a proliferation of giant Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., a reduction in wages and an embrace of the
cutthroat capitalism that Tokyo  bureaucrats  have tried to avoid
for decades.  Voters seem to be discounting Abe’s chances of success.
Bringing TPP to Japan would mean forsaking rural supporters, for
instance, which the prime minister has in theory pledged not to
do. By some measures, farming accounts for slightly more than 1
percent of gross domestic product. Yet gerrymandering and the
LDP’s reliance on Japan’s less populated hinterlands give the
farm lobby wildly disproportionate sway. If they really thought
their interests were at risk, the outcry would be much louder.  The same goes for  tax policy . As households brace for a
doubling of Japan’s consumption tax over the next two years and
the reflation the  Bank of Japan  is trying to engineer, Abe is
mulling sizable reductions in corporate tax rates. It hardly
seems fair that consumers, many entering their golden years,
should bear all of the nation’s  fiscal  burden. And yet no
Japanese  Tea Party  has sprung up to channel a nonexistent
outrage.  Alternative Energy  In some cases, Abe seems to be promoting an agenda directly
at odds with public opinion. Recent days have offered a steady
drumbeat of bad news from Fukushima, where the worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl is still unfolding. Highly radioactive
nuclear waste is seeping into the ground and contaminating the
 Pacific Ocean . Polls show Japanese are overwhelmingly against
restarting nuclear  power plants  mothballed since the disaster.  Why, then, haven’t there been more protests as the LDP
moves to restart the reactors? Why aren’t opposition lawmakers
being more vocal and creative about energy alternatives, such as
redoubling investments in renewables or following Iceland’s lead
by generating more geothermal energy? Japan may have few natural
resources, but it has an abundance of volcanoes.  To some degree, the Japanese are apathetic because they can
be. Even after almost 20 years of  deflation , Japanese society
hasn’t unraveled into widespread homelessness, crime and
deprivation. Also, Abe’s decisiveness is scoring points with the
electorate. Japan is on its 16th prime minister since its asset
bubble burst around 1990 and not since, or long before,
 Junichiro Koizumi  (2001-2006) has it had a truly audacious
leader pledging to shake up the status quo.  It’s important, though, that reforms move Japan forward in
accordance with the aspirations of its people. It’s up to voters
and opposition politicians to tell leaders what those goals are
and hold them accountable. By giving Abe such carte blanche,
Japanese may be setting themselves up for buyer’s remorse.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  