-- Jay-Z, Timberlake’s Schoolboy Boasts Upstaged at Wireless
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-07-15T06:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/jay-z-timberlake-s-schoolboy-boasts-upstaged-at-wireless.html
Jay-Z looks like a naughty schoolboy
in his buttoned-up white shirt, black pants and baseball cap.  He has crossed the Atlantic to deliver a relentless concert
commercial for himself and remind Londoners how successful he
is. The rapper dominates on two of three evenings of the
Wireless festival -- last night with a two-hour, 40 minute set
with  Justin Timberlake , modestly billed as Legends of the
Summer.  Wireless, and other summer festivals promoted by  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , including Hard Rock Calling, used to
take place in central  London ’s Hyde Park. Other venues were
needed because of complaints about low volumes and time limits -
- the plug was pulled on a duet between  Bruce Springsteen  and
 Paul McCartney  last year.  East London’s Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park certainly allows
a clear and loud sound. Otherwise, the venue fails to impress.
An expansive building site carpeted with Astroturf, it lacks
shade and atmosphere. The crowds are unnervingly dense on the
half-built roads which take the 60,000 capacity audience to the
nearest subway station. Newly built blocks of apartments
overlook the main stage.  Jay-Z and Timberlake duel over songs while Rihanna pops up
for “Run This Town.” Unusually, she neglects to remove any of
her surprisingly modest outfit of a knee-length skirt, white top
and gray woolly hat.  New Album  Jay-Z mixes greatest hits with songs from his new album
“Magna Carta… Holy Grail.” Favorites like “99 Problems” and
“Dirt Off Your Shoulder” are lean and mean. Other tracks suffer
from a sluggish live band. “Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem),”
already an oddity thanks to a sample from the musical “Annie,”
gains a tuba solo.  The stripped beats of “ Tom Ford ” are live dynamite and the
roll-call of modern artists in “Picasso Baby” is merely another
shorthand signifier of Jay-Z’s wealth.  Timberlake’s “Cry Me a River” and some of the weirder
electronic funk provide a sensuous counterpoint to Jay-Z’s beats
and bragging.  Unfortunately, the Memphis singer also tries to be  Frank Sinatra  and  Michael Jackson . Some middling retro moves hardly
match the raw genius that was  Amy Winehouse . His scrawny white-boy soul is even worse with Jay-Z, where he sounds like a
sexually frustrated duck.  The Sunday afternoon set by  Nas  is punchy and raw. His
rhythms and rhymes deliver vivid stories.  Sweltering Azalea  Iggy Azalea  is gritty and sexy. The blonde Australian
rapper mixes electro beats with tough-talking rhymes and razor-sharp wit. Her colorful hot pants and Twerking dance raise the
temperature in the already sweltering tent in which she plays.  Emeli Sande is a great singer and songwriter. At Wireless,
she seems a little safe. Her well-crafted, slightly earnest soul
is the sort of music that might inspire you to accelerate up to
the speed limit if it came on the radio.  Katy B effortlessly provides some excitement. The 24-year-old Londoner is dressed in sliver shorts and a white t-shirt for
a set of infectious dance music. Her easy-going girl-next-door
vocals are a breath of fresh air. The crowd, too big for the
huge tent in which she is playing, dance with glee.  Ratings: Jay-Z, Timberlake, Sande ***. Nas, Azalea,
Katy B ****.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on French culture,  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Robert Heller  on
music and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 