-- Mickelson Wins Before British Open as Teen Takes PGA Tour Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/jordan-spieth-becomes-pga-tour-s-first-teenage-winner-since-1931.html
Phil Mickelson  warmed up for this
week’s British Open with his first win in  Europe  in 20 years, as
he beat Branden Grace in a playoff at the Scottish Open.  Mickelson’s previous victory in a  golf tournament  on
European soil came in 1993 -- two months before the birth of
Jordan Spieth, who yesterday became the first teenager in 82
years to win a U.S. PGA Tour event. Spieth, 19, outlasted  Zach Johnson  and David Hearn to win the John Deere Classic on the
fifth hole of a sudden-death playoff.  Spieth received $828,000 and the final spot in the British
Open field alongside Mickelson and the other top-rated golfers
in the world. The third of the sport’s four major championships
is scheduled for July 18-21 at Muirfield in  Scotland .  “I just think of playing and competing with these guys as
my peers,” Spieth said at a news conference. “The guys in this
event, week to week, I don’t think of myself as younger than
them. But I didn’t think it would happen this early.”  Spieth is the first teenager to win a PGA Tour event since
19-year-old Ralph Guldahl at the 1931 Santa Monica Open. Since
1900, Harry Cooper (1923) and Johnny McDermott (1911) were the
only other teenagers to win a PGA Tour title.  Mickelson won his first title on the world’s richest golf
tour when he was 20, as did  Tiger Woods  and Rory McIlroy, the
current top two players in the Official World Golf Ranking.  Woods is the 7-1 favorite to win the British Open,
according to oddsmakers at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book,
with Mickelson and McIlroy listed at 20-1 along with Masters
champion  Adam Scott  and U.S. Open winner  Justin Rose .  Winning Pitch  Mickelson, a four-time major champion, clinched his first
individual win in Britain yesterday by spinning a pitch shot
back within inches of the cup to set up the winning birdie.  Mickelson pulled out the victory at the par-5 18th after
three-putting for bogey from about 15 feet on the final hole of
regulation play at Castle Stuart, Inverness.  “Probably the biggest challenge of my career is hitting
the shots that are required here,” Mickelson told reporters.
“Getting good touch on or around the greens; putting these
fescue greens well, as well as controlling the ball flight in
severe cross-winds. To play well here, finally win on a links
golf course, it really means a lot to me and also builds my
confidence heading into future Scottish and British Opens.”  Both Mickelson and  South Africa ’s Grace shot 3-under-par 69
during the final round to finish tied at 17-under par.  Bunker to Playoff  Spieth, who turns 20 on July 27, holed out for birdie from
a bunker on the final hole of yesterday’s fourth round to get
into the John Deere Classic playoff at 19-under.  On the fifth extra hole, he made a two-foot putt for a par
and the victory after both Hearn and Johnson, the defending
champion, made bogeys. Hearn had missed a five-foot birdie putt
for the win on the fourth playoff hole.  Spieth, the 2009 and 2011 U.S. Junior Amateur champion, had
five previous top-10 finishes this season.  “I wanted to just earn my Tour card for next year,” said
Spieth, who as a freshman helped the University of Texas’s golf
team win a national championship. “I had a plan. I guess the
plan got exceeded.”  Will Wilcox yesterday became the fourth golfer in the
history of the second-tier Web.com Tour to shoot 59, recording
10 birdies and an eagle during the final round of the Utah
Championship. He finished one shot out of a playoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  