-- MK Restaurants Seeks to Raise Up to $292 Million in Thai IPO
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-15T03:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/mk-restaurants-seeks-to-raise-up-to-292-million-in-thai-ipo.html
MK Restaurants Group Pcl (MKG) , a Thai
restaurant-chain operator, plans to raise as much as 9.1 billion
baht ($292 million) in the nation’s second-biggest initial
public offering this year.  MK  will sell 185.9 million new shares to local investors at
45 baht to 49 baht apiece, according to two people with
knowledge of the deal who asked not to be identified. The IPO
would be Thailand’s largest since  BTS Group Holdings Pcl (BTS)  raised
62.5 billion in the sale of its  infrastructure fund  in April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thai companies including  CK Power Ltd. (CKP)  have revived share
sales that were postponed as global equity markets tumbled.
Overseas investors have bought a net 279 million baht of Thai
stocks so far this month after net sales of 55 billion baht in
June, the biggest monthly outflow since May 2010, according to
stock exchange  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  has gained 7 percent from this year’s
low on June 24. The benchmark index is still down 11 percent
since May 21, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank may scale back stimulus measures.  MK, which operated 460 outlets in Thailand as of March 31
and has ventures in Japan, Singapore and  Vietnam , will use the
IPO proceeds to build a food-processing plant, corporate
headquarters and additional outlets, according to a June 12
regulatory  filing .  Chief Executive Officer Rit Thirakomen wasn’t immediately
available for comment when called at his office in Bangkok
today. MK hired  Asia Plus Securities Pcl (ASP) , Phatra Securities Co.
and Bualuang Securities Pcl to help sell the shares.  MK’s net income fell to 486 million baht in the three
months ended March, from 554 million baht a year earlier,
according to its Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  CK Power, a unit of Bangkok-based  Ch. Karnchang Pcl (CK) , plans
to raise 2.86 billion baht in its IPO, it said on July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  