-- Kerry Returns to Mideast to Discuss Israeli-Palestinian Peace
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-16T02:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/kerry-travels-to-mideast-to-meet-arab-officials-in-jordan-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
is heading to the Middle East for the sixth time in five months
for talks about reviving Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations
and responding to  Syria ’s civil war.  Kerry plans to meet in Amman, Jordan, with Arab League and
Jordanian officials, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told
reporters yesterday in Washington. In addition to Mideast peace
efforts and Syria, Kerry will brief them on Deputy Secretary
William Burns’s meetings this week with Egyptian officials.  Kerry, who was in the region two weeks ago, claimed
progress at that time in prodding Israelis and Palestinians back
toward peace negotiations and in reaching agreement with  Russia 
about an eventual peace conference on Syria’s civil war.  State Department officials, at least initially, played down
expectations for Kerry’s latest visit. Kerry left Washington
last night.  Psaki said there were no plans to visit  Israel .  While refusing to provide details about Kerry’s plans to
work on the Mideast peace process during the trip, Psaki said,
“The secretary would not be going back to the region if he did
not feel there was an opportunity to keep taking steps forward
in providing an update to representatives of the Arab League, as
part of that. But beyond that, I don’t have any announcements or
predictions to make for all of you.”  While he’s in Amman, Kerry also is expected to meet with
officials from  Egypt ’s interim government, according to a State
Department official wasn’t authorized to speak for attribution.
The official said it wasn’t clear which officials would come or
how high-ranking they would be.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  