-- Koreas Holding Third Round of Talks Aimed at Restarting Gaeseong
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-07-15T01:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/koreas-holding-third-round-of-talks-aimed-at-restarting-gaeseong.html
South Korean negotiators crossed the
demilitarized zone for the third time in just over a week as
they seek agreement with their North Korean counterparts on
restarting a jointly-operated industrial park.  The two sides met at the Gaeseong factory complex located
10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the border today, picking up
where they left off in talks on July 10, the South’s Unification
Ministry said. More than 150 businessmen from 48 textile
companies were scheduled to visit Gaeseong today to survey
facilities and retrieve completed goods they left behind when
the North shut the zone in April.  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s regime has begun toning
down its rhetoric since June, after withdrawing its workers from
Gaeseong on April 8 to protest tightened United Nations
sanctions and U.S.-South Korean military drills. Kim’s isolation
intensified after  China , his biggest backer, joined the U.S. and
 South Korea  in condemning his nuclear ambitions.  While the Unification Ministry said July 7 the two Koreas
share a desire to reopen Gaeseong, they haven’t agreed on the
details. South  Korea  wants the North to take measures to prevent
future closures, while the North is calling on the South not to
do anything -- like conduct military exercises -- that hinders
operations at Gaeseong.  The outcome of the talks will “have a bearing on overall
inter-Korean relations” and the South will face “serious
misfortune” if it maintains its “arrogant demeanor,” the
Secretariat of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of
Korea told the South on July 11, according to a notice carried
by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency on July 13.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s government has said
it will not engage the North until it gives up its nuclear
weapons, aside from talks on joint economic projects and
humanitarian issues.  Park was elected last year partly on a pledge to boost ties
through “trust-building.” She has said a nuclear-armed  North
Korea  is unacceptable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  