-- Korea Bond Yield Slips to 3-Week Low Before China GDP; Won Rises
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-15T01:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/korea-bond-yield-slips-to-3-week-low-before-china-gdp-won-rises.html
South Korean bonds rose, pushing the
benchmark five-year yield to the lowest level in more than three
weeks, ahead of data that may show growth in  China  slowed. The
won strengthened.  Second-quarter expansion in the world’s second-largest
economy and South Korea’s biggest trading partner eased to 7.5
percent from 7.7 percent in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 45 economists
before data due today. The Kospi stock index fell 0.8 percent as
global investors sold more shares than they bought, snapping two
days of net purchases, exchange data show.  “Demand for bonds is strong as stocks are out of investor
favor,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income strategist at Hanwha
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Concerns that a slowdown in  China’s
economy  is deepening are helping fuel some flight-to-safety bids
for now.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March
2018 fell five basis points to 3.08 percent, the lowest level
since June 19, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show.  The won gained 0.03 percent to 1,124.15 per dollar as of
10:40 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, gained 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, to 8.64 percent.  South Korea’s won should outperform its regional peers as
the “pass-through impact from the U.S. business cycle kicks
in,” according to a report dated July 11 from Siddharth Mathur,
Singapore-based head of Asia Strategy at Citigroup Inc., and two
other analysts.  Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang ,
grappling with the prospect of the weakest increase in gross
domestic product in 23 years, have indicated they will tolerate
slower growth to focus on policy changes to create more
sustainable expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  