-- Kuehne & Nagel Profit Rises as Cuts Help Resist Slump
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-07-15T07:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/kuehne-nagel-profit-rises-as-cost-cuts-help-withstand-slump.html
(Corrects sales estimate in second paragraph.)  Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN) , the
world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder, said second-quarter
profit rose as the market for shipments by sea expanded and a
reorganization helped the company reduce costs.  Net income rose 6.3 percent to 153 million Swiss francs
($162 million), meeting analyst estimates collected by
Bloomberg, Schindellegi, Switzerland-based Kuehne & Nagel said
today in a  statement . Net invoiced turnover advanced 1.1 percent
to 4.37 billion francs, trailing the average estimate of 4.44
billion francs collected by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest
and taxes gained 8.2 percent to 197 million francs.  Subdued economic activity is weighing on shipping companies
as countries sharing the euro continue to struggle with the
longest recession since the currency was introduced. Kuehne is
closing 92 locations in its rail and road unit to focus on
profitable regions.  “The results underline that the measurements introduced to
improve efficiency on a group-wide level are effective,”
Chairman and interim Chief Executive Officer Karl Gernandt said
in the statement. “Although we do not anticipate a significant
stimulation of global trade in the second half, we will continue
to focus on profitable growth.”  Air freight volumes handled in the first half rose 4
percent, in contrast with a contraction in the market, while
container volumes rose 3 percent, ahead of market growth of 1
percent to 2 percent, the company said.  Kuehne & Nagel reiterated a forecast that its sea-freight
volume will rise 4 percent to 6 percent this year, outpacing
market growth of 2 percent to 3 percent. Air-freight will
increase 1 percent to 3 percent, compared with a market Kuehne
now forecasts to decline by as much as 2 percent.  Former Chief Executive Officer Reinhard Lange stepped down
May 7 for health reasons, with Gernandt now leading the company
on an interim basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  