-- Naked Wife Jostles Spacecraft Plan at Outsider Art Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-07-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/naked-wife-jostles-spacecraft-plan-at-outsider-art-show.html
The outsiders are heading inside --
at least in the art world.  First at the Venice Biennale, and now in an exhibition at
the Hayward Gallery in  London , there are prominent displays of
work by individuals with ideas and ways of life that are
distinctly non-standard. Some lived out their lives in mental
hospitals; others were homeless on city streets.  “ The Alternative Guide to the Universe ” at the Hayward
(until Aug. 26) is an exhibition of what is sometimes dubbed
“outsider art” -- meaning by individuals not officially
recognized as artists by art-world insiders. Included are highly
unorthodox takes on architecture, science and, in one particular
case, the artist’s wife.  The result is enjoyable partly because of the sheer
eccentricity of many of the ideas and artists involved. Take the
case of Marcel Storr (1911-1976), who was convinced that Paris
(where he lived) was in imminent danger of destruction by
nuclear attack. After that, he believed, the President of the
U.S. would borrow his visionary drawings to help with the
reconstruction.  How Storr -- who was illiterate, deaf and worked as a
street sweeper in the Bois de Boulogne -- got hold of this idea
is not quite clear. His works suggest that he envisaged Paris
being reconstructed as a cross between the Kremlin and the
Brighton Pavilion, in a range of pinkish-red hues: rather
pretty, though not really an improvement.  Megalomaniac Buildings  As you walk around, you realize that outsider artists
belong to groups and stick to genres just like insider ones.
Megalomaniac and futuristic building schemes are a
preoccupation, for example (just as they are with actual
architects).  Swiss-American A.G. Rizzoli (1896-1981) was, graphically
speaking, much more sophisticated than Storr, having received
some training as a draughtsman. A bachelor, he lived with his
mother and slept in a cot at the foot of her bed.  Many of his elaborately imagined buildings were symbolic
representations of people, including his mother -- reconfigured
as a cathedral -- and “The Mailomile” (1936), in which a
postman was, he explained, “metamorphosed into a structure
following classical proportions throughout.”  Then there are those who made art out of their private
lives, such as Eugene Von Bruenchenhein (1910-1983). After
marrying his wife in 1943, the baker from  Wisconsin  spent much
of the next two decades photographing her semi-nude or in
extravagant costumes that recalled those of Hollywood stars Rita Hayworth and Carmen Miranda. These images seem like the records
of a happy if unusual relationship.  Homeless Painter  The career of Lee Godie (1908-1994), if not conventionally
successful, was triumphant in another way. She managed to work
as a painter while living on the streets of  Chicago . She also
produced a series of photographs of herself in various costumes
with assorted props and makeup, all taken in photo booths. She
was, in other words, the Cindy Sherman of rough sleepers.  Another subcategory are off-the-wall scientific thinkers,
among them Karl Hans Janke (1909-1988), who during 40 years
spent in a rural psychiatric hospital in East Germany developed
(as the catalog puts it) “strikingly original theories about
the history of the universe and evolution.” His numerous
inventions for spacecraft and nuclear devices were signed and
stamped by his doctor.  All of this is entertainingly odd, and some of it, such as
A.G. Rizzoli’s drawings, visually compelling as well. Still, I
found myself thinking that the barrier between artists who are
in and those left out is wafer-thin. To their contemporaries,
William Blake and Vincent van Gogh must have seemed every bit as
nutty as some of those in this exhibition.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 