-- Nespresso Adds Clooney, Fairtrade for Coffee Ethics Panel
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-07-15T16:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/nespresso-adds-clooney-fairtrade-for-coffee-ethics-panel.html
Nespresso, the biggest maker of
single-serve coffee, will introduce its sustainability program
to  Africa  as it forms a board with the heads of Fairtrade
International and Rainforest Alliance plus actor George Clooney.  The  Nestle SA (NESN)  division plans to start the program in
Ethiopia and Kenya as well as try to help reestablish a coffee
industry in South Sudan, Nespresso said in a statement today.  “We always need more coffee,” especially sustainable
coffee, Nespresso Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marc Duvoisin
said at a press conference in Lausanne, Switzerland.  Nestle is highlighting Nespresso’s environmental and labor
standards of production as competition in single-serve coffee
intensifies. Rival capsules that work in Nespresso machines
probably squeezed the brand’s first-quarter  sales growth  to 8
percent, the slowest pace in its history, Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich, has estimated.  “This is a great, big company working very hard to help
people at the bottom,” Clooney, who already appears in
Nespresso advertisements, said at the press conference. “It’s
smart business.”  Nespresso has surpassed an objective of obtaining 80
percent of its coffee through the company’s AAA sustainability
program, which started 10 years ago, Duvoisin said. Nespresso
buys coffee from 56,000 farmers under the program and pays them
a 30 percent to 40 percent premium to  New York  market prices.
Colombia, Costa Rica,  Guatemala ,  India  and  Mexico  are among
countries where farmers take part in the AAA projects, according
to Nespresso’s  website .  “They benefit and we benefit,” Duvoisin said, adding that
Nespresso relies on access to the top 1 percent to 2 percent of
the best quality coffee.  Nespresso will introduce capsules with African blends next
year, and it may help produce rare Sudanese varieties, Duvoisin
said. The company isn’t raising prices to consumers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Lausanne via 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  