-- Nissan Revives Datsun Brand With Hatchback Model in India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-07-15T09:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/nissan-revives-datsun-brand-in-india-with-five-door-hatchback.html
Nissan Motor Co. unveiled its first
model under the revived Datsun brand, a five-door hatchback,
targeted at attracting budget buyers from  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. (MSIL)  and Hyundai Motor Co. in Asia’s third-biggest car market.  The 1.2-liter model, called Datsun Go, will go on sale in
India early next year, according to the carmaker. Nissan, which
didn’t disclose the car’s pricing at an event in New Delhi
today, reiterated it will be under 400,000 rupees ($6,700).  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  will have to overcome
an initial lack of  brand recognition  for the Datsun among
consumers in  emerging markets , where the automaker is pushing to
gain more sales from first-time buyers. The marque was
mothballed in 1981 after Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan decided to
badge future products under its namesake brand.  “Datsun is back,” Ghosn said in the Indian capital today.
The brand will “contribute significantly” to Nissan’s growth
in high-growth markets, he said.  Nissan targets to have 10 percent of market share in India
by 2016, Ghosn said. Last year, the automaker had less than a 2
percent share of the 1.89 million cars sold in India in the
period, while market leader Maruti had 45 percent, according to
data from the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Emerging Markets  The Datsun brand will help Nissan compete in the lowest
price ranges in economies such as India,  Russia  and  Indonesia ,
which account for about 40 percent of the market, Ghosn has
said. The automaker said previously it expects to introduce the
Datsun in Indonesia, Russia and  South Africa  within two years.  Datsun will target first-time buyers upgrading from
motorcycles or used cars, allowing the automaker to reach a new
market segment, Ghosn said in March 2012. Reviving the Datsun
name, even if it’s unfamiliar to consumers in emerging markets,
beats starting a new brand, he said.  Nissan plans to more than triple the number of dealerships
in India to 350 from 100 in the “medium term,” Trevor Mann, an
executive vice president at Nissan, said in an interview today.
The automaker will add 30 outlets this year, he said.  The Datsun Go measures 3.785 meters in length and is
equipped with a five-speed manual transmission, according to the
company. That compares with the 242,776-rupee Maruti Alto and
the 285,284-rupee Hyundai Eon, both equipped with 0.8-liter
engines and measuring 3.4 meters and 3.5 meters in length
respectively, according to the companies’ websites.  Compacts and minicars accounted for about 75 percent of
passenger-car deliveries in  India  last year, according to SIAM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  