-- Northern Ireland Drafts in More Police as Violence Flares Again
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-15T11:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/northern-ireland-drafts-in-more-police-as-violence-flares-again.html
Northern Irish police prepared to
draft in more officers to combat rioting after a third night of
violence flared around the time when the Protestant Orange Order
marches to celebrate a 17th century victory over Catholics.  Police held five people between the ages of 15 and 25 last
night on suspicion of riotous behavior in Newtownabbey north of
 Belfast . In all, 49 people have been arrested since trouble
first broke out on July 11, the eve of the biggest parade,  the
Police Service of Northern Ireland said.   The marching season is traditionally a flashpoint in
 Northern Ireland  each year and 44 officers have been hurt in
clashes stemming from restrictions on parades held by the  Orange
Order . While the organization suspended organized protests after
violence erupted, riots have continued in some of the worst
scenes in the region since a wave of loyalist demonstrations
paralyzed it in late December.  Police placed more than 4,000 officers on the streets of
Northern Ireland on July 12. Hundreds more will be drafted in
from across the U.K., a police spokeswoman said today,
confirming a comment by Assistant Chief Constable Will Kerr.  Some 31 petrol bombs were thrown last night, police said.
Twenty-two people were charged in connection with the protests.  Peter Robinson , leader of the Democratic Unionist Party and
leader of the province’s local government, condemned attacks on
police on July 12, while saying the independent Parades
Commission bears much of the responsibility for the situation.  Martin McGuinness , deputy first minister and a member of
nationalist  Sinn Fein , said on Twitter yesterday that recent
events in Belfast have been “unacceptable” as he urged talks
between parties involved.  The Orange Order’s marching season, with their pipes and
drums, stretches from April until late August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  