-- Northern Irish Police Say Bombs Thrown in Fourth Night of Riots
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/northern-irish-police-say-bombs-thrown-in-fourth-night-of-riots.html
Police  in  Belfast  were attacked with
explosives and gasoline bombs last night as riots continued for
a fourth night and protests spread over a ban on a Protestant
parade passing by a Catholic area of the city.  Bombs were thrown at police lines in the Newtownards Road
area of east Belfast, a police spokesman said in a recorded
message yesterday. In north Belfast a “pipe-bomb-type device”
was thrown at police. No injuries were reported.  The violence began on July 12, the climax of a Protestant
celebration of a 17th century victory over Catholics, when
thousands of parades marking the victory take place across
Northern Ireland. One such parade was  banned  from passing by the
Catholic district of Ardoyne in north Belfast and Protestants
have been protesting at the decision since then.  Police closed off areas of east, north and south Belfast
last night as trouble flared. An area of Portadown, a town
around 40 miles south of Belfast, was closed to vehicles because
of gathering crowds. Water cannons were deployed in Belfast and
at least one plastic bullet was fired by police during the
violence.  Northern Ireland  is enduring its most violent year in a
decade after loyalists, who want the region to remain part of
the U.K., staged months of protests at the start of the year
over a decision not to fly the British flag from Belfast’s city
hall every day. Those protests, which began in December, didn’t
end until March.  Power-Sharing Assembly  The region’s power-sharing assembly, revived in 2007 as
part of a peace deal that ended three-decades of violence which
claimed 3,500 lives before largely petering out in the
mid-1990s, is being recalled today to debate the latest
violence.  The assembly is dominated by the pro-U.K. Democratic
Unionist Party and  Sinn Fein , whose allies in the  Irish
Republican Army  fought for a united Ireland from 1969 until
formally ordering an end to their campaign in 2005 and pledging
to pursue its goal peacefully.  The Police Service of Northern Ireland, formed in 2001 to
replace the mainly Protestant Royal Ulster Constabulary, has
drafted in more than 1,000 officers from other parts of the U.K.
to help deal with the rioting. Special courts have been created
in Belfast to deal speedily with those charged with rioting.  Last month, the region, which has the fastest-growing
 unemployment rate  in the U.K., staged the G8 summit, with
British Prime Minister  David Cameron  saying it provided an
opportunity for Northern Ireland to attract international
investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  