-- Ntelos CEO Sees Company as Strategic Asset Amid Dealmaking
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-07-15T21:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/ntelos-ceo-sees-company-as-strategic-asset-as-mergers-escalate.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $1.2 billion deal for
 Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  underscores growing demand for
the wireless industry’s most coveted commodity: the airwaves
needed to keep calls and data flowing over congested networks,
said  Ntelos Holdings Corp. (NTLS)  Chief Executive Officer James Hyde.  AT&T’s offer for Leap last week represented an 88 percent
premium over the prepaid mobile-phone provider’s market value.
Hyde said the AT&T deal boosts the value of wireless carrier
Ntelos -- a view shared by investors who are bidding up the
stock amid takeover speculation.  “These transactions are being done at increased
valuations,” Hyde said in an interview. “That’s always a good
thing when you are a public company like Ntelos.”  Ntelos, based in Waynesboro,  Virginia ,  rallied  6.1 percent
to $17.81 at today’s close in  New York  amid speculation that it
could be a target for AT&T, Verizon Wireless,  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) 
or  Sprint Corp. (S)   AT&T moved to acquire Leap after MetroPCS Communications
Inc., another prepaid competitor, was scooped up in May by
Deutsche Telekom AG, which combined the carrier with its T-Mobile division. SoftBank Corp., meanwhile, acquired a
controlling stake in Sprint on July 10 and is giving the carrier
a $5 billion cash infusion to help it expand its network and
potentially make more deals. Sprint also completed an
acquisition of wireless-network partner Clearwire Corp. last
week.  Six States  Ntelos  serves  about 450,000 retail customers as well as
wholesale subscribers in Virginia,  West Virginia , Maryland,
Ohio, Kentucky and North Carolina. The company has agreements
with Sprint and Dish Network Corp.  The carrier had $132 million in licenses for radio spectrum
-- the airwaves that allow mobile phones to send voice calls and
connect to the Internet -- at the end of last quarter, according
to a filing. At today’s share price, Ntelos has a market value
of about $380 million.  The licenses include spectrum in frequency bands know as
PCS, AWS and WCS, with the PCS airwaves covering an area with a
population of 7.9 million, according to the company’s annual
report. Leap holds PCS and AWS spectrum covering 137 million
people, it said last week.  “Just the mere fact that we provide wholesale services --
clearly, we’ve got a strategic set of assets,” Hyde said. He
declined to comment on whether the company is in talks to be
acquired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  