-- NWR Slumps Toward Record as S&P Cut Hammers Bonds: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-07-15T16:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/nwr-slumps-toward-record-as-s-p-cut-hammers-bonds-prague-mover.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR)  shares and
bonds tumbled after the unprofitable Czech coking-coal producer
said its attempts to sell a mine have not succeeded and as
Standard & Poor’s lowered its credit rating.  The stock slumped 14 percent, the most since June 20, to
18.80 koruna by close in  Prague , extending this year’s plunge to
81 percent and trading near its record-low 17.75 koruna reached
on June 27. Yields on NWR’s notes due in January 2021 jumped 140
basis points, or 1.4 percentage point, to 34.91 percent.  NWR, which has been cutting costs and preparing asset sales
amid falling demand for coal from steelmakers, may temporarily
or permanently shut down its Paskov mine as its disposal is
“unlikely at present,” the company said in a statement today.
A failure to raise money through divestment may prompt the miner
to sell new shares,  Josef Nemy , an analyst at Komercni Banka AS
in Prague, wrote in a report to clients today.  “The news confirmed our concern that NWR will find it hard
to sell its assets, and is significantly increasing the risk of
a new share issuance at a discount to the market price,” said
Nemy, who has a sell recommendation on the company.  S&P downgraded NWR to B-, its sixth-lowest non-investment
grade, with a negative outlook from B in a report on July 12
after the stock market closed, citing reduced forecasts for
coking-coal prices and the company’s cash position. It revised
its assessment of the Czech miner’s business risk profile to
“vulnerable” from “weak” and its liquidity to “less than
adequate” from “adequate.”  “The stock was further hurt today by S&P’s rating cut,”
Nemy said.  ‘Weaker Prices’  NWR said in May it was seeking a buyer for its OKK coking
unit and that it may sell or close some mines after it posted a
first-quarter loss as a recession in the Czech Republic and the
euro area damped demand for coking coal. Benchmark  contracts  for
the commodity delivered to  China  have fallen 18 percent this
year to $130 a metric ton, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The negative outlook reflects the possibility of a
downgrade in the coming quarters if NWR fails to sell its coke
facility and secure a covenant waiver from its banks by early
2014,” S&P wrote. “A downgrade could also occur if NWR’s cash
burn continues in the second half of 2013 because of weaker
prices, its inability to fully meet its cost-cutting targets,
and high restructuring costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  