-- Obama’s Employer Health Care Delay May Goose Exchange Enrollment
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/obama-s-employer-health-care-delay-may-goose-exchange-enrollment.html
Freeing companies from a U.S.-
government mandate to offer employees health care is setting off
a chain of events that may enlarge the pool of uninsured
Americans. That may be good for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  The success of the 2010 Affordable Care Act is largely
dependent on how many people are willing to buy subsidized
health plans through government exchanges. Most of the people
affected by Obama’s decision this month to delay the employer
mandate to provide health care will now be eligible to use the
exchanges when they open Oct. 1.  The law’s creation of state-by-state marketplaces had
targeted about 26 million of the more than 50 million uninsured
Americans for coverage. “A few million” more may now be made
eligible by the delay, said Larry Levitt, senior vice president
at the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation research group.  “This administration needs people to enroll in health
insurance, and they want them to enroll in health insurance
through the exchanges,” said Chris Condeluci, a lawyer at
Venable LLP in  Washington  who helped write the Affordable Care
Act while working as a Senate Finance Committee aide.  Obama, a Democrat, has been stymied by Republicans in his
effort to implement the law. The employer-mandate delay has
emboldened Republicans, who have three House committee hearings
scheduled this week on the Affordable Care Act, and have set
plans to vote on legislation to scale back two major provisions.  “Each provision you delay continues to demonstrate that
the entire law is unworkable,” U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ,
a Republican from  Ohio , said in a July 9  letter  to Obama.  Howard Dean  Boehner demanded additional information about the employer-mandate delay, including estimates on “the change in the number
of individuals receiving subsidies through” the exchanges.  The July 2 announcement by the Obama administration lets
employers with 50 or more workers wait until 2015 to comply with
a mandate to provide full-time workers with health insurance.
Former Democratic Party Chairman Howard Dean said increased
enrollment in the exchanges will be “an unintended effect” of
the employer-coverage delay.  “What this means is that if you don’t have insurance, the
exchange is your default position, not the employer,” Dean, who
is a medical doctor and served as  Vermont ’s governor from 1991
to 2003, said in a phone interview. “This will drive more
people into the exchanges, and that’s good.”  Foot Locker  If the exchanges are to benefit, it will be as a result of
many separate decisions by large employers affecting small
numbers of workers. For athletic apparel retailer  Foot Locker
Inc. (FL) , the delay may affect “a few hundred” people out of its
38,000-person workforce, said Ken Hicks, the New York-based
company’s chairman and chief executive officer.  “For larger companies, it’s not that big a deal,” he said
in a phone interview.  In 2012, 95 percent of companies with at least 50 workers
offered health benefits to at least some of their workers,
according to  Menlo Park , California-based Kaiser, which has been
tracking implementation of the health law.  That leaves a thin margin for exchange enrollment beyond
what was already projected, said Kevin Counihan, the executive
director of  Connecticut ’s exchange. The effect of the employer-mandate delay is probably “more symbolic than substantive,”
and it’s up to the exchanges to get word out that the programs
are available, he said.  Wegmans Workers  The affected  Foot Locker  employees work 30 to 40 hours a
week. Instead of immediately reducing their hours to less than
30 -- the threshold that triggers the health law’s requirement
for employers to offer health care -- companies will see the
delay as something that “allows you time to get them situated
properly,” Hicks said.  “We now have time to get them to the 30 hours or make a
determination whether we want to make them full time,” he said.  Wegmans Food Markets Inc., a supermarket chain based in
Rochester,  New York , said in a  statement  that the health law
means “eligibility requirements will change” for part-time
employees, though it didn’t say if anyone would lose their
company-sponsored coverage and be eligible for the exchanges.  At least 14 states are building their own exchanges, and
the federal government is setting up the rest for the remainder
of the 50 U.S. states.  About 7 million people are expected to get coverage through
their state exchanges in 2014, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office , and the Obama administration has said at least
2.6 million of them would need to be young and healthy to hold
down costs for insurers and in turn keep premiums affordable.  Young People  Any increase in enrollment, particularly by young people
such as restaurant workers, will help the exchanges by making
their pool of customers less risky to cover. That could lead to
lower premiums starting in 2015, said Jay Angoff, a Mehri &
Skalet law partner who had been director of insurance oversight
at the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services under Obama.  “The  insurance industry  obviously has a huge economic
interest in the exchanges working and getting people into the
exchanges,” he said in a phone interview. “I think you’ll see
the industry marketing aggressively and creatively to get young
healthy people into the exchanges.”  About 25 million people are  expected  to gain coverage from
the Affordable Care Act by 2016, which includes the state
exchanges, an expansion of Medicaid and reduced employer
coverage, the Congressional Budget Office said in a May report.
The CBO had  projected  when the law was signed in 2010 that 32
million uninsured people would be on a health plan within a
decade, and a year later raised its estimate to 34 million.  Political Wrangling  Expectations for the $1.3 trillion health-care system
overhaul are being pulled back as the expansion initially relied
on governors to build the network of insurance marketplaces and
expand Medicaid, the joint federal-state insurance program for
the poor. At least 22 Republican governors have said they’ll
refuse to participate in the health exchanges and a Supreme
Court decision lets them also opt out of the Medicaid expansion.  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  has
voted 37 times to repeal or defund all or part of the Affordable
Care Act, which was enacted with only Democratic votes. Two
legislative votes planned for this week include a delay of the
employer mandate, which Obama is already doing, and a delay in
the so-called individual mandate that requires most Americans to
have health insurance by 2014 or pay a fine.  Committee Hearings  Two of the hearings, by the Ways and Means Committee on
July 17 and the Energy and Commerce Committee on July 18,
examine the administration’s delay of the employer requirement.
The third, by the Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
will explore privacy concerns related to a computer system the
government is building to support enrollment in new insurance
programs.  “For the last three years, the Affordable Care Act --
commonly known as Obamacare -- has been plagued by broken
promises, projected cost increases, delays, and missed
deadlines,” Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton ,
a Michigan Republican, said in a July 11  statement . “It’s clear
we have no idea of the full scope of delays and disarray that
may be coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  