-- Obama Honors George H.W. Bush for Sparking Volunteerism
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-07-15T18:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/obama-honors-george-h-w-bush-for-sparking-volunteerism.html
President  Barack Obama  was joined by
former President  George H. W. Bush  and his wife, Barbara, to
honor volunteerism in the U.S. and to celebrate a milestone for
the organization created by Bush in 1989 to spark interest in
volunteer service.  Obama credited Bush with igniting a national movement for
volunteerism at schools and businesses and among individuals,
and said such service is “vital to our national character.”  The former president, 89 and largely confined to a
wheelchair, spoke briefly to thank Obama for the invitation to
the White House, saying “It’s like coming home for Barbara and
me.”  The two presidents from rival political parties were
brought together for a salute to an Iowa couple who received the
5,000th daily award from the Points of Light group, a nonprofit
based in Atlanta that grew out of Bush’s focus on volunteerism.  Floyd Hammer and Kathy Hamilton, a retired couple and farm
owners from Union,  Iowa , were honored for founding a nonprofit
organization that delivers free meals to hungry children in the
U.S. and more than 15 countries.  In the last nine years, their group has assembled thousands
of volunteers to help distribute more than 232 million free
meals to children worldwide.  Points of Light involves about 4 million volunteers doing
30 million hours of service each year. It carries out public
service activities through affiliates in 250 cities and
partnerships, along with thousands of nonprofits and
corporations, the White House said in a statement.  Spreading Stars  In his inaugural address in 1989, Bush talked about “ a
thousand points of light, of all the community organizations
that are spread like stars throughout the nation.”  During his 1989-1993 term in office, Bush handed out daily
Point of Light awards to acknowledge people who aid their
communities through volunteerism.  Obama announced that he’s creating a new federal  task force 
to find more ways to widen public and private volunteerism to
tackling national priorities. The task force will be headed by
the Corporation for National and Community Service and the White
House Domestic Policy Council.  Michelle Nunn, the chief executive of Points of Light, and
Neil Bush, one of the president’s sons and the group’s chairman,
also participated in the ceremony, as did former members of
Bush’s administration. Former President  George W. Bush , the son
of  George H.W. Bush  and Obama’s immediate predecessor in office,
didn’t attend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  