-- Loblaw Shifts to Inner City in Battle With Wal-Mart
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-16T14:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/loblaw-agrees-to-acquire-shoppers-drug-mart-for-c-12-4-billion.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) ’ C$12.4 billion ($11.9
billion) purchase of Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. gives the Canadian
grocer an edge over bigger U.S. rivals such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  by adding downtown stores across the country.  The second-biggest grocery acquisition of the past decade
will see Loblaw gain a drugstore chain with more than  1,240 
small-format stores, many in inner cities. The downtown stores
allow Loblaw to sell more groceries in the Shoppers’ drug
stores, while adding more pharmacy items in its food outlets.  The Shoppers Drug Mart acquisition is the latest attempt by
Loblaw, Canada’s biggest grocer, to fend off increasing
competition from Wal-Mart and Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) 
Target plans to open 124 stores in  Canada  this year, growing to
200 outlets by 2020. Wal-Mart is adding 37 stores to its 379
locations, while expanding its fresh-food offerings.  “There’s a great space for large one-stop shopping
supermarkets or superstores in Canada,” said Galen G. Weston,
Loblaw’s chairman and son of Canada’s second-wealthiest man.
“But with the urbanization of the Canadian market, small stores
that can offer a really compelling combination of goods and
services is a fantastic bolt-on for us.”  As populations shift from the suburbs to cities, Canadian
retailers are racing to open smaller-format stores in densely
populated areas. More expensive real estate and a scarcity of
good locations are two of the challenges facing retailers. Wal-Mart found this out earlier this year when residents of
Toronto’s Kensington Market neighborhood collected 75,000
signatures for a  petition  opposing a new outlet planned by the
world’s largest retailer.  Hectic Competition  “It gives Loblaw prime locations in urban areas where Wal-Mart and Target don’t compete as much,” said  Alex Arifuzzaman ,
a partner of Interstratics Consultants Inc., a Toronto-based
retail consulting firm. “They’re getting out of that really
hectic competition in the suburbs and the big boxes and now they
have a lot of access to the urban locations which are growing.”  The deal -- the largest between two Canadian companies
since 2009 -- accelerates consolidation in the retail industry
that saw Loblaw rival Sobeys Inc. buy  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s Canadian
grocery stores for C$5.8 billion last month.  Toronto-based Shoppers’ pharmacies are on average 10,500
square feet, compared with Loblaw’s average size that is six
times bigger. Wal-Mart stores average about 180,000 square feet,
according to data from Bloomberg Industries.  Not in Canada  Target’s City Target format and Wal-Mart’s Neighborhood
Market stores, at about 40,000 square feet on average, are both
intended for urban areas but haven’t made their debut in Canada.
Target, whose food offerings in Canada don’t include fresh
fruits and vegetables, opened its first store in Canada this
year and is opening 18 more today. Bentonville, Arkansas-based
Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, is adding fresh-food
sections to its large-format stores.  Loblaw is already experimenting with smaller stores under
its  ’The Box’  banner. Canadian home-improvement chain  Rona Inc. (RON) 
has announced plans to sell big-box locations to focus on
“proximity stores,” which are often one fifth the size.  Investors welcomed the deal yesterday, with Shoppers Drug
Mart  rising  24 percent in Toronto, the biggest increase since
the company started trading in 2001. Loblaw rose 5.4 percent,
the biggest gain in seven months.  Loblaw fell 0.6 percent at 10 a.m. today to C$49.85 while
Shoppers dropped 0.2 percent to C$59.99. Loblaw is controlled by
W.G. Galen Weston’s  George Weston Ltd. (WN)  Weston is the world’s
88th-richest person, worth about $11.4 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fresh Food  Lisa Gibson, a Target spokeswoman, wouldn’t comment on the
impact of the Loblaw transaction.  “Target has announced plans to open 124 stores across 10
provinces in communities large and small this year and will
announce plans at a later date for additional stores opening
beyond 2013,” she said.  E-mails to Wal-Mart Canada’s press-relations department
weren’t returned.  Loblaw will boost the food offering in Shoppers stores,
including adding a section for fresh food and featuring Loblaw’s
private-label brands, Vicente Trius, Loblaw’s president, said on
a conference call with analysts.  “Imagine going into the stores and being able to do a very
basic, full-grocery shop,” Trius said of the food offerings
planned for Shoppers stores.  Shoppers’ private label brands will in turn find their way
into Loblaw stores to help boost the grocers’ pharmacy offering.  Antitrust Review  With Shoppers projecting people over the age of 65 to make
up 25 percent of the Canadian population by 2036, inroads into
the pharmacy business, where Wal-Mart and Target also have a
presence, was another reason for the acquisition, according to
Trius. The combined company will have 125 million prescriptions,
or 25 percent of the Canadian market, he said.  Canada’s Competition Bureau will review the proposed
transaction, Greg Scott, a spokesman for the agency in Ottawa,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “I think they probably will approve it,” Arifuzzaman
said. “What they might do is sometimes they force a retailer
that has above a certain threshold in certain markets to divest
some of it.”  Loblaw doesn’t expect regulators will require store
divestitures, Trius said on the conference call. The merger will
lead to cost savings of about C$300 million by the third year,
the companies said.  ‘High Margin’  Shoppers had been in contact with other companies
concerning a sale, Chief Executive Officer Domenic Pilla said on
the call.  “Drug store retailing is a relatively high-margin business
so it makes sense for the grocery retailers to concentrate more
of their efforts on their pharmacy,” Dennis Mitchell, chief
investment officer of Toronto-based Sentry Investments Inc.,
which manages C$10 billion including Shoppers stock, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “If they can combine with the best-in-class provider in the country, it makes a lot of sense.”  Mitchell said Sentry hasn’t decided if it will vote for the
deal.  The combined entity would have had  revenue  of more than
C$42 billion in 2012, the companies said. Loblaw, based in
Brampton, Ontario, and  Shoppers Drug Mart (SC)  together had earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
C$3 billion last year.  “The market is evolving rapidly and convenience and
accessibility are an imperative,” Kenric Tyghe, an analyst at
Raymond James Financial Inc., said in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “It’s a lot easier for Loblaw to lead from the front
than playing catch up afterwards as the formats evolve in
Canada.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  