-- Lockheed F-35 May Stay Protected, Pentagon’s Buyer Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-15T15:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/lockheed-f-35-may-stay-protected-pentagon-s-buyer-says.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
may be protected from major cuts even if $52 billion in
automatic reductions are imposed on the  defense budget  in the
year starting Oct. 1, according to the Pentagon’s chief weapons
buyer.  “The F-35 is a very high priority,” Frank Kendall,
undersecretary for acquisition, said in an interview. “Could we
protect it completely? I’m not sure. We have to look at all the
trade-offs. We may address some of those decisions in the fall,
but right now, we are committed to the program. That hasn’t
changed.”  The F-35 is the Pentagon’s costliest weapon system, with an
estimated price tag of $391.2 billion for a fleet of 2,443
aircraft, up 68 percent from the projection in 2001, as measured
in current dollars, according to the Pentagon. Kendall cited the
weapon’s importance to defense strategy and the need for
increased production to reduce the per-plane cost as reasons to
give it special protection from mandatory spending cuts called
sequestration.  Kendall said he didn’t think the Pentagon’s commitment to
the F-35 will change “under any of the budgets we are looking
at, including sequestration.”  The sequestration process will require an estimated $52
billion in reductions from planned spending during fiscal 2014.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said last week that if the cuts
aren’t averted the Pentagon will do its best to “seek
management efficiencies and controls on compensation growth
before making cuts to force structure, modernization and
readiness.”  Even so, Hagel said in a letter to lawmakers, “funding for
hundreds of program line-items, large and small, would have to
be cut significantly. We would be forced to buy fewer ships,
planes, ground vehicles, satellites and other weapons.”  Falling Rain  While defense contractors largely escaped cuts under $37
billion in sequestration this year, Hagel said that next year
the Pentagon “would be forced to sharply reduce funding” by as
much as 20 percent for procurement, research and development and
military construction.  “There were people who thought that when sequestration was
triggered it would arrive like a hurricane or a thunderstorm,”
Kendall said in the interview on July 12. “It arrived more like
a rain that just started to fall and just keeps falling and the
water’s rising.  ‘‘We are just accumulating damage,’’ the severity of which
‘‘at some point will become self-evident,’’ he said. ‘‘I don’t
know that we’re there yet, but it certainly keeps building.”  Asked what effect sequestration may have in 2014 on plans
to increase F-35 production to 42 in 2015 from 29 this year and
next year, Kendall said he hasn’t yet studied the issue closely
and hopes a decision to “ramp up” can be made later this year.  Production Rate  “That’s the key to eventually getting the costs down,” he
said. “So I need to get the production rate up. We are way
below the capacity of the factory” in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  The Pentagon moved to protect Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed’s F-35 from effects of sequestration this year, locking
in contracts that obligated funds before the cuts took effect on
March 1.  While protecting high-priority programs “is the right way
to look at defense cuts in general,” the Pentagon needs “to
specify how they will make offsetting cuts elsewhere, and they
have not done that,”  Todd Harrison , a budget analyst with the
nonpartisan Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in
Washington, said in an e-mail.  ‘Damage-Limitation Problem’  Through Sept. 30, Pentagon managers are “essentially
treating sequestration as a damage-limitation problem” because
the military services are taking reductions “pretty much
everywhere,” Kendall said.  “They are managing it with the assumption this will be
fixed eventually,” he said. That would require President  Barack
Obama  and Congress to revive moribund efforts to agree on an
alternative plan for  deficit reduction .  If the Pentagon must find $52 billion more to cut “we’re
at a very different place” than the $9.8 billion impact on
weapons and research this year, Kendall said.  “We’d have to look hard at canceling programs” while
restructuring others. Kendall said.  “I’m looking carefully at all the things I’m making
commitments on right now,” Kendall said. “In selected cases I
am delaying some of them,” he said, without elaboration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  