-- Loeb’s Third Point Reinsurance Files for Public Offering
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-07-15T23:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/loeb-s-third-point-reinsurance-files-for-250-million-ipo-1-.html
Third Point Reinsurance Ltd., which
counts hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb  as a founding shareholder,
filed for a U.S. initial public offering to help it expand
underwriting and increase investments.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  are leading the offering, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday from Bermuda-based Third Point Re. The sale
amount of $250 million listed in the document is a placeholder
used to calculate registration fees and may change.  Loeb, 51, the founder of Third Point LLC, is seeking to
raise funds from public markets less than two years after
starting the reinsurer. Almost all of the company’s assets are
managed by his hedge fund, yesterday’s filing shows. Reinsurers
take risks from primary carriers in exchange for a portion of
their premium revenue and invest the money.  Funds from the offering will be used to boost
“underwriting capacity in order to support the growth of our
reinsurance premium writings,” the company said in the filing.
“To the extent that this additional surplus is not immediately
needed to pay claims or expenses, it will be invested consistent
with past practice pursuant to the terms of our investment
management agreement with Third Point LLC.”  Funds affiliated with private-equity firm Kelso & Co. own
more than 30 percent of Third Point Re’s common stock, while
Pine Brook Road Partners LLC, also a private-equity firm, holds
17 percent, the filing shows. Loeb controls a stake of 11
percent. All three of those owners are based in New York.  Einhorn, Cohen  Existing shareholders plan to sell stock in the offering,
the filing shows, without indicating which owners. The company,
which is seeking to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the ticker TPRE, didn’t say how many shares it would offer
or at what price.  Loeb is among money managers including  David Einhorn ,
 Steven A. Cohen , and  John Paulson  who have set up reinsurers in
Bermuda and the Cayman Islands to invest in their funds. One
benefit is that the new ventures represent a pool of capital
that’s less subject to redemption.  There’s also a tax advantage for the managers. By funneling
a fund investment through a reinsurer in a tax haven, rather
than owning it directly, a manager can reduce taxes on
investment gains and postpone paying the bill for years.  Providing Backstop  Third Point Re provides a backstop to carriers that have
sold policies to both individuals and businesses. The reinsurer,
whose primary market is the U.S., is seeking to expand by adding
sales in  Europe , Asia and  South America . The company also has
begun to write so-called quota-share deals, in which it takes a
portion of a client’s premiums in return for shouldering some
losses and expenses.  Third Point Re had net income of $99.4 million last year
and $74.4 million in the first three months of 2013, driven by
investments, the filing shows. Its property-casualty reinsurance
segment posted an underwriting loss in both periods, in part
because of administrative expenses.  Shareholders’ equity  was
$944.7 million as of March 31.  Third Point Re is led by Chief Executive Officer John Berger, who was 61 as of yesterday and previously the CEO of
reinsurance at Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. He also held
positions at a predecessor to  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  and  General Re .  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the reinsurer that counts
Einhorn as its chairman, has boosted premium sales since going
public in May 2007. The company’s shares have climbed almost 40
percent from the IPO price through yesterday’s close.  Loeb, who managed $11.7 billion as of the first quarter,
specializes in so-called event-driven investing, buying and
selling stocks or bonds of companies going through corporate
changes like spinoffs or mergers. He has pushed companies,
including Yahoo! Inc. and Sony Corp., to make changes with the
goal of driving up share prices.  His main fund has climbed 12.6 percent this year through
June 30 and produced an annualized return of 17.8 percent since
inception in December 1996, according to reports sent to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  