-- Tokyo Exchange Merges With Osaka to Form World’s No. 3
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-07-15T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/tokyo-exchange-merges-with-osaka-to-form-world-s-no-3.html
The  Tokyo Stock Exchange (TPX)  became the
world’s third-biggest bourse by listed companies today, adding
1,100 stocks from the  Osaka  Securities Exchange as the two
merged their cash-equity trading platforms.  The TSE now has 3,423 companies after firms solely traded
in Osaka moved their listings to Tokyo. TSE first-section stocks
increased by 38 to 1,760, with the companies added set to join
the Topix index that tracks the section in phases starting on
Aug. 30.  The 47 percent increase in companies makes the TSE the
world’s No. 3 bourse by listings, jumping from seventh before
the merger. Only the  Bombay Stock Exchange (SENSEX)  and Canadian markets
operated by TMX Group Ltd. have more members, 5,230 and 3,971,
respectively, according to  World Federation of Exchanges  data.
The merger will save about $70 million a year in costs, the
Japanese bourses said in November.  “The  Tokyo  Stock Exchange now has a larger global presence
with more companies and higher liquidity,” said Kenichi Kubo, a
senior  fund manager  at Tokio Marine Asset Management, which
oversees the equivalent of $50 billion. “The merger will help
 Japan  regain its position as  Asia ’s financial hub ahead of  Hong
Kong  and  Singapore .”  Stocks that were listed on the OSE though not on the TSE
now trade only on the TSE. Those listed on both markets are now
exclusive to the TSE. Securities trading on the TSE and the
JASDAQ market had to choose one of the two. JASDAQ, previously a
sub-market of the OSE, is now a sub-market of the TSE.  Nintendo Migrates  Nintendo Co., Murata Manufacturing Co. and  Nidec Corp. (6594)  are
among companies previously listed in Tokyo and Osaka that
switched their main market to Tokyo today. Shares of Yahoo Japan
Corp., Japan Exchange Group and JIN Co., among those on both the
TSE and JASDAQ, will trade solely on the TSE’s first section
after choosing it over the exchange for start-ups.  The 38 new members of the  TSE first section  will be bought
by  index funds  tracking the performance of the Topix. Wakita &
Co., construction-equipment maker, Chinese-eatery operator Ohsho
Food Service Corp. and Endo Lighting Corp., a decorative-lighting equipment maker, are among the companies that index
funds are expected to buy in large amounts, according to
estimates by  Mizuho Securities .  In order to reduce the impact on trading and share prices,
new members are scheduled to be gradually phased into the Topix,
50 percent of floating shares on Aug. 30 and 25 percent more on
Oct. 31. Either 75 percent or 100 percent of members’ floating
shares are used for the Topix calculation, depending on their
trading value and market capitalization, according to the JPX.  Clearing Merger  The two bourses’ clearing operations were also integrated
today, enabling some investors to trade futures and options with
smaller margin deposits by combining two accounts. The
derivative trading platforms will be merged from mid-March.  Japan Exchange Group ranked 17th in annual derivative
trading volume in 2012, behind Asian rivals Korea Exchange and
Shanghai Futures Exchange, according to the Japanese company’s
medium-term management plan. Expanding services in derivatives
is a main objective of the group, which seeks to launch products
with commodities and foreign securities indexes as underlying
entities.  “Derivative markets in Japan are very small compared with
other those in other countries and cash-equities markets,”
 Atsushi Saito , chief executive officer at  Japan Exchange Group
Inc. (8697) , said in March. The company’s target is to raise derivative
trading volume to 400 million contracts in the year ending March
2016 from 270 million in the year ended March 2013.  Better Service  Providing better service is more important than integrating
operations, according to Yuuki Sakurai, chief executive officer
of Fukoku Capital Management Inc.  “It would not benefit investors to just have more
companies listed on the single bourse if Japan Exchange Group
does not improve its service,” said Sakurai, who helps oversee
about $19 billion. “It is necessary to oblige listed companies
to disclose information in English to attract more foreign
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net 
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  