-- London Opens Arms to Hungarian Entrepreneurs
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-07-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/london-opens-arms-to-hungarian-entrepreneurs.html
When Istvan Bozo first moved to
London in 2010, he craved the flavorful  pancakes  he’d loved as a
child in the northern Hungarian village of Zabar. After trying
about 20 places and finding only disappointment, he realized he
needed to start his own restaurant.  It took him just two weeks to get the permits and financing
for  Crepe Fun-Tastic . Today the pink-and-green-fronted shop near
Victoria station has six employees, all Hungarian, and sells
between 70 and 100 pancakes each day.  That ease of setting up wouldn’t have been possible in
 Hungary , he said, where just registering a company takes 15 days
and hiring a lawyer is mandatory. In London, Bozo said he had a
loan of 17,500 pounds ($26,400) set in two days, on top of 3,500
pounds of his own capital -- all the money he had, he said.  “It’s much easier to work here,” said Bozo, 35. “If
you’re hard-working you will succeed. At home, even if you’re
very, very good at what you’re doing, if you don’t have friends
to help you along you’re never going to get ahead.”  London , with its Chinatown, Indian curry houses on
Bricklane and Turkish kebab shops, has traditionally been a
magnet for entrepreneurs and job-seekers from all over the
world. Now add Hungarians, whose arrivals have multiplied as
Hungary suffered two recessions in the last four years. Aiding
them is the fact that they can work without a visa following
their country’s 2004 entry into the European Union.  And they have a better chance of finding work: Hungary’s
 jobless rate  was 10.5 percent in May, compared with  7.8 percent 
in the U.K. in April.  More Hungarians  In 2012 the number of Hungarian  immigrants  in the U.K. was
47,000, up from 5,000 in 2001, according to  SEEMIG , an EU-sponsored program for managing migration and its effects in
southeast  Europe . The estimates were based on the U.K.’s Annual
Population Survey.  The situation in Hungary encourages migration. Weighed down
by seven years of austerity that began under the previous
government, the  economy  is only now showing vital signs. Gross
domestic product had its first quarterly increase since 2011 in
the January-March period.  When adjusted for inflation, Hungary’s average monthly net
income  has fallen  in three of the past six years, including a
3.5 percent drop in 2012, making it difficult for new businesses
to find traction. The GKI research institute’s  consumer
confidence index , while on the rise in the past year, has been
negative for 11 years.  The Hungarian economy will stagnate this year and grow 1.19
percent next year, the  International Monetary Fund  said in its
World Economic Outlook last week. The forecast for the U.K. is
0.9 percent and 1.5 percent this year and next, respectively.  Vegetarian Paperwork  Zsoka Bekefi, 32, can testify to how hard it is to start a
business in Hungary. Her vegetarian bistro,  NemSuti , opened in
downtown Budapest last December, about three months after she
began the process. Just to get the logo and the name on the
front of the building, she had to have an architect draw a plan
of the premises, then call a meeting of all building residents
to get their consent -- before she could even request a permit
from the local authority. The permit process took 45 days.  All that for a retail space that employs three people and
previously housed a cafe and an antique shop.  Setting up a company is “overregulated” and the rules
don’t always make sense, Bekefi said after placing an order on
the phone for plastic bowls. “To start a business requires
quite a bit of capital and the fact that we have to pay a very
wide variety of administrative fees makes opening a place like
ours a very expensive enterprise,” she said.  Business Ease  In Hungary, the process needs to be done by a lawyer. The
costs can be as much as 100,000 forint ($447). On top of that, a
registration fee of 50,000 forint and a publication fee of 3,000
forint are due.  In the U.K., registering a private limited company online
costs 15 pounds and takes 48 hours and no solicitor needs to be
involved, according to the U.K. government’s  website .  Britain is the No. 2 European Union country for ease of
doing business, after  Denmark ,  according to   World Bank . Hungary
ranks 18th among the 28 members of the trading bloc.  The U.K.’s popularity with Hungarian emigrants has
increased in recent years, joining  Germany  and  Austria , where
most Hungarians traditionally used to go for work, said Attila
Melegh, a project manager for SEEMIG.  An estimated 230,000 Hungarian citizens were living in EU
countries in 2012, one-third of them in Germany, one-fifth in
the U.K. and 13 percent in Austria, SEEMIG said in a May 22
press release.  Freer Movement  With joining the EU, “a space for the free movement of
workers has opened up and more and more Hungarians are seeking
to benefit from it,” Melegh said. “This is not all that
surprising.”  Rita Cegledi, 37, arrived in London in 2004. In 2007, she
opened a beauty salon in the neighborhood of Islington, targeted
mainly at Hungarians who are used to a one-stop shop for their
hairdresser, beautician and nail technician. Now she runs two
salons in the British capital, where seven Hungarians work. She
says opening a business in the U.K. was a breeze.  “We were able to set up the company online and register it
everywhere from the  Companies House  to Inland Revenue,” she
said. “Our costs weren’t too high and the tax authority gave us
a grace period of nine months after being in business for a
year. This is great help.” In Hungary, taxes are due in full
from the beginning.  Simple State  Hungary’s government is trying to reduce administrative
burdens on business in several ways, the press office of the
 Ministry of Public Affairs and Justice  in Budapest said in e-mailed answers to questions. A program called “Simple State” has
identified several hundred simplification targets and the new
civil code that comes into effect next year will allow companies
and cooperatives more variance in setting up a founding charter.  The Cabinet is also in the process of drawing up plans for
further cutting administration, and regulations already allow
for lower costs in some cases, the ministry said.  In London, Hungarians can not only eat Hungarian-style
pancakes, which are usually served rolled up with a sweet or
savory filling, they can watch visiting bands such as  Tankcsapda 
or shop for such grocery products as  Turo Rudi , a chocolate-covered cheese-curd dessert. The community has its own magazine,
founded in 2010. It’s named 6:3, after the score of a 1953 match
in which Hungary’s national soccer team became the first non-British Isles team to  beat England  at home.  Closed Salon  Many of the new businesses only employ Hungarians. At
Cegledi’s salon, for instance, Dori Bozso, 25, has been doing
manicures since she moved to London five months ago. Before
that, she had worked in a salon she set up with a hairdresser
friend in Szekesfehervar, western Hungary. It closed in January
because of the recession.  “Things got a lot worse from a work point of view,” she
said as she soaked her own feet during a work break. “People
preferred to do their own nails at home in the last two years
and came to the salon very rarely. Here in London a manicure
costs five times more and people can still afford it.”  Yet some of the Hungarians, including Bozo, aren’t planning
to settle down in the U.K. Bozo says he can’t stand London’s
weather, its crowds or its exorbitant cost of living. Between
runs for cheese supplies and experimenting with new pancake
fillings, he’s dreaming of running a global franchise of Crepe
Fun-Tastic shops from a house with an ocean view.  A car mechanic by training, he first worked as a bartender
when he arrived in the U.K. His plans: find a more lucrative
location for the London restaurant and open a branch in Dubai.
He’s headed there soon on a scouting expedition.  “I’d love to turn this thing into a franchise,” he said.
“I have already started working on that. There’d be Crepe Fun-Tastic shops opening all over the world. The Americans
especially love our pancakes. Then I’m going to move away from
here. I’d like to live by the sea, anywhere where it’s warm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  