-- Honeywell Joins Probe on 787 Fire as Beacon Faces Scrutiny
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-16T20:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/honeywell-to-join-investigation-on-boeing-787-fire.html
An emergency beacon made by
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  is under scrutiny in a probe of
last week’s Boeing Co. 787 fire at London’s Heathrow airport.  The U.K. Air Accidents Investigation Branch said today it’s
looking at the emergency locater transmitter situated near the
back of the Dreamliner where the July 12 fire occurred.  “We can confirm that Honeywell have been invited to join
the investigation,” the AAIB said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The ELT is one of several components being looked
at in detail as part of the investigation. It would be premature
to speculate on the causes of the incident at this stage.”  Boeing is working to revive the reputation of its 787
fleet, which was grounded worldwide earlier this year after
lithium-ion batteries overheated on two aircraft. Boeing  shares 
yesterday recovered most of their loss from July 12, the day of
the blaze on board the parked Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787
at  London  Heathrow. Honeywell makes dozens of components for the
aircraft, from distance measuring equipment to tail-cone lights.  A fire related to a conventional product such as a
transmitter, instead of the new technologies used on the
Dreamliner, would take pressure off Boeing, said Hans Weber,
chief executive officer of Tecop International Inc., a San
Diego-based aerospace consulting company.  ‘Following Leads’  “That’s conventional technology,” Weber said in a
telephone interview. “It would be an off-the-shelf product.”  Still, it’s too early to speculate on the cause, Weber
said. Fire investigations on aircraft often take longer because
officials have to sift through the damage carefully so as not to
destroy evidence, he said.  The AAIB had said previously its probe included Ethiopian
Airlines,  Boeing (BA)  and other European and U.S. aviation agencies.
“The travelling public can be sure we are investigating all
possible causes and following up all leads,” it said today.  Honeywell’s  emergency beacons  have been certified for use
since 2005 without a single reported issue, Steve Brecken, a
spokesman for the company, wrote in an e-mail. Morris Township,
New Jersey-based Honeywell has sent technical experts to
Heathrow to help with the probe and “at this time it is
premature to speculate on the cause of the fire.”  Boeing Shares  Brecken said  Honeywell  will work with Chicago-based Boeing
and the AAIB as well as the U.S. National Transportation Safety
Board to assist in determining the cause of the fire.  Honeywell  fell  less than 1 percent to $82.03 at the close
in New York. The stock dropped yesterday after Dow Jones
reported scrutiny of the beacon. Boeing  fell  1.4 percent to
$104.23 and has surged 38 percent this year.  Japanese airlines, the first operators of Boeing’s 787,
said they checked their fleets and found nothing unusual.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , operator of the world’s largest 787
fleet, completed inspections of its 20 Dreamliners yesterday,
spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , which operates nine 787s, also said its
inspections of the planes yesterday found nothing unusual,
according to spokesman Taro Namba.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , the Kyoto, Japan-based maker of some
batteries used in the 787, has not been asked to cooperate in
the probe, spokesman Hiroharu Nakano said. The company had been
involved in previous investigations regarding lithium-ion
batteries after some it made for the 787 overheated, leading to
a grounding of the entire Dreamliner fleet.  Empty Plane  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , the Tokyo-based supplier of
center wing boxes for the 787, was not involved in the latest
probe, said spokesman Fusao Watanabe.  Thales SA (HO) , which provides electrical power conversion
technology to the 787, isn’t involved in the investigaton,
spokesman Alexandre Perra said in an e-mail.  No one was on board the Ethiopian Airlines plane at the
time of the fire, and the carrier is still flying its three
other 787s while awaiting the results of the probe.  Emergency locater transmitters emit a radio signal after a
crash to help rescuers find the plane. They are equipped with a
lithium-manganese battery, a form of rechargeable lithium-ion
technology, according to the official.  The  battery  has a different chemical formulation from the
larger  lithium batteries  implicated in the two incidents in
January that prompted U.S. regulators to ground the fleet. All
lithium-ion batteries are made with flammable material.  GPS Data  The beacon, which weighs 6.6 pounds, has a service life of
10 years and should run for 50 hours once activated. The device
is built to withstand operating temperatures from minus 20 to
plus 55 Celsius, Honeywell said on its website.  Earlier ELTs broadcast a tone over an air-traffic radio
frequency. Newer models broadcast a global-positioning system
location to satellites, which then notify ground stations of a
possible crash and its whereabouts. They are equipped with a
battery so they can continue to broadcast after a crash.  Through June, Boeing had delivered 66 787s to 11 airlines
and a leasing company, including six to  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  The Dreamliner has a list price of $206.8 million.  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration restricted the
fleet from flying on Jan. 16 after the lithium-ion batteries
overheated on two aircraft, with one catching fire in  Boston 
with no passengers aboard.  In that incident, a  Japan  Airlines Co. 787 experienced what
U.S. safety investigators called an uncontrolled chain reaction
that charred the battery. The second malfunction occurred on an
ANA Holdings plane that took off from Japan and was forced to
make an emergency landing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Callan at   jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  