-- Emerging Stocks Advance to One-Month High on Chinese GDP
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-15T21:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-china-data-indonesia-drops.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to the
highest level in almost a month as China’s economic growth met
forecasts and the nation boosted foreign investor access to its
markets. Turkey’s lira climbed as the central bank said it may
raise  interest rates  this month to bolster the currency.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.7 percent to 952.23,
the highest close since June 18. BYD Co., a Chinese maker of
electric cars partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., surged in Hong Kong as the government announced a
plan to promote the use of energy-saving automobiles. Brazil’s
 Ibovespa (IBOV)  gained the most since March as homebuilders climbed
after traders pared bets on interest-rate increases. The lira
rose as much as 1.2 percent against the  U.S. dollar .  China’s economy  grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter,
easing concerns that growth would fall below official forecasts
after Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said last week that 6.5 percent
expansion wouldn’t be a “big problem.” A measured step to
widen Turkey’s interest-rate corridor will be on the agenda of
the next Monetary Policy Committee meeting on July 23, Governor
Erdem Basci said in a statement on the central bank’s website.  “The Chinese GDP report came in right on expectations,”
said  James Paulsen , the Minneapolis-based chief investment
strategist at Wells Capital Management, who helps oversee more
than $340 billion of assets. “That was a relief.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 1 percent to $39.34. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slid 4 percent to 26.21.  Biggest Gains  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose, led
by consumer and commodity shares. The broad measure has slumped
9.8 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent jump in the
MSCI World Index. The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 10 times
projected earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s valuation of
13.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The outlook for high-yielding emerging market currencies in
Latin America and Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa is more
constructive, Bernd Berg, an emerging-markets strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich, wrote in a note. He cited
potential Chinese growth stabilization, an improvement in
economic momentum in developing nations and expectations the
“Fed tapering is now priced in,” he wrote, referring to the
potential for the  Federal Reserve  to reduce stimulus.  Brazilian Shares  Brazil’s Ibovespa added 2.6 percent as MRV Engenharia e
Participacoes SA led gains in real-estate shares. Companies
owned by billionaire  Eike Batista , including oil producer OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and miner MMX Mineracao e
Metalicos SA, surged. The start of trading was delayed by 18
minutes today due to technical problems in BM&FBovespa’s trading
platform, the exchange said in a statement.  The real rallied the most among major emerging-market
currencies as Credit Suisse and Nomura Holdings Inc. forecast it
will strengthen.  Russian shares climbed for a third day as OAO Sberbank, the
country’s biggest lender, rose after the central bank eased
borrowing costs. The  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 (XU100) 
Index jumped 3.1 percent. Hungary’s and Poland benchmark stock
indexes gained and shares in the Czech Republic retreated.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1 percent, extending last
week’s gains. Citic Securities Co. and Haitong Securities Co.
climbed 4 percent after regulators almost doubled qualified
foreign institutional investment quotas to $150 billion. BYD
gained 11 percent.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest
Internet company, led technology stocks higher in Hong Kong
trading after the central government announced plans to boost
the telecommunications industry.  India’s Inflation  Indian stocks  advanced  for a third day as the country’s
benchmark inflation rate climbed less than forecast, outweighing
an unexpected decline in the industrial output. State Bank of
India, the nation’s biggest lender by assets, climbed 1 percent.
The rupee lost 0.4 percent to 59.8950 per dollar, the biggest
drop since July 8.  Indonesia’s rupiah weakened beyond 10,000 per dollar for
the first time since September 2009 as slowing economic growth
in China dimmed the outlook for exports and the current-account
deficit.  Government bonds  declined.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries lost 0.01 percentage point to 330 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  