-- Hong Kong H Shares Rise After China Growth Meets Esimates
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-15T08:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/most-hong-kong-stocks-rise-ahead-of-china-growth-data.html
Hong Kong stocks rose, with a  gauge 
of Chinese companies extending the biggest weekly gain since
May, after mainland economic growth met analysts’ estimates.  Angang Steel Co. (347) , the largest steelmaker traded in Hong
Kong, jumped 8.2 percent after saying it swung to a first-half
profit. BYD Co., a maker of electric vehicles, surged 11 percent
after  China ’s car sales rose and the nation said it aims to
accelerate energy-saving measures.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
China’s No. 1 Internet company, gained 3.7 percent after the
State Council said upgrading communications was a priority.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, climbed 0.1 percent to 9,445.56 at the close in
Hong Kong. The gauge last week surged the most in two months.
The Hang Seng Index increased 0.1 percent to 21,303.31, with
almost an equal number of shares declining as advancing, with
volume 46 percent lower than the 30-day average.  “It’s difficult to see a significant rebound in GDP growth
in the foreseeable future,” said David Gaud, a senior money
manager at the asset-management unit of Edmond de Rothschild
Group in Hong Kong. “If we are to find a floor around 7.4
percent to 7.5 percent, that should be taken relatively
positively. For H-shares, the market will definitely react
positively because earnings momentum is the ultimate driver.”  China’s economy grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing today, meeting the estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Growth in the prior quarter was 7.7 percent.  Industrial
production (CHVAIOY)  slowed, rising 8.9 percent in June from a year
earlier, as retail sales gained 13.3 percent.  Economic Slowdown  The Hang Seng Index posted its  biggest monthly decline  in a
year in June, slumping 7.1 percent as China’s money-market rates
surged to a record amid signs of economic slowdown. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc pared their 2013 growth
projections for China to 7.4 percent, below the state target.
Shares also dropped after the Federal Reserve signaled it may
dial down stimulus if the U.S. economy shows sustained
improvement.  “Even though the slowdown may continue, investors can
anticipate better economic performance next year and therefore
equities can still do well,” said Victoria Mio, chief
investment officer for China at Robeco Hong Kong Ltd., whose
parent oversees about $247 billion.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency corrected a report that
cited Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  as saying the country’s growth
target this year is 7 percent, a figure lower than the official
goal of 7.5 percent set in March. In an English-language story
released July 13, Xinhua said it corrected a quote attributed to
Lou to “there is no doubt that China can achieve this year’s
growth target of 7.5 percent.”  Growth Target  “What happened with the change in communication from what
Lou said is interesting in the sense that he initially spoke his
mind, he probably spoke up about the real number,” said
Rothschild’s Gaud. “But now they came back and said this was
7.5 percent, it tells us that they are committed, that there’s
probably a growing commitment to maintain that level and not go
much further below.”  Shares on the  benchmark   Hang Seng Index (HSI)  traded at 10.1
times estimated earnings, compared with 15.2 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.3 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, fell 23 percent from a Feb. 1 high, meeting some
investors’ definition of a bear market. The  measure traded  at
1.14 times the value of net assets, compared with its five-year
average of 1.79.  Vehicle makers climbed after data showed China car sales in
June rose 11.4 percent from a year earlier to 240 billion yuan
($39.1 billion), the highest monthly total this year.  Automakers Advance  BYD jumped 11 percent to HK$31.95. Great Wall Motor Co.,
which last year signed an agreement with Coda Holdings to
develop battery-powered cars, climbed 2.3 percent to HK$37.45.
 Tianneng Power International Ltd. (819) , a battery maker, surged 25
percent to HK$3.65, its steepest surge on record.  Shares also rose after the State Council said in a
 statement  that China aims to speed development of its energy-saving and environmental protection industry, citing a Cabinet
meeting at which Premier Li Keqiang presided. The government and
public-transportation sector should take the lead in utilizing
new-energy vehicles, according to the statement.  Tencent rose 3.7 percent to HK$321.40, the  biggest gain  on
the Hang Seng Index. Private investment in the
telecommunications industry and development of Internet
infrastructure will be accelerated, China’s State Council said
July 12. The government will also push to issue 4G wireless
licenses by the end of this year.  H Shares  Today is the 20th anniversary of the first listing of a
mainland incorporated stock in Hong Kong. Foreigners have since
earned less than 1 percent a year investing in Chinese stocks, a
sixth of the return on U.S. Treasuries in the same span. The
MSCI China Index has gained about 14 percent, including
dividends, since  Tsingtao (168)  Brewery Co. became the first Chinese
company to sell H shares in the city in July 1993. Tsingtao
jumped 3.3 percent to HK$57.65 today.  Angang Steel  jumped 8.2 percent to HK$4.22. Its first-half
profit was 702 million  yuan  compared with a loss of 1.98 billion
yuan a year earlier, the company said in a preliminary earnings
statement.  Every sector on the Hang Seng Composite Index advanced last
week, led by industrial goods and energy companies amid
speculation China’s government will act to shore up growth the
economy slows too much.  Resources and energy companies  have led
declines this year.  Earnings Season  Futures on the S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent. The U.S. equity
gauge climbed 0.3 percent on July 12 as better-than-estimated
bank earnings outweighed a reduced profit forecast from United
Parcel Service Inc.  Hang Seng Index futures were little changed at 21,215. The
HSI Volatility Index dropped 2.8 percent to 20.60, indicating
traders expect a swing of 5.9 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  