-- Paint Makers’ Trial Starts in California Lead Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-07-15T15:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/paint-makers-trial-starts-in-california-lead-lawsuit.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s Atlantic Richfield Co. is
among five companies fighting a public-nuisance lawsuit in state
court seeking $900 million to replace or contain lead paint in
millions of California homes.  In a trial that began today before Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg in San Jose, 10 California cities and counties
including  San Diego , Los Angeles County and  San Francisco  aim to
break the companies’ streak of victories in similar suits in
seven different states.  The California plaintiffs’ road map is a 2006 California
appeals opinion that reinstated the case and endorsed its
arguments as a “viable theory,” Owen Clements, the chief of
special litigation for the San Francisco City Attorney’s Office,
said in a phone interview before the trial began. Courts in
states where similar cases failed relied on a narrow reading of
nuisance laws, he said.  “There are still thousands of kids that are getting
exposed to lead through lead paint every year,” Clements said.
The counties can’t recoup money they’ve spent over decades on
lead-abatement programs. The current suit seeks to force
manufacturers to “pitch in to help solve the problem going
forward, which is the least, I think, they could to,” he said.  In addition to Los Angeles-based Atlantic Richfield, the
defendants are Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams Co.; Dallas-based  NL Industries Inc. (NL) ; ConAgra Grocery Products, a unit of
the Omaha, Nebraska-based maker of Chef Boyardee pasta and Pam
cooking spray; and Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont Co.  Other States  The companies argue that decisions in states including  New
York ,  New Jersey  and  Wisconsin  demonstrate that the California
public-nuisance suit is “without factual or legal merit,”
according to Bonnie J. Campbell, a former attorney general of
Iowa and spokeswoman for the companies.  Federal and California agencies have determined that lead
paint, if well maintained and intact, typically poses no health
risk, and that removing old paint can expose children to lead
dust, Campbell said in a memo written on behalf of her clients.  California ’s suit seeks “extensive abatement” of lead
paint from homes, “yet specifically exempts their own public
buildings, including schools, their lead water pipes, roads, and
parks from the requirement for abatement,” according to
Campbell. California law requires landlords to prevent or abate
lead-based paint hazards, she said.  2006 Opinion  Clements said California is relying on a 2006 opinion by
state appeals-court Judge Nathan Mihara, who said that while
lead paint was banned for use in public buildings in 1978, the
companies’ “misrepresentations about the dangers of low-level
lead exposure” caused government entities “to fail to make
timely efforts to prevent and treat” the problem.  The misrepresentations “increased the cost of treatment
for those who had been exposed or continued to be exposed,”
Mihara wrote, adding that it wasn’t until 1998 that studies
adequately analyzed the companies’ misrepresentations, and
proved that low-level lead exposure could cause serious damage
to fetuses, children and adults.  Campbell said in an e-mailed response that the appeals
court decision incorrectly permitted California to apply its
public-nuisance claims to the promotion and sale of the lead
paint and that there was nothing misleading about the companies’
promotion of lead-based paint because “today’s alleged hazard
was unknown and unknowable” when it was sold.  The case is California v. Atlantic Richfield Co., 1-00-CV-788657, California Superior Court for the County of  Santa Clara 
( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  