-- Palm Reserves in Indonesia Seen Falling to Lowest in a Year
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-07-15T10:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/palm-stockpiles-in-indonesia-seen-falling-to-lowest-in-one-year.html
Palm oil  inventories in  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest producer, probably dropped in June to the
lowest level in a year as domestic consumption and exports
gained to meet increased demand for the Muslim month of Ramadan.  Stockpiles contracted 7.7 percent to 2.4 million tons from
May, the median of estimates from five plantation executives and
a refiner compiled by Bloomberg showed. That’s the lowest since
1.85 million tons estimated in June 2012. Shipments rose 2.2
percent to 1.86 million tons compared with May, the median
showed. Output gained 19 percent to 2.38 million tons from May,
according to the median of five estimates.  Palm oil has lost 27 percent in  Kuala Lumpur  over the past
year as supply of the commodity used in everything from cooking
oil to biofuel outpaced demand. Reserves in  Malaysia , the
second-largest producer, dropped to lowest level in two years in
June as output in the country’s biggest-producing state fell.  “Domestic consumption is increasing,” said Derom Bangun,
chairman of the Indonesian Palm Oil Board. “I think exports
marginally increased after a surge in May and, as stockpiles in
India are also quite high, they’re adjusting imports with the
reserves that they have.”  Communal meals during the fasting month of Ramadan, which
started on July 10 in Indonesia this year, typically boost total
palm demand. The Southeast Asian nation is the world’s most
populous Muslim country.  Lower Prices  Palm oil futures dropped 1.2 percent to end at 2,273
ringgit ($712) a ton on Bursa Malaysia Derivatives today, the
lowest price at close for most active futures since May 7.  The Indonesian association, which doesn’t publish output
and inventory figures, may release export data this week after
saying June 19 that shipments climbed 22 percent in May. The
forecasts for changes in reserves and production in June were
derived by Bloomberg compared with earlier survey findings.  Second-quarter consumption in Indonesia expanded 11 percent
compared with the first quarter, said Sahat Sinaga,  executive
director  at the Indonesian Vegetable Oil Industry Association.
Local demand was also driven by biodiesel use, he said.  Exports “may increase in July and August as rising crude
 oil prices  will boost biofuel demand,” Bangun said. “It’s
price-supportive. I’m optimistic palm oil will rise gradually.”  West Texas Intermediate crude climbed to 15-month high of
$107.45 a barrel in  New York  on July 11. Futures have advanced
15 percent this year.  Inventories in Malaysia fell 9.4 percent to 1.65 million
tons in June from May, the lowest level since March 2011, the
country’s palm board said July 10. That was less than the median
estimate of 1.75 million tons in a Bloomberg survey. Output rose
2.3 percent to 1.42 million tons, while exports gained 0.3
percent to 1.41 million tons.  India ’s cooking oil stockpiles were 1.98 million tons on
June 1 from 1.69 million tons a year earlier and a record 2.12
million tons in March, according to the Solvent Extractors’
Association of India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  