-- PBF Crude Rail Operation Faces Environmental Challenge
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-07-16T21:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/pbf-delaware-plant-crude-rail-plan-faces-environmental-challenge.html
(Corrects description of exemption in fourth paragraph of
story published July 15.)  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF) ’s growing rail
operation at its Delaware City refinery will face a challenge
from environmentalists at a state regulatory hearing tomorrow.  The Delaware Audubon Society and the state chapter of the
Sierra Club say that PBF’s plans to boost capacity to transport
150,000 barrels a day of crude by the end of the year run afoul
of limits on industrial-site footprints near the coast. The
Coastal Zone Industrial Control Board could veto the expansion.  “Crude by rail is the whole premise of the company,” said
Sam Margolin, an analyst who covers PBF for Cowen & Co. in New
York. “That’s what supports East Coast refining.”  Tomorrow’s hearing will consider whether Collin O’Mara,
secretary of the state’s Natural Resources & Environmental
Control Department, erred May 31, when he exempted PBF’s marine
dock from the regulation, which  prohibits  “certain new
activities, such as the bulk transfer of raw materials” near
the coast.  The environmental groups appealed the decision to the nine-member board, which includes county officials and appointees by
the governor. PBF filed its own motion to the board July 5 to
dismiss the environmental appeal, citing federal law against
state interference with rail transportation.  The decision may ultimately end up in Delaware Superior
Court, said Kenneth Kristl, a law professor at Widener
University who filed the appeal for the Sierra Club and Audubon
Society.  Environmental Appeal  “The board has authority under the act to affirm or
reverse a decision of the secretary,” he said. “Whether we win
or lose, this case may go to Superior Court for that court to
review the board’s decision.”  The hearing comes about a month after environmentalists and
company supporters debated the refinery’s track record at
another public meeting to consider the  renewal  of several
environmental permits.  Michael Karlovich, a PBF spokesman in Parsippany, New
Jersey, declined to comment on the Coastal Zone appeal before
the hearing takes place, as did Mark Martell, president of the
Delaware Audubon Society.  PBF expects to deliver 100,000 barrels a day of light
Bakken crude by rail to the company’s refineries in the region
by the third quarter and 40,000 barrels a day of Canadian heavy
oil before year’s end, according to a presentation in May at a
Morgan Stanley Refining event.  Bakken crude  priced in Clearbrook,  Minnesota , weakened by
$2.25 to a discount of $4 a barrel against U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg at
2:11 p.m. New York time. It’s the widest discount since June 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  