-- Pennsylvania Voter ID Law Being Argued Anew in Court
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   R o n   M u s s e l m a n
-- 2013-07-15T14:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/pennsylvania-voter-id-law-being-argued-anew-in-court.html
Opponents of Pennsylvania’s voter
identification law are asking a judge to overturn the
Republican-backed legislation, which requires voters to show
photo ID to cast a ballot.  Judge Bernard McGinley of Commonwealth Court in Harrisburg,
the state capital, will hear opening statements today from
attorneys for organizations including the  American Civil
Liberties Union  on whether the law is unconstitutional and
disenfranchises groups of voters including the poor and elderly.
State officials were temporarily barred from enforcing the law
in the November and May elections.  “The photo ID law imposes a new requirement that hundreds
of thousands cannot meet at all, or can meet only with severe
burden,”  Michael Rubin , an attorney for the plaintiffs with the
firm Arnold & Porter LLP, said today in a statement before the
trial. “This law violates the right to vote and cannot stand.”  As many as 410,000 people, or 5 percent of Pennsylvania’s
eligible electorate, might be barred from voting under the
statute, according to the ACLU.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the law
enacted in March 2012 followed similar measures passed in
Republican-controlled states, leading opponents to claim the
intent is to suppress the votes of lower-income people and the
elderly, who may be more inclined to vote for Democrats.
Supporters say the laws are needed to prevent voter fraud.  Expiration Date  Pennsylvania ’s law requires a driver’s license, state-issued ID or acceptable alternative such as a military ID to
cast a ballot. The law requires that acceptable IDs must have an
expiration date, which eliminates common forms of photo
identification such as veterans’ IDs, commonwealth employee IDs
and student IDs, the ACLU said.  In August, the Pennsylvania Department of State began
offering a new card for voting as a last resort for those unable
to obtain a state-issued ID. The state had issued only 16,754 of
those free IDs as of June 7, the ACLU said last month in court
papers.  Since the November election, the state has “effectively
stopped all proactive efforts to get IDs to voters and the
issuance of voter IDs has dropped to about 100 per month,”
lawyers for the ACLU said in court papers. “There is no basis
to believe that the gap will ever be closed.”  The state cited no comparable numbers in its own papers
filed last month in the case.  Transportation Department  The ACLU numbers are misleading because they include only
state identification issued by the Transportation or State
department, said Nils Hagen-Frederiksen, a spokesman for the
Office of General Counsel, which represents state agencies and
officials.  “The numbers are a smokescreen because they don’t factor
in other IDs a voter could have,” Hagen-Frederiksen said in a
July 12 phone interview. “I understand why the plaintiffs have
put those specific numbers in there, but they don’t tell the
whole story and they don’t address the key fact, which is the
availability of IDs. The real issue here is liberal access to
IDs.”  Lawyers for the state maintain that the law treats all
voters alike.  ‘Qualified Electors’  “Disenfranchisement -- the wrong that is sought to be
avoided -- results from systemic and insurmountable impediments
to exercising the right to vote,” lawyers for the state said in
court papers. “Here, Act 18 and the system it creates is
intended to assure that every person who wishes to vote is able
to do so -- while at the same time giving voters confidence that
only qualified electors will vote and each voter will have his
or her vote counted once.”  The state said last year that there were no incidents or
investigations of in-person voter fraud. The ACLU said last week
that no fraud was reported in either the November or May
elections.  Pennsylvania is one of 10 states that passed laws requiring
voters to show state-issued IDs before casting valid ballots,
according to the National Conference of State Legislators.
Eighteen states passed laws requiring or requesting voters to
present some kind of photo ID. Only two adopted voter-ID laws
before 2008.  The U.S. Supreme Court last month struck down the part of
the Voting Rights Act that said states with a history of
discrimination must obtain federal court approval before making
any election changes, such as requiring voters to show photo ID.
Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  announced later that the
state would immediately implement a 2011 voter ID law.  October Ruling  The ACLU in October won a ruling temporarily blocking the
Pennsylvania law after the state Supreme Court ordered an
appeals-court judge to assess whether all eligible voters would
be able to obtain acceptable IDs if the law were upheld.  Commonwealth Court Judge Robert Simpson tailored his
October ruling to address conduct which directly results in
disenfranchisement. He refused to ban the photo-ID demand.  Lawyers for the ACLU have asked McGinley to extend the
temporary injunction while the case is pending and bar officials
from asking for a photo ID even if one isn’t yet required to
vote.  The trial is expected to last two weeks with a ruling on
the temporary injunction in August, said Jennifer Clarke,
executive director of the Public Interest Law Center of
Philadelphia, a plaintiff in the case.  A ruling on a permanent injunction would come later this
year. An appeal to the state  Supreme Court  is likely, Clarke
said.  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Musselman in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
at  ronniemuss@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  