-- Philippines Finds Okada May Have Violated Laws Over Land
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-16T05:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/philippines-finds-okada-may-have-violated-laws-over-casino-land.html
Philippine investigators found
evidence that Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada used companies
that aren’t qualified to develop a casino in  Manila .  A fact-finding panel recommended criminal charges against
Okada and other parties for possible violations of a law against
using front companies to own land, according to a justice
department statement yesterday. Separately, the panel didn’t
find sufficient evidence to recommend charges on bribery, it
said. Claro Arellano, prosecutor general, said there will be a
further investigation.  “We built the current land-owning scheme based on advice
from the Philippines’ prominent lawyers, so our understanding is
that it’s legal,” Nobuyuki Horiuchi, a spokesman for Universal
Entertainment, said over the phone yesterday. The company is
working with the government to resolve the land issue and it
will continue to pursue the casino project, it said in a stock
exchange statement today.  Universal Entertainment said it is in the final stages of
negotiations to secure potential local partners and “finding a
conclusion to the ownership of land.”  The panel of investigators recommended criminal charges
against Okada, eight Japanese nationals and 17 Filipinos,
according to the statement. Some of the individuals involved are
lawyers, it said.  “Okada’s trouble will end up delaying his project and this
will definitely benefit the other players,” Astro del Castillo,
managing director at First Grade Finance Inc., said by telephone
today.  Tourist Traffic  Universal shares fell as much as 7.7 percent to 1,846 yen,
headed for the biggest decline since May 23 before trading at
1,850 yen at 2:34 p.m in Tokyo trading today. The Topix Index
gained 0.5 percent.  The  Philippines  is counting on Okada’s project and three
other gambling developments, collectively known as Pagcor
Entertainment City, to boost tourist traffic that lags regional
neighbors including Indonesia and  Thailand . Universal is
targeting 150 billion yen ($1.5 billion) in sales from the
casino in the first year of operations, Okada said in an
interview in September 2011. At that time, he said the company
would spend $2.3 billion on the project.  The panel looked into claims of bribery involving $40
million allegedly paid in 2010 to a consultant for Philippine
casino regulators and said it found insufficient evidence to
justify charges. The government may cancel Okada’s license if
bribery is proven, Edwin Lacierda, Aquino’s spokesman, said on
Nov. 19.  Okada, who amassed a fortune selling machines for Japanese
pachinko parlors, won one of four provisional gaming licenses
awarded for the Manila casino hub in 2008. He has sought to
expand in the Southeast Asian nation, where the government is
setting up a casino center that would compete with Macau, the
world’s biggest gaming hub, to draw gamblers and tourists from
 China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  