-- Pirate Kidnappings Surge in Waters Off Nigeria as Attacks Spread
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2013-07-15T08:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/pirate-kidnappings-surge-in-waters-off-nigeria-as-attacks-spread.html
Kidnappings of sailors on merchant
ships in waters off  Nigeria  and nearby countries surged in the
first half as pirates attacked a broader range of vessels and
sought targets farther out at sea.  Pirates operating in the Gulf of Guinea kidnapped 30 crew
in the period, compared with three seized worldwide in 2012’s
first six months, the International Maritime Bureau, a London-based group tracking sea crime, said in a report today.
Attackers previously tended to seek out ships involved in the
regional oil industry and now are targeting  container ships  and
other merchant vessels, it said.  The increase poses a new threat to trade at a time when
naval forces, armed guards and better on-board security are
quelling attacks off  Africa ’s eastern coast. Incidents involving
Somali pirates plunged to eight in the half from 69 a year
earlier. West and central African leaders recently signed a code
of conduct to repress attacks and that should soon start curbing
incidents in the Gulf of Guinea, the IMB said.  “If these attacks are left unchecked, they will become
more frequent, bolder and more violent,” IMB director Pottengal Mukundan said in the report. “Cooperation and capacity-building
among the coastal states in this region is the way forward and
urgently needed to make these waters safe for seafarers and
vessels.”  Gulf of Guinea pirates are increasingly using vessels as
mother ships from which to launch their attacks, allowing them
to search for targets farther out at sea, the IMB said. Total
pirate attacks worldwide fell to 138 in the half from 177 a year
earlier, the report showed.  The code of conduct was signed last month by
representatives from 22 nations including Angola, Liberia and
 Senegal , according to a  statement  dated June 26 on the website
of the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  