-- Polish Inflation Drop to Record Low Suggests Easing’s Not Over
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-07-15T12:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/polish-inflation-drop-to-record-low-suggests-easing-s-not-over.html
Polish  inflation  slowed to a record
low in June, undermining Governor Marek Belka’s message that the
central bank’s monetary-easing cycle ended with July’s quarter-point cut.  Consumer prices  advanced 0.2 percent from a year earlier,
below the 0.3 percent median  estimate  of 32 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. It was the lowest reading since the fall of
communism in 1989 and the fifth month inflation has stayed below
the lower end of the central bank’s 1.5 percent-3.5 percent
tolerance range. Prices were unchanged from May.  Policy makers trimmed the Narodowy Bank Polski’s benchmark
 seven-day rate  to a record 2.5 percent on July 3 after new
central bank projections showed economic growth slowing to 1.1
percent this year, the lowest in at least 17 years, and
inflation slowing to 0.8 percent. After reducing borrowing costs
by 225 basis points since November, rate setters are switching
to “a neutral stance,” Belka told reporters on July 3.  “The inflation rate falling to an all-time low will let
some investors keep betting on more monetary easing,” Warsaw-based Bank Pekao economists led by  Marcin Mrowiec  wrote in a
research note today. “Look for more downward pressure on bond
yields, especially on the short end of the curve.”  Trading in overnight index swaps today showed a 51 percent
chance of a quarter-point rate cut at the central bank’s next
meeting in September, compared with a 30 percent probability a
week ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Poland’s inflation rate now meets the European Union’s
requirement for euro eligibility, the  Finance Ministry  reported
today on its website. Businesses see further slowing of price
growth in the third quarter as their forecasts of a “definite”
recovery have been moved back to 2014, according to survey of
1,278 companies published today on the central bank’s website.  The zloty advanced to 4.2861 per euro at 2:03 p.m. in
Warsaw, extending earlier gains to trade 0.3 percent stronger
from yesterday. The  yield  on the two-year government bond fell
two basis points after the data to 2.902 percent.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  