-- Qatari Diar Faces Higher Tax Bill on Chelsea Barracks Purchase
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-15T15:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/qatari-diar-faces-higher-tax-bill-on-chelsea-barracks-purchase.html
Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund is
liable for at least 12 million pounds ($18 million) more in
taxes on an affiliate’s purchase of the  Chelsea Barracks  London
luxury-housing development, a U.K. tax tribunal ruled.  The panel ruled that Project Blue Ltd. must pay 50 million
pounds in stamp duty, a levy on residential real estate
transactions, Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs said in an e-mailed statement today. The Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment
Co. affiliate would have paid 38 million pounds if it weren’t
for the bid to avoid all of the stamp duty land taxes due,
according to the statement.  “Entering into a tax-avoidance scheme can cost more than
paying the original tax bill,” David Gauke, a Treasury
minister, said in the statement. “Avoidance is complex,
expensive and self-defeating.”  The judgment affects 24 similar commercial real estate
transactions and 900 “mass market” residential property deals,
protecting 135 million pounds of taxes including the Chelsea
Barracks project, according to the statement. Project Blue had
argued its transactions were carried out for commercial purposes
and not to avoid tax, according to the statement by HMRC, which
brought the case.  “We will be reviewing the tribunal’s decision in detail
with our advisers and considering our next steps,”  Qatari Diar 
said in a statement. “Project Blue has always tried to fully
comply with all U.K. taxation matters evidenced by a pre-payment
made on account to HMRC of the full amount of the tax originally
claimed prior to the hearing. Project Blue will continue to meet
all of its tax obligations.”  Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas, has amassed stakes in high-profile U.K. real estate,
including the Shard skyscraper and Harrods department store.
Chelsea Barracks is Qatari Diar’s largest European residential
development in terms of value, according to its website.  A joint venture of Christian Candy’s CPC Group and Qatari
Diar paid 959 million pounds for Chelsea Barracks in January
2008. When Britain’s Prince Charles later criticized the
development as unsuitable for the area, Qatari Diar withdrew its
planning application and CPC sued. Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s
share of the project in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  