-- Treasuries Extend Steepest Weekly Gain in 13 Months
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-15T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/treasuries-extend-steepest-weekly-gain-in-13-months.html
Treasury futures contracts rose,
extending gains after rallying by the most in 14 months, as
economists said government reports this week will show retail
sales increased while inflation held in check.  U.S. government securities had their worst first half in
four years on concern the Federal Reserve is preparing to
curtail the bond-buying program it uses to support the economy.
Treasuries surged last week as the increase in yields attracted
investors.  Ten-year futures for September delivery advanced 5/32, or
$1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 126 1/4 as of 1 p.m. in
 Singapore , based on data compiled by Bloomberg. They gained 1
14/32 last week, the most for a 10-year contract since the
period ended April 6, 2012. Ten-year notes yielded 2.58 percent
last week. Treasuries trading was closed today in  Japan  for a
holiday.  “If they’re going to taper, then rates could go higher,”
said Roger Bridges, who helps oversee the equivalent of $20.9
billion as head of fixed income in Sydney at Tyndall Investment
Management Ltd., a unit of Japan’s Nikko Asset Management Co.
“In the long term, you could see 3 percent. I’m not so sure you
could see it in the short term.”  Trading of U.S. government debt is scheduled to take place
as usual today in the U.K. and the U.S., according to the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  website .  Treasuries declined 2.5 percent for the first half of the
year, the most since 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Bernanke Testimony  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who is scheduled to deliver
his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress on July
17-18, said last month the central bank may begin to slow its
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year and end them in
2014 if economic growth meets policy makers’ goals. He said July
10 that the U.S. needs “highly accommodative monetary policy
for the foreseeable future.”  Purchases at retailers probably rose 0.8 percent in June,
the most since February, after a 0.6 percent advance in May,
according to the  median  forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before today’s Commerce Department release.  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show the consumer
price index excluding food and energy costs climbed 1.6 percent
in the 12 months through June, the smallest gain in two years,
based on the Bloomberg survey median.  The overall cost of living rose 1.7 percent from a year
earlier and 0.3 percent from the prior month, economists
forecast.  China ’s  economy  grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing today, matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  