-- Refiners and Ethanol Companies Spar Over U.S. Biofuels Mandate
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-07-15T21:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/refiners-and-ethanol-companies-spar-over-u-s-biofuels-mandate.html
The oil industry and ethanol
companies are arguing about whether the U.S. should maintain
consumption targets as lawmakers prepare to hold hearings on its
impact on gasoline prices.  Refiners are reaching a threshold for how much ethanol can
be blended into gasoline and that’s leading to costlier pump
prices, according to a conference call by the oil industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  today. Biofuel interests
contend that higher concentrations of the additive should be
sold, officials from the Renewable Fuels Association, a trade
group representing ethanol companies, said on a separate call.  The value of Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs,
certificates attached to each gallon of biofuel that the U.S.
uses to track compliance with a 2007 energy law rose to a record
today. A U.S. House committee plans  hearings  this summer on the
standard and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources is  scheduled  to hold a meeting tomorrow on gasoline
and fuel prices.  “Many refiners won’t be able to get the RIN credits they
need because there aren’t enough to meet the mandate,” Bob Greco, downstream group director for API in  Washington  said on a
call with journalists.  Corn-based ethanol RINS  rose 12 cents to a record $1.32
today, while  advanced RINs , which cover Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol and biodiesel, climbed 10 cents to an all-time
high of $1.33, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pump Prices  Geoff Cooper, chief economist at the  Renewable Fuels
Association  in Washington, said that RINs aren’t affecting
gasoline pump prices and that refiners could lower the price of
the credits by selling higher concentrations of ethanol.  “This is just more of the same from Big Oil,” Growth
Energy Chief Executive Officer Tom Buis said in a separate
statement. “They will stop at nothing to maintain their near
monopoly on the liquid fuels market, even if it means saddling
consumers with ever increasing prices at the pump.”  Under the 2007 law, known as the Renewable Fuels Standard,
the U.S. is required to use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this
year and 14.4 billion in 2014.  U.S. gasoline consumption will average 132.9 billion
gallons this year, the Energy Information Administration
 estimated  in its July 9 Short-Term Energy Outlook.  The Environmental Protection Agency in 2011 approved blends
of as much as 15 percent ethanol in gasoline from 10 percent for
vehicles made after 2001. Oil-industry advocates haven’t adopted
the higher concentrations, saying more testing is needed on
their effect on engines.  API is also asking lawmakers to limit the ethanol
consumption targets to less than 10 percent of gasoline demand,
it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net  and Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at +1-   ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  