-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in June on Automobile Demand
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-in-june-on-automobile-demand.html
Retail sales  probably rose in June
by the most in four months, led by stronger demand for
automobiles and showing Americans are weathering effects of
higher taxes, economists said before a report today.  A 0.8 percent advance would follow a 0.6 percent increase
in May, according to the  median  forecast of 67 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Purchases excluding motor vehicles may
have climbed 0.5 percent after a 0.3 percent gain.  Cheaper borrowing costs and household wealth fueled by
higher home and stock prices are helping drive sales of big-ticket items such as cars. An improving job market is also
underpinning  consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy,
one reason growth is projected to pick up as the rest of the
year progresses.  “Retail sales will look pretty strong for June,
particularly given how well auto sales are doing,” said Robert Rosener, an economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  New York . “The
recovery in household wealth is boosting demand. We see the
consumer coming back in the second half.”  The Commerce Department will release the retail sales
figures at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 1.3
percent.  Automobile demand remains a bright spot as Americans
replace older vehicles. Cars and light trucks  sold in June  at a
15.89 million annual rate, the fastest since November 2007,
according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. Attractive
financing offers and steady hiring are also helping generate
more industry sales.  Ford, GM  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , makers of the best-selling big pickups in the U.S., reported June sales that beat
analysts’ estimates. Low borrowing costs and rising consumer
wealth should continue to support spending, according to Jenny
Lin, Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s senior U.S. economist.  Household wealth has been boosted by a rally in the  stock
market  and higher property values.  Home prices  in the 12 months
ended in April rose by the most in more than seven years,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index last week reached a record high.  “Economic indicators continue to improve,” Lin said on a
July 2 sales call. The “consumer spending growth pace is slowly
picking up.”  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, reported a 6 percent gain in June sales at U.S. stores
open at least a year, more than analysts’ projections.  Gasoline Prices  Costlier gasoline in early June probably lifted receipts at
filling stations. The Commerce Department’s retail sales data
aren’t adjusted for changes in prices.  A gallon of  regular gasoline  at the pump, which reached
$3.63 on June 9, eased in the next few weeks to a five-month low
of $3.47 on July 7, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring
group. Retail gasoline has again reversed course, having risen
four days in a row as crude oil costs surged and refinery units
shut down for repairs.  More expensive fuel bills leave less for households to
spend on other goods. Retail purchases excluding automobiles and
gasoline, probably rose 0.4 percent, up from the prior month’s
0.3 percent gain, economists projected.  The world’s largest economy will expand at a 2.3 percent
annualized pace in the third quarter after cooling to a
projected 1.6 percent rate in the April through June period,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey from July
5 to July 10. Household spending also will pick up, economists
forecast.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in testimony to
Congress this week, may shed more light on the central bank’s
view of the economy and how policy makers may begin scaling back
$85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The U.S. needs “highly
accommodative” monetary policy for the foreseeable future, he
said last week.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  