-- Rhoen Faces Four Investor Suits Aginst Vote on Threshold
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-07-15T15:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/rhoen-faces-four-investor-suits-aginst-vote-on-threshold.html
Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) , a German hospital
operator, was sued by four investors challenging a vote to
abolish a 90 percent investor-approval threshold on mergers and
other key decisions.  Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, a rival hospital operator, and
shareholder B. Braun Holding GmbH filed two of the complaints in
Nuremberg,  Germany , spokespeople for the companies said. The
other investors can’t be identified until the suits have been
served on Rhoen-Klinikum, said Michael Hammer, a court
spokesman.  Rhoen-Klinikum’s shareholders in June abolished a
requirement that major decisions receive the backing of
investors holding at least 90 percent of the voting rights.
Votes from B. Braun opposing the change weren’t accepted because
the medical-supply company’s representative wasn’t “duly
legitimated,” Rhoen-Klinikum Chairman Eugen Muench said at the
time.  The approval requirement played a role in derailing a
takeover last year of Rhoen-Klinikum by Fresenius SE, another
hospital operator. Braun, which competes with Fresenius’s Kabi
intravenous-therapies division, bought a stake of at least 5
percent in Rhoen-Klinikum following the failed combination.  Hans-Juergen Heck, a spokesman for Bad Neustadt an der
Saale-based Rhoen-Klinikum, declined to comment.  Fresenius offered 22.50 euros a share, or a total 3.1
billion euros ($4 billion), for Rhoen-Klinikum before abandoning
the bid in September after Asklepios bought a stake to block the
takeover. A successful deal would have created the biggest
German hospital-operating network.  Asklepios, based in Hamburg, and Fresenius, which is
headquartered in the Frankfurt suburb of Bad Homburg, each own
at least 5 percent of Rhoen-Klinikum, equaling the stock held by
Braun, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Muench and his
family own the biggest stake at 12.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  