-- Russian June Industrial Output Expands Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-07-15T14:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/russian-june-industrial-output-expands-less-than-forecast.html
Russian  industrial output  expanded
less than economists forecast in June as manufacturing
contracted for a second month.  Output at factories, mines and utilities advanced 0.1
percent in June compared with a year earlier, following a 1.4
percent drop the previous month, the Federal Statistics Service
in Moscow said in an e-mailed report. The median estimate of 17
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a 0.5 percent increase.  The world’s largest energy exporter has struggled to
shelter its economy from slowing demand in  China , its largest
single trade partner, as sluggish  capital spending  and domestic
sales limit the pace of factory output. The outlook is making it
harder for companies like carmaker OAO AvtoVAZ to expand
volumes, with  Renaissance Capital  last month calling Russia’s
steel industry “uninvestable” and cutting the stock of
steelmakers such as Evraz Plc and OAO Severstal to sell.  “Industrial production in June was slightly worse than
expected, though it still managed to show a modest increase,”
Dmitry Savchenko, chief economist for Russia at Nordea Bank in
Moscow, said by e-mail. “If it weren’t for the growth among
miners, the 1.2 percent drop in manufacturing in June would have
pulled the overall index into contraction.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks climbed 0.2 percent following
the release to 1,401.22 as of 5:36 p.m. in Moscow after paring
gains of as much as 0.8 percent earlier. The ruble depreciated
0.2 percent against the dollar to 32.7050.  Manufacturing Shrinks  Manufacturing contracted 1.2 percent in June from a year
earlier, less than May’s 4.4 percent drop, the service said.
That was partly offset by an improved 3.1 percent expansion in
mining output. Production at utilities fell 0.8 percent.
Industrial output in the first half grew 0.1 percent from the
same period of 2012, the service said.  “Industrial-production performance is likely to remain
weak in the coming months,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for
 Russia  at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said in a note to clients.
“The stronger dynamics were owed to improving growth in the
mining sector, mostly driven by stronger oil output.”  A gauge of Russian manufacturing improved last month to the
highest level since February as an increase in domestic demand
fueled new-orders growth, HSBC Holdings Plc said July 1.  Even so, sales are stumbling at automakers including
AvtoVAZ, Russia’s largest. The country’s new car and light-commercial vehicle sales contracted 11 percent in June from a
year earlier for the fourth straight monthly drop, according to
the Association of European Businesses in Russia.  Near Zero  Industrial output growth remains near zero because of
falling capacity utilization, particularly in the production and
distribution of electricity, gas and water, said Dmitry Kharlampiev, director of macroeconomic research at OAO Bank
Petrocommerce in  St. Petersburg , who correctly forecast June’s
0.1 percent increase.  OAO RusHydro, the country’s biggest renewable-energy
producer, has seen shares tumble 25 percent this year, compared
with a 5 percent drop in the Micex Index. AvtoVAZ, the
Togliatti-based carmaker part owned by Renault SA and Nissan
Motor Co., has lost 36 percent.  “We’re seeing weak manufacturing numbers in accordance
with weaker domestic demand due to the slowdown in consumer
credit growth,” said Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at
Danske Bank A/S in Helsinki. “People are becoming more
financially educated, and they want to depend less on insanely
expensive loans to finance their consumption. That’s affecting
manufacturing, which we see in domestic car production.”  Monetary Easing  Central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  left Bank Rossii’s
main lending rates on hold for a 10th month last week, while
introducing a new, one-year floating-rate lending facility that
economists said amounted to monetary easing. Weak investment
spending and a slow recovery in foreign demand continue to pose
risks to Russia’s economy, policy makers said in a statement
July 12.  “The bad thing is that there really isn’t an explanation
for the lack of growth like there was in May, when calendar
factors played a role,” said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief
economist for Russia at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow.
“The lack of growth suggests that there’s no domestic demand,
which requires a monetary-policy response. We think key rates
will be decreased in the nearest future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  