-- Russia’s Nationalist Riots Rattle Putin
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-07-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/russia-s-nationalist-riots-pose-challenge-for-putin.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin had
little trouble subduing the liberal, middle-class Muscovites who
led mass demonstrations against his government last year. He may
have a harder time dealing with the country’s nationalists.  Xenophobic fervor erupted earlier this month in the small
town of Pugachev, about 600 miles southeast of Moscow. The town
is named after the storied Cossack rebel Yemelyan Pugachev, who,
in the late 18th century, claimed he was Emperor Peter III and
managed to take a few towns and fortresses before he was
captured and beheaded on orders of Catherine the Great.  The recent trouble started with a fight over a girl. Late
on July 6, 20-year-old Ruslan Mardanov, a local boy just back
from his compulsory service in the airborne troops, squared off
against 16-year-old Ali Nazirov, a native of Chechnya in town to
visit his aunt, outside a local bar. Nazirov later admitted to
killing Mardanov with a scalpel.  The murder stirred up simmering resentment against darker-skinned people from the Caucasus region, which includes
Chechnya. Thousands  gathered  in the main square to demand that
all Chechens be kicked out of town, drowning out the mayor, who
sought to calm them down with the aid of a bullhorn. An angry
mob tried to storm the local government building and raze a cafe
frequented by people from the Caucasus. Pugachev residents
temporarily cut off traffic on the local highway and attempted
to block the railroad line.  Nationalist activists from other parts of  Russia  rushed
toward Pugachev to support the rioters. “Friends! Residents of
Pugachev! The entire nation is looking to you with hope!”
activist Nikolai Bondarik  posted  on the social network vk.com.
“Be more decisive. Our ancestors dived under tanks with hand
grenades to protect their freedom!”  The disturbances ended only after Moscow sent in police
reinforcements and the sale of alcohol in town was banned. Using
a playbook developed at similar small-town riots that have
become increasingly commonplace in recent years, authorities
stressed the mundane nature of the initial conflict and kept
people they deemed to be provocateurs out of the area. Bondarik
was detained on his way to Pugachev. The town is still dry, just
to be safe.  The Kremlin will have a tougher time controlling the rising
nationalist sentiment of which the Pugachev riots offered only a
glimpse.  The nationalist faction of the anti-Putin opposition issued
a distinctly xenophobic statement arguing that the Pugachev
residents had acted in justified self-defense: “The authorities’
attempts to pass off as ’extremist’ the locals’ legal protest
against flagrantly defiant behavior by people from other
regions, which goes against local traditions and moral norms …
are reminiscent of an ostrich hiding its head in the sand.”  One of the document’s signatories was Alexei Navalny,
probably the most popular anti-Putin politician in Russia and a
candidate in Moscow’s coming mayoral election. Not to be outdone
on a topic that has become a leitmotif in the September
election, the incumbent, Putin appointee  Sergei Sobyanin ,
stressed in an  interview  with the daily Izvestia that “without
the crimes committed by outsiders, Moscow would be the most law-abiding city in the world.” Moscow police  estimated  in May that
more than half the crimes registered in the Russian capital so
far this year were committed by residents of other regions.  Just as the Pugachev situation unfolded, two other
incidents involving Caucasus natives in Moscow garnered almost
equal media attention: a clash between Dagestanis and several
hundred Moscow bikers following a traffic accident, and the
beating of a parliament deputy by four Dagestanis, who were
later apprehended in southern Russia.  “Instructive, isn’t it?”  wrote  the nationalist website
Sputnik & Pogrom. “You help the nation fall apart, completely
denying the cold ethnic war that sometimes spills in droplets of
blood into the fearful Moscow streets, and then boom -- even a
deputy’s ID cannot protect you.”  Some commentators say the Kremlin’s policies have
encouraged the surge in nationalism. Although Moscow’s official
approach is to pacify the Caucasus region with generous
subsidies from Moscow, Putin’s own populist rhetoric has
stressed traditional Russian values and religion and sought to
blame problems on foreigners.  “It’s no secret that day-to-day xenophobia is running high
in Russia,” the daily Vedomosti  said  in an editorial. “In a
situation of political and economic crisis the authorities are
betting on a cheap new traditionalism for the electoral
majority. It has to sell the leading role of the Russian people
and the Orthodox Church and create the image of the hostile
outsider. In the absence of physical contact with ’those damned
Americans,’ Russian patriots are getting more resentful toward
outsiders near them, primarily people from the Caucasus.”  The rebel leader Pugachev was beheaded in Moscow on
Bolotnaya Square, which 237 years later served as the scene of
last year’s mild, peaceful anti-Putin protests. By suppressing
his liberal opponents, Putin may have fostered a new, nastier
kind of opposition -- the xenophobes and nationalists. For
Putin, who has always boasted of his success in preserving the
Russian Federation as a close-knit multinational state, this is
hardly a welcome development. He will soon have to choose
whether to ride the nationalist wave or try to suppress it.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 