-- Trust CEO Recalls Big Hedge Fund Egos, Porn Donation
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/trust-ceo-recalls-big-hedge-fund-egos-porn-donation.html
As chief executive officer of the
National Philanthropic Trust, Eileen R. Heisman counsels
billionaires, receives their seven- and eight-figure wire
transfers and accepts odd gifts such as surf boards and an
antique Army tank.  Heisman has made the Jenkintown, Pennsylvania-based trust a
player in the charity world. Since its launch in 1996, it has
raised more than $3.3 billion in gifts and has made grants
totaling $1.7 billion to charities around the world. The trust
also manages $1.7 billion in assets, which include about 3,000
donor-advised funds.  U.S. philanthropy is still down about 8 percent from the
2007 peak of $344.5 billion, according to the 2012 Giving USA
Foundation Report, but donations last year were up 3.5 percent
from 2011 to $316.2 billion.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s  New York  world headquarters:  Cole: When did you realize it was possible to have a job
giving money away?  Heisman: When I was a freshman in college, I walked into my
dorm room for the first time, and my roommate was there. I asked
her what her father did. She said he gives away money for
Prudential Life Insurance, and I said, “That’s a job? I want to
do that when I get older.”  Cole: What’s a typical day like for you?  Heisman: It’s management by walking around. I just ask
people if they have a couple of minutes. I want to be the first
to hear any news. I also get 300 to 400 e-mails per day about
philanthropy.  Cow Bell  Cole: What happens when a really big donation comes in?  Heisman: We have a cow bell in the office, and we ring it
whenever a large gift comes into the donor-advised fund. It has
to be $500,000 or more.  Cole: How big do these checks get?  Heisman: One of our earliest donors put us on the map: an
adviser called and told me that a gift of about $100 million was
arriving.  When it finally came in, I asked the accountant how much it
was, and he said it’s not $100 million, it’s $200 million! We
went from $30 million to $230 million overnight.  Cole: What are some of the strangest offers you’ve
received?  Heisman: Surf boards, an antique Army tank, boats. Somebody
offered us a chain of adult bookstores once.  I said, “Do you want me to run them?” It’s not like I could
sell them right away.  I couldn’t even take something like that to the board.  Cole: What are some of the headaches?  Hedgie Headaches  Heisman: The most complicated donors -- you just want to
whack them over the head -- are hedge fund managers. They’re so
egomaniacal number one, and number two, I guess they get
everything their way all the time.  This hedge fund guy called me directly and said he’d
decided he would get a better deduction if he had made the gift
in January, so he wanted to back-out the gift in December and
then re-make it.  I said you can’t do that. It’s illegal.  It would be only a $70,000 tax difference for him, a drop
in the bucket. That’s like $10 for you. That giving is not
motivated by the heart.  Cole: Are more Wall Street and finance executives choosing
donor-advised funds to shield their giving from the public?  Heisman: Almost everybody you see on those big giving lists
has a private foundation. Almost all of them have donor-advised
funds, and many of them have more than one.  There’s the wealth of the charity world that you see and
there’s a whole world you don’t see.  Howard Stern  Cole: Tell us about an act of generosity that’s touched
your family.  Heisman: My brother  Dan Heisman ’s first wife died of breast
cancer. He’s an internationally rated chess master, and he
taught Howard Stern. Every year Howard gives a free tour of his
studio and an on-the-air opportunity to the highest bidder to
benefit the Holly Heisman Memorial Fund.  The fund is up to $100,000 because he does this. I can’t
even listen to Howard, and yet he’s raising money for breast
cancer as a tribute to my late sister-in-law. You never know
what’s inside somebody.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Craig Seligman on  books  and  Elin
McCoy  on  wine .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  