-- San Francisco Airport Sells $483 Million After Crash: Muni Deals
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/san-francisco-airport-sells-483-million-after-crash-muni-deals.html
San Francisco  International Airport,
where a  Boeing 777  crashed this month, plans to sell $483
million of bonds to be paid off by terminal rental, landing fees
and revenue from parking and concessions.  The money will help the airport, which served about 43
million passengers in fiscal 2011-2012, construct an air-traffic
control tower and improve baggage-inspection systems. It will
also refinance $180 million in debt. The facility, which last
sold debt in November, approved a five-year $2.1 billion capital
plan in May. This sale is its first stage.  The bonds have an A1 grade from Moody’s Investors Service,
the fifth-highest level. The ratings company has a stable
outlook on the airport, citing a “strong market position for
 air travel ” in the region. The Airport Commission of the City &
County of San Francisco is issuing the debt.  “It will be received well in the sense that San Francisco
has not been to market for new-money bonds since 2009,” said
Kevin Kone, the assistant deputy airport director. “We’ve been
reaffirmed by all three rating agencies with a stable rating, so
we think there should be good demand out there.”  Performance Takeoff  Airport bonds are beating the rest of the municipal market
as carriers’  stock prices  are close to the highest since 2007
and a growing economy spurs travel.  Debt sold by airports has lost 2.9 percent this year as of
July 11, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. That’s less
than the 3.3 percent decline of the broader market.  Offering documents mention the  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  crash
that killed two people and sent more than a dozen to the
hospital, saying that the investigation is continuing. Kone
declined to comment on how the crash will affect the sale.  The deal will come in five portions, including tax-exempt
debt, taxable and some subject to the alternative minimum tax.
Airport bonds are commonly subject to the AMT, which ensures
that taxpayers pay some federal income tax.  The airport was the seventh-most active in the nation in
terms of domestic origin and destination passengers in its
fiscal 2011-2012, offering documents say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Freeman in  New York  at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  