-- Scorching Heat to Increase Power Demand From Chicago to New York
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-15T13:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/scorching-heat-to-increase-power-demand-from-chicago-to-new-york.html
Temperatures will reach 90 degrees
Fahrenheit (32 Celsius) with high humidity this week from
 Chicago  to New York and into southern  Canada , increasing
electricity demand and touching off heat warnings.  The thermometer is expected to climb to 97 today in New
York and 90 every day through July 19. Chicago may reach 86
today and then advance into the 90s for the next four days.
Boston and  Washington  will remain at about 90 through the work
week and Toronto will reach that mark for at least the next four
days.  From the  Great Lakes  to the U.S. Northeast and southern
Quebec and Ontario, temperatures will be at least 8 degrees
above normal through July 19, according to Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “It’s going to be hot and humid,” said Rob Carolan,
founder of Hometown Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua, New
Hampshire. “It will last probably the entire work week and
there is the potential that it will continue into Saturday.”  Electricity demand in  New York  is expected to peak between
4 p.m. and 5 p.m. at about 33,300 megawatts, said Ken Klapp,
spokesman for the New York Independent System Operator, which
runs the state’s power grid and wholesale-electricity market.
The record was 33,939 megawatts set on Aug. 2, 2006.  Natural gas will be used to fuel about 32 percent of  power
plants  this year, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  Energy Conservation  Residents in New York City and adjoining Westchester County
are being urged to conserve energy as temperatures soar,
according to a statement from  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  The New
York-based company is also readying crews to deal with any
potential outages.  Demand for electricity may be higher during this heat wave
than earlier this month because it’s coming in the middle of a
work week and will last a bit longer, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of the Commodity Weather Group.  “Longer-term heat events build up higher intolerance and
tends to build stronger demand over time,” Rogers said in an e-mail interview.  The soaring temperatures pose a health risk. From 1999 to
2009,  heat killed  an average of 658 people a year, according to
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
People should avoid strenuous activity and drink plenty of
water, according to the  National Weather Service .  Excessive Heat  An excessive heat warning is in place for Philadelphia and
Trenton, New Jersey, meaning the temperature will feel greater
than 100, and heat advisories stretch from  Pennsylvania  to New
Hampshire, including  New York City  and Boston, according to the
weather service. Heat and humidity warnings have also been
posted across southern Quebec by  Environment Canada .  The temperature in Central Park reached 90 yesterday,
according to the weather service. In Boston it was 93, 88 in
Chicago and 89 in Washington.  A heat wave is defined as three consecutive days with
temperatures of 90 or higher, according to the weather service.  High humidity will exacerbate the heat in the Northeast and
Canada, according to Carolan.  Heat index values, how hot it feels, will be more than 100
degrees from Pennsylvania to New Hampshire because of the
humidity, according to the weather service. Humid conditions
will also grip  Quebec , Carolan said.  ‘Steamy Stuff’  “It’s pretty steamy stuff for them all the way up the St.
Lawrence River,” Carolan said. “That is not something they are
used to.”  Energy demand may also be sustained as the heat is expected
to last because there won’t be as many late afternoon
thunderstorms or clouds to take the edge off, Rogers said.  “That peak p.m. heat can last deeper into the evening
hours and demand will not fall off as quickly as other events,”
Rogers said in an e-mail interview. “The high humidity also
slows the cooling process after the sun fades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  