-- Shrimp Exports From Thailand Poised to Decline 50% on Disease
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-15T09:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/shrimp-exports-from-thailand-poised-to-decline-50-on-disease.html
Shrimp exports from  Thailand  may
slump 50 percent this year because of a disease called Early
Mortality Syndrome in one of the industry’s worst crises, said
Somsak Paneetatayasai, president of Thai Shrimp Association.  Shipments would decline from an annual average of 350,000
metric tons, he said in a phone interview today. Supply may also
fall about 50 percent from normal production of 500,000 tons per
year, he said.  The disease has killed cultivated shrimps in several
countries in  Asia  where one million people depend on this type
of aquaculture for their living, according to a  report  on the
website of the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.
Asia produced 3 million tons of shrimp with a value of $13.3
billion in 2011, it said. The industry is showing signs of
recovery after hatcheries, farmers and the government worked to
stop the disease spreading, said Somsak.  “We’re seeing some encouraging signs that the outbreak is
abating and shrimp supply in the second half of this year will
rebound significantly,” said Somsak. “Farmers are more
cautious in starting hatcheries again and this will make it
difficult to boost shrimp output to the level before the disease
started spreading.”  Thai companies are considering importing prawns and related
products including frozen ones from Ecuador, India and  Vietnam 
to help meet local demand, according to the Thai Frozen Foods
Association. While  Thai Union Frozen Products Pcl (TUF)  expects
earnings to decline in 2013 because of the disease, business
should start to recover in the second half, President Thiraphong Chansiri said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  