-- Singapore’s Luxury Retail Malls Face Off in IPO Contest
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-16T10:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/singapore-s-luxury-retail-malls-face-off-in-ipo-contest.html
Facing each other across Singapore’s
Orchard Road shopping belt, the malls owned by  Singapore Press
Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  and  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  have competed
for shoppers. Now, they will compete for investors.  Overseas Union said last week it’s raising as much as S$614
million ($485 million) in an initial public offering that will
include the Mandarin Gallery mall, one day after newspaper
publisher Singapore Press said it’s seeking S$504 million from
the IPO of a real estate investment trust with its Paragon mall
as the flagship property.  “If they’re going to list about the same time, they will
compete for the same pool of investors,” said Ong Kian Lin, an
analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Research Pte, who said the trusts may
seek investments from private banking clients. “If you leverage
on the private wealth side, and if market conditions stay the
same right now, it should go through.”  The trusts were offered to investors last week as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Bank of Japan  both
signaled they will maintain measures to boost their economies,
giving the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and the measure tracking
Singapore REITs their best week in more than two months.  “With the way  interest rates  seem to be stabilizing
lately, investing in REITs again could become viable,” said
 Alan Richardson , a Hong Kong-based money manager at Samsung
Asset Management, which oversees more than $100 billion
globally. “Paragon is the crown jewel of Singapore’s shopping
landscape. Mandarin Gallery is a good asset that’s been trying
to improve over the years and reinvent itself.”  IPO Pricing  Both trust offers may price this week, according to people
familiar with the matter. Indicative demand for SPH REIT’s stock
sale has already exceeded available supply, said the people, who
asked not to be named as the information isn’t public.  OUE Hospitality Trust (OUEHT)  will have an initial asset portfolio
that comprises the 1,051-room Mandarin Orchard Singapore hotel
and the four-story  Mandarin Gallery  mall, which houses stores
including Emporio Armani and Marc by  Marc Jacobs . Overseas Union
said in the  prospectus  it has hotels that could be added to the
trust, including the Crowne Plaza Changi Airport.  For Singapore Press, the Paragon counts Prada, Gucci and
 Jimmy Choo  among its tenants. The trust will also hold the
Clementi Mall in a western Singapore suburb. The newspaper
company mentioned a limited pipeline of properties for the REIT
as a risk factor in the preliminary  prospectus .  Ready Pipeline  “If your REITs don’t have a ready pipeline of acquisition
assets, it’s not as compelling from a liquidity standpoint for
an investor,” said  Christopher Wong , senior investment manager
at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. “At the end of the day,
it’s going to be about the yield being offered to the market.”  SPH REIT priced its shares at 90 Singapore cents each,
according to two people with knowledge of the transaction, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.
That’s at the top end of the  price range  that started at 85
Singapore cents, and offers a 5.79 percent yield based on fiscal
2014 projections.  OUE Hospitality Trust, which is offered as a so-called
stapled security comprising both a REIT and a business trust, is
selling its shares at 88 Singapore cents to 90 Singapore each
with a payout of as much as 7.5 percent for 2014.  Singapore Press said yesterday its third-quarter net income
rose 81 percent to S$187.5 million while sales dropped 2.1
percent. The stock slid 0.9 percent to S$4.29 at the close in
Singapore. Overseas Union fell 0.4 percent to S$2.87.  The FTSE Strait Times RE Invest Trust Index tracking 28
REITs in Singapore offers a 4.8 percent dividend yield. The
average payout on the  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  is 3.1 percent.  Biggest Fundraisers  Singapore Press said in an e-mailed response to queries it
can’t comment beyond the prospectus. Overseas Union also said in
an e-mail it declined to comment.  Both share sales are managed by Credit Suisse Group AG.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc are joint
global coordinators for OUE Hospitality Trust’s listing, while
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. are
working on SPH REIT.  REITs and business trusts were the biggest fundraisers in
Singapore’s IPO market in the past year, raising $4.16 billion,
or 67 percent, of the $6.2 billion of stock priced, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The two share sales are being marketed to investors three
weeks after global stocks fell to a four-month low, forcing
companies such as Hopewell Hong Kong Properties Ltd. to shelve
listing plans.  Singapore  Press and Overseas Union are already
differentiating themselves by the the properties they offer and
the payout for investors, said Richardson at Samsung Asset
Management.  “SPH probably has a bit more visibility in terms of its
income stream, so they priced it at a lower dividend yield,”
Richardson said. “OUE would have to pay a higher yield compared
to a shopping mall because typically, hotel yields are more
cyclical and variable than shopping mall leasing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  