-- Singapore Home Sales Climb as Moody’s Cuts Outlook for Banks
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-07-15T09:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/singapore-residential-sales-rises-to-highest-since-march-record.html
Singapore ’s June home sales rose for
a second month to the highest since a March record as Moody’s
Investors Service cut its outlook for the city’s banking system
on concern that borrowing costs may climb.  Home sales rose 24 percent to 1,806 units last month from a
revised 1,459 units in May, the  Urban Redevelopment Authority 
said on its website today, the highest since 2,793 units in
March. Moody’s said the “rapid” loan growth and rising
property prices in the city adds more risk to credit quality.  Record home prices amid low interest rates raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a four-year campaign in January to curb speculation prices in  Asia ’s
second-most expensive housing market.  “The operating environment for Singapore’s banking system
has been favorable for an extended period, with low  interest
rates  and strong economic growth domestically and in the
surrounding region,” Gene Fang, a Moody’s senior analyst, said
in a statement today. “With the potential risk of a turn in the
interest rate cycle, we view strong asset inflation and credit
growth trends as vulnerabilities, as this combination would
likely cause credit costs to rise from their current low base.”  Moody’s also lowered the outlook for  Hong Kong ’s banking
system to negative from stable last month on lenders’ growing
exposure to borrowers in  China .  Singapore on June 28 unveiled new rules governing how
financial institutions grant property loans to individuals,
extending efforts to curb excessive price increases.  Slow Down  The island state’s private residential property price rose
0.8 percent to 214.9 points in the three months ended June 30,
extending a 0.6 percent increase in the first quarter, according
to preliminary estimates released by the authority on July 1.
The pace of gain in suburban prices more than doubled from the
previous three months.  “The numbers don’t reflect the new measures introduced in
June,” said David Neubronner, national director at broker Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc.’s residential project sales in Singapore.
“Growth in home sales will slow down over the second half of
the year as the latest curbs are the most potent of all measures
introduced so far.”  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  In January, the government introduced the seventh round of
curbs in about four years, including an increase in stamp duties
for homebuyers by 5 percentage points to 7 percentage points.  “Sales for the next half of the year will take a breather,
largely because the number of new launches will fall slightly in
line with new projects developers might plan to sell,”  Desmond
Sim, associate director at CBRE Research, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Fewer launches, combined with the full force of the
January 2013 property measures and the latest credit financing
rules, will put a dent on sales volume.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  