-- Snowden’s Ecuador Flirtation Sinks Into Trade Feud
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-07-15T19:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/snowden-s-ecuador-flirtation-sinks-into-trade-feud.html
Ecuador ’s spat with the U.S. over
the fugitive whistleblower Edward Snowden cost exporters special
access to the world’s biggest economy and may make the country’s
planned bond sale more expensive.  President  Rafael Correa , whose government has said it is
planning a return to international credit markets for the first
time since its $3.2 billion default four years ago, will
probably have to offer as much as 9 percent for a 10-year bond
to entice investors, according to  Michael Henderson , an
emerging-markets analyst at Capital Economics in  London . That
compares with the 6.15 percent yield on similarly rated
 Dominican Republic  dollar bonds due in 2024.  Correa, who plans to issue notes by the first quarter of
2014, sparked the conflict last month when he renounced the
country’s preferential trade benefits under a program promoting
alternatives to the cocaine trade. He said the U.S. was trying
to use trade privileges as leverage to force Ecuador to
extradite Snowden if he reaches the country seeking asylum.
While Snowden has since asked more than 20 countries for refuge,
Correa’s trade decision is a warning to potential creditors that
the country is still a volatile place to invest, Henderson said.  “It’s not so much the fact of how that’s going to affect
the  trade balance  in the near term, it’s more the signal that it
sends out,” Henderson said in a July 11 telephone interview.
“This latest situation isn’t going to do anything to improve
confidence in Ecuador’s faith in honoring its contracts, so
certainly yields will adjust to reflect that.”  China Loan  While higher prices for the OPEC nation’s oil and last
week’s announcement of a loan of as much as $1.4 billion from
 China  have helped limit losses in Ecuador’s dollar bonds due in
2015, the dispute with the U.S. shows the risk of investing in
the Andean country, Henderson said.  Yields on Ecuador’s dollar bonds maturing in 2015 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.91 percent at 3:30
p.m. in  New York  after climbing 35 basis points in the second
quarter, according data compiled by Bloomberg. They tumbled 123
basis points in the first three months of the year as the price
of crude oil climbed 5.9 percent, buoying Ecuador, a member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The Andean nation is rated B by  Standard & Poor’s , five
levels below investment grade, while the Dominican Republic is
one step higher at B+.  U.S. Treasury 10-year note  yields  rose earlier this month
to 2.74 percent, the highest level since August 2011, on concern
the  Federal Reserve  will curtail securities purchases that have
buoyed demand for emerging-market assets.  Moscow Airport  Snowden, who originally asked Ecuador for asylum, has been
stuck in a Moscow airport since June 23 after the U.S. revoked
his passport, preventing him from traveling. He asked Russian
authorities to let him stay there last week, saying the U.S. and
its European allies are blocking him from reaching  Latin
America , according to a statement posted on the website of the
anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks.  Ecuador’s Foreign Trade Minister Francisco Rivadeneira
didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the trade
preferences. The U.S. program, known as the Andean Trade
Promotion and Drug Eradication Act, or ATPDEA, was enacted to
combat cocaine production in the Andes through incentives for
farmers to stop growing coca.  The loss of the benefits “would result in a significant
reduction in exports to the  United States , affecting these major
industries that support Ecuador’s economic growth and more than
320,000 jobs in the country,” the nation’s embassy in
 Washington  said in a report last year. The total impact on jobs
is “difficult to quantify” and will hit lower-income workers
the most, according to the report.  ‘Not Tainted’  The decision to reject the program of trade preferences
“was made to ensure that any potential review of Mr. Snowden’s
asylum application was not tainted in any way by political
calculations,” Nathalie Cely, Ecuador’s ambassador to the U.S.,
said in a July 11 e-mailed response to questions from  Bloomberg
News .  The government has announced plans to provide exporters
with about $23 million in tax credits, the amount it says
producers will lose without the program.  ‘Mercantile Interests’  Ecuador shipped about $547 million of goods to the U.S.,
including fresh-cut flowers, broccoli and canned tuna, under
ATPDEA and the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences, known as
GSP, last year, according to Daniel Legarda, the executive vice
president of the Ecuadorean Exporters Federation. Both programs
are now “at risk,” he said.  Correa said in a June 27 speech he wasn’t “the least bit
concerned” and told exporters to “take a valium.”  “Ecuador doesn’t accept pressure or threats from anyone
and doesn’t barter its principles and sovereignty or submit to
mercantile interests,” Correa said.  Correa’s announcement came a day after U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, said he would lead the effort to
block renewal of trade preferences for Ecuador if it granted
Snowden asylum.  While the conflict has hurt Ecuador’s international image,
it’s not irreparable, Pablo Davila, executive president of
Ecuador’s Chamber of Industries and Production, said in a July
11 interview at his office in  Quito .  “The decision that our government took had bigger
consequences than originally calculated,” Davila said. “We’re
going to be able to mitigate this, but once again we’re trying
to overcome the moment.”  ‘True Monsters’  Correa, who called bond investors “true monsters” when he
announced the default in 2008, will also need to resolve a
conflict with holdout creditors who rejected terms of the
country’s debt swap four years ago,  Capital Economics ’s
Henderson said.  In March, the government said Ecuador may offer a buyback
and wouldn’t pay more than in 2009, when it purchased more than
90 percent of defaulted debt at 35 cents on the dollar.  “Ecuador was always seen as quite a risky place to do
business, and this situation with Snowden hasn’t done much to
improve it,” Henderson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  