-- South African Court Dismisses Lonmin Union’s Recognition Bid
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-15T13:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/south-africa-labor-court-dismisses-lonmin-union-recognition-bid.html
A South African court dismissed the
National Union of Mineworkers’ bid to extend its recognition at
 Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest platinum producer, where a
rival labor group has grown to have higher membership.  The Labour Court in Johannesburg ruled that the NUM, whose
recognition agreement at Lonmin ends tomorrow, had failed to
show that its application was urgent. “It was unlikely to
succeed on the merits, if urgency had been established,” Judge
Robert la Grange said. NUM would have been aware of the shift in
membership as far back as October, he said.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union has
unseated the NUM as the dominant union at the three biggest
platinum producers in  South Africa , which has the largest known
reserves of the metal. The change isn’t yet formally recognized
by Lonmin, which favors allowing its employees to be members of
the union of their choice.  The NUM claimed in court papers that irregularities were
found in about 50 percent of AMCU memberships at Lonmin. La
Grange did’t give any verdict on the allegation.  The NUM has referred its claims about the validity of AMCU
membership forms to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation
and Arbitration in Johannesburg, which will hold a hearing on
the question on July 17,  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the
union, said after the court ruling.  The NUM is unsure of how it will be allowed to operate at
Lonmin after its recognition agreement lapses tomorrow, Seshoka
said.  The CCMA will in a separate matter rule on July 29 what
recognition rights the AMCU is entitled to at Lonmin. The union
speaks for more than 70 percent of the lower-skilled workers at
the company and also wants to lead negotiations for higher-skilled employees, where it has fewer members.  Lonmin said it hopes that all those involved will be able
to work together “peacefully and professionally.”  “The company is committed to ensuring that all employee
representatives and unions will be treated fairly, in accordance
with the laws governing collective bargaining,” Sue Vey, a
spokeswoman for Lonmin, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  