-- Spanish Regions Sabotage Rajoy’s Competitiveness: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-07-16T14:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/spanish-regions-sabotage-rajoy-s-competitiveness-euro-credit.html
Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions
are hobbling Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s efforts to drag the
euro region’s fourth-largest economy out of a six-year slump.  Rajoy’s government is struggling to implement laws
recommended by the European Central Bank and the International
Monetary Fund. ECB President Mario Draghi, who spared Spain a
full bailout a year ago by pledging to support the euro, told
European Union lawmakers last week that “greater effort has to
be put into structural reforms to restore competitiveness.”
Spain’s  10-year borrowing cost  today climbed as high as 4.76
percent, after reaching a low for the year of 3.94 percent on
May 3.  “The government is under pressure from companies to remove
obstacles to trade, but some regions refuse to give up their
regulatory power,” said Ramon Nieto, who helps oversee 1.3
billion euros ($1.7 billion) at Geroa EPSV Fondos in San
Sebastian, Spain. “Delaying reforms isn’t helping Spain’s
credibility at a time when its bonds are falling.”  Three regions are opposing a so-called market unity law
 approved  by Spain’s Cabinet on July 5 to make it easier for
companies to do business across the country without being bound
by local rules and license requirements. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos estimates the change may add 1.5 percent to gross
domestic product in the coming decade.  Power Division  “This is a question of who decides what,”  Gustavo Adolfo
Matos Exposito , director at the Canary Islands Ministry of
Commerce and consumer issues, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s up to the government of each region to decide what
economic model it wants for its territory, whether it wants to
protect small and medium enterprises or not, liberalize rules or
be more protectionist, because that’s the way power has been
divided.”  According to the government’s Tourism Institute, the Canary
Islands are the second-most visited by foreigners. The islands,
governed by a regionalist party that has had alliances with both
Spain’s Socialists and Rajoy’s People’s Party, will file an
appeal with the Constitutional Court if talks fail, Matos said.
The region is already waiting for it to rule on a law that made
shops’ opening hours more flexible last year, infringing upon
regional prerogatives, he said.  Trade Barriers  The market unity law, to be approved by Congress in the
coming months, will enable companies to  operate  in all regions
once they have a license with one. About 4,000 municipal rules
may require tweaking to remove trade barriers, said a spokesman
for the economy ministry, who asked not to be identified, in
accordance with government policy.  “This would give companies access to more clients and
business opportunities,” said Itziar Galindo Jimenez, corporate
tax director at the Spanish unit of accounting firm KPMG LLP in
Madrid. “At the moment, companies are giving up entering
markets other than the regions they are based in because
potential revenue might not cover the administrative costs
entailed.”  Catalonia, which contributes the most to Spain’s GDP,
opposes the change, as does the Basque Country, one of the
richest regions measured by GDP-per-capita. Both already
confronted the government in  Madrid  last year about the tax-funded health-care system. The former charged patients more than
was planned by the government, while the second ignored the
changes, becoming the only region not to register a double-digit
drop in pharmaceutical spending.  Schoolyard Fight  “One would think these were children fighting in a
schoolyard,” said Maria Yolanda Fernandez Jurado, associate
professor of the Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences at
Madrid’s Universidad Pontificia Comillas. “There is tension
because regions are afraid of losing revenue at a time when they
are up to their necks in debt and have all these unemployed
people on their hands.”  While a sixth consecutive quarter of economic contraction
has pushed unemployment to a record 27 percent, Spain’s public
debt load has more than doubled from 2007, when the country’s
real-estate boom ended, to 88 percent of GDP in the first
quarter. The European Commission forecasts the nation’s ratio
will rise above the euro zone’s average next year for the first
time in the single currency’s history.  Guindos today said he expects a good result at the
Treasury’s next bond auction on July 18, after it sold 4.05
billion euros of six-month and 12-month bills today in line with
its maximum target. Spain’s funding costs are lower than
expected, he said during an event in  Barcelona .  Risking Discontent  Rajoy is increasing taxes as his government struggles to
deepen the toughest spending cuts the nation has experienced in
its democratic history, said  Eduardo Berche Moreno , specialist
in tax law and professor at the Esade Law School in Barcelona.  Spain’s budget deficit was the largest in the European
Union in 2012. Still, the government is more than six months
late in implementing a public-sector overhaul and centralized
buying of medical products announced last year to save 4.5
billion euros.  “Confronting the regions means taking the risk of creating
discontent throughout the population,” Berche Moreno said in a
telephone interview. “Spain’s specificity is a complex
multiple-layer system that generates a certain selfishness:
people are happy to see another region’s ombudsman dismantled
but they’ll shout if you touch theirs, it takes a lot of courage
to deal with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  