-- Spanish Bankers Overtook U.K. as Highest Paid by 45% in 2011
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-15T14:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/spanish-bankers-overtook-u-k-as-highest-paid-by-45-in-2011.html
Top Spanish investment bankers were
paid an average of almost 2 million euros ($2.6 million) in
2011, about 45 percent more than their British peers, according
to a  survey  by the European Union banking regulator.  The  European Banking Authority  found that average pay for
some U.K. investment bankers fell by about 1 million euros
between 2010 and 2011 to 1.38 million euros. The best paid
bankers in  France , Germany, the Netherlands and  Sweden  also
earned more than those in the U.K. on average in 2011, according
to the London-based EBA’s report.  The EU brokered a deal in February to outlaw banker bonuses
that are more than twice fixed pay, a move lawmakers said would
prevent excessive payouts and curb irresponsible risk-taking.
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne opposed the
curbs, saying they would harm the competitiveness of the
nation’s finance industry.  French investment bankers had the highest ratio of bonus to
salary, whose variable remuneration of more than eight times
their base pay in in 2010. The U.K. ratio declined from 647
percent to 394 percent in 2011. The EBA included pension
contributions in its definition of total discretionary bonuses.  “Some of it was certainly the market, and some of it can
be attributed to an increase in base remuneration,” Tom Huertas, a partner at Ernst & Young LLP and former vice-chairman
of the EBA, said in a telephone interview today.  Bonus Rules  The EBA said in May that any banker paid more than 500,000
euros should be covered by the new bonus rules. The watchdog
also targeted the best paid 0.3 percent of staff in a bank, and
some bankers with bonuses higher than 75,000 euros.  U.K. bankers covered by the European Union’s cap on bonus
payouts may get as much as 500 million pounds ($755 million)
more in salary to compensate, Andrew Bailey, Britain’s chief
banking supervisor, told U.K. lawmakers in March.  Top retail bankers earned more than their investment
banking counterparts in Spain,  Germany ,  Denmark , Austria and
 Hungary , according to the report.  National supervisors collected the figures for the EBA’s
survey, which only covers staff paid more than 1 million euros.  The report is a response to a political demand to have
greater transparency about pay and remuneration of individuals
who are running organizations that have received some degree of
public support,” said Huertas.  U.K. Home  The U.K. was home to 1,809 investment bankers earning more
than 1 million euros in 2011, the highest amount in the EU,
while Spain had 44. France and Germany had 101 and 90
respectively.  Spain last year sought a bailout for its banking system on
concern that losses from lenders built from former savings banks
such as the  Bankia (BKIA)  group would contaminate government finances
and hobble its efforts to rein in the country’s deficit. The
bursting of the country’s real estate bubble has driven up
defaults, sapped demand for lending and led banks to refinance
or restructure as much as 208 billion euros of loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  