-- Sports Direct Gains Amid Reports of Bonus Payments: London Mover
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-15T11:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/sports-direct-gains-amid-reports-of-bonus-payments-london-mover.html
Sports Direct International Plc (SPD) , the
U.K.’s largest sports retailer, headed for its highest close
since first listing in London in February 2007, amid reports the
company will pay employee bonuses linked to profit targets.  The shares rose as much as 6.4 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since February. The stock traded 4.3 percent
higher at 592 pence at 12:10 p.m. local time, giving the
Mansfield, England-based company a market value of 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.3 billion). The volume of shares traded was more than
double the three-month daily average.  Sports Direct may report that pretax profit rose
41 percent to 213.8 million pounds when it releases full-year
earnings in three days, according to the average of nine
analysts in a survey compiled by Bloomberg. The retailer, which
has about 400 stores, has benefited from the collapse of JJB
Sports Plc last year.  “We are forecasting significant growth,”  Matthew McEachran , an analyst at N+1 Singer Ltd. in London, said in a
telephone interview. “The business saw off JJB Sports which is
a lot of capacity withdrawal and that footfall is transfering
predominantly across to Sports Direct. They have been improving
the store propostion and their appeal to a wider audience as
well as building a strong online presence.”  The average Sports Direct worker earning 20,000 pounds a
year will get 12,000 shares, worth about 68,000 pounds, the
Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported, without saying where it got
the information.  A spokesman for Sports Direct declined to comment on the
Sunday Telegraph report when contacted by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in  London  at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  