-- Stopgap for Antibiotic-Resistant Gonorrhea Found, CDC Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-15T18:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/stop-gap-for-antibiotic-resistant-gonorrhea-found-cdc-says.html
Two combination treatments for
 gonorrhea  were almost 100 percent effective, U.S. researchers
said, and may help stave off strains of the sexually transmitted
disease that have become resistant to available antibiotics.  The study of 401 people used combinations of the pill
azithromycin with either the injectable drug gentamicin or
another pill gemifloxacin, according to data presented today at
the  International Society for Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Research  meeting in Vienna,  Austria .  Treatment options for gonorrhea, the second-most common
disease in the U.S. that doctors must report to health
authorities, have been limited as medicines starting with
penicillin lose effectiveness. In the U.K., doctors began using
one of the new combinations and reported in the Lancet in June
that resistance to cefixime, a first-line pill, had dropped for
the first time in four years. About 800,000 new infections occur
every year in the U.S., said Gail Bolan of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.  “This is an encouraging development, but we’re still
working in a very discouraging field,” Bolan said in a
telephone interview. “This is not the solution we’re looking
for. It’s a good fall-back.”  The study enrolled men and women in six U.S. cities ages 15
to 60 who hadn’t been treated for their gonorrhea infection. Of
the group, about half received gentamicin and azithromycin and
about half took gemifloxicin and azithromycin. One-quarter to
one-third of the patients experienced nausea. Some patients also
suffered from diarrhea.  First Approach  While the study results offer treatment options, the severe
side effects are a reason CDC officials are not recommending a
change in current guidelines, said Bolan, director of the CDC’s
sexually transmitted disease prevention program. The recommended
first-line therapy for gonorrhea remains injectable ceftriaxone,
a decision made in August after patients demonstrated resistance
to the last-available first-line pill.  Gonorrhea is caused by bacteria transmitted during sexual
contact and can result in a burning sensation when urinating in
men and women. Left untreated it can cause complications
including infertility and a life-threatening infection of the
blood and joints.  The regimens reported in today’s study were developed by
taking existing drugs that are known to work on bacteria similar
to gonorrhea, known as  gram-negative bacteria . The researchers
also looked to bioterrorism stockpiles for anthrax treatments,
Bolan said. The drugs were already approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration.  Different Twist  “We’re being creative,” Bolan said. “We’re discouraged
we’re not further along with better options.”  Large pharmaceutical companies don’t make enough money on
antibiotics to support developing this kind of treatment, Bolan
said. A proposal called Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now
that created incentives for drug companies and researchers to
develop antibiotics was included in the FDA reauthorization
legislation passed last year by Congress.  “As an infectious disease doctor, it’s hard to believe in
my career, I’ve gone to having diseases I can’t treat,” Bolan
said. “We’ve got some challenges ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  