-- China to Meet Hong Kong Lawmakers as U.K. Calls for Suffrage
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-16T02:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-k-says-hong-kong-suffrage-must-allow-genuine-choice-1-.html
China ’s top official in Hong Kong
will meet lawmakers there for the first time since the city’s
return to Chinese rule in 1997, as the U.K. called for universal
suffrage in its former colony.  People should be given a “real stake” in elections
planned for 2017, Foreign Secretary William Hague said yesterday
in a  report  on the U.K.’s relationship with the city. Lawmakers
will ask about universal suffrage when they have lunch today
with Zhang Xiaoming, director of China’s Liaison Office,
Democratic Party chairwoman Emily Lau said.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying faces increased
calls to speed up electoral reforms leading to universal
suffrage, which China promised when it took control of the city
from the U.K. Qiao Xiaoyang, chairman of the law committee of
the National People’s Congress, said in March that talks about
electing a city chief shouldn’t start until everybody agrees
that the leader can’t plot to overthrow Communist Party rule.  “The recent discussions on the chief executive election
have created room for our government to take a more proactive
role in helping Hong Kong to pursue universal suffrage,” said
Linda Li, a professor of political science at the City
University of Hong Kong. “It needs to show the public that it
really means it.”  Leung said in an interview last month he wants to deliver
on the reforms, though increased democracy may lead to China’s
refusal to appoint a leader elected by the city’s people.  Opposition Members  Hong Kong needs a system that will allow opposition members
to stand as candidates in 2017,  Allan Zeman , chairman of Lan
Kwai Fong Holdings Ltd., which controls the city’s biggest
entertainment and restaurant district, said July 8.  The best way of guaranteeing the city’s stability and
prosperity is “by Hong Kong moving to a democratic system of
universal suffrage in line with public consultations, the
promised timetable and international standards,” Hague said.  In response to Hague’s report, the Hong Kong government
said it will have election consultations in accordance with city
laws. It hasn’t published a timetable for consultation or made
any proposals.  China’s “One Country, Two Systems” policy granted Hong
Kong its own laws and administration for 50 years from the 1997
handover. The city allows residents civil liberties including a
free press and freedom of assembly not available in mainland
China.  The Hong Kong government is glad to see that the Liaison
Office is maintaining “communication with Hong Kong society,
including the Legislative Council,” Leung said today.  Hong Kong public’s distrust of the Chinese government rose
to 45.4 percent, the highest level since February 1997,
according to a survey of 1,055 people conducted from June 10-13
by the University of Hong Kong Public Opinion Programme.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  