-- U.K. Stocks Rise to Six-Week High as Miners Gain on China
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-07-15T07:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-k-stocks-rise-to-six-week-high-as-miners-gain-on-china.html
U.K. stocks  rose to a six-week high,
after the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index completed its second-biggest weekly
rally this year, as Chinese economic growth matched predictions.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  led precious-metal producers higher. A gauge
of mining stocks jumped 1.9 percent as concern about slowing
demand from the world’s second-largest economy eased.  Invensys
Plc (ISYS)  gained 1.3 percent after a report that General Electric Co.
may bid for the company.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  fell after Societe
Generale SA downgraded its rating of the shares.  The FTSE 100 advanced 57.25 points, or 0.9 percent, to
6,602.19 at 8:50 a.m. in London, reaching its highest price
since May 31. The gauge climbed 2.7 percent last week, and has
 rallied  12 percent so far this year. The FTSE All-Share Index
also increased 0.9 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
added 0.5 percent.  China’s second-quarter gross domestic product rose 7.5
percent from a year earlier, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics in Beijing. That matched the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. The economy expanded at a 7.7 percent
pace in the first quarter.  The country’s Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said last week
that while the government in March set a 2013 growth target of
7.5 percent, he is confident of achieving a 7 percent rate.  Stocks rallied last week as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said the central bank’s policy would remain “highly
accommodative” and the Bank of Japan indicated it will maintain
stimulus. The European Central Bank and Bank of England earlier
said they will keep key interest rates low for the foreseeable
future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  