-- U.K. Regulators Consider Criminal Probe Into Oil-Price Fixing
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-15T11:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-k-regulators-consider-criminal-probe-into-oil-price-fixing.html
The U.K. antitrust regulator is
considering a criminal probe into oil-price manipulation as
European Union officials conduct a civil investigation.  The  Office of Fair Trading  is liaising with U.K. agencies
including the  Serious Fraud Office  and Financial Conduct
Authority “to establish whether there is sufficient available
evidence to warrant a criminal investigation, and if so who is
best placed to take action,” it said in a statement today.
Prosecutors at the SFO said in May that they were “urgently
reviewing,” whether to start a criminal inquiry.  Antitrust officials from the European Commission raided
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , BP Plc,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, an energy
news and price publisher, in May to investigate allegations of
price manipulation and collusion by traders in crude, refined-product and biofuels markets.  The OFT’s statement was in response to a petition by
campaigners today calling for an investigation by the U.K.  “What we want is a full 18-month to two-year inquiry to
find out what’s going on, why motorists are being ripped off,”
 Robert Halfon , a U.K. lawmaker, said today in London outside the
OFT offices.  Halfon and  FairFuelUK , a campaign group, delivered the
petition with more than 30,000 signatures to the OFT today,
calling for a parliamentary review of oil pricing. The regulator
hadn’t seen any “credible evidence” of speculation or price
manipulation after a  study  of gasoline and diesel markets, it
said in January.  “Consumers are furious, resentful, bitter and angry,”
Quentin Willson, a spokesman for FairfuelUK, said in an
interview. “Their ire is focused at the government. And they,
like us, are surprised that nothing has been done.”  Platts is a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI)  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy-markets news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  