-- U.K. Regulator Reviewing Criminal Probe of Oil Benchmarks
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-15T18:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-k-regulator-reviewing-criminal-probe-of-oil-benchmarks.html
A second U.K. agency said it’s
considering a criminal probe into oil-price manipulation as
European Union officials conduct a civil investigation into
industry benchmarks.  The  Office of Fair Trading  is liaising with U.K. agencies
including the  Serious Fraud Office  and Financial Conduct
Authority “to establish whether there is sufficient available
evidence to warrant a criminal investigation, and if so who is
best placed to take action,” it said in a statement today.
Prosecutors at the SFO said in May that they were “urgently
reviewing,” whether to start a criminal inquiry.  Antitrust officials from the European Commission raided the
offices of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and
Platts, an energy-news and price publisher, in May to
investigate allegations of price manipulation and collusion by
traders in crude, refined-product and biofuels markets. Platts
publishes the Dated Brent benchmark that helps determine the
price of more than half the world’s oil.  Platts’s oil-assessment process “is unparalleled in its
transparency, providing in real time the name of each company
supplying bids, offers and transactions data, as well as
providing details of cargo size, delivery terms and other
information,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “No
other price-discovery mechanism identifies counterparties by
company name in real time.”  U.S. Probe  David Nicholas, a spokesman for BP in  London , and Jonathan
French, a spokesman for Shell, declined to comment. Officials at
Statoil couldn’t immediately be reached when contacted by e-mail
and telephone.  The European probe is the third in which global pricing
benchmarks have drawn regulators’ scrutiny in the past year,
following investigations into bank manipulation of Libor, and
ISDAFix, the benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission also started an early-stage investigation into BP, Shell and Statoil, a person
familiar with the matter said last week. The FTC is looking at
the impact possible manipulation of Platts benchmarks could have
on markets in the U.S., said the person, who asked not to be
named because the matter is confidential. It’s not clear whether
Platts is a subject of the inquiry, the person said.  Platts, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) , provides assessments on physical markets, using data on
actual trades and its own editorial judgment.  Consumer Campaign  Its North Sea Dated Brent benchmark sets the price of crude
from  Canada  to  Australia . Its kerosene assessments are used by
the  airline industry , where fuel accounts for about a third of
operating costs. In the biofuels markets, the company assesses
the price of ethanol and biodiesel as well as ethyl tert-butyl
ether, an additive that’s used in gasoline production.  Today’s OFT’s statement was in response to a petition by
campaigners calling for an investigation by the U.K.  “What we want is a full 18-month to two-year inquiry to
find out what’s going on, why motorists are being ripped off,”
 Robert Halfon , a U.K. lawmaker, said today in London outside the
OFT offices.  Halfon and  FairFuelUK , a campaign group, delivered the
petition with more than 30,000 signatures to the OFT today,
calling for a parliamentary review of oil pricing. The regulator
hadn’t seen any “credible evidence” of speculation or price
manipulation after a  study  of gasoline and diesel markets, it
said in January.  Safeguards Questioned  “Consumers are furious, resentful, bitter and angry,”
Quentin Willson, a spokesman for FairfuelUK, said in an
interview. “Their ire is focused at the government. And they,
like us, are surprised that nothing has been done.”  “We don’t think there’s enough accountability” in the
Platts pricing system,’’ Willson said. “Their safeguards to
make sure that this is a true and accurate price of oil I don’t
think are good enough.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy-markets news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  