-- U.S. July Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-07-15T12:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-s-july-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The July 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for  New York  manufacturers continued to improve
modestly. The general business conditions index rose two points
to 9.5. The new orders index rose ten points to 3.8, and the
shipments index climbed twenty-one points to 9.0. The prices
paid index fell four points to 17.4, pointing to a slower pace
of input price increases, while the prices received index fell
to 1.1, suggesting that selling prices were little changed.
Employment indexes were mixed, and indicated little positive
momentum in the labor market. The index for number of employees
inched up to 3.3, while the average workweek index remained
negative at -7.6. Indexes for the six-month outlook were
generally higher--a sign that optimism about future business
conditions had strengthened.  In a series of supplementary survey questions, firms were asked
how they expected the Affordable Care Act (ACA) to affect them
and how they were responding to its provisions. Three in four
respondents said that they had not made, and did not plan to
make, changes in their health plans. Roughly the same proportion
indicated that they had made minimal or no changes in their
workforces; a somewhat smaller majority (65 percent) said they
did not anticipate making any major changes over the next year.
Nearly 15 percent of those surveyed indicated that they would
outsource more work. A large majority of manufacturers, more
than 85 percent, reported that they expected their health
insurance costs to increase as a result of the ACA; none
anticipated a decrease. See the full supplemental report for a
more detailed summary.  Business Conditions Continue to Improve  The general business conditions index remained positive for a
second consecutive month, rising two points to 9.5 in the July
survey. This index has been modestly positive for five of the
past six months, dipping slightly below zero in May before
rising in June and July. Thirty percent of respondents reported
that conditions had improved over the month, while 21 percent
reported that conditions had worsened. The new orders index
climbed above zero, rising ten points to 3.8--evidence of a
small increase in orders. The shipments index increased twenty-one points to 9.0, its ascent into positive territory indicating
that shipments had expanded. The unfilled orders index advanced
six points to -8.7. The delivery time index rose to 3.3,
suggesting that delivery times were slightly longer this month,
and the inventories index remained below zero at -6.5,
indicating that inventory levels were lower.  Labor Market Conditions Remain Weak  Price indexes fell in the July survey. The prices paid index
dropped four points to 17.4, indicating that input price
increases were somewhat slower than they were last month. The
prices received index fell ten points to 1.1, suggesting that
selling prices were little changed. Employment indexes were
mixed, and indicated that labor market conditions remained weak.
Rising three points to 3.3, the index for number of employees
showed only a slight increase in employment levels, while the
average workweek index, still negative at -7.6, indicated that
hours worked fell.  Six-Month Outlook Strengthens  Indexes for the six-month outlook generally rose, indicating
increased optimism about future conditions. The future general
business conditions index advanced seven points to 32.0. The
future new orders index climbed eleven points to 31.1, and the
future shipments index rose fourteen points to 34.4. The future
inventories index fell noticeably, declining thirteen points to
-19.6 in a sign that inventory levels were expected to be lower.
The future prices paid and future prices received indexes also
fell, suggesting that both input and selling price increases
were expected to be less widespread in the months ahead. Future
employment indexes hovered around zero, indicating that
employment levels and hours worked were expected to be little
changed. The capital expenditures index rose seven points to
9.8, and the technology spending index rose fourteen points to
10.9.  Supplemental Report:  Firms Assess Effects of Affordable Care Act Supplementary
questions in the July 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey
focused on businesses’ response to provisions of the Affordable
Care Act (ACA) that take effect in 2014.* This month’s questions
had not been asked previously.  The vast majority of firms reported that their primary source of
information and advice on the Affordable Care Act had been a
health care insurance broker. In addition, one in four
respondents cited a professional consultant. When asked what
changes they had made or planned to make in their health plans
in response to ACA requirements, 75 percent of those surveyed
said “none.” A majority of these firms, in turn, said this was
mainly because they already offered health insurance; however,
some of these firms indicated that their business was too small
to be affected by the mandate. Eleven percent of firms indicated
that they were or would be cutting back or dropping health
insurance, while roughly the same proportion reported making
health insurance more comprehensive. Also, a number of firms
checked off “other” and wrote in a response suggesting that they
would be moving to a plan with higher deductibles.  Three in four respondents indicated that they had made minimal
or no changes in their workforces in response to the Affordable
Care Act; a somewhat smaller majority (65 percent) said they did
not anticipate making any major staffing changes over the next
year. Nearly 15 percent of those surveyed reported that they
would outsource more work.  A large majority of manufacturers, more than 85 percent,
reported that they expected their health insurance costs to
increase as a result of the ACA; none anticipated a decrease.
When asked what actions they were likely to take in response to
the ACA provisions that take effect in 2014, more than 80
percent said that they would leave wage and salary compensation
and retirement benefits the same. However, 30 percent of the
respondents said they would likely reduce other employee
benefits, and an even more sizable minority of firms--39
percent--said they would likely raise the prices they charged
their customers.  Finally, many of the open-ended comments suggested that there
was still a fair amount of uncertainty regarding both the
legislation itself and its likely effects on respondents’
business and the economy generally.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York 