-- U.S. Blood Supply Threatened as Donors Face Iron Losses
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-s-blood-supply-threatened-as-donors-face-iron-losses.html
Dennis Gastineau started giving
blood regularly when he was in medical school in the 1970s. The
$25 he received bought almost enough groceries for a week. Now,
it just seems like the  right  thing to do.  It may also be bad for his health. Gastineau, who happens
to be a hematologist, is among the 2.4 million donors who risk
silent damage as a result of frequent giving. U.S. government
research published last year found this group iron-deficient,
which can lead to fatigue, compromised mental function and
eventually  anemia . Now, iron levels are being examined as part
of an $87.2 million study the U.S. is funding on blood donation
and transfusion safety.  In the U.S., 70 percent of the  blood supply  comes from
repeat donors. Limiting their giving may hamper a system that
already suffers shortages. The Mayo Clinic predicts a 10 percent
drop in its supply from its restrictions on donors after finding
that one-third had iron deficiency.  “We want to make sure we don’t have a group of people
walking around being iron deficient,” said Manish Gandhi, the
medical director of the Mayo Clinic’s blood donation center.
“Blood donation in the U.S. is an altruistic thing. We need to
focus on what we should be doing to protect these wonderful
donors.”  Almost 10 million Americans annually  give blood . Still,
that’s only 5 percent of those eligible, according to a national
 survey  conducted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services. The agency’s REDS-III  study , under way since 2011, is
examining donors’ iron levels as part of an effort to improve
blood banking and transfusion practices. Boosting the number of
donors may be key to a healthier blood banking system.  Iron Loss  Whole blood , which is divided into four components to treat
everything from hemophilia to ulcers and accident victims, can
now be given every two months, under rules set by the Food and
Drug Administration.  The question is whether that’s too often. The FDA,  National
Heart, Lung and Blood Institute  and the  AABB , a nonprofit that
represents the transfusion medicine industry,  are struggling to
find a way to minimize iron loss in donors without reducing the
total blood supply. Researchers are working on a test to
identify donors susceptible to iron deficiency that can be done
during blood drives.  The use of  iron supplements  is a possible solution, though
they can carry troublesome side effects such as an upset stomach
and constipation. And while the American Red Cross generally
encourages its donors to eat healthy meals to restore iron
levels after giving blood, the metal is hard to absorb from
food.  “Right now no one knows what the right answer is,” Gandhi
said in a telephone interview.  Hiking Fatigue  For Gastineau, now a 61-year-old doctor  specializing  in
blood cancers and bone marrow transplants at the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester,  Minnesota , the issue is professional and personal, he
said in an interview.  Several years ago, during a hike through the mountains of
northern New Mexico, he became so fatigued that he struggled to
complete a trail he previously did with ease, he said. The
culprit was depleted iron levels in his blood.  He stopped giving blood for a few months before each trek
and his cut back donations to once or twice a year. Now he also
takes iron for a month after each donation.  “I found out the hard way it’s not a good idea to donate
blood and then try to hike in the mountains the next weekend,”
Gastineau said. “It’s the reverse of blood doping.”  Stricter Policy  The Mayo Clinic where Gastineau works changed its policy in
June after it found one-third of its donors had depleted iron
stores. Now they must wait at least three months before giving
blood to reduce the risks that can lead to  anemia , a condition
in which iron levels fall dangerously low.  Blood drives already test for  hemoglobin , the iron-carrying
protein in red blood cells that ferries oxygen throughout the
body. Hemoglobin levels, though, may be normal in the early
stages of iron loss, when there are usually no symptoms, said
Richard Benjamin, chief medical officer of the American Red
Cross.  “The early symptoms are very subtle,” Benjamin said by
telephone. “It’s difficult to ask donors if they’re feeling
tired, listless, depressed. Those are symptoms of the modern
age.”  The U.S.-funded study probing iron deficiency in blood
donors was  published  in April 2012 in the medical journal
Transfusion. It found 20 percent of women who started donating
regularly had no iron reserves and 51 percent produced iron
deficient red blood cells.  Regular Donors  The risks were higher for those who were already regular
donors, the study found, with 27 percent of women having absent
iron stores and 62 percent producing iron deficient red blood
cells. Eighteen percent of regular male donors had depleted iron
stores and 47 percent produced iron deficient red blood cells.  The Red Cross, which provides 40 percent of the blood
supply nationwide, changed its policies this winter. It now
recommends men who donate three or more times a year and women
of child-bearing age who give blood more than twice annually to
consider iron supplements. It doesn’t provide them.  “We changed our stance on the whole iron issue,” Benjamin
said. “Research is being done through the National Institutes
of Health, but we can’t really wait. We have to react now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  