-- U.S.’s Brainard Urges Europe to Boost Demand to Avoid Long Slump
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-15T21:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/u-s-s-brainard-urges-europe-to-boost-demand-to-avoid-long-slump.html
Europe  faces the risk of prolonged
economic stagnation unless officials in the region pursue a
strategy that accelerates domestic demand, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s top international official said.  Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s undersecretary for
international affairs, said the Group of 20 economies meeting
later this week need to take action to spur growth. She was
speaking at a conference hosted by the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in  Washington  today.  Finance chiefs from the 20 largest developed and emerging
economies meet in Moscow July 19-20. Brainard said the U.S.
comes to the talks in a stronger position, with a rebounding
housing market and a more resilient financial system.  “If you look across the global landscape, there are
reasons to be concerned that some parts of the world aren’t
doing enough to bolster domestic demand,” Brainard said, naming
Europe as one of the laggards. “For our part, I think we go
into international discussions at a stronger point than we’ve
seen at any time in the last four years.”  The  International Monetary Fund  last week predicted the
economy of the 17-nation euro region will shrink 0.6 percent
this year as  Italy ,  Spain  and France contract. U.S. gross
domestic product will expand 1.7 percent this year before
accelerating to 2.7 percent growth next year, three times the
pace of the  euro zone ’s projected 2014 growth, the fund said in
revisions July 9 to its World Economic Outlook.  ‘Growth Plan’  “It is very important for Europe now to move from the
financial stability gains that it has made, which were very hard
ones, and move to a growth plan, a demand plan,” she said.  Brainard also said  China ’s new economic leaders, meeting
with U.S. officials last week in Washington, indicated a
willingness to move toward more market-oriented policies
including with its exchange rate and interest rates.  “They need to undertake new structural reforms to get
their economy onto a path that’s driven by the domestic consumer
and much less reliant on no-longer sustainable pattern of over-investment in resource-intensive industries,” Brainard said
today.  China’s economy  slowed for a second quarter as growth in
factory output and fixed-asset investment weakened, adding to
risks that the government will miss its expansion target as
Premier Li Keqiang reins in a credit boom.  Gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in April-to-June
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing earlier today, equaling the median  forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey and down from 7.7 percent in the first
quarter. June production growth matched the weakest pace since
the 2009 global recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  