-- UN Warns Congolese Rebels Against Advancing on Eastern Town
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-07-15T14:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/un-warns-congo-rebels-against-advancing-on-eastern-town-of-goma.html
The United Nations peacekeeping
mission in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo warned M23 rebels
against advancing on the eastern town of Goma and said it was
“deeply concerned” about a new offensive by the fighters.  M23 attacked Congolese army positions yesterday at the
village of Mutaho, 8 kilometers (5 miles) north of Goma, the
capital of North Kivu province, the mission said in an e-mailed
statement today. Fighting is continuing, according to Congo’s
army.  UN peacekeepers “stand ready to take any necessary
measures, including the use of lethal force, in order to protect
civilians,” the mission said. “Any attempt by the M23 to
advance toward Goma will be considered a direct threat to
civilians.”  Armed groups have thrived in eastern Congo for more than a
decade, often supporting themselves by exploiting the area’s
natural resources, according to the country’s Mines Ministry and
the UN. The region is rich in tin, gold and coltan, an ore used
in electronics. Companies including  Soco International Plc (SIA) ,
based in  London , and  France ’s  Total SA (FP)  are exploring for oil in
North Kivu province, where the M23 rebels are based.  More than 120 rebels died in the fighting and another dozen
were captured, Congo’s Media Minister  Lambert Mende  said in an
e-mailed statement today. A dozen Congolese soldiers were also
killed by M23 artillery fire in Mutaho, he said. The UN could
not confirm casualties,  Madnodje Mounoubai , a spokesman for the
mission, said by phone from the capital, Kinshasa.  M23 spokesman Amani Kabasha denied that many fighters have
been killed. “They’re liars,” he said by phone from Bunagana
town in North Kivu. “We’re still holding our positions.”  Peace Talks  M23 seized Goma in November before withdrawing 11 days
later under pressure from the international community. In May,
renewed clashes left at least 15 rebel fighters and four
government soldiers dead amid stalled peace talks.  Kabasha said M23 doesn’t want to take Goma and called for
peace talks to resume in Kampala, the capital of  Uganda . The
rebels defected from the army last year, claiming that Congo’s
President,  Joseph Kabila , had not implemented a 2009 peace plan
that brought the fighters into the army.  A draft peace agreement from earlier this year called for
reconciliation talks, increased investment in eastern Congo, and
the decentralization of power to the provinces. It also allowed
for M23 rebels to rejoin the national army except for those
subject to arrest warrants by the government. The insurgents
rejected the proposals.  Mass Displacement  Separately, at least 66,000 Congolese fled to neighboring
Uganda following an attack by the Allied Democratic Front, a
Ugandan rebel movement, on the Congolese town of Kamango on July
11, the UN Refugee Agency said in an e-mailed statement today.
Uganda’s government accuses the ADF of having links with
Somalia’s al-Shabaab Islamist militia. The rebels crossed into
Congo in the 1990s after defeat by the Ugandan army.  “This is an extraordinarily swift and concerning influx of
refugees into an area with very limited preparedness to extend
humanitarian assistance to such a large number of people,”
Mohammed Adar, the agency’s representative in Uganda, said in
the statement.  Refugees are being housed in sites including five primary
schools, while the agency is mounting an emergency response
along with the Ugandan government and other humanitarian
agencies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  