-- Vinson & Elkins, Ashurst, Paul Hastings: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-15T14:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/vincent-elkins-ashurst-paul-hastings-business-of-law.html
Vinson & Elkins LLP is closing its
Shanghai office later this year and will consolidate the China
practice in its existing Beijing and Hong Kong offices,
according to a firm memo by Chairman Mark Kelly.  “Given our firm’s historic ties to the energy industry,
concentrating more of our mainland Chinese resources in Beijing,
where many of our energy clients are based, allows us to more
effectively serve those clients,” Kelly wrote in the memo. “In
addition, we believe that our enhanced capabilities in Beijing
and Hong Kong will benefit our clients across the greater China
region.”  Three of the firm’s 13 lawyers listed as resident in the
Shanghai office on the firm’s website are partners, including
Jay T. Kolb, who is the managing partner of both the Shanghai
and Beijing offices.  A firm spokeswoman declined to answer questions about what
specifically prompted the closing and whether any lawyers will
lose their jobs. The firm will provide opportunities to
attorneys and staff to remain with the firm in the region
“where possible,” according to the memo.  The firm has a third office in Asia, in  Tokyo , which will
remain open.  Paula Deen Hires Morgan Lewis Partner Grace Speights  Celebrity chef Paula Deen, who is facing a lawsuit over
sexual harassment and a hostile work environment claims at a
restaurant she owns, hired Morgan Lewis & Brockius LLP to take
over her legal team.  Her old law firm, Savannah, Georgia-based Oliver Maner LLP,
was replaced with a team led by Morgan Lewis, the Associated
Press reported on July 12.  Jen Costa, a Morgan Lewis spokeswoman, confirmed that the
firm’s team will be led by labor and employment lawyer Grace E. Speights. Additional lawyers on the case include associates
Jocelyn Cuttino and Alexis Thomas.  Deen became embroiled in controversy when she said in court
documents made public at the end of June that she has used a
derogatory term for black people.  Deen and brother Bubba Hiers are being sued by Lisa
Jackson, a former manager of their restaurant in Savannah called
Uncle Bubba’s Oyster House. Jackson says she was sexually
harassed and worked in a hostile environment marked by innuendo
and racial slurs.  Spreights is the managing partner of Morgan Lewis’s
Washington office, chairwoman of the Systemic Employment
Litigation Practice, and co-head of the firm’s Diversity
Committee.  The Weiner, Shearhouse, Weitz, Greenberg & Shawe law firm
in Savannah will also be advising Deen on the litigation, the
Associated Press said.  Ashurst Announces Management Appointments and Plans  Ashurst  Australia  and Ashurst LLP announced management
appointments and a global governance and management structure
that will help integrate the combined firm.  Current managing partner James Collis will be appointed
global managing partner and John Carrington, current Ashurst
Australia managing partner will be managing partner Australia.  Ashurst partners will vote for candidates on Ashurst’s 14-member global board later in the year.  Brian Dunlop was named chief financial officer and Robert
Gillespie and David Turner are the previously announced
independent board members, the firm said in a statement.  The firm is also introducing a new global divisional
structure along four business lines, each co-led by Ashurst LLP
and Ashurst Australia partners.  The corporate, commercial and competition practice will be
co-led by Sydney-based Phil Breden and London-based Stephen
Lloyd.  The disputes, intellectual property and employment will be
co-led by London-based Simon Bromwich and Sydney-based Lisa
Ritson.  The energy, resources, real estate and infrastructure co-will be led by London-based Mark Elsey and Perth-based Geoff
Gishubl.  Finance will be co-led by Sydney-based Paul Jenkins and
Paris-based Laurent Mabilat.  “The management structure and team we have put in place
reflects the ambition of the firm and gives us a strong global
platform to achieve our strategy and vision for the merged
firm,” Ashurst senior partner Charlie Geffen said. “Our new
structure will ensure that we operate as efficiently as possible
and will help us to deliver excellence in client service.”  London-based Ashurst and Australia’s Blake Dawson merged in
March 2012, with Blake Dawson taking the name Ashurst Australia.  Moves  Houston Mergers and Acquisitions Partner Joins Paul Hastings  Paul Hastings LLP announced that Jimmy Vallee has joined
the firm as a partner with the mergers and acquisitions practice
in Houston. He was previously at Jones Day, where he was a
partner.  “A key component of our global growth strategy is to build
a strong and balanced energy-focused capital markets, finance,
M&A, and master limited partnership practice in Houston,”
Elizabeth Noe, chairwoman of the corporate practice at Paul
Hastings said in a statement. “Jimmy’s extensive M&A and
corporate finance practice focused on the energy industry
provides a key element in completing the foundation for the
Energy practice we are building in Houston and globally,” she
added.  Vallee has experience representing clients in mergers and
acquisitions, corporate finance and securities transactions,
joint ventures, and corporate governance matters. His practice
has a focus on domestic and international energy companies
involved in oil and gas exploration and production, midstream,
and oil field services industries.  He advised OGE Energy in connection with its $11 billion
joint venture with CenterPoint Energy to create one of the
largest master limited partnerships in the midstream industry.
In addition, Vallee recently advised Jefferies LLC in connection
with its role as financial adviser to Copano Energy in its $5
billion merger with Kinder Morgan.  The firm opened the Houston office in April with three
transactional energy partners.  Paul Hastings has lawyers at 20 offices in Asia, Europe and
the U.S.  Litigator Brian Melendez Joins Dykema in Minneapolis  Dykema Gossett PLLC announced that Brian Melendez joined
the firm as a member of the litigation team in the Minneapolis
office. He was previously at Faegre Baker Daniels LLP.  Melendez focuses his practice on business litigation,
especially sophisticated commercial matters and consumer-finance
litigation.  Dykema has lawyers in 13 U.S. offices.  Labor & Employment Partner Joins Barnes & Thornburg  Barnes & Thornburg LLP added to its national labor and
employment law department with the hire of Indianapolis attorney
Jeffery Mallamad. He previously headed the labor and employment
practice group at Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP.      He defends
employers against a variety of lawsuits filed in federal and
state courts and administrative agencies. He counsels top
executives on issues related to hiring packages, compensation,
stock positions, benefits and severance. He also handles complex
Occupational Safety and Health Administration matters involving
serious work accidents, the firm said.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Nelson Mullin Hires Tax Lawyer From Mayer Brown  Wells Hall joined Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP’s
 Charlotte , North Carolina, office. He will be a member of the
the federal and state tax practice group and the
multidisciplinary national health-care group. He was previously
a partner in the tax transactions and consulting practice of
Mayer Brown LLP.  Hall represents clients in transactional matters, such as
mergers, acquisitions, reorganizations, private equity
transactions, and estate and gift tax planning, the firm said.
He also handles transactions involving pass-through entities,
including merger and acquisition transactions when an S
corporation or an LLC is the target.  Nelson Mullins has more than 470 attorneys and government
relations professionals at its U.S. offices.  Litigation  Allen & Overy to Lead Defense of Goldman Sachs’s ‘Fabulous Fab’  Fabrice Tourre, the ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  vice
president whose congressional testimony put a face on the
complex structured investments that contributed to the 2008
financial crisis, is set to face trial today on allegations he
misled investors.  Tourre, dubbed “Fabulous Fab” by a friend, faces fraud
claims in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit over
his role in Abacus 2007-AC1, a synthetic collateralized debt
obligation tied to home mortgages. The trial comes three years
to the day after the SEC announced Goldman Sachs’s agreement to
pay a then-record $550 million settlement and admit mistakes in
marketing Abacus.  Tourre will be defended by a team led by Allen & Overy LLP
partner  Pamela Chepiga , a former chief of the unit that
prosecutes federal securities crimes in New York, and John P.
“Sean” Coffey, another former federal prosecutor who spent
more than a decade representing investors in securities-fraud
suits against companies.  The SEC team includes the SEC’s chief litigator, Matthew Martens, as well as Richard Simpson, who represented the SEC
against Sam Antar in the Crazy Eddie Inc. fraud case, and
Christian Schultz, a former partner with the firm Kirkland &
Ellis LLP.  Jurors will want to know whether Tourre intentionally
misled customers, said Ernest Badway, a former SEC enforcement
attorney with the Philadelphia-based law firm Fox Rothschild
LLP. “They’re going to look to see if he said something that he
knew to be untrue,” Badway said.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Ex-SAC Manager Steinberg Seeks Jury Probing After ‘Media Storm’  A lawyer for former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager
Michael Steinberg told a federal judge that the “media storm”
of coverage about his case and founder Steven A. Cohen may hurt
his chances of getting a fair trial.  Lawyer Barry Berke, of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP,
on July 12 asked U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in
Manhattan to use a questionnaire and closely question potential
jurors about media accounts and publicity surrounding the case
when a jury is selected for Steinberg’s insider-trading trial,
set to begin in November.  Berke said that hundreds of articles have been written
about his client’s case, which is far different from the related
insider-trading trial of Level Global Investors LP co-founder
Anthony Chiasson and his co-defendant, former Diamondback
Capital Management LLC fund manager Todd Newman, who were
convicted of insider trading in December.  “I do think the press is different from the Chiasson
trial,” Berke told the judge. “There has been a lot of
extraneous information that has been written about this case,
SAC, Steve Cohen, SAC people who’ve pleaded guilty and other
rumors.”  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  