-- Vivus Delays Annual Meeting on Eve of Board Proxy Vote
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-15T14:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/vivus-delays-annual-meeting-on-eve-of-board-proxy-vote.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , the drugmaker battling
its largest shareholder for board control, pushed its annual
meeting back by three days while claiming the dissident investor
made misleading statements about a proxy adviser recommendation.  The annual meeting, which was scheduled for today, will now
be held July 18,  Mountain View , California-based Vivus said in a
news release late yesterday. The company said it also reported
statements by dissident shareholder First  Manhattan  Co. about
the proxy fight to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and asked the regulator to require “corrective actions.”  First Manhattan, which controls 9.9 percent of Vivus shares
outstanding, said it “strongly disagrees” with the allegation
that it made misleading comments. Vivus’s actions are “a
pretense to buy time in an attempt to improperly influence the
election,” First Manhattan said in a statement today. The
investor said it will consider options, including legal action,
to “protect the rights of Vivus’s shareholders.”  “We wouldn’t rule out some form of a compromise just
yet,” Lee Kalowski, an analyst with  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , wrote in
research note today. “One sticking point seems to be that FMC
has wanted a majority share of the board and this is something
the Vivus board/management says it would be unable to offer due
to its fiduciary obligations.”  First Manhattan has proposed a slate of nine directors to
replace Vivus’s entire board, and has said it would name a new
chief executive officer. The proxy fight has focused on Vivus’s
marketing strategy for the obesity drug Qsymia, approved in July
2012 by the  Food and Drug Administration  and drawing $4.1
million in first-quarter revenue.  Compromise Attempt  Vivus lost more than half its market value in the 12 months
ended in June. The shares rebounded 17 percent in the past two
weeks as investors speculated the dissidents may gain ground.
Vivus fell 3 percent to $14.26 at 9:49 a.m.  New York  time.  The drugmaker said that paid advisers to First Manhattan
made “false and misleading statements” about the
recommendation of Institutional Shareholder Services. The proxy
adviser gave its backing to three directors on the dissident
side earlier this month:  Alex Denner , Michael Astrue and David
Norton. Over the weekend, Vivus said it invited three First
Manhattan director nominees to join the board in an attempt to
reach a compromise.  Last week, Vivus’s third-largest shareholder, QVT Financial
LP, was reported to be planning to vote its 8.35 million shares
for the dissident slate. Both Vivus and First Manhattan said
last week they were open to settlement discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  