-- Vodafone Said to Plan to Kabel Deal as Soon as October
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n ,   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-07-16T17:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/vodafone-said-to-plan-kabel-deal-completion-as-soon-as-october.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  plans to complete
its acquisition of  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  after the German
cable operator’s shareholder meeting in October, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  The companies aim to wrap up the transaction following
Kabel Deutschland’s  annual meeting  scheduled for Oct. 10,
pending antitrust approval, said the people, asking not to be
named discussing internal deliberations. Vodafone is in talks
with the European Commission to address competition concerns and
will decide on whether to file for EU antitrust approval before
or after the summer break depending on the outcome of those
negotiations, a fourth person said.  Completing the deal after the shareholder meeting suggests
Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless provider, hasn’t
wavered in anticipating a simple antitrust process, upon which
much of the timing depends. Vodafone’s 87 euro-a-share ($113)
offer included a 2.50-euro dividend  Kabel Deutschland  promised
to pay in October. Given the timeframe the people said they
anticipate, Kabel Deutschland would pay that dividend directly,
effectively cutting Vodafone’s offer to 84.50 euros.  “We don’t expect these discussions to be very
complicated,” Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao
said on a conference call last month, adding “any kind of
competition concern” will be very light.  Former Offer  Vodafone plans to submit its official offer by month-end,
the people said. Then Kabel Deutschland’s supervisory board is
scheduled to meet Aug. 1 to discuss it, one of the people said.
The company has said it would recommend Vodafone’s bid to
shareholders. Vodafone said previously that the deal was
expected to close this year.  Kuzey Esener, a Vodafone spokesman, and Kabel Deutschland’s
Insa Calsow declined to comment on the timetable.  Vodafone fell 1.1 percent to close at 193.45 pence in
London. Kabel Deutschland added 0.2 percent to 84.39 euros on
the Frankfurt exchange.  The deal would give Vodafone access to 8.5 million
households in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest telecommunications
market, and bolster its capacity to sell combined wireless,
fixed-line Internet and television services. It would also
intensify competition with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the country’s
former phone monopoly, on whose network Vodafone has so far
relied for wireline services.  Antitrust Review  Mobile operators are looking to acquire fixed-line assets
as smartphone adoption slows and heavy regulation restrains
wireless profits. Last year, Vodafone bought the U.K.’s Cable &
Wireless Worldwide Plc to cope with surging data traffic on its
own network in its home country.  There’s still a possibility the deal could conclude before
the October meeting should Vodafone secure regulatory approval
quickly, one of the people said. Antitrust reviews will probably
be completed this year, the person said.  Colorado billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Plc
offered 85 euros a share in an informal bid a few days before
Vodafone’s offer and isn’t expected to make a counterbid,
although that remains an uncertainty that could alter the
schedule, one of the people said.  ‘Very Comfortable’  Liberty Global, which controls Germany’s second-largest
cable operator, might have had more trouble getting the deal
approved with the country’s antitrust regulators than Vodafone’s
offer, as the British company doesn’t have existing cable assets
there. Still Kabel Deutschland and Vodafone are also considering
the possibility that an antitrust process would last into 2014,
the people said.  Deutsche Telekom and peers would probably be consulted in
an antitrust review, according to Andreas Middel, a spokesman
for the German carrier. Should Vodafone’s offer be approved,
Deutsche Telekom will demand that the “new, larger competitor
is forced to let rivals onto its network for regulated fees” or
that the former monopoly be exempted from such regulation,
spokesman Philipp Blank said in an e-mail.  “Cable operators have been in a very comfortable position
so far,” Blank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  