-- Wells Fargo Profit Rises as Lender Puts Brakes on Costs
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-15T11:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/wells-fargo-profit-rises-as-lender-puts-brakes-on-costs.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest bank, agreed to sell its Eurohypo U.K. real estate
lending unit to Wells Fargo & Co. and Lone Star Funds to comply
with European Union state-aid rules following its bailout.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, will acquire
about 4 billion pounds ($6 billion) of “high-quality” assets,
Wells Fargo said in a statement today. Dallas-based Loan Star
will buy about 1.3 billion pounds of non-performing loans. The
loans were sold for about 3.5 percent less than book value.  “The news of the U.K. portfolio sale is positive,
especially as it was done almost at book value,” said Michael
Seufert, an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank in Hanover who
recommends investors hold the stock. “That eases one of the key
concerns about Commerzbank, namely that they won’t be able to
sell their non-core portfolio without racking up large losses.”  Commerzbank is winding down Hypothekenbank  Frankfurt  after
receiving aid from the German government during the sovereign
debt crisis. The government took a 25 percent stake of
Commerzbank in 2009 after providing a 18.2 billion-euro ($24
billion) bailout. That holding declined to 17 percent in May,
when the bank sold 2.5 billion euros of shares in the fifth
capital-raising in four years.  The disposal will reduce risk-weighted assets by 1.5
billion euros and lead to 179 million euros of charges in 2013,
Commerzbank said.  Sale Talks?  Focus magazine reported today that the government is
considering selling a stake to a foreign bank and German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble spoke with UBS AG Chairman Axel
Weber to evaluate interest the Swiss bank’s interest in buying
shares.  Commerzbank advanced as much as 4.5 percent to 6.23 euros
and was up 3.3 percent at 6.17 euros as of 1:10 p.m. in
Frankfurt, valuing the company at 7 billion euros.  Finance Ministry Spokesman Marco Semmelmann declined to say
whether Schaeuble talked with Weber and whether  Germany  has any
immediate plans to sell shares to a foreign bank. Nils Hendrik
Happich, a spokesman for Commerzbank in Frankfurt, declined to
comment. The stake is held by the government’s rescue fund
Soffin.  “It has always been the government’s goal to restrict the
stabilization measures granted during the financial crisis to a
period as limited as possible,” Semmelmann said from Berlin in
response to e-mailed questions. “However, it is currently not
conceivable when Soffin’s remaining holding in Commerzbank will
be divested.”  Election Looming  Dieter Hein, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,
Germany, said the government is unlikely to sell a stake prior
to parliamentary elections in September, when Angela Merkel will
seek a third term as chancellor. The government would take a 3.8
billion-euro loss on the shares, now valued at 1.2 billion
euros, if it sold them today, he said.  U.S. investors such as San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo (WFC)  are
seeking European loan books as the region’s lenders reduce their
real estate assets to meet new regulations. Wells Fargo
originated almost one in three U.S. mortgages in 2012, helping
the lender post a third straight year of record profit.  Given “our recent expansion of commercial real estate
services in the U.K., this transaction is a significant
investment in the future growth of our U.K. platform,” Mark
Myers, head of commercial real estate at Wells Fargo, said in
the statement.  Barclays Plc advised Commerzbank on the loan sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  