-- Western Australia Grain Regions Set for Rain, Boosting Prospects
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-07-15T06:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/western-australia-grain-regions-set-for-rain-boosting-prospects.html
Grain regions in Western  Australia ,
set to be the nation’s biggest wheat producer this harvest, may
receive more rain this week, extending the wet weather from the
weekend and boosting crop prospects.  Most of the state’s southwest may receive between 1
millimeter and 10 millimeters (0.4 inches) of rain in the four
days to July 18, according to a  weather  model on the Bureau of
Meteorology’s website. Some grain regions in parts of New South
Wales, last year’s biggest wheat grower, may get as much as 25
millimeters in the period, it shows.  Wheat gained 3.2 percent last week, the biggest advance in
more than two months, after the U.S. Department of Agriculture
pared estimates for world stockpiles. Global inventories will
drop to 172.38 million tons, 4.9 percent smaller than estimated
last month, as  China  boosts imports to the highest since 1995-1996, it said. Production in Australia, the world’s third-biggest exporter, will increase 15 percent to 25.4 million tons
in 2013-2014, the government estimates.  “Between 10 millimeters to 40 millimeters of rain has been
recorded across most of the W.A. wheat belt over the past four
days, and light follow-up is forecast early this week,”   Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, wrote in a note today. “The increased rainfall will
help improve W.A. grain production prospects, although good
follow-up rainfall is still required.”  A lack of rain in June had raised concerns that dry weather
will increase crop stress. A significant improvement in rainfall
is required in July to place Western Australia’s yield
potentials back on track, Mathews said June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  