-- Wi-Lan Plunges on Trial Loss to Ericsson, Alcatel-Lucent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   B e t h   M e l l o r
-- 2013-07-15T22:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/wi-lan-plunges-on-trial-loss-to-ericsson-alcatel-lucent.html
Wi-Lan Inc., (WIN)  a Canadian owner of
patents for technology used in mobile phones, plunged the most
in seven years after it lost a U.S. patent-infringement trial
against Alcatel-Lucent and  Ericsson AB. (ERIC)   Wi-Lan fell $1.47, or 31 percent, to $3.25 at 4 p.m. today
in  New York  trading for the biggest one-day drop since May 2006
and its lowest price since September 2010. In a statement,
Ottawa-based Wi-Lan said it was disappointed and reviewing its
options with its lawyers.  Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson didn’t infringe three Wi-Lan
patents, a federal jury in Tyler,  Texas , said. Phones made by
handset manufacturers  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Mobile
Communications were cleared of infringement of a fourth patent,
according to the verdict form. The patent asserted against HTC
and two against Alcatel also were found invalid.  “HTC believes that Wi-Lan has exaggerated the scope of its
patent in order to extract unwarranted licensing royalties from
entities who have been focused on bringing innovation forward in
their own products,” Sally Julien, a spokeswoman for Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based HTC, said in an e-mailed statement.  The suit was filed in 2010 over ways to process data
transmitted and received over wireless networks. Wi-Lan argued
that base stations complying with certain industry standards
were using its inventions, allegations denied by Paris-based
 Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  and Stockholm-based Ericsson.  Jury Confirmation  “We think this validates our belief that Wi-Lan was
stretching the boundaries of its patents, and the jury confirmed
that belief,” Kurt Steinert, a spokesman for Alcatel-Lucent,
said in a statement.  Ericsson said the jury “quickly recognized” that the Wi-Lan patents didn’t apply to the widely used technology and that
the Canadian patent owner wasn’t entitled to any damages.  “This is a great win for Ericsson and for the industry,”
Kathy Egan, a spokeswoman for Ericsson, said in a statement.  This was the first time one of Wi-Lan’s patent suits have
gone to trial. The company typically settles lawsuits that it
files to get companies to license its technology, a strategy
that brought the stock up 16 percent over the past three months.  The patents originated with a company called  Airspan
Networks Inc. (AIRO) , according to court records.  The case is Wi-Lan Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.,
10cv521, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Mellor in New York at 
 bmellor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  