-- Knicks Add World Peace While Losing J.R. Smith to Knee Surgery
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-16T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/world-peace-says-he-ll-join-hometown-knicks-after-lakers-buyout.html
The New York Knicks added forward
Metta World Peace as a free agent and said they are losing J.R.
Smith for as long as four months following left knee surgery.  The 33-year-old World Peace, who used to be known as Ron Artest, said during a Knicks’ Summer League game in Las Vegas
that he reached an agreement with his hometown team. The Queens,
New York, native played for St. John’s University at New York’s
Madison Square Garden, the home of the Knicks.  World Peace’s two-year deal is worth $3.2 million, Yahoo
Sports reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the negotiations.  Smith, the National Basketball Association’s Sixth Man of
the Year last season, will be out 12 to 16 weeks after having
surgery yesterday on his left patella tendon and to repair a
tear in the lateral meniscus.  The injury probably will keep Smith, 27, out for the start
of training camp in late September and may force him to miss the
start of the 2013-14 regular season the following month. The
Knicks said on their Twitter feed that Smith’s injuries were
chronic and had gradually worsened.  Smith agreed to stay in New York as a free agent earlier
this month after averaging a career-best 18.1 points per game on
42 percent shooting last season, when the Knicks finished with
54 wins, their highest total in 16 years.  World Peace averaged 12.4 points and five rebounds in 75
games last season with the Los Angeles Lakers. He was bought out
by the team last week under the NBA’s amnesty clause, which
absolves the club of paying a luxury tax on the package, and
cleared waivers two days ago.  Team Chemistry  World Peace said his role with the team will be to “do
what’s right.”  “It’s all about the chemistry at the end of the day,” he
said in a report on MSG Network. “When you start giving
yourself a role, then you start thinking too much, you start
putting yourself under a little bit too much pressure.”  World Peace has averaged 14.1 points, 4.7 rebounds and 1.8
steals in his 14-year career with the Chicago Bulls, Indiana
Pacers, Sacramento Kings, Houston Rockets and Lakers. He was
named the NBA’s Defensive Player of the Year in 2004, when he
also played in his only All-Star Game.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  