-- WTI Trades Near Three-Day High as Oil Stockpiles Seen Shrinking
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-07-16T13:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/wti-crude-trades-near-three-day-high-as-stockpiles-seen-dropping.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near
a three-day high on speculation U.S. crude inventories declined
for a third week, signaling increased demand in the world’s
biggest oil consumer.  Futures gained as much as 0.8 percent in New York after
rising by 0.4 percent yesterday. Stockpiles probably dropped by
1.88 million barrels to the lowest level in five months,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before a report tomorrow
from the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. Refiners typically boost output in
the summer to meet peak motor-fuel consumption. Gasoline prices
at U.S. filling stations climbed this week by the most since
February, EIA data showed.  Oil demand in the U.S. is “rather good, with refinery
throughput quite impressive,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in London. Refining runs are near highs
for the year, he said. “Fuel demand has been on the mend.”  WTI for August delivery rose as much as 86 cents and was at
$106.91 a barrel in electronic trading at 8:47 a.m. on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The volume of all futures traded was
14 percent below the 100-day average. The contract gained 37
cents yesterday to $106.32, the highest close since July 10.  Brent for August settlement, which expires today, was up 37
cents at $109.46 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more active September future rose 39 cents to
$108.47. The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $2.52
to WTI. The spread was $1.99 on July 10, the narrowest based on
closing prices since November 2010.  Fuel Supplies  WTI surged to $107.45 a barrel in intraday trading on July
11, the highest price since March 2012, after EIA data showed
U.S. crude stockpiles declined for a second week as refiners
boosted processing. Supplies dropped 20.2 million barrels to
373.9 million in the 14 days ended July 5, the largest two-week
decline since at least 1982.  U.S. motor-fuel demand typically rises from Memorial Day in
the last weekend of May to Labor Day in early September, the
nation’s peak vacation season.  Gasoline inventories  fell by 1.7 million barrels last week,
according to the median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Distillate supplies, including heating oil and
diesel, probably gained by 1.5 million barrels.  Factory Output  The American Petroleum Institute is scheduled to release
separate inventory data today at 4:30 p.m. in Washington. The
industry group collects stockpile information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA for its weekly survey.  Regular, unleaded gasoline at U.S. filling stations climbed
14.7 cents from a week earlier to $3.639 a gallon, the highest
price since June 10 and 32 percent above the five-year average,
the EIA said on its website yesterday. This week’s gain was the
biggest since Feb. 4.  U.S consumer prices increased in June by 1.8 percent from a
year earlier, the Labor Department reported today. The gain was
more than the 1.6 percent expected, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
release of the figures in  Washington . The increase follows a 1.4
percent gain in May and is below the Federal Reserve’s 2 percent
goal.  The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of global oil consumption
last year, compared with 11 percent for  China , the second-largest consumer, the International Energy Agency said July 11
in its latest oil-market report.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said risks to Brent prices have
shifted “to the upside” amid political threats to supply and
production losses in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Reduced output in Libya, Iraq and Nigeria have the
potential to limit the availability of oil, according to an e-mailed report. The bank forecast Brent will trade at an average
of $105 a barrel in the second half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  