-- Yansab Drops as Saudi Petrochem Profits Disappoint: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-07-15T10:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/yansab-drops-as-saudi-petrochem-profits-disappoint-riyadh-mover.html
Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co. (YANSAB) 
headed for the biggest drop in more than three weeks after
second-quarter profit at the unit of  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC)  missed estimates.  Shares of the company known as Yansab decreased 2.2
percent, poised for the largest retreat since June 22, to 56.50
riyals at 1:31 p.m. in Riyadh. The stock was the third-biggest
decliner on the Tadawul All Share Index, which slid 0.6 percent.
Sabic, the world’s largest petrochemicals company by market
value, fell 1 percent, the most since June 24.  Yansab’s quarterly net income of 670.5 million riyals ($179
million) came below the 737 million-riyal average estimate of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sabic affiliate  Saudi Arabian
Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , or Safco, lost 0.5 percent after the company
also reported profit that missed estimates. The  Tadawul
petrochemicals index  declined 0.8 percent, set for the biggest
drop in three weeks.  “We consider that the weakness in the petrochemical sector
is primarily a reflection of reported earnings missing the
market expectations,” Ankit Gupta, a Dubai-based equity analyst
and assistant vice-president of research at NBK Capital, said by
e-mail. “Yansab’s second-quarter results underscore the
company’s operational resilience, however, it is mostly priced
in the stock.”  Seven analysts  recommend  investors buy Yansab shares, while
nine have a hold rating on the stock and one advises selling it,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Today’s drop trimmed the
stock’s advance this year to almost 20 percent, compared with 13
percent for Tadawul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  