-- Yen Drops Versus Dollar on Central-Bank Divergence
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-07-16T05:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/yen-drops-versus-dollar-on-central-bank-divergence.html
The yen held a two-day loss against
the dollar before central bank statements this week that may
signal extended monetary easing in  Japan  as the U.S. plans an
exit from stimulus.  Demand for the yen was limited before the release tomorrow
of minutes from the Bank of Japan’s June 10-11 meeting when
policy makers stuck with a pledge to expand the monetary base by
as much as 70 trillion yen ($700 billion) per year. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to testify on
monetary policy this week.  Australia ’s dollar gained as
investors pared bets the Reserve Bank will cut interest rates
after the minutes of its last meeting released today said the
recent drop in the currency may boost inflation.  “There’s a good chance Bernanke will again suggest the Fed
will start to taper monetary easing as early as September,”
said Noriaki Murao, a New York-based managing director of the
marketing group at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “If
that’s the case, the initial reaction is likely to be dollar
buying and yen selling.”  The yen traded at 99.76 per dollar as of 6:40 a.m. in
 London  from 99.86 yesterday, having weakened 0.9 percent in the
past two sessions. The currency was little changed at 130.54 per
euro from yesterday, when it lost 0.6 percent. The euro added
0.2 percent to $1.3085. The Aussie dollar gained 1 percent to
91.84 U.S. cents.  Lower Volatility  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s option  index  measuring swings in
global currencies was near a one-month low. Implied volatility,
which the bank’s option index tracks and is used in models to
set option prices, was at 10.56 percent, after dropping to 10.47
percent on July 9, the lowest since June 18.  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semi-annual monetary
policy report to Congress this week, starting tomorrow at the
House Financial Services Committee. The Fed purchases $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month as part of
its quantitative-easing program to cap borrowing costs.  While Bernanke on July 10 damped speculation the central
would slow its buying, minutes released the same day of the
Fed’s last policy meeting showed “about half” of participants
indicated “it likely would be appropriate” to end the
purchases late this year.  “You’ve got that Fed tapering coming through together with
continued monetary policy easing from Japan,” Steve Brice,
chief investment strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in
 Singapore , said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“That should lead to dollar-yen going to at least 105-110 on a
6-to-12 month view.”  U.S. Data  U.S. industrial production probably rose 0.3 percent in
June from the previous month, the biggest increase since
February, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Fed releases its figures
today.  Analysts in a separate Bloomberg poll estimate the Labor
Department data today will show consumer prices grew 1.6 percent
from a year earlier in June, after a 1.4 percent gain in May.
That is below the Fed’s 2 percent goal.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, slid 0.1 percent to 1036.12.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year U.S.
Treasuries over same-maturity Japanese government bonds was at
173 basis points, or 1.73 percentage points, after widening to
188 points on July 5, the most since July 2011.  100 Level  “We retain a bearish JPY stance but the move is not going
to be a one-way bet,”  Mitul Kotecha , the global head of
foreign-exchange strategy in Hong Kong at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
wrote in a note to clients today. “Fed policy expectations will
drive USD/JPY, with a renewed relative increase in U.S. yields
required to push USD/JPY sustainably above the psychologically
important 100 level.”  Australia’s inflation outlook, which is slightly higher
because of a weaker currency, could still provide some scope for
further easing, the minutes of RBA’s July 2 meeting showed.
Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 55 percent
chance of the central bank cutting its key interest rate next
month, down from the 65 percent probability indicated yesterday.  The Aussie has fallen 9.3 percent in the past six months,
the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has
gained 6.1 percent in the same period, the biggest gainer, while
the yen declined 7.3 percent.  Stimulus Scope  “People were probably positioned a little short going into
the minutes expecting a bit more dovishness,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia. (CBA)  The minutes showed “even though the fall in
the currency is likely to see inflation pick up slightly, it’s
still within the range where they could provide stimulus.”  The 17-nation euro was supported before German data
forecast to show investor sentiment in Europe’s biggest economy
improved.  In  Germany , the ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim will probably say today its  index  of investor and
analyst expectations increased to 40 this month from 38.5 in
June, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A reading of that level for the gauge, which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, would be
the highest since March.  “Confidence in the German economy is lending support to
the euro,”  Satoshi Okagawa , a senior global-markets analyst in
Singapore at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s
second-largest financial group by market value. “I’m skeptical
about yen weakness. Should the prospects for tapering of U.S.
quantitative easing lead to a drop in risk assets, the yen will
be bought as a safe asset, especially given it’s cheap now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  