-- YouTube Links Used to Coach Match-Fixing, Referee Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-07-15T05:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-15/youtube-links-used-to-coach-match-fixing-referee-says.html
YouTube Inc. video links showing how
easy it is to make a bad refereeing call in soccer were used in
a bid by a Singapore businessman to fix games, a former Lebanese
match official testified.  Ding Si Yang, 31, was charged with three counts of
corruption in April for allegedly providing women to give free
sexual services to three soccer officials in an attempt to fix
an  Asian Football Confederation  Cup match. He faces as much as
five years in jail and a S$100,000 ($79,000) fine on each
corruption charge, if convicted.  Ali Sabbagh, the referee, and his assistants Ali Eid and
Abdallah Taleb, pleaded guilty last month to accepting sex from
the women provided by Ding. Singapore prosecutors said at the
earlier trial they uncovered the case as they probed claims by
Europe’s law enforcement agency that a syndicate based in the
Asian city is involved in fixing soccer matches globally.  “In every football match, game officials are key to
ensuring a fair result based on the abilities and skills of the
football teams,” Alan Loh, the prosecutor, said today at the
start of Ding’s trial in a  Singapore  subordinate court. “In
this case, the very officials who were meant to uphold sporting
excellence and sportsmanship bartered away their professional
integrity in return for free sexual services.”  The prosecution temporarily withdrew two other charges
against Ding, relating to the concealing of a receipt issued by
a law firm from the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau and
failing to provide police with the password to his laptop, Loh
said.  YouTube Links  In August 2012, Ding sent Sabbagh an e-mail with about 25
links to YouTube video clips that showed how wrong decisions
were made at soccer matches, said Sabbagh, the first prosecution
witness, who said he knew Ding as James Zen.  “He wanted me to learn how to make these kind of decisions
in my matches in the future,” said Sabbagh, who was handed a
six-month jail term for corruption on June 11.  The three Lebanese men were scheduled to officiate an April
3  Asian Football Confederation  Cup game in Singapore. They were
replaced before the match between Singapore-based Tampines
Rovers and East Bengal, which won 4-2 in a game that included an
own goal by the Rovers.  Europol and police were investigating attempts to fix more
than 380 games, including World Cup and European Championship
qualifiers, with involvement from a Singapore-based operation,
Europe’s law enforcement agency  said  in February.  Interpol, the International Criminal Police Organization,
in February arrested suspected match-fixer Admir Suljic with
help from Singapore police, which said it sent four senior
officials to Interpol’s headquarters in Lyon,  France  to join its
Global Anti-Match Fixing task force. Singaporean Dan Tan Seet
Eng is helping authorities in its probe into match-fixing,
police said in February.  Soccer’s governing body, FIFA, also suspended people in
 Italy , South Korea and  China  in February for allegedly being
involved in rigging games.  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Ding Si Yang
DAC011276 to DAC011278/2013. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  