-- Azeri $34 Billion Fund to Remake Holdings After Aussie, Gold
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-03-15T11:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/-34-billion-azeri-fund-remaking-currency-mix-after-aussie-ruble.html
Azerbaijan ’s State Oil  Fund  is
weighing expansion into new currencies to reflect the impact of
faster growing economies after starting to buy Australian
dollars and gold last year, its chief investment officer said.  With $34.1 billion in assets on Jan. 1, equivalent to
almost 50 percent of the Caspian Sea nation’s economy, the fund,
known as Sofaz, has broadened its mandate to keep as much as 5
percent of its assets in Australian dollars, Russian rubles and
Turkish lira, Israfil Mammadov said in a March 13 interview in
the capital, Baku.  “Sofaz is constantly exploring new currencies with a view
of further diversification of its investment portfolio,”
Mammadov said. “If we start investing in new currencies, the
weight of our existing currencies will of course diminish.”  The former  Soviet Union ’s biggest oil producer after  Russia 
and  Kazakhstan  is expanding its currency allocation for the
first time since its establishment in 1999 and diversifying
reserves by adding investments in real estate and gold. The
price of oil has more than quadrupled over the past 10 years,
raising the revenue of exporting countries such as Azerbaijan
and  Norway .  The Azeri wealth fund, which manages all state revenue from
oil and natural gas, increased assets 15 percent in 2012 from
the previous year. It’s overseen by a supervisory board and
reports to President  Ilham Aliyev , according to its website.  Ruble, Lira  Sofaz’s holdings were kept in euros, U.S. dollars and
British pounds before 2012, when it began investing in other
currencies, gold and real estate. At the end of February, the
fund had the equivalent of $470 million in lira assets, with
$209 million in Australian dollars and $100 million in Russian
rubles.  “Azerbaijan has very close ties with these neighboring
countries, and we know those markets well,” Mammadov said. “Of
course we also look into the economic situation and investment
opportunities in those countries as well. Both Turkey and Russia
are rapidly developing economies, major  emerging markets .”  Central bank holdings denominated in dollars, pounds, euros
and yen made up 94.4 percent of the $5.6 trillion of allocated
reserves as of 2011, compared with 98.4 percent in 2001,
according to International Monetary Fund  data . Central bank
claims in other currencies rose to $297 billion from $20.1
billion during the decade that ended in 2011, the figures show.  The Washington-based lender said in November that it’s
considering classifying the Australian and the Canadian dollars
as reserve currencies.  Euro Destination  The euro-area debt crisis hasn’t eroded the common
currency’s appeal, with the bloc set to remain a “major part of
the global economy and, as such, an important destination for
investment from institutional investors like us,” Mammadov
said.  Plans by the European Union’s eastern members to revive
their bids to join the currency union will further boost the
euro’s prospects, according to Sofaz. Latvia and Lithuania plan
to seek euro adoption in 2015, with  Poland  reiterating plans to
make the switch later. In the former communist east, Slovenia,
Slovakia and Estonia already use the currency.  Euro, Poland  “The size of the euro market will increase substantially
with the joining of new countries like Poland,” Mammadov said.
“In the long term, this could be beneficial for the euro in
general.”  Sofaz, which began gold purchases in the first quarter of
last year and has bought 17.4 metric tons as of March 1, targets
keeping 5 percent of holdings in the precious metal, he said.  The Azeri fund is also seeking to broaden its investments
in real estate after buying properties in London, Paris and
Moscow last year, with plans to pursue acquisitions in  Southeast
Asia  and Turkey, according to Mammadov. Sofaz, which spent about
$600 million on real estate in 2012, wants to allocate about
$1.6 billion to $1.7 billion, or 5 percent of its portfolio, for
property investment, he said.  “The current priority is countries of Southeast Asia,”
Mammadov said. “When it comes to our real estate investment
strategy it is aimed at investing in core, prime  office space  in
key capitals with high market transparency, depth, liquidity,
landlord-friendly laws and the practice of very long leases.”  $10 Billion  State-run wealth funds from  China  to Norway made 38
property investments valued at almost $10 billion in 2012,
according to the  Sovereign Investment Lab  at  Bocconi University 
in Milan, accounting for 21 percent of all sovereign fund
investments last year, the highest percentage on record and
topping the 2011 high of 16 percent.  Sofaz will also allocate financing for energy projects in
the region including the proposed Trans-Anatolia Pipeline, or
Tanap to deliver Caspian natural gas to  Europe  via Turkey,
Mammadov said.  Azerbaijan and Turkey agreed in June to build the 2,000-
kilometer (1,300 mile) link for an estimated $7 billion to $10
billion. State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, or Socar, holds 80 percent
of Tanap with the remaining 20 percent held by Turkey’s
government pipeline company Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS,
or Botas, and Turkiye Petrolleri AO.  The fund will spend 86.4 million manat ($110 million) this
year for the Azeri government’s share of the Tanap link and also
plans to finance the Star refinery in  Turkey ’s Izmir region, a
petrochemical complex in Azerbaijan and construction of offshore
drilling rigs for use in the Caspian sea, according to Mammadov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  