-- ‘Steepener’ Structured Notes Rebound on Rate Concerns
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-03-25T13:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/-steepener-structured-notes-rebound-on-long-term-rate-concerns.html
(Corrects reasons for volatility of swap rates in 11th
paragraph of story published March 14.)  Sales have rebounded of U.S.
structured notes that gain when the gap grows between interest
rates of different maturities, as investors seek protection from
an eventual rise in long-term rates.  Banks sold $161.2 million of the securities this year, 8
percent more than in all of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes are called “steepeners” because they pay
more if the difference between long- and short-term rates
increases.  Investors who hold long-term debt, the value of which would
be eroded if rates went up, are using the securities as a hedge,
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. Risks related to rates,
such as the threat of increases if the Federal Reserve stops
buying long-term securities, “are higher than they’ve been at
any time,” he said.  “A steepener would perform well in periods of long-term
rising interest rates,” LeBas said.  Potential profits from investing in steepeners would be
threatened if short-term interest rates surged though.  The Federal Open Market Committee reiterated in January
that it would keep the federal funds target rate between zero
and 0.25 percent as long as inflation isn’t forecast to rise to
more than 2.5 percent and unemployment stays above 6.5 percent.  The five-year U.S. breakeven rate, which measures
expectations of inflation, rose to 2.38 percent yesterday from
2.07 percent on Jan. 1.  The Federal Reserve acted to constrain rates last year. In
September, it announced an open-ended program of buying $40
billion of long-term mortgage debt a month.  Maximum Coupon  Last year, banks didn’t sell any steepeners between May 1
and Oct. 25, Bloomberg data show.  All except for one of the U.S. securities issued this year
are tied to the difference between the 30-year and five-year
rates for constant-maturity swaps, which measure the cost of
exchanging floating and fixed interest rates, Bloomberg data
show. Last year, 69 percent of issuance for the notes was linked
to 30-year and two-year rates.  The five-year swap rate is now more volatile than the two-
year because the Fed is unlikely to raise the benchmark rate in
the next two years and its bond-buying program, known as
quantitative easing, will probably end well before that, said
Brett Rose, head of U.S. rates strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New
York.  This year’s steepeners pay as much as 10.25 percent
annually before switching over to the spread between the rates,
which may be leveraged four or five times, Bloomberg data show.  Largest note  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  sold $64 million of 15-year
securities on March 1, the largest such offering since Sept. 17,
2010. The notes yield 9.25 percent for the first year before
switching to a formula-based rate, according to a prospectus
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The calculated rate is four times the spread between the
five- and 30-year rates, minus 0.2 percent and capped at 9.25
percent. The notes can be called after six months. The bank
valued the securities at 93.8 cents on the dollar at issuance
and distributed them for a 2.9 percent fee.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment on the security.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  