-- A123 Wins OK to Seek Creditors’ Vote on Payment Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-03-14T21:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/a123-wins-court-permission-for-creditors-vote-on-payment-plan.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , the bankrupt
former electric-car battery maker, won court approval to seek
votes from creditors on its repayment plan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey approved A123’s
disclosure statement, an outline of its liquidation plan used by
creditors to decide whether to vote for or against the plan,
according to court documents filed today in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  The company will seek court approval of the plan that
distributes the proceeds from selling off substantially all of
its assets at a hearing scheduled for April 30, court papers
show.  A123 got court approval Dec. 11 to sell the majority of its
assets to the U.S. unit of Wanxiang Group Co.,  China ’s biggest
auto-parts maker. Wanxiang America Corp. acquired substantially
all of A123’s automotive, grid and commercial business assets
for about $256.6 million. The deal received approval from the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. on Jan. 29.  CFIUS, as it is known, is a federal interagency group led
by the Treasury Department that reviewed the sale after members
of Congress expressed national security concerns over allowing a
foreign competitor to obtain the technology developed with
government backing.  Congressional Anxiety  A123 and Wanxiang tried to mollify congressional anxiety by
excluding the battery maker’s government business from the deal.
It was was sold to Woodridge, Illinois-based Navitas Systems LLC
for about $2.25 million.  The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company filed for
 bankruptcy  in October after a previous deal with Wanxiang was
scuttled amid congressional Republicans’ reluctance to allow its
sale to a Chinese company. A123, which was awarded a federal
grant of as much as $249.1 million and only used about
$132 million to build two plants in  Michigan , listed assets of
$459.8 million and debt of $376 million as of Aug. 31 in court
documents.  Under the plan, general unsecured creditors are projected
to recover about 32.7 percent of what they’re owed, an amount
which hasn’t yet been determined, as the former battery maker is
in the process of objecting to certain of those claims,
including alleged claims of about $140 million submitted by
Fisker Automotive Inc., which was its main customer.  Supply Agreement  Fisker argued in an objection to the disclosure statement
that it has a $91.2 million claim for damages resulting from the
rejection of a supply agreement with A123 and a $48.7 million
breach of warranty claim. The luxury plug-in hybrid carmaker
said in the court papers that A123 should disclose how defective
batteries supplied for the Karma sedan contributed to the
bankruptcy filing.  If objections to claims are successful “then the estimated
percentage recovery for general unsecured creditors would be
63.6 percent,” A123 said in the disclosure statement. Likewise,
unsecured subordinated noteholders, with about $146.4 million in
claims, would get a 62.9 percent recovery if the claims
objections are accepted by the court, as opposed to the current
estimate of a 31.3 percent recovery. Unsecured senior
noteholders are expected to be paid in full.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  