-- Abe’s Japan Stimulus Plans in Jeopardy, Weinberg Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-14T16:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/abe-s-japan-stimulus-plans-in-jeopardy-weinberg-says-tom-keene.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s plans for expanded monetary stimulus may be blocked by
opposition-party resistance to his central-bank nominee,
according to Carl Weinberg, founder of High Frequency Economics.  “The new government in  Japan , and the new  Bank of Japan (8301) 
governor, clearly want to do what’s called extreme quantitative
easing, just really pump the money in there,” Valhalla, New
York-based Weinberg said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It’s not clear they’re going
to be able to get the job done.”  Japan’s currency traded almost the weakest since August
2009 after the lower house of parliament endorsed Haruhiko
Kuroda as the next central-bank governor. Abe’s nominee awaits
an upper-house vote tomorrow.  The yen dropped 0.2 percent against the greenback to 96.27
per U.S. dollar after falling to 96.71 on March 12, the lowest
since August 2009. The dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.2971 per
euro, after touching the strongest level since December.  The consumer price index in  Europe  may turn negative by
year-end, Weinberg said, as Europe struggles to avoid deflation.  “What we’re seeing right now is a very pernicious cycle,
wages and prices are grinding to a halt,” Weinberg said.
“We’re looking at a real deflation risk, which is especially
scary.”  Euro-area inflation fell below the European Central Bank’s
2 percent ceiling for the first time in more than two years, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said March 1.
Annual inflation slowed to 1.8 percent in February from 2
percent a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  