-- Madison Buys Songbird Stake as London’s Canary Wharf Diversifies
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-03-14T13:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/madison-buys-songbird-stake-as-london-s-canary-wharf-diversifies.html
Madison International Realty LLC
bought a “small” stake in  Songbird Estates Plc, (SBD)  the company
that controls  Canary Wharf , as a greater diversity of industry
makes it more attractive, according to the New York-based firm’s
head of European investment.  “The dynamic out at the Wharf is changing and I think
they’re proactively managing that change as they realize they
can’t live off financial services,” Derek Jacobson, a managing
director at Madison, said in an interview yesterday. “They’ve
got tech and other industries that they’re courting.” He
declined to say how many Songbird shares Madison acquired.  Canary Wharf Group Plc, 69 percent owned by Songbird, is
planning to develop office buildings for technology companies
together with stores and 3,000 homes at the 20-acre (8-hectare)
Wood Wharf site next to the financial district. The first phase
of development is due to be completed in 2018 to coincide with
the opening of Crossrail, which will create a 40-minute link
between the district and  London Heathrow , the world’s busiest
international airport.  “The quality of the  office space  out there is unmatched,
especially as Crossrail becomes a reality,” he said. “The
accessibility to the market will be much improved. We like the
underlying real estate.”  No one at Songbird was immediately available to comment.
The company’s largest shareholders include Qatar Holding LLC,
investor Simon Glick of New York, a unit of China Investment
Corp. and funds managed by Morgan Stanley, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Its market value is more than 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion).  Europe Interest  Madison International buys minority stakes in properties
and provides capital to investors to improve their balance
sheets in return for part-ownership of assets. It invested about
half of its last $520 million fund in  Europe , mainly in the
U.K., Jacobson said. The company is currently raising $750
million for a new investment fund and a similar percentage of
that capital will be focused on Europe, he said.  Madison International and a group of undisclosed investors
bought the European headquarters of  Statoil ASA (STL)  in Oslo for
about 430 million euros ($557 million) this year. Madison
provided 35 percent of the equity invested, according to broker
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , which advised seller ITFP on the sale.  “We did that deal in under three weeks, including placing
the equivalent of a 320 million-euro bond into the Norwegian
pension market in less than two days,” Jacobson said.  Madison may invest more in  Norway  and it’s also looking at
other European countries including Germany, Austria and Belgium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  