-- Malaysia Politician Charged With Sedition for Insurgency Remarks
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-03-14T11:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/malaysia-politician-charged-with-sedition-for-insurgency-remarks.html
Tian Chua, a Malaysian opposition
leader, said he was charged in court with making seditious
comments about the government’s handling of a Muslim insurgency
in the country’s eastern Sabah state.  Chua, vice president of Anwar Ibrahim’s People’s Justice
Party, was charged under the Sedition Act, a law enacted under
British rule in 1948, which Prime Minister Najib Razak pledged
last year to replace to protect free speech. The politician
risks being fined as much as 5,000 ringgit ($1,606) or jailed up
to three years for a first offence, and five years for
subsequent convictions.  “I will fight it out in court,” Chua said in a phone
interview, after pleading not guilty in the Sessions Court and
being released on bail.  Chua said he was prosecuted for comments made in four media
releases after a Muslim army from the  Philippines  loyal to the
Sultan of Sulu invaded the commodities-rich state last month
claiming sovereignty. He described a shooting as a planned
conspiracy by the government to divert attention, Bernama
reported today, citing the statements.  The incident comes weeks before a general election when
Najib will seek to extend his government’s 55-years in power.  “The country’s political risk premium rose slightly
following the reports,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief economist at
RAM Holdings Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The ringgit could see
volatile movements in the short term.”  Political Risk  The ringgit decreased 0.1 percent to 3.1109 per dollar,
bringing its decline this year to 1.8 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
climbed 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.64
percent as of 5:32 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, Bloomberg data showed.  In July, Najib described the Sedition Act as representative
of a “bygone era” and said he’d replace it with legislation
aimed at preventing incitement of religious or ethnic hatred.
The National Harmony Act, which has yet to be passed into law,
would balance the right to freedom of expression with ensuring
that all races and religions are protected, the prime minister
said at the time.  Lim Guan Eng, leader of the opposition Democratic Action
Party, was jailed under the Sedition Act in the 1990s after
criticizing the government’s handling of rape allegations
against a former chief minister.  The government last year repealed the Internal Security Act,
first introduced in the 1960s to combat communist insurgents,
with new legislation curbing the amount of time police can hold
suspects without trial. Najib has also liberalized media
licenses after promising to boost personal freedoms, though
separately banned street protests.  Nine Malaysian police officers and soldiers and 56
insurgents have been killed in Sabah in fighting since the start
of the invasion, Hamza Taib, Sabah’s police chief said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  