-- Alstom’s Power-Grid Sales to Struggle on Deferred Contracts
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-03-15T09:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/alstom-s-power-grid-sales-to-struggle-as-clients-defer-contracts.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of
turbines and trains, will struggle to lift revenue at its power-
transmission unit this year as some customers defer projects and
turn to low-cost Asian competitors.  “We’re expecting 2013 to continue to be tight in terms of
transforming the order book into sales,” Gregoire Poux- Guillaume, the head of Alstom’s power-transmission division,
said in an interview. A rebound in revenue, hurt in recent
quarters by a jump in unpaid work in India, will come at a later
stage, he said.  Chinese and Korean manufacturers including Hyundai Heavy
Industries and  Hyosung Corp. (004800)  have increased capacity, and Alstom
is shutting plants, switching to cheaper designs and
streamlining its supplier base to adapt. The French company is
budgeting for flat to slightly lower prices for alternating
current products over the next two to three years after a drop
of about 20 percent from 2009 to 2011, Poux-Guillaume said.  Poux-Guillaume has been given the task of raising grid-
equipment margins to 8 percent from 6.2 percent at the end of
Alstom’s last fiscal year, though no deadline is in place
because of the pricing outlook. Closures have affected sites in
Mexico, Australia and China, with additional jobs going at some
German plants and at Alstom’s headquarters near Paris.  Some savings are being passed directly to customers, the
executive said, declining to be specific. Sales from April
through December fell 4 percent even as orders jumped 8 percent.
At 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion), the division’s turnover
accounts for about one-fifth of Alstom’s overall sales.  Adapting  The company, based in Levallois-Perret, joins rivals  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  in overhauling operations to adapt to
overcapacity in switchgears and transformers. Alstom’s deadline
for meeting the 8 percent margin target “will largely be linked
to healthier price dynamics, which we hardly see in the next two
to three years,” Poux-Guillaume said.  Delays in completing projects in India have been a further
challenge. The nation accounts for 15 percent of business and
some “near-bankrupt” independent power producers have stopped
work at sites as India’s economy slowed and power prices
dropped, he said.  “We’ve had a very clear jump in unpaid bills over the past
12 months in India,” in the tens of million euros, according to
the executive. The company will be paid when projects resume
with existing or new operators, he said, adding that elections
in 2014 may help spur progress.  Alstom shares, little changed at 35.04 euros at 10:13 a.m.
in Paris, have advanced 16 percent this year, matching ABB’s
performance. Siemens has gained 2 percent .  Growth Areas  Within the 40 billion-euro global power-transmission
 market , remaining growth areas are high voltage direct current,
or HVDC, typically used for long-distance connections, and for
so-called smart-grid management systems to improve network
efficiency and integrate intermittent renewable power supplies,
remain growth areas, he said.  The HVDC market alone may triple to 9 billion euros per
year at the end of the decade amid increased demand for
interconnections in Europe, the Middle East and North America,
offshore wind farms in Europe, and a race for higher voltage
links in China and India, the French company said on Feb. 28.  Alstom, which is building the longest DC line in the world
in Brazil, aims to book about 2.5 billion euros of orders in
HVDC over the next three years. It recently won such contracts
in Sweden, India, and for German offshore wind farms.  Alstom also wants to grow by more than 10 percent a year in
grid services, where it’s under-represented, and aims to
increase sales to the oil, gas and mining industries, which need
to secure power reliability with equipment, Poux-Guillaume said.
Partnerships are being discussed in Russia and Korea that will
help tap local HVDC projects, he said.  Clean Energy  Future opportunities include a tender for a link between
France and Italy to be launched by the end of the year,
connections for offshore wind farms in the U.K., and between
Turkey and neighboring countries, Poux-Guillaume said. Germany
also plans to build five HVDC landlines to connect the south of
the country to its wind farms in the Northern and Baltic seas as
it’s investing in clean energy and planning to phase out nuclear
power by 2022, he said.  “These are significant budgets, so operators tend to
explore both alternative solutions and financing possibilities
before launching them,” Poux-Guillaume said. “That sometimes
delay projects, but the market is there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  