-- Aluminum and Nickel Gain on Stronger Equities and Demand Signals
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-14T10:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/aluminum-and-nickel-gain-on-stronger-equities-and-demand-signals.html
Aluminum and nickel rose in  London ,
leading gains by industrial metals amid strengthening European
equities and signs of demand.  The Stoxx 600 Europe  Index (SXXP)  of shares reached an almost
five-year high. It’s up from the close on Feb. 1, while the LME
Index of the six main metals traded in London is down 6.9
percent, more than oil traded in  New York . Demand for trucks in
 Brazil  is set to increase as much as 10 percent this year, the
head of Daimler AG’s truck division said yesterday.  “The recent downward move was exaggerated and base metals
underperformed equities and the cyclical commodities like crude
oil,”  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, said by e-mail. “The low prices are obviously seen
as attractive buying opportunities.”  Aluminum for delivery in three months added 0.8 percent to
$1,981 a metric ton by 10:06 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Copper advanced 0.3 percent to $7,810 a ton and the metal for
delivery in May on the Comex in New York rose 0.5 percent to
$3.541 a pound.  Prices also climbed on signs of a rebounding economy in the
U.S., the world’s second-biggest copper consumer after  China .
Sales at retailers in February gained the most in five months,
according to data yesterday. A report tomorrow will show
industrial production in the U.S. rose for a third month in four
in February, economists surveyed by Bloomberg says.  An average Class 8 truck, the  category  including the
heaviest models, contains more than 1,000 pounds of aluminum,
according to an Aluminum Association website. Vehicles use
alloys, powders and plating containing nickel on parts including
spark plugs and pistons, the Nickel Institute says.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME, up 63 percent this
year to the highest since March 2010, rose for a 21st session to
522,250 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to withdraw
the metal from warehouses fell 0.3 percent to 33,250 tons.  Nickel advanced as much as 0.9 percent in London. Lead and
zinc slipped, while tin was unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  