-- AmEx Initial Capital Plan Nixed by Fed, Passed on 2nd Try
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-14T20:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/amex-initial-capital-plan-nixed-by-fed-passed-on-2nd-try.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases, said the  Federal Reserve 
approved a revised plan to increase its dividend by 15 percent
and repurchase shares.  The lender plans to increase the  quarterly payout  to 23
cents from 20 cents a share and buy back as much as $3.2 billion
of stock in the final nine months of this year and $1 billion in
the first quarter of 2014, New York-based American Express said
today in a statement. The firm also said it’s repurchasing about
$800 million of shares in the current quarter.  AmEx’s revised plan was approved after the Fed rejected the
lender’s initial proposal following stress tests to gauge how
the biggest U.S. banks would fare in a recession or severe
economic shock. The lender initially asked for as much as $4.7
billion in share repurchases in the last nine months of this
year and $1 billion in the first quarter of 2014, according to
the statement.  Regulators have run annual stress tests on the largest U.S.
banks to help prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.
American Express’s initial payout plan would have reduced its
Tier 1 common ratio in a downturn to 4.97 percent, below the
Fed’s 5 percent minimum threshold. The revised plan boosted the
measure of financial strength to 6.42 percent, according to
central bank data released today in  Washington .  Balance Sheet  “We have a very strong balance sheet and currently
generate capital in excess of what we need to support our
business growth,” Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault
said during a presentation last month. AmEx typically plans to
return 50 percent of the capital it generates to shareholders,
said Chenault, 61.  After passing last year’s stress test, the lender increased
its quarterly  dividend  by 11 percent to 20 cents a share and
said it may repurchase as much as $5 billion of its stock.
American Express was among three banks out of 18 tested to have
their initial capital plans rejected and the only one to have
its resubmission approved, today’s data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  