-- Lamont Tells Carney to Keep Quiet on BOE Remit
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/lamont-tells-carney-to-keep-quiet-on-boe-remit.html
Mark Carney, who will become
governor of the Bank of England in July, should stop talking
about his remit, former U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Norman Lamont said.  Lamont, who employed Prime Minister David Cameron as an
adviser when he was chancellor in the early 1990s, said Carney
should take his lead from the current chancellor, George Osborne, according to an interview in The House magazine, which
is distributed to lawmakers.  “It’s curious that Governor Carney keeps saying what his
remit is. I think it’s for the chancellor to say,” Lamont was
cited as saying. “The bank should be independent but the
chancellor decides what it is there to do. Governor Carney isn’t
a man on a white horse -- nor should he be.”  Carney met the Treasury’s top civil servant, Nicholas
Macpherson, last week to discuss possible changes to Britain’s
monetary policy making, said a person with knowledge of the
talks. The meeting came two weeks before Osborne presents his
annual budget, which may be used to modify the central bank’s
role in an economy facing a potential triple-dip recession.  Osborne should be cautious in changing the bank’s remit,
Lamont said. The former chancellor warned his successor against
replacing an inflation target with one based on growth in
nominal gross domestic product.  “Inflation targeting, I think, does need modification, but
I’m not in favor of some of the things that have been suggested
-- having a nominal GDP target -- and I hope the chancellor will
be very careful if he redefines this,” Lamont was quoted as
saying. “Just as I don’t believe in deficit financing to create
growth, I don’t believe that monetary activism, just printing
money year after year, can get us out of recession. I would be
quite concerned if we moved to a nominal GDP target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  