-- Hamptons Sex Echoes ‘Gatsby’ in ‘Indiscretion’: Interview
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/hamptons-sex-echoes-gatsby-in-indiscretion-interview.html
Summer in  East Hampton , autumn in
 Rome , trysts in Manhattan and Paris: Charles Dubow’s first
novel, “ Indiscretion ,” hits all the sweet spots.  A house on Georgica Pond is practically a character all its
own.  Dubow’s great-great grandfather was  B.F. Goodrich  of
Goodrich tire, so there’s money in his past. It made sense to
set it in the comfortable world he knew.  But all is not genteel. “My publisher is pegging this as a
mash-up of ‘The Great Gatsby’ and ‘Fifty Shades of Grey,’”
Dubow said over lunch at Bloomberg world headquarters.  So expect plenty of sex in the story of Harry and Maddy
Winslow, a famous novelist and his beautiful wife, who befriend
a young woman on the beach only to have her insinuate herself
into their lives in ways they didn’t expect.  The tale is told by Walter, Maddy’s childhood friend,
another outsider who thinks he’s part of the family.  Hoelterhoff: You were an editor at Forbes and then
 Bloomberg Businessweek . Were you scribbling secretly for some
time?  Dubow: About four years ago, I had a health scare which
sent me to the hospital. There were people dying in the beds
next to me. I wasn’t dying, but it was pretty uncomfortable and
my kids were scared, obviously.  I came out of that thinking: Well, I’m not getting any
younger, and I always wanted to write.  Weekend Work  So, what I’d do is I woke up every morning at five and I
would write until 7 o’clock. I worked on weekends, I worked on
holidays -- my wife was rather unhappy about that. Basically
three years to actually write this thing.  Hoelterhoff: You’ve been very fortunate, landing a
publisher after a bidding war and selling world rights.  Dubow: It’s been picked up in  Russia , in  Poland , in  Italy ,
in Spain and  Australia ,  New Zealand , the U.K. and  Bulgaria .  Hoelterhoff: Bulgaria. Very cool.  Dubow: It’s amusing to contemplate.  Hoelterhoff: Well, most everyone wants some time in the
Hamptons, which come into picturesque view as the damsel steps
off the train. I’m hoping there’s a movie in there for you.  Dubow: How about  Gwyneth Paltrow  for Maddy!  Grand House  Hoelterhoff: I like Walter’s mansion  Dubow: It’s based on my great-aunt’s rather grand house in
 Maine . It was built by my great-great-grandmother, the widow of
B.F. Goodrich. My great-grandmother, Isabella Goodrich
Breckinridge, inherited on her death. Then it passed to my
great-aunt Mary Marvin Breckinridge Patterson in 1962 (her two
older brothers having died earlier and the younger
brother being feckless).  You know the joke: “Good and rich.”  Anyway, it’s sold now, but for a child it was a beautiful
place for a long time.  Hoelterhoff: Where do you spend your summers now?  Dubow: Lakeville,  Connecticut , which is how the Hamptons
once was -- more mellow, not filled with people driving very
expensive cars and living in outsized houses.  Hoelterhoff: Comparisons to “The Great Gatsby” are
inevitable. The setting, and then the hazy sense of time passing
slowly.  ‘Gatsby’ Connection  Dubow: I hadn’t thought about “Gatsby” when I was
writing, though now looking back I can see the connections make
sense.  I am writing about people who live in a certain world that
I know well, not the super-rich, but the comfortably well-off
people who send the kids to boarding school and know the right
fork to use.  There’s Clive right at the beginning who’s kind of jerk,
but Walter is an old-fashioned kind of  New York  lawyer. These
are not really hard-charging Wall Street types.  Hoelterhoff: Did you ever have any questions of how you
would end it? I thought Walter might sabotage the plane perhaps.  Dubow: No, though I did think at one point of giving it a
more upbeat ending. But then I thought well, you know, that
won’t make things sink in quite as much.  The point here is that people have to learn to be as
responsible as possible. So easily you can hurt people, you can
really destroy your life and the lives of people that you love
the most if you do dumb things.  Hoelterhoff: You’ve got two kids. Will you let them read
“Indiscretion”?  Dubow: No, not now. My son is 14 and my daughter is 11. My
son could care less; she’s dying to read it.  “Indiscretion” is published by Morrow (388 pages,
$25.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy in New York at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 