-- Manchester City Planning Summer Clear-Out: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-14T10:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/manchester-city-planning-summer-clear-out-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  City Clear-Out?  Manchester City manager Robert Mancini may let 11 players
including forward  Carlos Tevez  and winger Samir Nasri go at the
end of the season, the  Guardian  reported.  The futures of Edin Dzeko and  Gareth Barry  are also in
doubt at City. Mancini thinks the club’s failure to recruit the
right players before this season played a role in its early
Champions League elimination, the newspaper said.  Rooney for Ibrahimovic?  Paris Saint-Germain may pay as much as 35 million pounds
($52 million) for Manchester United player  Wayne Rooney  should
Zlatan Ibrahimovic leave the squad, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Swedish striker, who has been linked to a 20 million-
pound move to Bayern Munich, joined PSG in July from AC Milan
but hasn’t settled in the French capital, the newspaper said.  Williams to Leave?  Swansea defender and Wales captain Ashley Williams may
leave the club for a 10 million pound transfer to Arsenal,
Liverpool or Manchester United this summer, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Another Swansea player, Chico Flores, is wanted by  Bayern
Munich , the paper said.  Di Canio Opposition  Reading players don’t want Paolo di Canio to replace
manager Brian McDermott, who was fired this week, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  There is opposition in the squad to the Italian because
some believe he is too fiery and also lacks in experience, the
newspaper said.  Galatasaray Digs In  Ticketless Galatasaray fans were caught trying to dig their
way into the Schalke stadium to watch their club play against
the German side in the Champions League, the  Guardian  reported.  The fans were trying to dig through frozen ground under a
perimeter fence, the newspaper said, citing Schalke’s sporting
director Horst Heldt.  The fans will have another chance to see their club play
live in the  Champions League  after the Turkish side beat Schalke
3-2 to move to the quarterfinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  