-- Tankers Seen Rallying by Morgan Stanley on Persian Gulf Oil
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-03-14T16:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/tankers-seen-rallying-by-morgan-stanley-on-persian-gulf-oil-gain.html
Rates for the largest oil tankers
will rally as Persian Gulf exports rebound during the next
several months, driven by increased demand from U.S. refineries,
according to Morgan Stanley.  As much as 500,000 barrels a day of additional crude will
be shipped from the Middle East through the Northern Hemisphere
summer, requiring about 20 very large crude carriers, Fotis Giannakoulis, a New York-based analyst at the investment bank,
said in an e-mailed report today. Day rates for the vessels,
which averaged $7,000 this year, will rise to $30,000, a level
last seen in November, he said.  Bookings for spot cargoes from the region averaged 60
million barrels a week during the past three weeks, 30 percent
higher than in the preceding six, according to the report.
Volumes scheduled for the U.S. surged to 19 million barrels a
week on average in the past four weeks from 10 million in early
January, Morgan Stanley’s figures show.  “As U.S. Gulf refineries return from maintenance, long-
haul westbound barrels from the Arabian Gulf are expected to
follow as Middle East becomes the marginal supplier,”
Giannakoulis said in the report. “As Saudi production
increases, we could see the balance returning to more reasonable
levels, helping rates to restore part of the recent losses.”  Longer term, rates will remain curbed by weakening demand
in the U.S. and  Europe , increased North American production and
a glut of vessels, Giannakoulis said.  Daily Losses  Rates for supertankers on their busiest trade route to Asia
from the Middle East rose for a fifth day, adding 0.4 percent to
34 industry-standard Worldscale points today, according to the
Baltic Exchange, the London-based publisher of shipping costs.
Daily losses on the benchmark voyage narrowed to $252, the
smallest since returns became negative on Jan. 24, exchange data
show.  Those assessments don’t account for owners cutting speeds
to save fuel, their biggest expense. The price of ship fuel, or
bunkers, fell 0.4 percent to $625.41 a metric ton, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate for
more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for every voyage,
quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually by the
Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel costs,
port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes smaller tankers, increased for the
first time in eight sessions, gaining 1.2 percent to 669,
according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  