-- Anschutz Takes AEG Off the Market; President Leiweke Is Out
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-03-14T19:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/anschutz-co-says-it-won-t-sell-aeg-president-leiweke-leaving.html
Phil Anschutz has taken Anschutz
Entertainment Group off the market after bids for the world’s
second-biggest concert promoter and owner of the Staples Center
in Los Angeles didn’t meet the billionaire’s demand.  Tim Leiweke , AEG’s president and chief executive officer
since 1996, will leave the Los Angeles-based company, according
to a statement from AEG, whose portfolio includes  London ’s O2
Arena and ownership stakes in the National Basketball
Association’s Lakers, hockey’s Kings and soccer’s Galaxy.  Dan Beckerman, the company’s chief financial officer who
joined AEG more than 15 years ago, will replace Leiweke,
according to the statement.  “From the very beginning of the sales process, we have
made it clear to our employees and partners throughout the world
that unless the right buyer came forward with a transaction on
acceptable terms we would not sell the company,” Anschutz, 73,
said in the statement.  Among the bidders for AEG were Tom Barrack’s Colony Capital
LLC, which was a partner with Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund; Los
Angeles billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong; and Guggenheim
Partners, which last year bought baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers.  None of the bidders offered near the $8 billion sought by
Anschutz, people familiar with the situation said earlier this
month.  “Whether it’s too expensive is in the eye of the
beholder,” Barrack, Colony’s founder and chief executive, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart”
hosted by  Trish Regan . “We just didn’t get this to his
expectations.”  Anschutz Returns  Anschutz Co., AEG’s Denver-based parent, hired  Blackstone
Advisory Partners (BX)  to assist with the sale. Anschutz is worth $10
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index.  Anschutz will resume a more active role in the company,
which is second in the concert business to  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc. (LYV)   AEG’s proposal to build a $1.2 billion football stadium
next to Staples Center in downtown Los Angeles received city
council approval last year. AEG said in the statement that its
priority projects are to lure a National Football League team to
Los Angeles and complete its collaboration with  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  to build an arena in Las Vegas.  NFL Lure  David Carter, executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the University of Southern California, said the
departure of the “extremely plugged-in” Leiweke, as well as
the uncertainty surrounding the company’s future, will hamper
AEG’s effort to bring the most popular U.S. sport back to the
country’s second-biggest media market.  “It’s very clear that this is going to delay any of their
plans regarding Farmers Field and their ability to lure an NFL
team,” Carter said via telephone. “Just because AEG is taken
off the table for now -- the sale of AEG, en masse -- a single
entity, doesn’t mean they won’t parcel off some of the other
assets.”  AEG’s downtown stadium proposal has competition from
Majestic Realty Co. Chairman Ed Roski Jr., who proposed building
a stadium in the City of Industry, 18 miles (30 kilometers) east
of Los Angeles. The NFL also has contacted officials at
Guggenheim about the possibility of a football stadium at Chavez
Ravine, where the Dodgers play.  NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said in an e-mailed statement
that the league continues to monitor all stadium developments
and “remain interested in multiple sites in the Los Angeles
area.”  AEG Assets  AEG owns and operates 100 venues on five continents. The
company produces annual festivals that include the Coachella
Music & Arts Festival, the Stagecoach Festival and the New
Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival.  Anschutz Corp. has been in the natural-resources business
for more than 75 years, according to the website of one
affiliate, Anschutz Exploration, which lists involvement in
projects in  Montana ,  Wyoming ,  Colorado , New York and  Texas .  Through its Xanterra Parks & Resorts, the company is the
largest operator of lodging, restaurants and retail outlets in
U.S. national parks, including Grand Canyon and Yellowstone.  Anschutz Film Group made the movie “Ray” about Ray Charles, and his Clarity Media Group owns the Washington
Examiner and The Weekly Standard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  