-- Arabica Coffee Seen Extending Slump on Ample Brazilian Supplies
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-03-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/arabica-coffee-seen-extending-slump-on-ample-brazilian-supplies.html
Arabica-coffee futures that lost
half their value in the past two years will extend their slump
to the lowest price since 2009 as record global output led by
Brazil overwhelms rising demand, a survey showed.  The bean variety favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  in their premium coffees will slip to $1.257 a
pound by June 30, according to the average estimate of 14
brokers and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That will mean a 10
percent drop from yesterday’s close of $1.3965 in  New York .  Brazil, the world’s largest grower and exporter, harvested
a record 54 million bags in the most-recent season, consultant
Safras & Mercado estimates. With the next harvest set to begin
in May, stockpiles at warehouses monitored by ICE Futures U.S.
already are the highest since March 2010. The glut prompted 6
percent price cuts last month by  J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM)  and  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KRFT)  on retail Folgers and Maxwell House coffee brands.  “We haven’t seen these carryover stocks in many years,”
Christian Wolthers, the president of Wolthers America, an
importer in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , said in a telephone
interview. “Prices will probably bottom out around $1.20 by
May. Producers are retaining coffee. At some point they will
have start selling to make room for the new crop.”  Money managers and other speculators have been bearish on
arabica futures since July, and as of March 5 boosted their net-
short position, or bets on a price slide, by 6.8 percent from a
week earlier, government data show. Prices are down 55 percent
from a 14-year high in May 2011 as production rose and after
many roasters increased use of the cheaper robusta beans traded
on London’s NYSE Liffe exchange.  Rising Output  The high prices of two years ago and improved farming
practices helped to boost output in  Brazil , where inventories
totaled 28 million bags on Jan. 1, according to exporter Terra
Forte Exportacao e Importacao de Cafe Ltda.  From July 1, the start of the current marketing year,
through Feb. 28, farmers sold just 71 percent of the harvest,
down from 87 percent a year earlier, Port Alegre, Brazil-based
Safras & Mercado said. That means 15.7 million of the beans from
the most-recent crop were unsold. Gathering of this year’s
arabica harvest, will be the highest ever for a lower-yielding
half of the two-year production cycle, according to growers
cooperative Cooparaiso.  Fungal Disease  In the 12-month marketing season that started Oct. 1 in
most countries, world production will climb to a record 144.4
million bags, the London-based International Coffee Organization
estimates. The global surplus may be as high as 10 million bags,
with most of it representing arabicas, Oscar Schaps, managing
director of soft commodities trading at INTL FCStone, said in a
telephone interview from Miami.  Prices may halt the slump on further signs of damage from a
fungal disease in several Latin American countries, and if
current dry conditions worsen in  Vietnam , the world’s top
producer of robustas, traditionally used to make instant drinks
by companies including  Nestle SA (NESN) , according to Sterling Smith, a
futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago .  Leaf rust, a fungus that attacks plant foliage and curbs
productivity, will probably reduce output and bean quality this
season and next in  Guatemala , Honduras, El Salvador,  Costa Rica ,
 Nicaragua  and Mexico, the ICO has said.  “The rust problem is very serious, and its effect will be
more pronounced next year,” said FCStone’s Schaps, who toured
Central America farms in February. Reduced output probably will
boost cash-market prices for specific varieties cultivated in
the regions battling the disease rather than futures, which
reflect the global supply, he said.  Shipments Slide  Brazilian shipments from July, the start of the marketing
season, through February slid to 20.39 million bags from 21.51
million a year earlier, when the nation collected a smaller
crop, according to data from  Cecafe , the country’s exporters’
council.  That is why there are so few market bulls, because
stockpiles “will have to be dumped sooner or later,”  Rodrigo Costa , trading director at Caturra Coffee Corp., a dealer based
in Elmsford, New York, said in a report e-mailed March 11.  By the third quarter, market attention will turn to weather
developments in Brazil, where severe drops in temperatures
during the winter months can trigger damaging frosts, according
to Wolthers. By September, traders will focus on the arrival of
rains needed for development of next year’s crop, with both
events providing support to prices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  