-- Arctic-Specific Rules Required After Shell’s 2012 Mishaps
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/arctic-specific-rules-required-after-shell-s-2012-mishaps.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  was blasted
by the U.S. government for the series of mishaps that dogged its
attempts to explore for oil in the Arctic, and ordered to file
detailed plans before it can resume those efforts.  An Interior Department review of Shell’s exploration off
the north coast of Alaska in 2012, which was  released  yesterday,
found shortcomings in oversight of its various contractors and
said the company started its work “not fully prepared” for the
challenges it faced.  Interior Secretary Ken Salazar ordered the staff review of
Shell’s 2012 experience in January. The company had already
announced a pause in its Arctic operations due to equipment
repairs that forced it to skip this year’s drilling season.  “Shell screwed up in 2012, and we are not going to let
them screw up after their pause is over,” Salazar told
reporters on a conference call. “Before Shell is allowed to
move forward, they are going to have to demonstrate to us that
they have a comprehensive management plan in place.”  Interior, which regulates offshore drilling, will require
the company to provide a detailed plan of both its drilling and
transport operations. The plan must include how it will manage
contractors, who contributed to Shell’s woes. It will also need
third-party approval of that plan, Salazar said.  “The traditional operator-specific, ‘go it alone’ model
common with exploration programs in other regions is not
appropriate for Arctic offshore operations,” the Interior
Department report said.  Shell Statement  Shell will “apply lessons learned” from the Interior
report along with a separate Coast Guard investigation and its
own assessment to bolster its offshore program, Curtis Smith, a
company spokesman in  Alaska , said in an e-mail.  “Alaska remains a high potential area over the long-term,
and we remain committed to drilling there safely, again,” Smith
said.  Two ships Shell was using in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas
were being towed to Asia for repairs, meaning it will miss any
chance to resume drilling in 2013. The company never got a U.S.
permit last year to tap an oil reservoir off Alaska’s north
coast because of issues with a spill-containment system, though
it was allowed to conduct preliminary drilling.  Shell also encountered weather delays and was cited for
violating air-pollution standards.  At Risk  “Shell’s lack of respect and lack of attention to detail
repeatedly put lives and our oceans at risk,” Susan Murray,
deputy vice president of Oceana, an environmental group that
works to protect the oceans, said in a statement. “The Arctic
Ocean is unique and important. Americans deserve better care and
stewardship than oil companies or the government have
provided.”  Oil exploration and production companies have stepped up
plans for drilling in the Arctic in the past five years, using
technology that may let them reach oil reserves trapped in the
sea floor beneath ice. The Chukchi and Beaufort seas may contain
25 billion barrels of oil, according to the U.S. Geological
Survey.  Shell, the only company working off the Alaska coast,
drilled two preparatory wells last year after spending about
$4.9 billion over seven years preparing for Arctic exploration.  “Alaska’s offshore resources represent one of our greatest
opportunities to improve America’s energy security,” Alaska
Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski said in a statement. “I want
to review the full report to ensure that stricter oversight is
not code for prohibiting access to our resources.”  Some environmental groups say that is just what Interior
should do.  Shell’s setbacks “demonstrates that the oil and gas
industry is not prepared to operate safely in the Arctic
Ocean,” Cindy Shogan, executive director of the Alaska
Wilderness League, said in a statement. “Obama should
prioritize protecting the Arctic as part of his climate
legacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  