-- Argentine Opposition Lawmakers Say Prices Rose 1.2% in February
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-14T18:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/argentine-opposition-lawmakers-say-prices-rose-1-2-in-february.html
 Argentine  consumer prices  rose 1.2
percent in February, according to opposition lawmakers, more
than double the 0.5 percent reported yesterday by the
government’s national statistics agency.  Opposition Congressmen Ricardo Gil Lavedra and Patricia
Bullrich, citing estimates by private economists, said prices
rose 25.3 percent in February from a year earlier. The
statistics agency put the 12-month increase at 10.8 percent  “We don’t see any sustainable policy to try to seriously
contain inflation,” Gil Lavedra said in a press conference in
Buenos Aires.  In meetings with government officials last month,
 Argentina ’s supermarkets and home appliance retailers agreed to
freeze prices from Feb. 1 to April 1. The accord may be extended
for another 120 days, Miguel Calvete, director of the Federation
of Chinese Supermarkets and Associations, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “Frozen prices seem to have helped slow inflation in the
short term,” said Roberto Drimer, economist at Vatnet research
company in Buenos Aires. “In the long term, those accords have
to be supported by fiscal, monetary and income policies to
continue to work.”  Argentina’s inflation data has been questioned since early
2007, when then President Nestor Kirchner changed personnel at
the agency. On Feb. 1, Argentina became the first country to be
censured by the  International Monetary Fund  for not providing
accurate economic data under a procedure that can end in
expulsion from the Washington-based lender.  According to the government, inflation last year was 10.8
percent, less than half the 26 percent estimated by the private
economists, who aren’t named because they would be exposed to
fines for releasing statistics that aren’t in line with official
data.  Argentines see consumer prices rising 30 percent over the
next 12 months, according to a February poll by the Buenos
Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  The peso, which has weakened 14 percent over the past 12
months, declined 0.14 percent to 5.083 per dollar at 3:47 p.m.
local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  