-- Asklepios Can Lift Rhoen-Klinikum Stake, Cartel Office Sa
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-03-14T11:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/asklepios-can-lift-rhoen-klinikum-stake-cartel-office-sa.html
Asklepios Kliniken GmbH can buy
more than 10 percent of rival German hospital operator Rhoen-
Klinikum AG with some conditions,  Germany ’s Federal Cartel
Office ruled.  Rhoen-Klinikum shares fell on the decision, which leaves an
obstacle to Fresenius SE renewing its effort to acquire Rhoen-
Klinikum. Fresenius ended its 3.1-billion-euro ($4 billion) bid
last year after Asklepios acquired enough Rhoen-Klinikum shares
to foil the takeover.  Asklepios can buy as much as 10.1 percent of Rhoen-Klinkim
as long as it divests the Harzklinik hospital and an outpatient
facility, the Bonn-based antitrust agency said in an e-mailed
statement today. The stake in Rhoen-Klinikum would lead to
market dominance in the German city of Goslar, the office said.  “It doesn’t really change anything,” Ingeborg Oie, an
analyst with Jefferies International Ltd., said in a phone
interview after the ruling. “I don’t think Asklepios will start
divesting hospitals just to increase its stake slightly.”
Asklepios already has built a blocking stake in Rhoen-Klinikum,
she said.  Rhoen-Klinikum had readied a “war room” to prepare for a
the decision, Chief Financial Officer Jens-Peter Neumann said in
a March 7 interview in  London . The Bad Neustadt an der Saale-
based company will start negotiations with shareholders after
the ruling, he said at the time.  Shareholder Approval  The foiled Fresenius bid left Rhoen-Klinikum with suppliers
and competitors as major  stakeholders : Asklepios,  Fresenius, (FRE) 
medical-products maker B. Braun Holding GmbH and the investors
in another hospital operator, Sana Kliniken AG. Any potential
partner would face the same hurdle that blocked Fresenius -- a
90 percent threshold of shareholder approval for a deal.  If Fresenius wanted to make another bid there’s “really no
way around all of these companies that own stakes,” said Oie.  The cartel office said in December it was concerned the
Asklepios plan would endanger competition and patient choice,
especially around Goslar.  Rhoen-Klinikum fell 3.1 percent to 16.26 euros at 12:30
p.m. in Frankfurt. Fresenius last year offered 22.50 euros a
share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  