-- AT&T Says It’s Open to Sale of Assets
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-15T20:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/at-t-considers-selling-assets-such-as-cell-towers-to-raise-cash.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone
company, is open to the sale of some of its peripheral assets,
which include wireless towers, a move that analysts say would
give the carrier more of a financial cushion.  “We’ve seen others in the industry sell noncore assets,
and if we wanted additional flexibility, that could be an option
for us too,”  Brad Burns , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T,
said in an interview. “In all cases, our decisions are driven
by what’s right for the company and for our shareowners. So in
that sense, nothing’s off the table.”  AT&T’s remarks follow speculation by analysts that the
company is working on unloading some of its assets, especially
its wireless towers. Finding a buyer for the towers could raise
about $5 billion in cash, based on the value of similar
transactions by  T-Mobile USA  and other companies, estimates
Jonathan Atkin, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC. In these
transactions, the carrier typically leases back antenna space
from the buyer so that its network isn’t affected.  “AT&T is actively considering the monetization of its
tower assets in a similar fashion to several of its peers in the
wireless industry,” Atkin said in a note yesterday.  AT&T shares  fell 1.2 percent to $36.43 today in New York.
The stock has climbed 8.1 percent this year.  Last year, in an effort to shed slower-growing businesses,
AT&T sold a majority stake in its Yellow Pages division to
Cerberus Capital Management LP for $950 million.  Network Costs  Raising additional funds would bolster AT&T’s balance sheet
as it faces a $14 billion network upgrade, a stock buyback plan
of more than $11 billion and its 4.9 percent annual dividend.
Still, the carrier says it’s under no pressure to raise money.
Analysts estimate that AT&T will generate $14.8 billion in free
 cash flow  this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Any comments by analysts about potential sales are simply
speculation,” Burns said. “The bottom line is we have
attractive assets that could be a potential source of cash.”  Even so, the discussion itself could raise concern that
money is tight at AT&T, said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst with
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  Chicago .  “I certainly don’t think their back is against the wall,
but I worry that talk of divestitures could make it seem like it
is,” she said.  CenturyLink Inc., a carrier based in  Louisiana , shocked
investors last month by cutting its dividend by 26 percent in a
capital-reallocation move. The stock suffered its biggest one-
day drop in more than three decades, wiping out about $6 billion
in market value.  AT&T’s Burns said the company has no plans to cut its
dividend and is proud of its unbroken streak of 29 years of
increasing the amount it pays out.  “CenturyLink created concern about dividends, but I don’t
think AT&T’s dividend is in danger,” Fritzsche said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  