-- Auction Bombs as ING Awaits Central Bank Clarity: Russia Credit
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-03-14T07:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/auction-bombs-as-ing-awaits-central-bank-clarity-russia-credit.html
Russia had its worst result this
year for an auction of longer-dated bonds as  ING Groep NV (INGA)  said
investors await clarity on central bank policy after President
Vladimir Putin nominated a new chairman.  The government sold 1.89 billion rubles ($61 million), or
22 percent, of the securities maturing in July 2022 at an
average yield of 6.87 percent, the Moscow Exchange said in a
 statement  yesterday. That’s the top end of the Finance
Ministry’s guidance and compares with a rate of 4.82 percent for
similarly rated Mexican debt maturing in June of the same year.  Putin on March 12 nominated  Elvira Nabiullina , his current
economic aide and a former economy minister, to run Bank Rossii
when current Chairman Sergey Ignatiev’s term expires in June.
The “uncertainty” over what the appointment means for policy
on inflation targeting compounded the Finance Ministry’s
“aggressive” pricing for the sale, according to Dmitry Polevoy, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Moscow.  “There is now less certainty, at least until Nabiullina
assumes her post and takes her first steps, as to why you should
buy OFZs, especially long-term securities,” he said by e-mail.  The government sold all 4.21 billion rubles of five-year
bonds on offer at a second sale yesterday after reducing the
offering from 20 billion rubles. The government placed about 27
percent of an offering of 2023 debt on January 16, according to
Finance Ministry data.  Konstantin Vyshkovsky, the Finance Ministry’s debt
department head, was unavailable for comment yesterday.  Growth, Inflation  Nabiullina will probably be more focused on economic
growth, with “aggressive” rate cuts risking an acceleration of
inflation, UralSib Financial Corp. analysts led by Vyacheslav Smolyaninov said in an e-mailed report. Bank Rossii may reduce
borrowing costs by 50 to 75 basis points, they said.  Potential easing increases pressure on the ruble and
“might curb non-residents’ interest toward ruble instruments,”
the analysts said.  Putin’s nomination will have to bridge a gap between Bank
Rossii’s efforts to fight rising prices, as the regulator moves
toward inflation targeting by 2015, and government calls for
monetary easing to spur growth. The bank’s reluctance to cut
interest rates has sparked a “huge argument” with the
government, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said in a
Jan. 18 interview.  Rates Meeting  Inflation accelerated to 7.3 percent in February, according
to the state statistics service. Bank Rossii directors will
leave rates unchanged at a meeting tomorrow, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 28 economists. Policy makers held the
refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for a fifth month in February,
warning of the threat of faster inflation and defying government
calls for lower borrowing costs.  The ruble gained 0.1 percent against the dollar by 10.56
a.m. in Moscow after weakening 0.3 percent the day before. The
yield on the country’s dollar bonds due in April 2042 rose three
basis points to 4.75 percent. The yield on  Russia ’s ruble
Eurobond due in 2018 was little changed yesterday at 6.09
percent.  Russia is ranked BBB by Fitch Ratings, the second-lowest
investment-grade category. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one basis
point to 181, according to JPMorgan indexes. The difference
compares with 167 for debt of  Mexico  and 172 for  Brazil .  Cost Protection  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 140
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps
cost 10 basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one step
lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The Finance Ministry is unlikely to change its strategy at
auctions in the coming months, according to Vladimir Kolychev,
head of research at Societe Generale SA’s OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  unit in
Moscow. If demand fails to improve, the ministry may be
compelled to offer more generous premiums, he said by e-mail.  “While the nomination didn’t play a decisive role, it
certainly may have added to arguments in favor of waiting to buy
longer-term OFZs in expectation of clearer signals from the new
central bank head,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  