-- RBA Easing Cycle Halted by Biggest Job Gain in 13 Years: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-14T09:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/australian-employers-add-most-workers-since-2000-in-february.html
Australia ’s  interest-rate reduction
cycle  may have ended as traders bet the biggest gain in payrolls
in almost 13 years will prompt the central bank to hold off
further cuts, sending the currency to a one-month high.  Contracts based on overnight borrowing costs show a 66
percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will leave rates at
3 percent through September, compared with a 68 percent chance
of at least a quarter-percentage-point cut that was priced in on
March 8, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The number of
people employed in February jumped 71,500, the biggest monthly
gain since July 2000, according to an Australian Bureau of
Statistics  report  in Sydney today.  “While the  labor force  survey is very volatile, the trend
is now clearly improving,” said George Tharenou, a senior
economist in Sydney at UBS AG. “Overall, the stronger labor
market data is consistent with our non-consensus view that the
RBA cash rate has troughed.”  The data show the RBA’s 1.75 percentage points of rate cuts
in the past 17 months are rebalancing an economy where mining
regions in the north and west have thrived, while builders and
manufacturers in the south and east struggled. It’s also a boost
to Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  who trails in polls. Australian
government bond yields surged, with all maturities above the
RBA’s cash rate of 3 percent for the first time since July 2011.  Today’s report showed the  unemployment rate  held at 5.4
percent, compared with economists’ forecast for a rise in
joblessness to 5.5 percent and a 10,000 increase in employment.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the labor force in
proportion to the population, gained to 65.3 percent in February
from 65 percent a month earlier, it showed.  Market Reaction  The Australian dollar touched $1.0383 in Sydney, the
highest since Feb. 6, from $1.0306 before the data were
released. The two-year government bond yield reached 3.11
percent, from 2.96 percent before the data’s release, while the
10-year yield climbed to 3.71 percent, the highest since April,
from 3.60 percent.  While February’s jobs number was “positive,” the central
bank needs to also weigh other data on the employment market,
such as lower average hours worked, RBA Assistant Governor
Christopher Kent said in Sydney today.  “We don’t want to turn things around on the basis of one
month’s number,” Kent said in reply to questions. “The labor
market’s very important, but it’s not the full story. So you
want to be looking at a range of other indicators.”  The employment report showed the number of  full-time jobs 
advanced by 17,800 in February, and part-time employment rose by
53,700. New South Wales, the nation’s most-populous state, added
22,000 jobs, and Victoria, the No.2, gained 37,900, erasing a
34,800 loss in January. The resource-rich states of Queensland
and  Western Australia  lost a combined 3,700 jobs.  ‘Hard to Attract’  “A raft of companies has been telling us that it is hard
to attract and retain the right workers,” said  Craig James , a
senior economist at a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,
the nation’s biggest lender. “It is just that the headlines are
dominated by a small number of listed companies announcing job
cuts rather than the raft of small and medium-sized firms that
are getting on with business and hiring new workers.”  On Feb. 21,  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU) , the world’s biggest
zircon producer,  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , Australia’s biggest
electricity retailer, and Telstra Corp., its biggest phone
company, announced a total 1,200 job cuts.  While the Australian currency has stayed above parity with
the  U.S. dollar  for more than eight months, its longest stretch
over that threshold since it was freely floated in 1983, hurting
industries exposed to international goods, some are weathering
the competition.  Asia-Pacific Region  Cotton On Clothing Pty, a Geelong, Victoria-based retailer,
will expand its headquarters and create 500 jobs, the state
government announced late last year. U.S.-based yogurt company
Chobani opened a A$30 million plant in Victoria and expects to
create 150 positions, the company said in December.  Elsewhere in  Asia , central banks in South Korea and the
 Philippines  left benchmark rates unchanged today.  New Zealand ’s
central bank said it expects to keep  borrowing costs  at a record
low until next year and signaled a preparedness to reduce its
benchmark rate if the local dollar rises more than the economy
justifies.  “If the  exchange rate  rose for reasons not justified by
New Zealand’s economic fundamentals, all other things equal,
this would lead to a lower-than-expected OCR,” the  Reserve Bank
of New Zealand  said in a statement earlier today, helping send
the nation’s currency to the lowest level this year.  Spanish Sales  In Europe, Spain’s adjusted retail sales fell 10.2 percent
in January from a year earlier. The  Swiss National Bank  left the
three-month Libor target rate at zero.  U.S. initial jobless claims probably rose to 350,000 in the
week ended March 9 from 340,000 in the previous period, a
Bloomberg survey showed before a report due today.  Australia’s central bank said this month there are signs
lower rates are gaining traction with households.  “During 2012, there was a significant easing in monetary
policy,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said March 5 when he kept rates
unchanged for a second-straight month. “There are signs that
the easier conditions are having some of the expected effects.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  hailed the jobs result, saying
Australia’s economic record “stands in stark contrast” to many
developed economies struggling to generate employment.  “Today’s figures once again confirm Australia has one of
the strongest set of economic fundamentals in the developed
world,” Swan said in a statement after the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  