-- BAE’s U.S. Chief Says Contractors in ‘Fierce’ Competition
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-14T19:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bae-s-u-s-chief-says-contractors-in-fierce-competition.html
Defense contractors are engaged in
intense price competition as weapons spending declines,
according to the chief executive officer of  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s
U.S. subsidiary.  “I have never seen competition as fierce as it is right
now,” Linda Hudson said today at a conference in Washington.
“People are willing to do irrational things to win a
contract.”  Saying her company is feeling a “tremendous amount of
pricing pressure,” Hudson predicted moves toward greater
consolidation among prime defense contractors.  “Our industry may wind up with a very small handful of
superprimes,” she said. “We’d prefer to help drive that
consolidation, as opposed to being the victim of it.”  A plan by BAE,  Europe ’s largest arms maker, to merge with
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  fell through last year.
Now, London-based BAE is among defense contractors feeling the
pain of the across-the-board U.S. budget cuts called
sequestration.  BAE was the Pentagon’s No. 7 contractor in fiscal 2011,
receiving about $7 billion in work. The company said last month
that it may have to dismiss 3,500 employees in its U.S.
shipbuilding business as the Navy delays maintenance work on
vessels.  Tax increases are “inevitable,” along with spending cuts,
as the U.S. struggles to reduce its national deficit and find an
alternative to sequestration, Hudson said in her speech at a
conference on contracting law at George  Washington  University.  “It’s simple math when you look at the magnitude of what
we need to do to deal with debt and how we can get there,” she
said.  Hudson didn’t say how revenue should be increased, except
that the government should “get rid of loopholes, instead of
putting more on those who are already overburdened.”  The Pentagon also may need to close depots and bases,
reducing its workforce, “as we have,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  