-- Banco do Brasil Slides as Bank of America Cuts Stock to Hold
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-03-14T16:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/banco-do-brasil-slides-as-bank-of-america-cuts-stock-to-hold.html
Banco do Brasil SA ,  Latin America ’s
biggest lender by assets, fell after  Bank of America  Corp. cuts
its rating on the stock and said the outlook for further gains
is limited after shares reached a one-year high.  Banco do Brasil declined 1.1 percent to 26.04 reais at 1:11
p.m. in  Sao Paulo . The stock is up 19 percent since the end of
November and reached 27.27 reais on March 8.  Bank of America cut its recommendation on the stock to the
equivalent of hold given “fewer catalysts” for a rally because
traders have already priced in a possible initial public
offering of Banco do Brasil’s insurance unit and favorable
capital rules, according to a research note today by analysts
Jorg Friedemann, Marcus Fadul and Jose Barria.  The lender filed a request with  Brazil ’s securities and
exchange regulator on Feb. 26 to sell shares of its pension and
insurance unit BB Seguridade. Banco do Brasil could raise as
much as 5 billion reais ($2.5 billion).  The Brazilian central bank announced on March 1 that
implementation of Basel III rules in the country will allow
lenders to count deferred tax credits as capital, reducing the
need for fundraising before rules take effect in 2017.  Bank of America’s analysts also recommended today buying
 Banco do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul SA , saying profit growth
would drive a 12 percent increase in the stock over the next 12
months.  “A better economic environment” in the southern state of
 Rio Grande  do Sul, where the bank has most of its operations,
favors the smaller lender over other Brazilian banks, according
to the report.  Banco do Rio Grande do Sul, which is known as Banrisul,
fell 1.6 percent to 17.47 reais. The stock is up 13 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  