-- Barnes & Noble, Emerson, Sturgis: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-14T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/barnes-noble-emerson-sturgis-intellectual-property.html
Barnes & Noble Inc., the biggest
U.S. bookstore chain, lost its bid for a federal judge to
dismiss some claims it infringed  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  patents related
to Internet commerce.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, sued Alcatel-Lucent in
July 2010, seeking a ruling that it hasn’t infringed patents
registered by the telecommunications company, which had warned
of possible legal action. A federal jury in  Texas  has already
ruled that some of the patents at issue weren’t infringed,
Barnes & Noble said.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels today at a hearing in
Manhattan allowed two claims to remain in litigation. He
dismissed one infringement claim because Alcatel-Lucent licensed
the patent to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , whose products Barnes & Noble
uses on its website.  Of six patents in the initial filing, three were at issue
today. Two claims the judge allowed to remain included patents
for technology related to checkout functions on e-commerce sites
and the use of a search engine that, after the user types in a
product search, returns results that don’t exactly match the
specified product.  “They had their shot,” Gerard Haddad, a lawyer for Barnes
& Noble, told the judge today, referring to the Texas verdict.
“They asserted the same elements against Barnes & Noble in the
same way.”  Daniels today rejected the company’s Texas ruling argument.  “It’s inappropriate for this court to try to decipher what
issues” the Texas jury considered that may apply to this case,
Daniels said.  Alcatel-Lucent, based in Paris, said the infringement
occurred on the retailer’s website,  Barnesandnoble.com . Alcatel-
Lucent has appealed the Texas verdict to the Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit. Oral arguments in that case may be
heard in May, said Thomas Mahlum, a lawyer for Alcatel-Lucent.  Mahlum argued today that the Texas verdict shouldn’t apply
to the New York case.  “We’re talking about different systems,” Mahlum said.
“The evidence is different and the functionality is
different.”  Alcatel-Lucent sought a stay in the proceedings in New York
until the appeals court rules. Daniels denied the stay.  “That’s not the way it works,” the judge said. Referring
to the Texas verdict, he said, “Your claims continue to be
invalid.”  The case is  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.,
10-cv-05759, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Emerson’s Artesyn Loses Bid to Overturn SynQor Patent Win  SynQor Inc.’s $95 million patent-infringement victory
against nine manufacturers of power converters in computer
systems, including  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) ’s Artesyn, was upheld
yesterday by a U.S. appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld a jury verdict won by SynQor and said the
trial judge was correct to enhance the damage award. The
decision was posted on the court’s website.  The dispute is over safety features that control how much
electricity goes to large computer systems, as well as
telecommunication and data communication equipment. The other
companies that remained in the appeal are Emerson’s Astec, Delta
America Ltd.,  Bel Fuse Inc. (BELFA)  and Murata Manufacturing Co.  Emerson’s Artesyn and Astec were told to pay about $14
million; Delta $5.8 million; Murata about $18 million; and Bel
Fuse $8.1 million, according to the final judgment issued by the
judge in the case. The companies also were told to pay
additional damages for infringement after the verdict, and
$500,000 in sanctions were imposed on Delta for violating court
rules.  The case is SynQor Inc. v. Artesyn Technologies Inc., 2011-
1191, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is SynQor Inc. v. Artesyn
Technologies Inc., 07-cv-00497, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Marshall).  Apple Decision in Samsung ITC Case Rescheduled to May 31  A final decision in  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s patent-
infringement case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was delayed by U.S. trade
officials until May 31 as they seek input on the effect of a
possible import ban of the iPhone and iPad.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said it wanted to
know more about how a ban would affect the market for
smartphones and tablet computers. The question pertains to one
of the four patents that Samsung asserted against Apple, for a
way that phones transmit data.  The notice could indicate the commission is considering a
finding Apple violated that Samsung patent. The agency could be
trying to fashion a compromise that would give Apple time to
work around the patent, or to deny an import ban because of the
impact on consumers, said Rodney Sweetland, a lawyer with Duane
Morris in Washington who specializes in ITC cases.  “Were they not thinking about a violation, they would not
need to ask for further information of this nature,” Sweetland
said in a telephone interview.  The commission asked for comments on what type of later-
generation products are available that are authorized by Samsung
to use the technology covered by the patent, and whether they
are acceptable substitutes to the iPhone and iPad.  The ITC last declined to issue an import ban on public
policy grounds in 1984, when it decided that barring hospital
beds designed for burn victims would harm patients who might not
be able to get the equipment. In a patent case won by Apple
against  HTC Corp. (2498) , the commission gave the Taiwanese handset
maker time to design around the Apple invention.  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Sturgis Bike Rally Trademark Dispute Must Go to Jury, Judge Says  In a case involving South Dakota’s annual motorcycle rally
and a company that sells souvenirs, a federal magistrate judge
has said the dispute should be decided by a jury.  The suit was filed in South Dakota in June 2011 by  Sturgis
Motorcycle Rally Inc. , organizers of the rally who are seeking
to halt unauthorized use of its trademarks. The rally, held
annually in Sturgis in August, has attracted as many as 600,000
bikers and motorcycle fans.  Rushmore Photo & Gifts Inc.  was accused of offering
merchandise to retailers falsely  designated as officially
licensed products . The rally sponsors also objected to
applications the company has filed with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office to register “Officially Licensed Sturgis” and
“Sturgis Motor Classic” as trademarks.  Rushmore Photo, based in Custer, South Dakota, was acting
in bad faith, the rally sponsors claimed, and has also
registered and used domain names that violated the rally’s
trademarks, according to the complaint.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  was added as a defendant in April
2012, with rally organizers claiming the retailer was selling
infringing merchandise.  In his March 6 ruling, U.S. Magistrate Judge John Simko
said that there are genuine issues about material facts to be
resolved by the jury. These facts relate to the classification
of the term “Sturgis” as descriptive or generic, and to its
secondary meaning if it’s classified as descriptive, he said.  The case is Sturgis Motorcycle Rally Inc., v. Rushmore
Photo & Gifts Inc., 5:11-cv-05052-JLV, U.S. District Court,
Western District of South Dakota (Sioux Falls).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  IPhone the Prize for Small Carriers Backing Unlocked Devices  Small wireless carriers see a new path to scoring users of
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and other popular handsets: the legalization
of unlocking mobile devices.  Regional and rural wireless providers are backing several
bills in Congress that would let consumers unlock mobile phones
and tablet computers without carriers’ permission. Big phone
companies often land exclusive rights to offer the hottest
devices, and U.S. rules currently prohibit altering software to
let new phones from one carrier to work on other networks.  “Smaller carriers have a very difficult time getting
access to smartphones and handsets,” said  Steven Berry ,
president of the Competitive Carriers Association, which
represents such companies as  U.S. Cellular Corp. (USM)  and  Bluegrass
Cellular .  The Washington-based trade group is seeking to undo a
decision from the Copyright Office of the  Library of Congress ,
backed by largest U.S. mobile providers Verizon Wireless and
 AT&T Inc. (T) , barring consumers from unlocking their handsets
without their carrier’s approval. The rules change, which took
effect Jan. 26, reversed an earlier exemption under copyright
law.  The Library of Congress’s Copyright Office, as part of a
periodic review, said changing software to let one carrier’s
phones work on other networks wasn’t among activities expressly
permitted under copyright law.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, with members including
Verizon, AT&T,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. had
argued that “locking cellphones is an essential part of the
wireless industry’s dominant business model” involving handset
subsidies and contracts, Librarian of Congress James Billington
said in the notice.  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, and  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the panel’s top
Republican, introduced a bill March 11 to overturn the Library
of Congress’s decision and direct the agency to consider adding
tablet computers to devices that consumers can unlock.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said March 4 that
consumers should be allowed to unlock smartphones and tablet
computers without risking criminal penalties, citing a White
House online petition endorsed by more than 114,000 people.  Handset makers and big-box retailers such as  Best Buy Co. (BBY) 
have begun selling unlocked devices that work with multiple
carriers. Partly because consumers have that option, unlocking
newly purchased devices doesn’t merit an exemption under
copyright law, Billington said.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  DuPont Trade-Secret Prosecutors Add 7 Charges Against Liew  California businessman Walter Liew was charged with seven
new crimes, including filing false tax returns, in a revised
indictment alleging he conspired to provide  DuPont Co. (DD)  trade
secrets to a Chinese company.  Federal prosecutors filed the new charges today in a
revised indictment in federal court in San Francisco.  China’s Pangang Group Co., Liew and two former DuPont
employees were charged last year with conspiring to steal
information about chloride-route titanium oxide, a white pigment
used in paint, plastics and paper.  Pangang runs the largest titanium complex in China and is
one of the country’s biggest titanium pigment producers,
according to its website.  Liew, of Orinda, California, and the other defendants sold
the confidential information to Pangang so it could develop a
large-scale titanium-oxide factory in Chongqing, prosecutors
allege.  Simona Agnolucci, an attorney for Liew, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the new charges.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 