-- Billionaire Amaral Sees Higher Eurocash Payout, Takeovers
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-03-15T08:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/billionaire-amaral-sees-higher-eurocash-payout-takeovers.html
Eurocash SA (EUR) ,  Poland ’s biggest
distributor of non-durable consumer goods, is looking for
takeover targets and plans to increase a dividend after profits
surged last year, its controlling shareholder said.  The company, whose value has jumped almost 18-fold since
selling shares in an initial public offering in 2005, bought the
Tradis distributor from  Emperia Holding SA (EMP)  for 1.1 billion zloty
($343 million) in 2011, solidifying its leading position in the
local food wholesaling industry.  “We are now at the beginning of the road,” Chief
Executive Officer Luis Amaral, who owns 44 percent of the
Komorniki, Poland-based company, said in a phone interview on
March 13. “We want to be a buying power to traditional
retailers and to grow we need to keep consolidating if there’s
an opportunity.”  Takeovers and rising consumer demand in the European
Union’s biggest eastern economy helped Eurocash almost double
profit to a record last year. Its stock will join Warsaw’s
benchmark WIG20 Index after the trading session today as its
market capitalization reached $2.4 billion and valued Amaral’s
stake at $1.05 billion.  Higher Dividend  The company should increase its dividend and return to its
shareholders half of last year’s 250.4 million-zloty profit,
Amaral said. Eurocash paid out 18 percent of its 2011
consolidated profit as a  dividend .  “My recommendation is a 50 percent dividend payout, so
we’re coming back to the previous dividend policy before buying
Tradis,” said Amaral, a Portugal native.  The distributor, which Amaral bought from Lisbon-based
 Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA (JMT)  for 30 million euros ($39 million) in
2003, also plans to cut its debt to “have more bullets in its
gun” if a takeover opportunity arises, he said.  “For takeovers we look at food distribution in general.
We’re focused on wholesaling,” said Amaral. “We started the
process of looking beyond Poland.”  Amaral sees “traditional, small stores” and discount
retail chains as “winners” on the growing Polish market.
“Hyper- and supermarkets, which in the past were seen as
segments of the future, are declining,” he said.  Eurocash shares jumped 1.9 percent to a record 55.4 zloty
at 9:21 a.m. in Warsaw, extending  this year ’s advance to 27
percent. Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 Index declined 2.8 percent
this year. The company sold shares in its 2005 IPO at 3.1 zloty
each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  