-- BofA to Repurchase Up to $5B of Stock After Stress Test
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-03-14T21:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bofa-to-buy-back-up-to-5-billion-in-stock-after-fed-stress-test.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, won Federal Reserve support to buy back as
much as $5 billion in stock, the firm’s first repurchases since
the financial crisis.  Bank of America also can redeem $5.5 billion in preferred
shares, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said today
in a statement. The lender’s stock climbed 3.9 percent to $12.58
at 5:29 p.m. in extended trading in New York, after advancing
4.3 percent in 2013 through today’s close.  Buying back stock may help rebuild the credibility of  Brian T. Moynihan , who has made restoring shareholder payouts a
priority since 2010, when he became chief executive officer.
Moynihan came under fire in 2011 after fanning investor
expectations for a “modest” dividend increase, only to have
the Fed reject his request, and he didn’t ask the central bank
for anything last year.  “Buying back common shares is the best way to continue to
drive value for our shareholders,” Moynihan, 53, said in the
statement. “We have more than adequate capital to support our
strategic plans.”  Bank of America said it didn’t seek approval to boost its
1-cent quarterly dividend.  Analysts (BAC)  surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted on average that the payout would increase to 3 cents,
with some estimates as high as 5 cents.  Preferred Shares  A company’s earnings per share improves when the number of
stock units drops, and redeeming preferred shares lowers
interest payments. Bank of America has about 10.8 billion shares
outstanding, some of it created when the firm sold $19.3 billion
of its stock to repay U.S. bailouts in 2009.  The Fed blessing starts to make good on a vow Moynihan made
at the lender’s March 2011 investor day, in which he proclaimed
the bank, once the biggest in the U.S., was again a “growth
company” that could return capital to shareholders.  The lender slashed its 64-cent  dividend  in 2008 to conserve
capital and took $45 billion in government rescues under then-
CEO Kenneth D. Lewis. Even after repaying the funds in 2009,
Bank of America couldn’t increase payouts because of demands to
improve capital ahead of coming international rules.  The bank also trailed JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  in putting the financial crisis behind it as the company
incurred more than $40 billion in costs tied to defective
mortgages inherited from the 2008 takeover of Countrywide
Financial Corp.  Bank of America’s capital levels rose to a record 9.25
percent last year after Moynihan sold more than $60 billion in
 assets  and purged expensive debt from its balance sheet.  Under this year’s stress tests, Bank of America’s Tier 1
common ratio fell to 6.04 percent after including the lender’s
plan to repurchase stock. That’s higher than JPMorgan’s 5.56
percent and Wells Fargo’s 5.94 percent. The minimum required to
pass was 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  