-- Booker Rises to Seven-Year High on Makro Approval: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-14T16:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/booker-rises-to-seven-year-high-on-makro-approval-london-mover.html
Booker Group Plc (BOK) , a British food
wholesaler, rose to the highest price in seven years after the
Competition Commission indicated it won’t have to dispose of
assets in its purchase of Metro AG’s U.K. unit.  “The news could not be better, with the Competition
Commission provisionally clearing the Makro deal, seemingly
without the need to dispose of any of the 30 branches,” Nicola Mallard, an  analyst  at Investec who recommends buying the stock,
wrote in a note today. “Booker can now press ahead and
integrate the business.”  The shares  rose  7.8 percent to close at 125 pence, the
biggest gain since May and the highest price since February 2006
in London trading. More than 6.2 million shares traded, almost
triple the daily average over the last three months.  Booker’s purchase of Makro Holding Ltd. from Dusseldorf,
Germany-based  Metro AG (MEO)  won’t lead to a “substantial lessening
of competition,” the commission said today in a statement. The
group estimates the U.K. “cash-and-carry” wholesale market is
worth 11 billion pounds ($16.4 billion) a year, and said it will
give a final report on April 24.  Booker bought Makro from its German owner last year in a
deal that valued the unit at 139.7 million pounds, in order to
increase the variety of food products it wholesales to caterers,
retailers and other businesses. The combined company will face
competition “in all areas affected by the merger,” the
commission said. Booker operates 172 stores, while Makro has 30,
the group said.  The purchase was referred to the  Competition Commission  by
the  Office of Fair Trading  in November and the commission said
today it will consider responses to the preliminary findings
before its final report next month. Metro received cash and a
Booker stake of more than 9 percent in the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 