-- Borg Sees Tax Cuts as Top Priority as Sweden Faces Lean Years
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-14T13:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/borg-sees-tax-cuts-as-top-priority-as-sweden-faces-lean-years.html
Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said the first priority after elections in 2014 will be to
lower taxes for low and middle-income earners while backing away
from cutting the top marginal rate.  The government will also work to lower corporate and
ownership taxes, Borg said today at a Moderate Party event in
Stockholm. There won’t be money to lower the tax rates for high-
income earners because  Sweden  should prioritize spending on
welfare and education, he said.  “We still want to strengthen tax cuts for low and middle
income earners during the years ahead,” Borg said, adding that
it could be done as early as next year. While Sweden should
target a 1 percent surplus also after the 2014 election, the
country is unlikely to reach that target until 2017.  Sweden has steered clear of the recession that’s engulfed
the euro area, helping the AAA-rated Nordic nation to emerge as
a haven from the debt crisis and allowing the state to cut both
income and corporate taxes. Still, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt last year scrapped a fifth round of income tax cuts
since taking power in 2016 to protect the economy against
deficits.  Reinfeldt also said today at the same event Sweden must
create more jobs, which is likely to become the main topic in
the general election. Swedish companies are buckling under
strains from a surging krona, which is driving up the price of
exports for the trade-reliant economy. The krona has jumped 28
percent versus the euro since early 2009.  Limited Room  The premier said last month that companies will need to
adapt to a stronger currency.  Slumping demand for  exports  slowed economic growth to 0.8
percent last year from 3.7 percent in 2011. The country’s
central bank forecasts unemployment will rise to an average 8.1
percent in 2013 from 7.7 percent in 2012.  The government will consider measures to broaden the tax
base by targeting corporate tax evasion and reducing interest
rate deductions, Borg said.  Sweden’s corporate tax rate was cut in January to 22
percent from 26.3 percent previously.  The country will post a 1.3 percent deficit of  gross
domestic product  this year, the government forecast in December.  Sweden has “limited” room for new fiscal initiatives “in
the years ahead,” he said. The country should also avoid
“significant changes” to labor laws, leaving it to unions and
employers’ organizations to make the job market more flexible,
he said.  Borg’s Moderate Party, which is the largest in government,
today said it will have to negotiate a common election platform
with the three smaller coalition parties ahead of the next
parliamentary elections in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  