-- Bouygues Gets Approval for 1,800Mhz Band to Start Faster Service
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-03-14T18:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bouygues-gets-approval-for-1-800mhz-band-to-start-faster-service.html
Bouygues SA (EN) , the owner of  France ’s
third-largest mobile phone company, won approval from the
telecommunications regulator to use the 1,800 megahertz band to
offer faster services from Oct. 1.  Bouygues will indicate “in coming days” whether it
accepts the offer, which requires it to give back 2.8 megahertz
of 1,800 frequencies by Oct. 1, the Paris-based company said in
a statement today.  Bouygues must return about 10 percent of its frequencies in
very densely populated areas to start a so-called fourth-
generation service, Jean-Ludovic Silicani, the head of the
regulator, said on BFM Business radio today. It will also have
to pay the state about 60 million euros ($78 million) per year
to provide 4G services on the 1,800 megahertz band, up from 13
million euros, he said.  France Telecom  SA has lobbied against the regulator’s
decision because it agreed a roaming contract with France’s
fourth-largest phone company  Iliad SA (ILD)  which is crowding its
1,800 frequencies, forcing it to deploy separate 4G equipment.
By contrast, Bouygues can upgrade its existing equipment and
software in the 1,800 frequencies to roll out its fourth-
generation services.  Iliad SA started a discount mobile-phone service in January
2012, triggering a price war that has dented earnings of France
Telecom, Bouygues and Vivendi’s SFR, France’s third-largest
mobile phone company.  France Telecom “regrets this decision which, far from
calming a market that’s already strongly destabilized, is
creating a new shock by providing a player with an advantage
that de-facto can’t be repeated by its competitors,” said
 Tom Wright , a spokesman at France Telecom, in an e-mailed
comment to Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  