-- Bovespa Declines as MRV Tumbles Amid Brazil Inflation Concern
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-14T21:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bovespa-index-falls-as-builder-mrv-drops-amid-inflation-concern.html
The  Bovespa index  declined as
homebuilder Brookfield Incorporacoes SA sank the most since July
amid concern the central bank isn’t doing enough to contain
surging inflation that threatens Brazil’s economic recovery.  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA tumbled to a four-month
low, contributing most to the The MSCI Brazil/Consumer
Discretionary Index’s 1.6 percent drop, the worst performance
among 10 industry groups.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  led banks
lower on speculation that policy makers will delay borrowing-
cost increases, limiting their ability to increase loan rates.  The Bovespa dropped 0.2 percent to 57,281.02 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. Inflation is showing “resilience,”
Brazil’s central bank said today in minutes from a meeting last
week, when it kept the benchmark rate at 7.25 percent. While
stocks had tumbled before the meeting on concern that a rate
increase might hurt corporate earnings, concern has been
mounting that inflation could sap the economic expansion if left
unchecked.  Today’s market reaction shows investors are “waiting for a
tougher response” on inflation, said Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes Filho, a senior economist at Franklin Templeton
Investments in  Sao Paulo . “Despite a worsening in the short-
term outlook for inflation, the central bank chose to be more
cautious.”  Brookfield, MRV  Brookfield plunged 6.8 percent to 2.88 reais, the steepest
drop on the Bovespa. MRV dropped 6.3 percent to 10.66 reais.  Forty-five stocks fell on the Bovespa today while 23
gained. Brazilian swap rates fell after the central bank said it
“considers that uncertainties -- both external and internal --
remain in the outlook and require a cautious management of
monetary policy,” according to the minutes.  Itau sank 1.5 percent to 35.55 reais. Banco Bradesco SA
fell 0.3 percent to 36.79 reais. The MSCI Brazil/Financials
Index slipped 0.7 percent.  “The minutes brought no clear signs that the Selic rate
may go up in the next policy meeting, and banks are suffering
today because of that,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee
220 million reais at Leme Investimentos Ltda. in Florianopolis,
 Brazil , said in a phone interview. “Growth is still failing to
speed up, inflation is a matter for concern and there’s no clear
indication about what the government is doing to balance all
these things.”  Brazil Inflation  Annual inflation, as measured by the IPCA index,
accelerated to 6.31 percent in February, a 14-month high, the
national statistics agency  said last week . Gross domestic
product expanded 0.9 percent in 2012, the agency said on March
1.  Quickening inflation means higher costs for companies and
raises concern about the longer-term outlook for the economy,
said Alexandre Ghirghi, a portfolio manager at Metodo
Investimentos.  “The central bank is taking a long time to react to
inflation that keeps getting faster,” Ghirghi said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  Online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  dropped 4.5
percent to 16.24 reais, the lowest in three weeks. Consumer
products maker Hypermarcas SA slid 1.9 percent to 17.25 reais.  The Bovespa has dropped 9.5 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3. The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,
 India  and  China  slid 3.8 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.6 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 8 billion reais
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.6 billion reais this year through March 12,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  