-- Bovespa-Index Futures Rise as Brazil Retail Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-14T12:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bovespa-index-futures-rise-as-brazil-retail-sales-top-estimates.html
Bovespa-index futures advanced
after a report showed retail sales in Brazil increased more than
forecast, easing concern that the economic recovery will falter.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef producer, may be active
after reporting fourth-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
forecasts.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest bank by
assets, may move after Bank of America Corp. lowered its
recommendation to the equivalent of hold.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring in April retreated
0.4 percent to 57,740 at 9:06 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real
weakened 0.2 percent to 1.9753 per dollar.  Brazil’s retail sales increased 5.9 percent in January from
a year earlier, the national statistics agency reported today.
The median  forecast  of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
an increase of 5.5 percent.  Lenders Banco Indusval SA and  Banco Industrial e Comercial
SA  may be active after  Standard & Poor’s  revised their rating
outlook to negative along with four other mid-sized banks.
Insurance company  Porto Seguro SA (PSSA3)  may move after it was raised
to the equivalent of hold at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has dropped 9.4 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has slid 4 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.6 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.64 billion
reais ($3.87 billion) yesterday, which compares with a daily
average of 7.6 billion reais this year through March 12,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  