-- Brazil Yields to Traders Pouncing on Gains: Currencies
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-03-14T14:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/brazil-yields-to-traders-pouncing-on-gains-currencies.html
Efforts by Brazil to tame inflation
are providing foreign-exchange traders with the biggest returns
in the world by purchasing reais with funds borrowed in dollars.  Investing in real forward contracts funded by the greenback
has gained 5.3 percent this year, the most of any of the 44
other currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Wagers that Brazil’s
currency will rise outpaced those expecting a decline by an
average of $5.6 billion this year, data from the Sao Paulo-based
BM&F exchange and compiled by Bloomberg show. As recently as
September there were net bets against the real.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who popularized the term
“currency war” in 2010, told  Bloomberg News  last month he’s
abandoning the strategy that drove the real down 19 percent in
two years as the government shifts its focus to containing
inflation. The central bank signaled on March 6 that it’s ready
to raise  interest rates  from a record low 7.25 percent after
dropping a pledge to hold borrowing costs steady for what it had
called “a prolonged period of time.”  “This year we’ve seen a shift from the policy makers’
standpoint from a clear depreciation bias throughout the
majority of 2012 to a more appreciation bias,” said  Michael Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in
 New York . “It’s an interim approach to head off some of the
inflation pressures which have started to pick up.”  Best Performer  The real has gained 4.3 percent this year to 1.9675 per
dollar at 10:07 a.m. New York time, the biggest gain among 32
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The  Mexican peso  is the
second-best performer, advancing 3.5 percent.  Standard Chartered sees the real gaining to 1.92 per dollar
by year-end, putting it among the most bullish forecasts of 31
compiled by Bloomberg. UBS AG and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
call for the largest rise, expecting 1.85 per dollar. The median
estimate is for the real to end the year at 1.99 per dollar.  In the so-called carry trade, investors buy high-yielding
currencies with money borrowed in countries with low interest
rates. The risk is that adverse currency moves or heightened
volatility wipe out profits generated by the difference in
interest rates.  Pimco Position  Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest
manager of  bond funds, is positioned to benefit from gains in
the real versus the  New Zealand  and Australian dollars as
 China’s economy  slows.  “New Zealand and Australia will be similarly impacted as
China begins to slow down over the balance of 2013,” said
 Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of  portfolio management  at Pimco,
in an interview today. “When we run a short Aussie position
we’ve compensated by doing things like being long Brazilian real
so you turn a negative 3 percent carry position into a positive
4 percent position.”  A short position is a bet a currency will decline in value.  The Aussie has declined 4.3 percent against the real this
year, while the kiwi dollar is down 5.1 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  show traders anticipate Brazil’s
central bank will boost the benchmark Selic rate to about 9
percent by year-end, the highest among the 14 biggest  emerging
markets , according to data compiled by HSBC Plc. Key rates in
the U.S.,  Japan  and the  euro zone  are no more than 0.75 percent.  Real Appreciation  Brazil pushed the real down 22 percent from as high as
1.5290 per dollar in July 2011 through December by raising taxes
on  currency trading  and buying dollars as Mantega said developed
economies were debasing their currencies, driving up those of
emerging nations.  The central bank let the real appreciate in January through
2 per dollar for the first time in six months, prompting traders
at banks, including  Standard Chartered , to call for a policy
shift that favors a stronger currency. A higher  exchange rate 
helps lower consumer prices by making imports cheaper.  The policy reversal came as  inflation accelerated  to 6.31
percent in February, the fastest pace since December 2011. The
central bank aims to keep consumer-price increases at 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Mantega said in his interview with Bloomberg that last
year’s policies, which included the biggest interest-rate cuts
among Group of 20 nations,  capital controls  and tax cuts, laid
the path for faster growth in 2013. Brazil’s gross domestic
product  expanded  0.9 percent in 2012, the second slowest pace
since 1999. It will grow 3.5 percent this year, according to the
median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Neutralized’ War  “We haven’t resolved it, but we neutralized, softened the
currency-war issue that other countries are facing,” Mantega
said in the Feb. 27 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York. “We are in Brazil in a transition to a more solid,
competitive and efficient economy.”  Having a more stable currency in 2013 will help curb
inflation and aid growth, central-bank President Alexandre
Tombini said at a conference in New York on Feb. 25. Inflation
will slow in the second half as the country produces a bumper
crop of grains that will help contain food-price increases, he
said.  The central bank kept  interest rates  steady on March 6 and
said in a statement it would assess “the macroeconomic
scenario” at its next meeting starting April 16. Policy makers
last raised rates in July 2011.  Controlling Inflation  Before increasing borrowing costs, Brazil’s policy makers
will allow the currency to rise to buy them time in controlling
inflation, according to Sireen Harajli of Credit Agricole SA.  “Brazil will want to wait a little bit until the growth
recovery is a little more solid before they feel comfortable
raising interest rates,” Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist
in New York, said in a March 5 telephone interview. “They might
sound more hawkish just to prepare the markets for a rate hike,
but for now they’ll just let the currency increase.”  Policy makers will walk a fine line between letting the
exchange-rate rise to help contain inflation and avoid excessive
currency appreciation to harm domestic industries when growth
remains weak, said Gustavo Arteta, an emerging markets foreign-
exchange strategist for Latin America at UBS AG.  “Even though it has regained some of what it lost, it
still has a good road still ahead of it,” Arteta said in a Feb.
21 telephone interview. “The question is how fast and how far
does the central bank want to allow it to go.”  Dollar Move  The real’s appeal might be reduced if the Federal Reserve
alters its current monetary stance, according to Peter Kinsella
of Commerzbank AG. If the market starts expecting a withdrawal
of the Fed’s “ultra-accommodative” policy and pricing in
interest-rate increases, emerging-market currencies maybe be
negatively affected, he said.  “You’re looking at a potentially large dollar move,”
Peter Kinsella, a Latin America currency strategist in  London ,
said in a March 5 interview. “In the second half of this year,
you’ll probably see a shift from emerging-market fixed income
back toward developed-market fixed income. We can certainly rule
out aggressive strength for the real.”  Over the past two months, policy makers have been buying
and selling currency swaps to keep the real in a range between
1.95 and 2 per dollar. The central bank sold $1 billion of
reverse swaps on March 11 after the real strengthened through
1.95 per dollar for the first time since May. The swaps are
equivalent to buying dollars in the futures market.  Implied Volatility  Such intervention has limited currency  volatility , which
encourages carry trades by making the return more predictable.  Implied volatility on one-month real options, which
reflects investors’ expectations for future currency swings, hit
a record low 5.3 percent on Nov. 7, down from 15 percent at the
end of June, and was at 7.38 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In the options market, investors the least bearish on the
real in more than 18 months.  Traders are paying a 3.75 percent premium for contracts
granting them the right to sell the real, relative to options
for buying the currency, one-year 25-delta option risk reversal
rates show. The one-year average is 5.38 percent.  “Traditionally, too much intervention is not very positive
and comes with many consequences,”  Credit Agricole ’s Harajli
said. “This is one example where we’ve seen inflation get a
little bit out of control because a currency was kept low for so
long. Brazil is now likely to fight excessive inflation by
letting their currency appreciate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  