-- Brazil Signals No Imminent Key Rate Rise on Growth Outlook
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-03-14T16:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/brazil-signals-no-imminent-key-rate-rise-on-growth-outlook-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank said monetary
policy requires caution amid a slower-than-expected recovery,
signaling policy makers may refrain from increasing borrowing
costs in April even as inflation quickens.  The central bank kept the Selic rate at 7.25 percent for a
third consecutive meeting on March 6, saying its next step will
depend on economic indicators. While removing from the minutes
today a reference to keeping the key rate at a record low for a
“sufficiently prolonged” period, there was no indication
policy makers plan to start reversing next month interest rate
cuts that marked President Dilma Rousseff’s first two years in
office. Swap rates fell.  Rousseff’s administration has been caught between the
slowest growth since the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers
collapse in 2009 and the fastest annual inflation in 14 months.
Traders reduced bets today the central bank will increase rates
as early as next month, after the minutes showed that concerns
over the speed of recovery may delay higher borrowing costs,
 Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim Ctvm Ltd, said
in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  The monetary committee “considers that uncertainties --
both external and internal --  remain in the outlook and require
a cautious management of monetary policy,” the central bank
said in the minutes. The committee “will follow the evolution
of the macroeconomic scenario until its next meeting, to then
decide its next step.”  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the contract due January 2014 fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 7.83 percent at 1:01 p.m.
local time. The contract is heading to its biggest one-day drop
since falling 23 basis points on Dec. 6.  “The minutes were a little bit more dovish than people
expected,” Padovani said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“The central bank is worried about inflation, but they are not
indicating an imminent rate increase.”  Brazil’s government has extended payroll tax cuts to new
industries, reduced electricity costs and eliminated federal
taxes on food staples in efforts to cushion Brazil’s economic
recovery while taming consumer price increases. Officials stand
ready to do whatever it takes to control inflation, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said last month, adding that interest
rate increases are an option.  Limited Impact  The measures so far have had a limited impact on consumer
prices, as annualized inflation  in February  accelerated for the
eighth straight month to 6.31 percent from 6.14 percent in
January.  “There is a clear indication that the central bank will
raise rates,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Inflation is not going to provide any pleasant surprises. On
the contrary, it is going to continue to be resilient,”
influencing the bank to raise rates in April.  After Brazil’s economy expanded by 0.9 percent last year,
recent indicators show activity may be gaining speed. Retail
sales in January rose 0.6 percent from December, the national
statistics agency said today in a separate report. The gain was
bigger than the 0.4 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 30 economists.  Growth in  Latin America ’s largest economy will rebound to
at least 3 percent this year as investments rebound, Mantega
said on March 1.  In its minutes, the central bank signaled it is waiting for
more consistent signs of an economic recovery, according to  Neil Shearing , chief  emerging markets  economist at  Capital Economics .  “This tempers the expectations of a sizable rate hike,”
Shearing said in a phone interview from  London . “Growth in the
fourth quarter was not much return for the massive amount of
stimulus they’ve injected into the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 