-- Britain Has an Alternative to Austerity
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/britain-has-an-alternative-to-austerity.html
Next week, U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  will unveil his annual budget. Rarely
has the country so badly needed bold new policies to generate
growth.  Osborne, unfortunately, is unlikely to deliver. Just a week
ago, his boss, Prime Minister  David Cameron ,  declared  that
“there is no alternative” to the government’s austerity
policies, echoing  Margaret Thatcher ’s steely use of the “TINA”
phrase -- known ever since in Britain by its acronym. Thatcher
was the “lady not for turning,” and Cameron wants to be just as
tough.  Cameron is mistaken about TINA. Not because Thatcher was
wrong in the 1980s (she was right), or because the U.K. doesn’t
need to bring down its budget deficit of 6 percent of gross
domestic product or its public-debt ratio of 89 percent of GDP
(it does). The question is how to do it.  The current policies aren’t working. The U.K. economy
remains smaller than it was before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, and real incomes are shrinking.
Too much austerity too soon is a critical reason that the
recovery has been so slow -- and thus why the debt ratio keeps
rising. The government is overshooting its deficit-reduction
targets because of falling tax receipts.  And the economic news this week was again dire:
manufacturing output fell by 1.5 percent in January, suggesting
a third dip into recession is on the way.  Osborne and Cameron insist they can’t do anything to relax
fiscal policy because it would alarm financial markets. They
cite the move last month by Moody’s Investors Service to cut the
U.K. sovereign debt rating to less than Aaa. If the markets lose
faith, they say, debt-service costs would soar and the country
would be on a path to insolvency. The government’s cost of
borrowing has already crept up a little, to 2 percent.  These fears aren’t groundless, but the government is
drawing the wrong conclusion. The too-tight squeeze on fiscal
policy is self-defeating. If the cycle of stagnation and
austerity continues, the debt outlook will continue to worsen
and markets will have more reason to worry, not less. (Moody’s
emphasized the economy’s slow growth in announcing its rating
change.)  Short-term easing would make the longer-term commitment to
control public debt more credible -- so long as the plans are
heavily front-loaded and concentrate on supporting growth.  The government has already identified the right thing to
focus on: infrastructure. There’s an enormous backlog of
worthwhile projects; the short-term boost that construction
delivers to the wider economy for every pound spent is high (the
 Confederation of British Industry  says the so-called multiplier
is almost 3); and well-chosen infrastructure supports long-term
growth.  Yet the cranes aren’t moving. That’s because most of the
hundreds of projects on the government’s wish list depend on
private funding, which hasn’t materialized. Planning delays and
an emptied project pipeline due to drastic capital-spending cuts
two years ago have also contributed. Public money and political
will could solve these problems.  The harder question is how much public money. The CBI has
 recommended  1.25 billion pounds ($1.86 billion) for
construction. That’s far too little. Ernst & Young’s  Item Club ,
which uses the U.K. Treasury’s model to produce economic
forecasts, has suggested $21 billion. The National Institute of
Economic and Social Research  has called  for infrastructure
spending of up to $57 billion, arguing that with borrowing costs
still at historic lows this is affordable.  Economists we spoke to at  London ’s commercial banks put the
safe number for new  government borrowing  at as much as $15
billion, which would add less than a percentage point to the
current debt ratio. That looks timid to us -- but bear in mind
that $15 billion of borrowing could support a bigger sum for
infrastructure if public spending that doesn’t support growth as
strongly were cut back.  The more stimulus spending is concentrated on short-term
investment, the more clearly it is separated from the regular
budget, and the more it is supported by, for instance, issuing
government-guaranteed infrastructure bonds, the less investors
will react against it.  Osborne seems likely to choose something like the
minimalist CBI proposal, covering the cost with more tax
increases and spending cuts. That would keep the burden of
reviving the economy on the  Bank of England  and its next
governor,  Mark Carney . The bank will presumably do its best, but
monetary policy has its limits when  interest rates  are already
so low. We think stronger fiscal action is needed -- certainly
no less than the $21 billion boost the Item Club proposed.  Cameron and Osborne have made the politics of altering
course much harder by insisting on talking tough. For the
economy’s sake -- and if the Tories have any interest in winning
the next election -- they need to put TINA to rest.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 