-- Buffett’s BYD Threatened by Prius in China Hybrid Shift
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-14T23:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/buffett-s-byd-threatened-by-prius-in-china-hybrid-shift.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius hybrid
is emerging as the likeliest winner from  China ’s faltering
attempt to dictate the future of world motoring.  Policies favoring Warren Buffett-backed  BYD Co. (1211)  and other
electric-vehicle makers were meant to help China vie for global
leadership in a technology the government expected to replace
clunkers that run on gasoline. Except, as Chairman  Mao Zedong 
put it, “seek truth from facts,” and the fact is: EVs flopped.  Consumer appetite failed to materialize even with financial
incentives that halved the price tag of a BYD e6. The 27,800 EVs
on Chinese roads are fewer than 6 percent of the government’s
2015 target -- and 0.02 percent of the total civilian fleet. For
now, China needs to promote other technologies to cut the
tailpipe fumes choking its cities, says one minister.  “We’re very anxious” about worsening air pollution, Miao Wei, industry minister and a three-decade veteran of China’s
auto industry, said during last week’s annual National People’s
Congress in Beijing. “I’ve never believed that you can gain
global leadership in one leap.”  Translation: China may need to support more conventional
technologies to lower pollution levels. Miao said he’s seeking
support from other government branches to raise hybrid
subsidies, aiming to unveil the policy plan in the first half.  Even Science Minister  Wan Gang , one of the leading
advocates of electric cars, is warming to the idea. At last
week’s gathering of more than 5,000 lawmakers and officials, he
said the switch to EVs will take more time than planned.  Expand Subsidies  “Subsidies should be based on the fuel consumption and
emissions of the vehicle,”  Li Shufu , chairman of Volvo Cars-
owner Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., said at the Beijing
meetings. “The government should expand subsidies to include
more types of vehicles, including all sorts of hybrids.”  More subsidies for the Prius would offer Toyota a better
chance to achieve in China the kind of success enjoyed by the
15-year-old gasoline-electric model in the U.S. and  Japan . The
Toyota City, Japan-based automaker sold 362,845 Prius cars
globally last year, making it not only the top-selling hybrid
but also No. 3 among all car lines in the world. In China, sales
only reached 2,434 units last year, China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers data show.  Toyota, recovering from a wave of anti-Japan sentiment in
China last year, could use the help, though Tokyo-based
spokesman Dion Corbett said the company doesn’t want to comment
on government policy.  Market Share  While a 14 percent share of global car sales makes Toyota
the top ranked manufacturer, in China it lags behind  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Volkswagen AG, Hyundai Motor Co. and Nissan Motor
Co. in fifth place, with about 5 percent of deliveries,
according to CAAM estimates.  Unlike EVs, conventional hybrid cars have gasoline engines
that help recharge the battery for longer journeys. They also
don’t need to be plugged in to a socket.  A Lack of recharging stations doesn’t help. China’s 1.3
billion people had only 168 charging stations across 25 cities
at the end of 2011, according to the Industry Ministry’s
website. That’s 10 percent fewer stations than in  Hong Kong ,
home to 7.2 million people.  “Charging stations still need to be built,” said Science
Minister Wan, arriving in a BYD e6. “We should continue to
promote the electrification of public transportation while at
the same time push for new-energy vehicle use by private
buyers.”  Deadly Pollution  Traffic snarl-ups, which exacerbate PM2.5 particle levels
that cause disease and premature deaths, can also put EV drivers
at risk of breaking down.  “With traffic jams during summer or winter, you need to
use the air conditioning or heating,” said  Yale Zhang , managing
director of industry analysis firm Autoforesight  Shanghai  Co.
“If you’re in a jam, you’ll need to shut down everything or run
out of electricity.”  That may leave EVs as a niche product in China for the time
being, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which
estimates 80 percent of China’s EVs now are public buses.  Unperturbed, BYD will introduce the Denza, a new electric
car developed with  Daimler AG (DAI) , later this year.  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104) , China’s biggest automaker, has been offering the Roewe
E50 electric car since November. SAIC, which has joint ventures
with GM and Volkswagen, also plans to sell the all-electric
Springo with its U.S. partner and two electric cars with its
German partner this year.  15-Year Leader  Unlike with hybrids, a category which Toyota has led since
the launch of the Prius in late 1997, EVs remain relatively new
and inconvenient relative to gasoline cars.  “You won’t see mass production of all-electric vehicles
without a major breakthrough in battery charging,” said Chen
Binbo, executive vice president at  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s venture
with Dongfeng Motor, which introduced the Insight hybrid to
China last year. “We need a transitional product.”  Incentives are a critical step to cultivate market
acceptance of electrified vehicles in China, said Dayna Hart, a
Shanghai-based spokeswoman for GM. Only customers will determine
which technology is successful, Ford Motor Co. spokesman Trevor Hale said.  Volkswagen is developing all “relevant drive
technologies,” improving fuel economy and reducing emissions
across all models, said spokesman Christoph Ludewig. Shenzhen-
based BYD, in which one of Buffett’s holding companies bought a
9.9 percent stake in 2008, declined to comment.  Seven Pillars  China was so committed to new-energy vehicles last year,
they were one of seven emerging industries of strategic
importance identified by the government, which pledged 5 million
EVs would be sold by 2020. They were given subsidies that were
at least 20 times higher than for hybrids.  Added to central government incentives of as much as 60,000
 yuan  ($9,650), some cities added sweeteners. In Shanghai, the
total rebate can reach more than 175,000 yuan, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance calculations show.  That kind of discount on BYD e6’s 329,800 yuan price tag
puts the Prius, at 229,800 yuan, at a disadvantage. Similar
rebates on Toyota’s flagship hybrid could make the Prius cheaper
than getting a  Ford Focus , China’s best-selling car last year.  “Consumers think Prius is expensive,” China FAW Group
Corp. Chairman Xu Jianyi said in an interview yesterday. “The
key to stimulate demand is to bring down the costs for buyers.”  And while Toyota may benefit from a blooming hybrid market,
China shouldn’t allow that to be a distraction from the bigger
goal of cutting emissions, according to Dong Yang, secretary
general of the state-backed China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers.  “There have been concerns that funding for gasoline-
electric vehicles will benefit Toyota the most without doing any
good to local companies,” said Dong. “We should not be so
narrow minded.”  Related News and Information:
Toyota Prius Escapes Niche to Surge Into Top Three: Cars  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net ; Alexandra Ho
in Shanghai at   aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  