-- Bulgaria Dissolves Parliament Before Early Elections on May 12
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-03-14T11:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bulgaria-dissolves-parliament-before-early-elections-on-may-12.html
Bulgaria ’s Parliament dissolved
itself to allow for early elections on May 12 after weeks of
protests against high energy bills and poverty turned violent
and brought down Boyko Borissov’s government.  “Today this Parliament is being dissolved,” four months
before the end of its four-year term, Speaker Tsetska Tsacheva
told lawmakers. “We are shocked by the cry of the people. A lot
of pain shook Bulgaria and it shouldn’t be wasted. It should be
channeled into a free and democratic vote.”  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest member in terms of
per-capita output, has endured five weeks of rallies against
poverty and demands for a change in the political system. Anti-
austerity protests have toppled prime ministers across  Europe 
and forced out Borissov, whose government focused on budget cuts
to ward off bailouts and turbulent bond markets, boosting
unemployment to the highest in eight years.  Borissov’s Gerb party and the Bulgarian Socialist Party led
by Sergei Stanishev are the main contenders in the coming
elections. Gerb is tied with the Socialists at 22 percent,
according to a Jan. 31-Feb. 7 survey of 1,004 people by the
polling company Gallup BBSS. The ethnic Turk Movement for Rights
and Freedoms trailed with 7.3 percent support. The survey had an
error margin of 2.5 percentage points.  No Majority  “It’s unlikely that any party will win an outright
majority in the elections,” said Kolyo Kolev, a sociologist and
director of Mediana polling agency in Sofia. “Bulgaria will
either be ruled by a coalition government, if they manage to
forge a coalition, or go into another round of voting.”  Bulgaria will continue to fulfill its obligations to the EU
and keep its currency board system that pegs the lev to the
euro, interim Prime Minister Marin Raikov said yesterday after
his caretaker administration was appointed March 12. His Cabinet
will stick to the budget and look for reserves to increase
benefits for the poor, he said.  Hiring plans among Bulgarian employers “improved
considerably” for the second quarter as 19 percent of the 750
companies polled will hire more people, Milwaukee-based
ManpowerGroup said on its website. Bulgaria’s net employment
outlook increased 16 percent from the first quarter, according
to ManpowerGroup.  The economy may grow between 1 percent and 1.5 percent this
year, interim Finance Minister Kalin Hristov said yesterday,
matching the previous government’s forecast of 1.2 percent
growth. Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in 2012, after
expanding 1.8 percent in 2011, according to the statistics
office. Unemployment was 11.9 percent in January.  The benchmark Sofix stock index fell 0.9 percent to 379 at
12:23 p.m. in Sofia, after plunging 4.4 percent Feb. 26, its
biggest drop since Feb. 2, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.0472 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  