-- Bullying India’s Central Bank Won’t Help Its Economy
-- B y   R a j r i s h i   S i n g h a l
-- 2013-03-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/bullying-india-s-central-bank-won-t-help-its-economy.html
After a brief lull, the strain in
the fractious relationship between India’s Finance Ministry and
its central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, is back. India’s
annual budget ritual last month, in which Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram presented the country’s economic and
fiscal policy, provided a brief respite.  With the RBI scheduled to announce a monetary-policy review
on March 19, however, pressure on the central bank to cut
interest rates to spur growth is once again building. There are
no prizes for guessing who’s piling it on -- the finance
minister himself. And he chose a rather awkward moment to
rekindle his campaign, conveying his desire for lower rates
through the media soon after attending a meeting of the central
bank’s board.  Chidambaram’s duel with the RBI is of a piece with global
developments. Although countries caught up in the global slump
of the last five years initially coordinated their monetary and
fiscal survival strategies, the lingering crisis is testing that
comity. Indeed, many governments are reconsidering the so-called
independence of central banks. Whether this process will
eventually lead to a complete rescinding of central bank
independence is uncertain, but one thing is definite: The uneasy
relationship between fiscal and monetary authorities will
certainly get renegotiated.  Indian Model  Some pointers to its evolution might emerge from India. The
struggle between RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao and the Finance
Ministry, first led by Pranab Mukherjee (who has since been
named India’s president) and now by Chidambaram, has raged for
the past three years, ever since the RBI began increasing
interest rates to squeeze out inflation. As growth slowed
dramatically, the Indian corporate sector and government were
quick to blame the RBI.  Subbarao has reasons for keeping rates high. Inflation has
failed to moderate; headline inflation (measured through its
 wholesale price index ) averaged about 7.5 percent from April
through December 2012, way above the RBI’s comfort zone of 4
percent to 4.5 percent. Consumer inflation has been above 10
percent for a while now. Subbarao’s communiques have
consistently asked the government to help cool prices by getting
its finances under control.  He has a point.  Rocked by the jet wash of the global financial crisis, the
Indian government and RBI jointly started a stimulus program
that involved duty cuts, easy liquidity, rock-bottom interest
rates, higher outlays for social entitlement programs, salary
increases for government employees and increased grain prices
for farmers. All these were designed to boost consumption.
Economic growth bounced back -- from 6.7 percent in 2008-09 to
8.6 percent in 2009-10. However, this spurt in consumption and
demand, combined with monsoons failing in 2009, sparked an
inflationary spiral, forcing the RBI to pull back its easy-money
policy.  Unfortunately, the government hasn’t been as swift in
ending its stimulus program. The government’s boost to
consumption, especially at a time when demand has exceeded the
system’s capacity to supply, fueled inflationary fires. One
reason the ruling party has persisted with more funding for
numerous welfare plans and burgeoning subsidies could be its
misplaced perception that higher outlays for entitlement
programs helped it win additional votes in 2009.  The central bank, on the other hand, thinks the government
hasn’t invested enough in supply-side infrastructure -- such as
roads -- that could efficiently deliver goods and services
without creating inflationary friction. The RBI contends that,
given the inadequate level of infrastructure, India’s potential
growth rate, or the gross domestic product growth rate at which
inflation stabilizes at a desired level, shouldn’t be higher
than 6 percent. And the only way to slow down growth is to
increase interest rates.  Investors Retreat  Starting in 2010, allegations of government favoritism in
allocating natural resources to preferred industrialists added
to the economy’s woes. Spooked by court cases and
investigations, investors pulled back. As a result, GDP also
started floating down.  The government, however, held to its contention that
India’s potential growth rate was higher, at 7 percent to 7.5
percent. Because of this difference, the two economy managers
also, unfortunately, adopted divergent prescriptions.  It isn’t that the RBI has been unreasonable or obdurate. On
Jan. 29 this year, the RBI  cut  benchmark rates and a crucial
reserve requirement (which mandates banks to deposit a certain
percentage of their deposits with the central bank without
earning any interest on it) by 25 basis points. This was the
second rate cut in nine months. In April 2012, too, the RBI
slashed benchmark interest rates by 50 bps. Notwithstanding
industry’s specious arguments that only rate cuts can spur
economic growth, the interest-rate reduction has failed to
translate into improved economic activity. Instead, for the
quarter ending in December, the Indian economy posted its lowest
quarterly GDP growth in 10 years.  The RBI worries that an already stretched government has
little room for more fiscal stimulus if another global crisis
emerges. Europe came close to delivering on that threat in 2012.  In addition to the unseemly battle of wits over interest
rates, the RBI has also been fighting an escalating series of
skirmishes with the Finance Ministry on other fronts. In 2010,
for example, then-Finance-Minister Mukherjee announced the
creation of the Financial Stability and Development Council, a
monitoring body that took over some functions that the RBI used
to oversee, much to the bank’s public discomfiture.  In the same speech that he used to introduce the FSDC,
Mukherjee announced the issuance of new banking licenses. That
step irked the RBI not just because of its bad experiences with
private banks in the days before they were nationalized in 1969
and 1980, but also because after private banks were allowed
again in 1991, several of them had to be subsequently absorbed
by bigger banks or shut because of bad lending and poor-
governance issues.  License Raj  As a precondition to issuing new licenses, the RBI
forwarded a list of demands, including powers to inspect any
holding company’s books (even if it was a manufacturing company)
and a request for the authority to overhaul the board of any
bank. The RBI also drew a line in the sand forbidding securities
firms or real-estate companies from getting bank licenses.
Needless to say, the Finance Ministry pressed the RBI to hasten
the release of guidelines and not to disqualify anybody. When
the RBI  issued  the final guidelines on Feb. 22, it did so
without any exclusions, though it reserved the right to reject
any applicant.  Last year, the RBI was also irritated by instructions on
the handling of bulk deposits that the ministry issued directly
to 26 public sector banks in which the government had more than
a 51 percent stake. That marked the first time the ministry
issued prudential regulations without involving the regulator.
And in November, the RBI and the finance minister got into a
quiet tussle over extending the terms of two of the bank’s
deputy governors. The government’s handling of the matter
created an impression that it was, in effect, trading extensions
and appointments in exchange for obedience.  Combined with the Jan. 29 rate cut, such scuffles (and in
particular the one over bank licensing guidelines) have provoked
disquiet: Is the RBI capitulating to unremitting Finance
Ministry pressure? If that’s so, it could have severe
implications for India’s future economic management, because an
independent central bank has been the centerpiece of the
country’s growth story. Apologists for fiscal supremacy point to
global developments and claim that India can’t remain isolated
from how the relationship between monetary authorities and
governments is changing worldwide.  In Japan, for instance, newly elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe started his term in office by asking the Bank of Japan to
print more money and moving to install his like-minded
candidates at the bank. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban
used his party’s majority in parliament to push through
legislation that curtails central bank powers. Serbia’s new
president, Tomislav Nikolic, legislated rules that make it
incumbent on the National Bank of Serbia to buy public-sector
debt. Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer plans to step down
in June after more than eight years at the job and ahead of his
retirement, sparking rumors of discord (which Fischer denies)
with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Muddy Waters  Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz recently
waded into these muddy waters. Speaking in Mumbai in early
January at the invitation of the RBI, the economics professor
from Columbia University derided the notion of central-bank
independence. “In the crisis, countries with less independent
central banks -- China, India, and Brazil -- did far, far better
than countries with more independent central banks, Europe and
the United States.”  It fell upon a central banker to defend the fortress of
monetary policy. While welcoming Stiglitz, Subbarao pitched hard
for central-bank independence: “The issue of monetary policy
independence has acquired greater potency following the
expansion of the mandates of central banks and their more
explicit pursuit of real sector targets such as growth and
unemployment.”  So, with the Indian economy sagging and the bank’s
prerogatives under assault, which way will the RBI turn on March
19? While Chidambaram asks for a rate cut, fresh price increases
blow new life into inflationary embers. Consumer price inflation
for February came in at 10.9 percent, including food inflation
at an unconscionable 13.4 percent. Moreover, given a  budget  that
promises only a modicum of cuts over the next year, worries
remain on the expenditure side of the balance sheet --
especially given the continued resorting to handouts and
subsidies, items that spur consumption and hence inflation.
Chidambaram also might have other compulsions: another round of
elections in 2014.  In the absence of a move to kick-start stalled investments,
the government seems overly reliant on the RBI to deliver
economic growth through rate cuts. This is undermining the
bank’s institutional autonomy.  The root of the problem lies within the legislation
governing the RBI -- the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. It is
completely outdated and needs to be rewritten immediately. For
one, the preamble of the Act confers on the RBI a “temporary”
status that hasn’t changed in the 75-odd years of its existence.  Second Act  Second, the act also stipulates that the government will
appoint the governor and “not more than” four deputy governors.
Consequently, a governor entrusted with the responsibility of
steering an economy down the narrow path of growth -- while
shielding it from inflationary pressures, financial instability
and external risks -- can’t select even one member of the team
that he would like to work with.  A commission set up by the Finance Ministry to review all
laws regulating the financial sector has promised to revisit the
RBI Act. As the  approach paper  of the Financial Sector
Legislative Reforms Commission says, “Monetary policy
independence is required, in order to avoid election-related
cycles in monetary policy. Alongside this independence, an
accountability mechanism needs to be set up.”  The central bank’s role as an investment bank for
government-issued debt is another source of controversy. While
selling government securities, the RBI also must try and wrest
the lowest possible interest rate from the market. However, that
might be antithetical to its views as a monetary authority,
thereby engendering a conflict of interest. The FSLRC promises
to draft a new law on this.  The shape of the FSLRC’s draft -- specifically, how it
combines independence with accountability -- may hold lessons
for the rest of the world. Chidambaram and Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh (who has served, at different times, as both RBI
governor and finance minister) have an opportunity to create an
institution that can become a regulatory role model. That is in
their interest, too. India direly needs foreign capital, given
its gaping current-account deficit, and investors across the
world admire an independent central bank.  Of course, the RBI already has some things going for it,
such as a deep organizational culture that has helped it evade
“regulatory capture.” But, more importantly, by shielding the
Indian financial system from the global financial crisis, the
bank rightfully earned some bragging rights.  Its ability to detect incipient systemic risks won it
admiration across the world. The combination of two critical
attributes -- risk mitigation and independence (tempered duly by
accountability) -- in a world fraught with new uncertainties is
a killer app. That alone should be a compelling reason for
augmenting, not diluting, the RBI’s independence.  (Rajrishi Singhal, the former research head for Dhanlaxmi
Bank and executive editor at The Economic Times, is a policy
analyst in Mumbai. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Rajrishi Singhal at  rajrishi.singhal@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 