-- Buyout Debt Could Risk Financial Stability, Bank of England Says
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-03-14T16:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/buyout-debt-could-risk-financial-stability-bank-of-england-says.html
High-risk loans used to finance
buyouts before the credit crisis may pose a “significant
risk” to the U.K.’s financial system, according to the  Bank of
England , which next month takes over responsibility for
protecting the country’s banking sector.  Leveraged loans arranged by private-equity companies before
the crisis have “implications for the fragility of the
corporate sector and, consequently, the resilience of the
financial system,” Bank of  England  analysts led by David
Gregory wrote in a report. Losses at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, which was rescued by the U.K. government, followed
its expansion into leveraged finance, it said.  Private-equity owned companies account for about 8 percent
of U.K. corporate sector debt, according to the report. About 34
billion pounds ($50 billion) of U.K. leveraged loans mature in
2013 and 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European banks are under pressure from regulators to reduce
their exposure to risky assets such as leveraged loans making it
more difficult for some private-equity owned companies to
refinance debt. Better-rated companies have been able to replace
loans with  junk bonds , boosted by record-low yields for the
high-yield notes.  Private-equity companies could play a role in the U.K.’s
economic recovery by restructuring companies in difficulty,
according to the report. “By taking over struggling companies
and restructuring them, private equity might be able to play a
part in increasing the productivity of the U.K. corporate
sector,” it said.  The Financial Services Authority will be replaced on April
1 by the Prudential Regulation Authority, which will become a
unit of the Bank of England, keeping watch on systemic financial
issues. The Financial Conduct Authority will have an increased
focus on protecting British consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  