-- California Fracking May Boost State Economy 14%, USC Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-03-14T03:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/california-fracking-may-boost-state-economy-14-usc-says.html
Development of oil-shale deposits
through Central  California  using fracking and other techniques
may boost the state’s economic activity by as much as 14.3
percent, a University of Southern California study said.  Such drilling in the Monterey Shale Formation, in addition
to increasing per-capita gross domestic product, may add as much
as $24.6 billion in state and local tax revenue and as many as
2.8 million jobs by 2020, according to the  report  released
yesterday by the Los Angeles-based university.  “Based on the experience of other states, not only would
state unemployment fall, but significant migration of properly
skilled workers into California would occur,” according to the
study. “More job gains can be captured by Californians with
appropriate education and training.”  Unlocking the oil within the 1,750-square-mile (4,532-
square-kilometer) swath of rock southeast of San Francisco could
require hydraulic fracturing, which injects water and chemicals
into the shale. Environmentalists say it may damage water
supplies.  The Monterey Shale may hold 15.4 billion barrels of oil,
two-thirds of the nation’s shale-oil reserves, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  California Governor  Jerry Brown , a 74-year-old Democrat,
said yesterday that he would defer to state regulators to
develop a fracking policy.  “Between now and development lies a lot of questions that
need to be answered, and I feel confident that the people are in
place in my administration to handle the issues as they come
up,” Brown said at a news briefing on renewable energy.  Environmental Advocates  The  Sierra Club  and the  Center for Biological Diversity 
called for stringent oversight of fracking yesterday at a
meeting with regulators in Bakersfield. The city about 120 miles
north of  Los Angeles  is the seat of Kern County, home to an
estimated  70 percent  of California’s oil reserves.  “A ban on fracking is necessary,” said David Hobstetter,
a San Francisco-based lawyer for the environmental diversity
group based in Tucson,  Arizona . “There are some very serious
harms from it and we don’t think it can be controlled.”  The organization sued California in January, seeking to
prohibit fracking until the state regulates.  Representatives of  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  said fracking is vital to the state’s economic growth.  “These methods have been used safely and effectively for
over 60 years,” Susie Geiger, a Bakersfield-based Occidental
spokeswoman, said at the meeting. “Unreasonable burdens could
deprive more Californians of opportunities to create jobs.”  California’s Conservation Department released a
“discussion draft” of fracking regulations in December. The
 proposal  includes rules for storing and handling fracking
fluids, well monitoring after fracking and preventing water
contamination.  USC said its study of the economic effects of fracking in
the formation was funded in part by a grant from the Western
States Petroleum Association, a Sacramento-based industry group,
though it “was conducted by an independent USC research team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Bakersfield, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  