-- Cameron ‘Point-Scoring’ on Press Regulation, Clegg Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-14T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/cameron-seeks-fast-press-regulation-move-after-talks-fail.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
accused David Cameron of “party-political point scoring” after
talks between the U.K.’s three main parties over a new system of
press regulation broke down.  The prime minister spoke to Clegg, the Liberal Democrat
leader, and opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  by phone
this morning. The gap between what the parties want is too
great, he told a news conference in London. Instead, the
Conservatives will introduce amendments to the Crime and Courts
Bill due to be debated in Parliament on March 18 to establish a
“Royal Charter” backing a system of non-statutory regulation.  Reaching a deal “was always going to be a big task which
requires everyone setting aside narrow self-interest in order to
work together,” Clegg said in a pooled television interview.
“It’s not an issue that I believe should be the subject of
party-political point scoring.”  The parties have been split over how to implement the
findings of Judge Brian Leveson’s report into media ethics,
published last year, with differences over whether to accept its
recommendations in full and on passing laws to give backing to a
new media regulator.  The Leveson inquiry was set up after the phone-hacking
scandal at News Corp.’s now defunct News of the World tabloid,
which has led to at least 36 people being arrested. Trinity
Mirror Plc’s Sunday Mirror was dragged into the affair today as
 London  police arrested four journalists connected to the
newspaper.  ‘Fastest Way’  The charter will “contain the toughest regulation this
country has ever seen,” Cameron told reporters at his Downing
Street office. “The route I have set out is the fastest way to
what Leveson proposed.” The plans will include “million-pound
fines” for newspapers that transgress rules on reporting and
“prominent apologies” to victims, he said.  Cameron’s decision to abandon cross-party talks was an
“historic mistake,” Miliband said in a statement. The Labour
leader also echoed rhetoric that Clegg and Cameron used about
working “together in the national interest” when the coalition
government was formed in 2010.  “This is about the national interest and we are going to
reach out to all of the concerned people, obviously the Liberal
Democrats, but also the Conservatives, to say: Let’s construct a
workable solution that serves the interest of the victims,”
Miliband said. “I still believe that we can do that on a cross-
party basis. It may not involve  David Cameron , but I’m afraid
that is his choice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  