-- Canada Industrial Capacity Use Fell in Fourth Quarter on Food
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/canada-industrial-capacity-use-fell-in-fourth-quarter-on-food.html
Canadian industrial companies’ use
of their production capacity declined at the end of last year on
a record drop in food processing and automobile plant shutdowns.  The share of plant  capacity  in use declined to 80.7 percent
in the fourth quarter from a revised 81.1 percent in the third,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The figure matched the
median estimate in a Bloomberg economist survey predicted with
nine responses.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney softened his language
about raising interest rates earlier this month, citing slower
inflation. The central bank is relying on business investment
and exports to lead economic growth through next year.  Capacity use at food makers dropped by 4.3 percentage
points, a record quarterly decline, to 73.8 percent in the
fourth quarter. The decrease was led by a drop in meat products,
Statistics Canada said.  Transportation equipment capacity use fell 3.5 percentage
points to 88.9 percent in the fourth quarter. Output at
automakers declined 5.2 percent as companies took longer than
usual seasonal shutdowns, according to today’s report.  Overall manufacturing  capacity use  fell to 80.2 percent in
the fourth quarter from 82.3 percent in the third quarter.  Capacity use increased outside of manufacturing, including
a 2.2 percentage point gain for oil and gas extraction to 85.7
percent. Forestry and logging rose 1.4 points to 87.8 percent.  Statistics Canada also reported today that the country’s
net international debt decreased in the fourth quarter,
narrowing by C$4.8 billion ($4.7 billion) to C$288.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 