-- Canada January New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-14T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/canada-january-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for January released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.1% in January,
following a 0.2% increase in December.  The combined metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, as
well as the region of Calgary, were the top contributors to the
advance. Builders indicated that market conditions were the
primary reason for higher prices in Toronto and Oshawa, while
increased material and labour costs contributed to higher prices
in Calgary.  The largest monthly price advance in January occurred in
Charlottetown (+1.0%), where builders returned to list prices
after having reported lower negotiated selling prices the
previous month.  In Winnipeg, prices rose 0.9% month over month, the largest
advance since September 2011. According to builders, the
increases in Winnipeg were primarily a result of higher costs
for developed land.  Monthly prices declined 0.2% in Ottawa-Gatineau, as a
result of builders offering larger bonus packages to generate
interest and stimulate sales. This was the first monthly
decrease in the region since May 2011, when prices fell 0.7%.  New home prices decreased 0.1% in four metropolitan regions
in January. Builders in the combined region of Saint John,
Fredericton and Moncton, as well as Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo,
Edmonton and  Vancouver  reported that they reduced prices in an
attempt to generate sales.  Prices were unchanged in 7 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.2% in the 12
months to January, following a 2.3% increase the previous month.  The main contributor to the advance was the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-
year increase in contractors’ selling prices was 4.2%.  In Winnipeg, where the pace of the annual increases has
been accelerating over the last several months, year-over-year
prices were up 5.9% in January compared with a 4.0% advance over
the same period in 2012.  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in St.
Catharines-Niagara (+3.4%), Calgary (+3.3%) and Regina (+3.2%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in January. The largest annual decrease was
in Victoria (-2.2%), followed by Vancouver (-0.9%). Victoria has
posted year-over-year decreases for the past four years, while
Vancouver has registered 12 consecutive months of annual
declines.  Note to readers  The New Housing  Price Index  measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax (GST) or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  Effective January 1, 2013, the Quebec Sales Tax (QST) is
calculated on the selling price not including GST. However, to
ensure the total taxes payable remains the same, the QST rate
has been increased to 9.975%.  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial  sales tax  on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial sales
tax on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  