-- Canada Regulators Propose Rules Making Hostile Takeovers Harder
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-03-14T17:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/canada-regulators-propose-rules-making-hostile-takeovers-harder.html
Canadian securities regulators are
proposing rules for so-called poison pills that would allow
companies to extend rights plans for a potentially indefinite
length of time.  “Barring exceptional circumstances, the decision to adopt
and maintain a rights plan would be a matter for company boards
and shareholders, not securities regulators,” Bill Rice,
chairman of the Canadian Securities Administrators, said today
in a  statement .  Poison pills are used to discourage takeover bids by
diluting the stake of potential acquirers with new shares,
making a buyout prohibitively expensive. Under the latest
proposal, targeted companies will now have more time to seek a
higher offer than the hostile bidder.  The proposed rule will allow a board to keep a rights plan
in place “for an indefinite period of time and in the face of a
hostile takeover bid” if the accord is approved by a targeted
company’s shareholders, the CSA said.  Currently, a rights plan in  Canada  can only remain in
effect for as long as 55 days after a takeover bid, leaving a
targeted company with limited leverage to negotiate with a
hostile bidder, the CSA said. That time frame has now been
expanded to 90 days, under the proposal.  “The new rules mean we’re shifting away in a meaningful
way from bidders to target companies,” Graham Gow, partner at
McCarthy Tetrault LLP, said today in a telephone interview from
Toronto.  The rule may discourage hostile takeover bids by making
them more time consuming, more expensive and less certain, the
CSA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  