-- Canada Fourth Quarter Capacity Utilization Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-14T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/canada-fourth-quarter-capacity-utilization-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s capacity utilization report for the fourth quarter
released by Statistics Canada.  Canadian industries operated at 80.7% of their production
capacity in the fourth quarter, down slightly from the 81.1% in
the third quarter. The decline was a result of lower capacity
utilization in the manufacturing sector.  The 2.1 percentage point decline in the manufacturing
sector in the fourth quarter was partly offset by gains in the
non-manufacturing sector.  Manufacturing sector: Transportation equipment and food
industries lead the decline  The manufacturing sector operated at 80.2% of its capacity
in the fourth quarter, 2.1 percentage points lower than in the
previous quarter.  The decline was largely attributable to transportation
equipment manufacturing and food manufacturing, though most
other industry groups were also down. Of the 21 major groups in
the manufacturing sector, 14 reduced their capacity utilization.  In the transportation equipment manufacturing industry,
capacity utilization fell 3.5 percentage points to 88.9% in the
fourth quarter. Real gross domestic product in motor vehicle
manufacturing, a sub industry of transportation equipment,
shrank 5.2% in the fourth quarter, partly because seasonal
shutdowns in the industry were of longer duration than in recent
years.  For food manufacturers, capacity use experienced its
largest quarterly decline ever, falling from 78.1% in the third
quarter to 73.8% in the fourth quarter. Sharply reduced output
of meat products was a key factor in the decline.  Lower production of agricultural, construction, and mining
and oil and gas field machinery pushed the machinery industry’s
capacity utilization rate down 3.5 percentage points to 81.5%.  In the fabricated metal products industry, capacity use
fell from 83.5% to 80.0% as a result of weaker demand for metal
work.  Capacity utilization was higher in the petroleum and coal
products manufacturing industry and, to a lesser extent, the
paper, chemical products and wood products industries.  Non-manufacturing sector: Widespread increases  In the non-manufacturing sector, there was a widespread
increase in capacity utilization in the fourth quarter. This
compensated for part of the sharp decline in the manufacturing
sector.  Increased crude petroleum extraction was the main reason
for a 2.2 percentage point rise in the oil and gas extraction
industry’s capacity use to 85.7%.  An increase in metallic and non-metallic mineral mining
pushed the mining and quarrying industry’s capacity utilization
rate upward in the fourth quarter to 60.8%.  The construction industry operated at 79.7% of its capacity,
up 0.8 percentage points from the previous quarter. This advance
was attributable to growth in all types of construction.  Average annual rate up for the third straight year  Compared with 2011, the capacity utilization rate of
Canadian industries rose 1.3 percentage points to 81.0% in 2012.
This was the third consecutive annual increase following an
unbroken string of declines that started in 2005.  In 2012, the average annual rate of capacity utilization in
the manufacturing sector was 81.7%, up from 79.8% in 2011. The
transportation equipment manufacturing industry was a major
factor in the increase. However, this rate was well below the
record high of 86.0% reached in 2000.  Advances in the capacity use in the manufacturing sector in
2012 was because of both higher output and lower production
capacity, which resulted from an investment in facilities and
equipment that was not sufficient to offset depreciation and
other losses of assets.  Compared with 2011, the industries with the largest
percentage-point gains in capacity use in 2012 were
transportation equipment manufacturing, textile mills and wood
product manufacturing. The largest declines were in forestry and
logging as well as in the computer and electronic product
manufacturing industry.  Note to readers  The industrial capacity utilization rate is the ratio of an
industry’s actual output to its estimated potential output. For
most industries, the annual estimates are obtained from the
Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey while the quarterly
pattern is derived from output-to-capital ratio series, the
output being the real gross domestic product at basic prices,
seasonally adjusted, by industry.  This program covers all manufacturing and selected non-
manufacturing industries.  At the time of this release, rates have been revised back
to the first quarter of 2011 to reflect updated source data. In
particular, the annual benchmarks for manufacturing industries
for 2011 and 2012 have been revised to incorporate the results
of the Capital and Repair Expenditures Survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  