-- Canada Fourth Quarter International Investment Position (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-14T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/canada-fourth-quarter-international-investment-position-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international investment position report for the
fourth quarter released by Statistics Canada.  Canada’s net foreign debt decreased $4.8 billion to $288.6
billion at the end of the fourth quarter. This reduction mainly
reflected the revaluation effect of a weaker Canadian dollar on
international assets and liabilities as well as lower inflows of
funds from abroad during the quarter.  Net foreign debt has generally trended upward since the
second quarter of 2007, at the outset of global credit concerns.
Growth in international liabilities over most of this period has
been led by non-resident investment in Canadian debt securities.
Net foreign debt stands $11.7 billion higher than at the end of
2011, but remains below its post-recession peak of $300.3
billion.  Increased portfolio investment abroad and a weaker Canadian
dollar increase international assets  Canada’s international assets rose $79.4 billion to
$2,375.0 billion by the end of the fourth quarter. Canadian
investment activity abroad of $44.7 billion accounted for much
of the increase, led by acquisitions of foreign securities. The
$28.6 billion gain in the value of foreign currency denominated
international assets was also a contributing factor, one that
reflected the depreciation of the Canadian dollar against most
major currencies. The Canadian dollar declined 1.2% against the
US dollar, 3.7% against the Euro and 1.9% against the British
pound, but gained 9.8% against the Japanese yen over the quarter.  International liabilities up on continued investment from abroad  Canada’s international liabilities rose by $74.6 billion to
$2,663.5 billion, largely on sustained investment from abroad.
Non-residents invested $59.4 billion in the Canadian economy
during the quarter, led by a $26.5 billion increase in deposits
held at Canadian financial institutions. In addition, non-
resident investors continued to increase their holdings of
Canadian bonds and money market instruments by $22.4 billion,
while foreign direct investment in Canada accounted for another
$14.9 billion of inflows.  Net liability position on securities narrows  Canada’s net liability position on securities declined
$12.6 billion to $428.3 billion in the fourth quarter. Canadian
acquisitions of foreign securities exceeded foreign investment
in Canadian securities for the second time in more than four
years at the same time as most of foreign stock markets outpaced
those in Canada in the quarter.  As a result, Canadian holdings of foreign securities
increased $38.4 billion to $850.0 billion at the end of the
quarter. Foreign equity assets rose by $23.4 billion, mainly on
capital gains and the upward revaluation effect of a depreciated
Canadian dollar. Canadian holdings of foreign bonds were up
$15.6 billion on strong outward investment flows.  On the other side of the ledger, non-resident holdings of
Canadian securities were up $25.8 billion in the fourth quarter
to $1,278.3 billion. Canadian debt instruments accounted for all
of the increase, largely federal and corporate securities.
Foreign holdings of Canadian equities edged down in the quarter,
partly reflecting merger and acquisition activity that resulted
in non-resident portfolio investors rendering some of their
Canadian shares to foreign direct investors.  Canada’s net asset position on direct investment edges up  Canada’s net asset position on direct investment was up by
$4.0 billion at the end of the fourth quarter to $32.1 billion.
This followed two consecutive quarterly declines.  Canadian direct investment abroad assets expanded $20.9
billion to $980.0 billion. This reflected strong direct
investment outflows and the upward revaluation effect of a
weaker Canadian dollar on the value of investments abroad. On
the liability side, foreign direct investment in Canada
increased by $16.9 billion to $947.9 billion. This was led by
higher direct investment inflows, the largest since the first
quarter of 2012.  Note to readers  The main measure of the international investment position
(IIP) accounts now incorporates market valuation for tradeable
securities and foreign direct investment equity. This
presentation adds a further dimension to the analysis of
Canada’s net international investment position and more
accurately reflects changes in that position. The IIP at book
value is still available, as the link to the annual foreign
direct investment release includes geographical and industry
details. For more information please see Valuation of assets and
liabilities ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012 -
rh2012/papers-articles/preview-apercu/relevance-pertinence-
eng.htm) .  Definition  The international investment position presents the value
and composition of Canada’s assets and liabilities to the rest
of the world. Canada’s net international investment position is
the difference between these foreign assets and liabilities. The
excess of international liabilities over assets can be referred
to as Canada’s net foreign debt; the excess of international
assets over liabilities can be referred to as Canada’s net
foreign assets.  Currency valuation  The value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currency are converted to Canadian dollars at the end of each
period for which a balance sheet is calculated. Most of Canada’s
foreign assets are denominated in foreign currencies while less
than half of Canada’s international liabilities are in foreign
currencies. When the Canadian dollar is appreciating in value,
the restatement of the value of these assets and liabilities in
Canadian dollars lowers the recorded value. The opposite is true
when the Canadian dollar is depreciating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  