-- Carlyle Group’s Founders Get at Least $135 Million Each
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-15T16:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/carlyle-group-s-founders-get-at-least-135-million-each.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s three founders
received at least $135 million each in 2012, almost all from
dividends on their ownership stakes and distributions on
personal investments made in Carlyle funds before the private-
equity firm went public in May.  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein  were
each paid a $275,000 salary and didn’t collect a bonus,
Washington-based Carlyle said yesterday in a regulatory  filing .
Each founder owns 15.4 percent of the company’s partnership
units, a stake that produced $57.3 million in cash distributions
during the year. Conway, D’Aniello and Rubenstein received $140
million, $80 million and $78 million, respectively, in
distributions from previous personal investments, Carlyle said.  Private-equity executives benefited last year as a rally in
global stocks lifted assets at their firms and fees for
overseeing them.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  co-founder Stephen Schwarzman took home $213.3 million in pay and dividends,  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder Leon Black received $125.5
million and KKR & Co. co-founders  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  got more than $137 million each, according to reports
filed by the firms in the past month. Those amounts don’t
include gains on personal investments in the firms’ funds
because they weren’t disclosed.  Initial Offering  Carlyle, the second-biggest private-equity firm by assets,
isn’t required by Nasdaq Stock Market, where its shares are
listed, to have a compensation committee because it’s considered
a limited partnership. As a result, compensation decisions are
made by Conway, D’Aniello and Rubenstein, who took home $138
million each in pay and dividends in 2011 as Carlyle was
preparing to offer shares to the public.  The firm raised $671 million in the IPO, selling 30.5
million shares for $22 each. Since then, the  stock  has gained 47
percent, closing yesterday at $32.37. Carlyle said it’s paying
$1.12 per common unit in 2012 dividends.  The three executives also invested their own money in the
firm’s funds, the filing shows. Conway committed $140 million
last year, D’Aniello contributed $78 million and Rubenstein put
in $79 million.  “We’re all about alignment of interests,” said  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman. “If our investors do well, we do
well. The founders reinvested most of their gains and gave much
to worthy causes.”  Committee Grows  Conway, D’Aniello and Rubenstein founded Carlyle in 1987
and have overseen its growth to $170 billion of assets across
113 funds and 67 funds-of-funds. Rubenstein is a signatory of
the so-called giving pledge, committing to donate at least half
of his wealth to philanthropic causes. Ullman said the 63-year-
old last year pledged to give away $170 million.  Carlyle also said that it added three executives to its
management committee, which develops and carries out its
corporate strategy. Michael Arpey, who heads relations with fund
investors, David Marchick, who leads external affairs, and Mitch Petrick, the head of Carlyle’s global market strategies
business, join the firm’s three founders as well as the chief
operating officer, chief financial officer and general counsel
on the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  