-- Carnival Flies Passengers as Second Ship Beset by Issues
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-03-14T20:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/carnival-flies-passengers-home-after-ship-generator-malfunction.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , operator of the
Triumph cruise ship crippled by an engine fire last month, will
fly guests home from the Caribbean island of St. Maarten, after
a loss of elevator and restroom service aboard its Dream vessel.  The breakdown occurred last night during regularly
scheduled testing of the ship’s emergency generator, Miami-based
Carnival said today in an e-mailed statement.  “We are making arrangements to fly all guests home via
private charter flights and scheduled flights from St.
Maarten,” Carnival, the world’s largest cruise operator, said
in the statement.  The Triumph fire in February left about 3,100 passengers to
cope with unsanitary conditions and food shortages. That
incident will crimp first-half fiscal 2013 profit by as much as
10 cents a share, the company has said. The shares are down more
than 8 percent since Feb. 8, the last trading day before the
Triumph disaster. Carnival reports earnings tomorrow.  “Accidents happen, but the fact that all of these
incidents have happened so closely makes the impact more
exponential,” Jaime Katz, an analyst with Morningstar
Investment Services, said in an interview. “Consumers who don’t
necessarily know the safety record of the industry may want to
allocate their vacation dollars elsewhere.”  The company probably will face a hit of “a few pennies a
share” for the latest incident, Katz said.  Financial Impact  Vance Gulliksen, a spokesman, said he couldn’t provide an
estimate of the financial impact of the latest incident. The
company operates about 1,500 cruises annually, he said.  Passengers will be flown to  Orlando , the airport serving
Port Canaveral, or to their final destinations, he said. The
company also canceled the next scheduled trip for the Carnival
Dream, he said.  The Carnival Dream had about 4,300 passengers and 1,300
crew aboard, according to Gulliksen. The ship was on the last
leg of a seven-day cruise and was docked in St. Maarten when the
malfunction occurred. The vessel was scheduled to leave
yesterday and spend two days at sea before docking March 16 in
 Florida .  The company  website  lists the ship’s capacity at 3,646, a
number based on two people occupying cabins that can accommodate
more, according to Gulliksen.  “We can confirm that only one public restroom was taken
offline for cleaning based on toilet overflow and there was a
total of one request for cleaning of a guest cabin bathroom,”
the company said. “Aside from that there have been no reports
of issues on board with overflowing toilets or sewage.”  Passenger Refund  Passengers will get a refund equivalent to three days of
their voyage and 50 percent off a future cruise, the company
said. The ship is based in Port Canaveral, Florida.  Costa Concordia, a Carnival ship, ran aground off the coast
of  Italy  on Jan. 13 of last year, leaving 32 people dead.  Carnival rose less than 1 percent to $35.73 at the close in
New York. The stock has fallen 2.8 percent this year, while
competitor  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  has gained 1.1 percent.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  