-- CFTC’s Chilton Says ‘Foolish’ Not to Review Benchmark Pricing
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-03-14T17:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/cftc-s-chilton-says-foolish-not-to-review-benchmark-pricing.html
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission member Bart Chilton said interest-rate rigging means
other benchmark-pricing mechanisms may need reviews, after the
Wall Street Journal reported the commission is discussing 
possible manipulation in gold and silver.  The CFTC is “discussing internally” whether daily price
fixings of gold and silver in  London  are open to manipulation,
the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing people
familiar with the situation. No formal investigation has been
opened, and the CFTC is looking at various aspects of the so-
called fixings, including whether they are sufficiently
transparent, the newspaper said.  “Given what we have seen in Libor, we’d be foolish to
assume that other benchmarks aren’t venues that deserve
review,” Chilton, one of three Democrats on the five-member
commission, said in an e-mailed statement today. He was
referring to the investigation over the manipulation of the
London Interbank Offered Rate involving about 20 banks, without
elaborating.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to
comment yesterday on the Wall Street Journal report.  The London gold  fixing  is conducted twice a day by five
banks: Barclays Plc,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Societe Generale SA. The pricing started in
1919 and was conducted in a meeting held at N.M. Rothschild &
Sons Ltd.’s offices. It began taking place by telephone in 2004.
Some mining companies use the fixing to sell output. The silver
fixing is conducted once a day at midday.  Bank Responses  David Rose, head of metals trading at HSBC, and Martyn Whitehead, head of metals sales at Barclays, declined to
comment. Sebastian Howell, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, and
Ila Kotecha, a Societe Generale spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Joe Konecny, a spokesman for Scotiabank, didn’t
immediately return a voicemail message seeking comment.  An average of 19.8 million ounces of gold were traded daily
last year, according to the London Bullion Market Association,
which has members in 139 companies. Aelred Connelly, a spokesman
for the LBMA, and Marcus Grubb, managing director of investment
research at the World Gold Council, declined to comment when
asked about the fixings.  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman at the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, declined to comment on whether it was looking into
the gold and silver fixings.  The FSA’s Managing Director Martin Wheatley and CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  are chairing an International Organization
of Securities Commissions taskforce that is looking specifically
at all benchmarks that could potentially be open to abuse
similar to LIBOR, the FSA’s Hamilton said.  LIBOR Investigation  Barclays, UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
paid a combined $2.5 billion in fines stemming from an
investigation over the manipulation of LIBOR. The FSA opened its
investigation into rate manipulation in early 2010, a year-and-
a-half after the CFTC commission’s probe.  “The idea that pervasive manipulation, or attempted
manipulation, is so widespread should make us all query the
veracity of the other key marks,” Chilton said on Feb. 26,
according to a copy of a  statement  posted on the CFTC’s website.
“What about energy, swaps, the gold and silver fixes in London
and the whole litany of ‘bors?’ Why would they be any different
in the minds of those that may have sought to push or pull
rates? For me, this means every single mark needs to be
reviewed, and potentially investigated.”  The enforcement division of the CFTC began pursuing
allegations of manipulation in the silver market in September
2008. Chilton said in August that there had been “devious
efforts” to move prices of the precious metal.  Gold Fixing  Fixings begin when the chairman states an opening price
which the members relay to customers before declaring themselves
as buyers or sellers at that price. If there are only buyers or
only sellers or the bars to be bought or sold don’t balance, the
price is moved until there’s a balance and the price fixed.  Deutsche Bank, Scotiabank and HSBC conduct the silver
fixing by phone. The first settlement was in 1897, according to
the London Silver Market Fixing Ltd.’s website.  Gold was  fixed  at $1,586 an ounce in London this afternoon.
The metal for immediate delivery, which trades throughout the
day, was at $1,589.86 at 12:34 p.m.  New York  time, down 5.1
percent this year. Prices rallied the past 12 years in the
longest run in at least nine decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  