-- McGraw-Hill Education Sells $800 Million of Debt for Apollo Deal
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-03-15T21:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/mcgraw-hill-education-s-1-billion-offering-may-price-tomorrow.html
McGraw-Hill Education (MHP) , the digital
learning company being acquired by Apollo Global Management LLC,
issued $800 million of eight-year, senior secured notes after
reducing the size of its sale from an initial $1.05 billion.  The company’s 9.75 percent notes yield 846 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service rates the notes
B2.  The company marketed $1.05 billion of notes last week and
reduced the sale to $1 billion yesterday before selling the
bonds today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. A call to Brian Belardi, a spokesman for McGraw-
Hill Education, was not returned.  Proceeds from the sale will fund the private-equity firm’s
purchase of the unit from McGraw-Hill Cos., said the person, who
asked not to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly.  Chief Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III decided
to sell the education division, which his great-grandfather
started 125 years ago, after pressure from Jana Partners LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund, and the Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan.  McGraw-Hill Education increased the size of its term loan
by $50 million to $610 million yesterday, according to a person
familiar with that transaction, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Apollo is seeking a $240
million revolving line of credit, Bloomberg data show. The New
York-based company is contributing $950 million of equity to
fund the $2.4 billion acquisition, Moody’s said in a March 5
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  