-- Chesapeake to Learn Today of Fate of Bond Redemption Bid
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-14T14:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/chesapeake-to-learn-today-of-fate-of-bond-redemption-bid.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  finds out
today whether it will win an emergency court order allowing it
to start redeeming $1.3 billion in notes early without paying
$400 million in interest sought by  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp.  The scheduled decision by U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan , expected at a 3 p.m. hearing, may
permit Chesapeake to issue an early-redemption notice to
bondholders by tomorrow or thwart its bid to call the
6.775 percent notes at par, or 100 cents on the dollar, and
refinance a portion of the company’s debt.  Chesapeake, the second-biggest U.S. natural-gas producer,
sued BNY Mellon, the trustee for the notes, on March 8, seeking
a preliminary injunction barring the bank and a group of
noteholders from treating the proposed early call as a “make
whole” redemption that would include the extra interest.
Chesapeake has said that if the court demands a make-whole
payment, the company won’t seek to redeem the bonds.  At issue is whether the contract for the notes allows an
early-redemption notice to be sent by a March 15 deadline, or
whether the call would need to be completed by that date, thus
requiring notice weeks earlier. At a hearing on Tuesday,
Engelmayer criticized Bank of  New York  Mellon and the
noteholders for appearing to take advantage of ambiguity in the
contract and position themselves for an undeserved windfall.  The judge didn’t say that day which way he would rule and
said all the parties involved had made strong arguments.  60 Days  Chesapeake argues that it may issue the notice of early
redemption by March 15 and avoid the make-whole provision, even
if the call is completed as long as 60 days later.  BNY Mellon is backed in the case by the group of
noteholders, including  hedge funds , that aren’t parties in the
lawsuit and whose holdings total about $250 million.  Both sides of the dispute quoted from different parts of
the  bond issue ’s indenture paperwork to back their
interpretation of the deadline. Engelmayer called the language
of the indenture “ambiguous” at the Tuesday hearing and asked
detailed questions about how it had been drafted and who was
involved.  The judge’s options are to award the injunction and allow
Chesapeake to issue the call notice without risk, or deny it and
prevent the early redemption from taking place. The judge also
indicated he could deny the injunction while still issuing an
order potentially barring the “make whole” demand, allowing a
trial on whose version of the deadline is correct.  Record Price  The notes, issued in February 2012 and due March 2019, were
pushed to a record 105.9 cents on the dollar the day the suit
was filed, a signal traders may believe Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake would have to pay a premium to call the debt.  The notes fell 0.25 cent to 105.25 cents on the dollar to
yield 5.727 percent as of 9:21 a.m. today in New York, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  On March 12, several of the investors calling themselves an
“ad hoc noteholder group” won court permission to intervene in
the litigation, a status that allows them to attend hearings and
file court papers.  They include Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management
LLC, Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus
Capital LLC, Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative Capital
LP, Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, River Birch Capital LLC and
Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  Harm Standard  BNY Mellon (BK)  and the noteholders argued that Chesapeake isn’t
in danger of irreparable harm, a standard for obtaining an
injunction, because the energy company can seek money damages if
it wins and won’t suffer permanently. The bank also said
Chesapeake can’t prove it has a likelihood of success, another
requirement.  BNY Mellon initially supported Chesapeake’s plan when the
energy company first discussed early redemption with the bank on
Feb. 20, according to the complaint. Two days later, the bank
changed its mind, Chesapeake said.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  