-- Chesapeake Loses Bid for Preliminary Injunction
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-14T21:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/chesapeake-loses-bid-for-preliminary-injunction.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  was denied
a request for an emergency court ruling allowing it to start
redeeming $1.3 billion in notes early without automatically
incurring the risk of paying about $400 million in interest
sought by  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.   Chesapeake had sought a ruling saying it could issue a
notice to bondholders by tomorrow informing them it will redeem
the 6.775 percent notes at par, or 100 cents on the dollar, six
years before they mature.  BNY Mellon , as trustee, said the
company missed the deadline for such a redemption.  Chesapeake told the judge before the ruling was that they
didn’t plan to redeem the notes if they didn’t get a favorable
ruling.  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  left open
the possibility of a trial over the interpretation of the
deadline. Chesapeake, the second-biggest U.S. natural-gas
producer, argued that March 15 is the final date it can issue
the formal notice of early redemption and avoid a so-called
make-whole provision, while BNY Mellon said it’s the deadline by
which the call would need to be completed, and thus it’s too
late to start the process.  Good Chance  The judge also suggested that Chesapeake would have a good
chance of defeating the provision that would automatically
require Chesapeake to pay the $400 million in interest. He still
refused to block the make-whole provision because Chesapeake
hadn’t proved it would suffer irreparable harm if it was
triggered. The judge was skeptical of the view of  BNY Mellon (BK)  and
a group of investors that intervened in the case, that they
could treat the call as a make whole redemption that would
include the extra interest.  The $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes due March 2019 rose
2.5 cents on the dollar to 108 cents to yield 5.2 percent at
4:30 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake, declined to comment when contacted by telephone
after the hearing. The company’s outside spokesman, Paul Caminiti, declined to comment outside court after meeting with
Chesapeake’s lawyer.  The judge asked the parties to report to him by March 18
what they plan to do in light of his ruling. He offered to have
a trial completed within 60 days.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 