-- Chile Bucks Latin America Trend in Holding Key Rate at 5%
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-14T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/chile-bucks-latin-america-trend-in-holding-key-rate-at-5-1-.html
Chile’s central bank kept  benchmark
borrowing costs  unchanged today for the 14th consecutive month
as faster-than-expected economic growth prevents policy makers
from joining  Brazil ,  Mexico  and  Colombia  in cutting rates.  The bank board, led by the institution’s President  Rodrigo Vergara , held the benchmark rate at 5 percent, as forecast by
all 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank last changed
borrowing costs in January 2012 with a quarter-point reduction
that surprised economists.  Chile has little room to follow regional peers in cutting
rates as long as economic growth doesn’t plummet from the 6.7
percent rate registered in January, even as inflation remains at
the lowest in the region. Traders in the interest rate swap
market forecast borrowing costs will remain on hold through at
least June.  “Domestic threats such as faster-than-expected economic
growth are weighing more than they did before,”  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  economist Felipe Jaque said by phone from
Santiago on March 13. “There isn’t much space to change the
rate, although data on economic activity in coming months will
be important.”  Two-year rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views of
average borrowing costs, rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, from the end of last month to 5.22 percent
today. That indicates traders expect robust growth to prompt a
quarter-point rate increase by September, according to
calculations by Banco de  Chile .  Inflation Slows  While growth has exceeded analysts’ forecasts for six
consecutive months, easing  inflation  is keeping pressure off the
central bank board from raising rates, Nathan Pincheira, a
senior economist at Banchile Inversiones, said by phone from
Santiago March 12.  Inflation slowed to 1.3 percent in February from 1.6
percent in January, and compared with 3.55 percent in Mexico,
1.83 percent in Colombia and 6.31 percent in Brazil. Price-
growth has remained below the central bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent for three months.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps,
declined 11 basis points to 2.86 percent today from the end of
last month.  “The central bank needs stronger evidence that inflation
could be faster than the central bank wants for it to make
changes,” Pincheira said. “Evidence just needs to be firmer.”  Growth Outlook  Policy makers eventually need to tighten monetary
conditions as economic growth rates threaten to put pressure on
inflation, Alfredo Coutino,  Latin America  director at Moody’s
Analytics, said March 13.  Gross domestic product in the world’s top copper producer
expanded 5.6 percent last year and will climb 4.8 percent in
2013, the fastest growth among major Latin American economies
after  Peru , according to analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Brazil, which is Latin America’s largest economy, has cut
its key interest rate 3.25 percentage points in the past year to
shore up lagging growth, while Mexico last week reduced
borrowing costs for the first time since 2009. Colombia has
reduced rates six times since June.  While cutting rates in Chile would be a proactive step to
protect against an expected economic slowdown later this year,
policy makers ruled out that option last month amid concern that
inflationary pressures would increase, according to minutes of
the Feb. 14 meeting posted on the central bank website.  “Domestic risks have gained importance, at least in the
short term,” Vergara said on March 6 in a speech in Santiago.
“Output and demand indicators exceeded forecasts over the last
year.”  ‘Sooner or Later’  Unemployment fell to 6 percent in the three months through
January from 6.6 percent the year before as wages expanded 4.3
percent above inflation in the first month of 2013 from the year
earlier, according to government data. Retail sales surged 9.5
percent in January after climbing 8.8 percent in 2012.  “Domestically, output and demand indicators have exceeded
forecasts,” the central bank said in a statement accompanying
today’s decision. “Economic activity reflects improvements in
mining, while demand growth, driven by investment, is outpacing
GDP. The labor market is still tight.”  Chile’s peso has responded to the economic growth by
strengthening 3.2 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12
months, the best performance among major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso fell 0.2 percent to
471.44 per dollar today.  “Sooner or later inflation is going to respond positively
to the pressures coming from fast economic growth,” Coutino
said by phone from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . Far from
following its regional peers and easing borrowing costs, “Chile
is one of the most likely candidates to hike rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 