-- China’s Billionaire Bubble Stands in Xi Jinping’s Way
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-03-14T14:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/china-s-billionaire-bubble-stands-in-xi-jinping-s-way.html
Now that  Xi Jinping  officially
holds the reins in Beijing, the world is asking this question:
Can  China ’s new leader revamp an economy that may become the
world’s largest during his 10-year term? Here’s an even better
one: Will Beijing let him?  Much is being made of how quickly Xi is replacing Hu Jintao
in China’s fastest formal transfer of power in more than a
generation. Although it took Hu almost two years to get all top
three positions -- president, Communist Party head and chairman
of the military commission -- Xi has them right out of the gate.
The sense is that Xi has been empowered to rebalance an economy
that’s producing a dangerous gap between rich and poor.  That would sound more plausible if not for China’s
billionaire bubble. The real big money in China isn’t in the
private sector, but the public one. A March 7 Bloomberg News
 story  dramatized the point: The ranks of the ultra-wealthy in
China’s legislature swelled 20 percent this year. The list of
China’s 1,000 richest people published by the Shanghai-based
Hurun Report contains 90 members of the National People’s
Congress. That, Bloomberg calculates, is up from 75 in 2012.
It’s worth noting that everyone on the Hurun list had a fortune
of at least 1.8 billion  yuan  ($289.4 million), more than former
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney .  Chinese politics is proving to be a bit too lucrative for
the nation’s own good. Corruption, of course, doesn’t taint
every member of Beijing’s  inner circle . Yet the vast financial
empires being amassed by some and the lack of transparency about
wealth among politicians require attention and, where needed,
legal action.  Xi must break this cycle. As more and more politicians get
rich through questionable land grabs, insider trading and old-fashioned rent seeking, there is less incentive to retool the
economy. Political will shrinks as overseas bank accounts swell.
All that money sloshing around conspires to widen China’s rich-poor divide. But can Xi do it?  The plot thickens when you consider Bloomberg’s June  story 
on how Xi’s extended family accumulated a fortune estimated at
$376 million. Only time will tell if history remembers Xi as
China’s great reformer or the great enricher of a party that’s
become communist in name only.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 