-- China’s Stocks Rise for First Time in Six Days
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-14T08:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/china-s-stock-futures-drop-signaling-losses-to-enter-sixth-day.html
Chinese stocks  rose for the first
time in six days, led by companies whose earnings are least
vulnerable to economic growth.  ZTE Corp.,  China ’s second-largest maker of phone network
equipment, paced gains by telecommunication shares after saying
it expects a “large” number of patents granted in Europe next
year. Tasly Pharmaceutical Group Co. surged to a record as
drugmakers climbed. China Resources Gas Group Ltd. led energy
companies higher in  Hong Kong  after posting higher earnings.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closed 0.3 percent higher at
2,270.28, following a five-day, 3.6 percent losing streak.
Trading volumes in the measure were 35 percent lower than the
30-day average. The CSI 300 Index rose 0.3 percent to 2,534.27.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 0.6 percent after
earlier falling more than 10 percent from its Feb. 1 peak.  “Concerns about the slowing recovery and potential
inflation threat still persist,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at
Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “As long as these
concerns remain, stock-market rebounds will be weak.”  Concern the government will tighten monetary policy at the
same time as economic expansion slows have dragged Chinese stock
 indexes (SHSZ300)  down from their highs for the year, with the Shanghai
index sliding 6.7 percent since Feb. 6. Data last weekend showed
inflation accelerated in February, while industrial output had
the weakest start to a year since 2009 and lending and retail
sales growth slowed.  Inflation, Property  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
yesterday the country should be on “high alert” over inflation
and monetary policy is “no longer relaxed.” Housing and Urban-
Rural Development Minister  Jiang Weixin  said property prices
will decline this year amid curbs, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today.  The Hang Seng China index has fallen 2.9 percent this year,
while the Shanghai Composite is little changed, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. By contrast, the MSCI World Index of
developed nations has rallied 6.9 percent.  Indexes tracking telecommunications and health-care
companies rose more than 2 percent on the CSI 300 today. ZTE
gained 8 percent to 11.93  yuan . The patents will generate
significant competitive advantages against competitors in
European market, the company said in a statement.  Tasly Pharmaceutical jumped 5.9 percent to 69.91 yuan. The
CSI 300’s drugmaker index has surged 18 percent this year,
compared with a 0.5 percent advance by the broader gauge.  Stock Valuations  China Resources Gas added 5.3 percent to HK$19.48, taking
its advance for the year to 22 percent. The gas supplier said
net income increased 38 percent last year.  The Hang Seng China index trades at 8.2 times earnings for
the next 12 months, compared with the five-year average of 10.4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Shanghai Composite
is  valued  at 9.3 times.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000)  gained 2 percent to
10.45 yuan after saying profit rose 25 percent last year.  Xi Jinping was named China’s president by the national
legislature, replacing  Hu Jintao . Xi, 59, added the largely
ceremonial title of president to his portfolio today after
taking over the top post in the ruling Communist Party as well
as chairmanship of the party’s military commission in November.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  