-- Chinese Vitamin C Makers Fixed Prices, U.S. Jury Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/chinese-vitamin-c-makers-illegally-fixed-prices-u-s-jury-says.html
Chinese vitamin C makers were
ordered to pay $162.3 million to U.S. customers for fixing
export prices after a federal court jury in  New York  found their
actions weren’t compelled by the nation’s government.  The jury of five women and two men in Brooklyn returned a
verdict yesterday, finding that American dietary supplement
firms which filed the antitrust lawsuit proved their case
against the Chinese companies. Jurors deliberated for just half
a day before reaching a decision to award $54.1 million in
damages, which were tripled to $162.3 million under U.S. law.  “We are particularly proud of this victory for private
antitrust enforcement against an international cartel,” William Isaacson, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said in an e-mail
after the verdict.  A lawyer for the defendants, Charles Critchlow, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment about whether they
will appeal.  The case marks the first time Chinese companies have faced
a trial on U.S. antitrust claims, according to James Serota, a
lawyer for one of the companies named in the suit. The country’s
Ministry of Commerce told the court in a 2006 brief that it was
“deeply interested” in the proceedings and that a verdict for
the plaintiffs could “adversely affect implementation of
 China ’s trade policy.”  Companies’ Argument  Chinese firms in the case, including  North China
Pharmaceutical (600812)  Co. and its Hebei, China-based unit Hebei Welcome
Pharmaceutical Co., argued they couldn’t be held liable for
price-fixing in the $500 million global vitamin C market because
they were acting under the direction of regulators.  The firms alleged that they would be subject to punishment,
including denial of permission to export, if they disobeyed
government orders to adhere to volume and pricing restrictions.  In closing arguments March 13, Isaacson, an attorney with
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, told jurors that the Chinese
vitamin makers were merely trying to shift the blame.  “They needed an excuse,” Isaacson said. “They needed to
point the finger.”  The jury reached their decision surprisingly quickly for an
antitrust case, said one litigator not involved in the matter,
indicating that Chinese firms’ allegations of government control
“didn’t fly.”  ‘Clear-Cut Case’  “It was a clear-cut case to them and they didn’t buy that
defense at all,” Jeffrey S. Jacobovitz, of Arnall Golden
Gregory LLP, said in a phone interview.  In the lawsuit, filed by Animal Science Products Inc., a
livestock-supplement firm based in Nacogdoches,  Texas , and Ranis
Co., a food company based in Elizabeth,  New Jersey , a group of
Chinese firms was accused of manipulating prices by constricting
supplies. The firms provided about 80 percent of the bulk
vitamin C in the U.S., according to plaintiffs. Prices rose as
high as $15 per kilogram ($6.82 per pound) from about $2.50 per
kilogram during the scheme, plaintiffs alleged.  While more companies were sued, only North China and Hebei
Welcome Pharmaceutical Co., remained in the case by the time of
the verdict. Hong Kong-based  China Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (1093)  and
its Weisheng Pharmaceutical unit, which were also in the trial,
reached a $22.5 million settlement this week, according to an
attorney for the companies.  Aland Jiangsu Nutraceutical Co. and Shenyang, China-based
 Northeast Pharmaceutical Group Co. (000597)  settled before the trial.  ‘An Example’  The case is “an example of the kinds of issues that China
is increasingly running into through its economic
globalization,”  Jacques deLisle , a professor of law and
political science at the  University of Pennsylvania , said in a
phone interview yesterday.  For many industries in China, the influence of government
is still present even as businesses become privatized, making it
difficult to tell whether a company is acting voluntarily, said
deLisle, who is also director of the university’s Center for
East Asian Studies.  “The line between public and private is just much murkier
in China, in that many business entities are in various ways
deeply entangled with the state,” he said.  In court yesterday, U.S. District Judge Brian Cogan praised
the jurors for their attentiveness during the trial, which began
Feb. 25, saying they demonstrated a “textbook example of how it
should be done.”  The case is In re Vitamin C Antitrust Litigation, 1:06-
md-01738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  