-- China Bad Bank Said to Plan $3 Billion Offering in Hong Kong
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-03-15T04:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/china-bad-bank-said-to-plan-3-billion-share-sale-in-hong-kong.html
China Cinda Asset Management Co. ,
one of four funds created in 1999 to buy bad debts from banks,
plans to seek about $3 billion in an initial public offering in
Hong Kong, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The state-owned asset manager may start the share sale in
2014, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. Cinda, which counts UBS AG
among its shareholders, has yet to hire banks to manage the IPO,
the people said yesterday.  Cinda, a legacy of  China ’s efforts to clean up a 1990s bad-
loan crisis, has expanded into underwriting stock and bond
sales, pitting it against Wall Street firms such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The sale may help revive Hong Kong’s IPO
market, where proceeds dwindled to a nine-year low in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The company may attract investors with its diversified
financial services,” said May Yan, head of China banking
research at Barclays Plc. “Yet it would need to clearly explain
its growth, sustainability and risks.”  The Ministry of Finance holds an 83.5 percent stake in
Cinda, while the national pension fund owns 8 percent, according
to a  bond prospectus  published in October. Zurich-based UBS
holds a 5 percent interest, while Citic Capital Holdings Ltd.
and Standard Chartered Plc have 2 percent and 1.5 percent,
respectively, the document showed.  Cinda raised 10.4 billion  yuan  ($1.7 billion) selling a
16.5 percent stake to the pension fund, UBS, Citic Capital and
Standard Chartered in March 2012, valuing the company at 62.9
billion yuan.  Convincing Investors  Board Secretary Zhang Weidong said in March last year that
Cinda had begun preparations for a public share sale in domestic
and overseas markets, adding that the company didn’t have a
detailed plan or a timetable. Zhang, based in Beijing,  declined
to comment on the size of the IPO yesterday.  “They’ll first need to tell investors how much profit they
have each year, where it comes from, and what their long-term
strategy is,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at
 Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)   Cinda had 20,488 employees and 31 branches across China by
the end of 2011, the bond prospectus showed. It has subsidiaries
involved in financial leasing,  fund management , insurance and
real estate, according to Cinda’s website.  The so-called bad bank recovered 240 billion yuan from 1.5
trillion yuan of bad loans between 1999 and 2011, according to
the prospectus. Cinda boosted profit to 7.3 billion yuan last
year from 6.8 billion yuan in 2011, according to the prospectus
and an e-mailed statement.  Loan Recovery  China’s government set up Cinda, China Orient Asset
Management Corp., Huarong Asset Management Co. and Great Wall
Asset Management Corp. in 1999 to help rid the banking industry
of 1.4 trillion yuan of non-performing loans. Authorities
initially gave these agencies 10 billion yuan of capital each
and 10 years to offload the bad debt.  Huarong President Lai Xiaomin said March 5 that rising bad
loans at Chinese banks may create an opportunity for asset
management companies like his. Local-government debt is one of
the top financial risks that China must tackle, Lai said at a
congress meeting in Beijing.  Loans overdue for at least three months rose by 14.1
billion yuan in the three months ended Dec. 31, to 492.9 billion
yuan, and mid-sized lenders and rural banks accounted for most
of the increase, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said
March 1. Bad loans at Chinese banks grew for a fifth straight
quarter, the longest deterioration streak since the data became
available in 2004.  Companies raised $8 billion through IPOs in  Hong Kong  last
year, the least since 2003 and down 63 percent from 2011,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  