-- Christie Riles Black Leaders With Comments on Schools Bill
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-03-14T19:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/christie-riles-black-leaders-with-comments-on-urban-schools-bill.html
Governor Chris Christie angered
Democrats and black leaders who say he unnecessarily injected
race into his comments about fixing public schools during his
first town-hall meeting in Paterson, New Jersey.  The Republican on March 12 told an audience at St. Luke
Baptist Church in the state’s third-largest city that one
lawmaker, who he didn’t identify by name, stands in the way of
progress because she has blocked a bill that would give students
vouchers to attend out-of-district schools.  “We have an African-American female speaker of the
Assembly who represents communities like East Orange and Orange,
where there are failing schools all over and she refuses to let
people vote on this bill,” said Christie, 50, who is running
for a second term in November.  Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from East
Orange, said she was “appalled” by how Christie referred to
her. New Jersey’s largest teachers’ union, which typically
endorses Democratic candidates, opposes vouchers and has said it
would take money out of poor schools.  “I have never, nor will I ever, reference the governor’s
ethnicity, or make a veiled reference to the color of his skin,
yet that’s exactly what Governor Christie did today when
discussing me, as if it was the 19th century,” Oliver said in a
statement. “Governor, if you have a problem with me, call me by
name. Do not reference my ethnicity to try to score cheap
headlines and salacious YouTube videos.”  Civil Rights  Christie caused a similar reaction last year when he called
for a referendum vote on gay marriage and said blacks would have
been pleased to have their civil rights decided that way. That
remark was denounced by John Lewis, the Democratic Georgia
congressman and civil-rights leader, and drew an apology from
Christie.  The governor declined to comment on the matter yesterday
during a campaign stop in Chesilhurst, where he was endorsed by
Mayor Michael Blunt, a black Democrat.  Blunt said he wouldn’t mind if Christie referred to him as
“the African-American mayor of Chesilhurst” rather than by
name. He said he couldn’t judge Oliver’s reaction.  “I can’t tell you whether she’s sensitive or not,” he
said. “That’s her opinion and how she looks at a situational
question.”  ‘Blatant Attack’  In an e-mail to reporters today, the Paterson church’s
pastor, the Rev. Kenneth D.R. Clayton, called Christie’s words
“a blatant attack” on Oliver and said he should apologize.  Clayton also is president of the Paterson chapter of the
Baltimore-based National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, the oldest and largest U.S. civil-rights
organization, with more than 500,000 members.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, forwarded a
statement made in 2010 by Rev. Reginald Jackson, head of the
Black Ministers Council of New Jersey, that criticized Democrats
for not acting on the voucher bill.  “African-Americans are the most loyal base of the
Democratic Party and our children are the ones primarily trapped
in failing schools,” Jackson said, according to a posting on an
Asbury Park Press political blog referenced in Drewniak’s
statement. “The Democratic Party must stop taking us for
granted and failing to act for our children.”  Drewniak said in an e-mail that Christie “wholeheartedly
agrees” with Jackson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  