-- Citigroup, Wells Fargo Reach Clawback Deal With New York
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-14T20:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/citigroup-wells-fargo-reach-clawback-deal-with-new-york.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  agreed to change their pay
policies to make it easier to recover compensation from
executives involved in misconduct.  Employees responsible for serious financial or reputational
harm to a company as well as their supervisors are now subject
to pay clawbacks under agreements the three banks reached with
New York Comptroller John C. Liu, the city official said today
in a statement. The policies are similar to a deal Liu reached
last year with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to the statement.  “Executives need to be held financially accountable for
misconduct that harms the company, and that includes improper
behavior and reckless risk-taking by those they manage,” Liu
said in the statement. “This is a vital step toward reining in
out-of-control executive pay based on short-term gains.”  Previously the three banks only permitted clawbacks from
executives who committed intentional or gross misconduct,
according to the statement.  Liu filed shareholder proposals with each of the three
banks and later withdrew them after the companies adopted
changes to their compensation policies. The lenders have each
paid fines in recent years to settle allegations of deceptive or
improper business practices, according to today’s statement.  Capital One  Capital One, based in McLean,  Virginia , will disclose the
total amount clawed back as long as the circumstances have
already been publicly disclosed, according to the statement. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Citigroup, which is based in New
York, agreed to consider disclosing the amount of pay recouped.  The proposal is “consistent with our views on the subject
and we appreciate the productive dialogue we had with the
proponent,” Bridget Braxton, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo,
said today in an e-mailed statement. “Our compensation policies
and practices are based on principles that focus on paying for
performance, attracting and retaining top executive talent,
fostering a culture of risk management and aligning management’s
interests with stockholders’ interests.”  Spokesmen for Citigroup and Capital One declined to
elaborate on the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  