-- Citigroup Says South Africa’s Future at Risk Unless Plan Applied
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-03-14T15:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/citigroup-says-south-africa-s-future-at-risk-unless-plan-applied.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  said South  Africa ’s
economic future is at risk if companies don’t help implement a
growth plan devised by an advisory panel led by former Finance
Minister  Trevor Manuel .  The National Development Plan sets out goals for investment
in roads and rail, health, education and other services to boost
growth in Africa’s biggest economy. The plan also targets
cutting unemployment to 14 percent by 2020 and 6 percent by
2030, from 24.9 percent at the end of last year.  “If we don’t start rolling it out now, we’ll be severely
compromised,” Donna Oosthuyse, Citigroup country officer for
South Africa, said in an interview today from Johannesburg.
“Business needs to step up and engage constructively and
government needs to listen.”  President  Jacob Zuma  said in his state-of-the-nation
address last month that the 20-year plan is the only way to
create jobs and improve  living standards . While Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  has endorsed the plan, the three biggest ratings
companies all downgraded South Africa since September on concern
over a slowing economy and rising spending pressures.  “There has been a need for everyone to align behind an
economic policy -- the last time that happened was 2010,” said
Oosthuyse, adding that South African markets were subdued
because of the “uncertainties.” “Since then, there’s not
really been a consensus between government, business and civil
society.”  Weaker Rand  The rand has weakened more than 16 percent over the past 12
months, the worst performer among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. South Africa posted a record trade deficit in January
and on March 12 reported a fourth-quarter current account
deficit that was near a four-year high.  “There is a lot of concern about the ability of  South
Africa  to deal with its twin deficits given its social
constraints,” Oosthuyse said. “The real concern in South
Africa is what’s going to happen in terms of policy and the
implementation of the plan.”  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, has been
operating in South Africa for 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  