-- Citigroup Gets Approval for Corbat’s $1.2 Billion Buyback
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-03-14T22:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/citigroup-gets-approval-for-corbat-s-1-2-billion-buyback.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, received regulatory approval to repurchase $1.2
billion of stock as Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat 
avoided a misstep that helped bring down his predecessor.  The  Federal Reserve  authorized the plan as it found that
New York-based Citigroup was among U.S. banks that would manage
to withstand a severe economic shock across the U.S., Europe and
 Asia , the company said today in a statement.  Corbat, 52, had sought to avoid a repeat of last year, when
the Fed rejected then-CEO Vikram Pandit’s proposal to boost
payouts. Corbat’s priority was to convince regulators that
Citigroup, which almost collapsed in 2008, could weather an
economic crisis rather than seeking increased dividends or share
repurchases, according to analysts including  Marty Mosby  of
Guggenheim Partners LLC.  “The management team is focused on de-risking the balance
sheet and creating as much safety and soundness as possible,”
Mosby said before the announcement. “Regulators want to see
them be able to do that before they start to release excess
capital.”  Citigroup said it will maintain its quarterly dividend of 1
cent per share.  ‘Not Material’  The $1.2 billion plan, disclosed March 7, is designed to
counteract the dilution of bank shares when executives are
awarded stock as incentives, Citigroup said last week. That
means the plan won’t produce a net gain for shareholders, said
Richard Staite, an analyst with Atlantic Equities LLP.  The amount of the stock repurchase “is not material at
all,” said Staite, who has an overweight rating on the shares.
“The focus is on building  capital ratios .”  Citigroup’s Tier 1 common ratio, a measure of financial
strength, would fall to 8.22 percent in a dire economic scenario
when the buyback plan is included, exceeding the Fed’s minimum
passing threshold of 5 percent, the central bank said. The
lender would have an 8.3 percent ratio in a stressed scenario
without a plan to return capital to shareholders, the Fed said
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  