-- CN Rail C$5 Billion Line Seen Tied to Iron-Ore Rebound
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-15T00:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/cn-rail-c-5-billion-line-seen-tied-to-iron-ore-rebound.html
Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  will
revive a proposed C$5 billion ($4.99 billion) rail line in
northern  Quebec , a region rich in iron ore, once commodity
markets recover, its partner in the project said.  Last month’s suspension of a feasibility study for the work
is only temporary, Normand Provost, executive vice president of
private equity at the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec,
said today after a speech in  Montreal .  “This project isn’t dead,” Provost told reporters. “If
you believe in the long-term potential of northern Quebec, the
railroad is a must. We put it on the shelf temporarily because
some companies put their mining projects on ice, but the day
that projects will restart, you will need a railroad.”  Canadian National said in August that it would assess
prospects for the line, then froze the work in February.
Benchmark iron-ore prices last year averaged 23 percent less
than in 2011, according to data from the Steel Index Ltd., amid
concern that growth is slowing in  China , the world’s biggest
steelmaker.  Canadian National’s position hasn’t changed since Feb. 12,
when the company said it was suspending a feasibility study on
the line, Louis-Antoine Paquin, a company spokesman, said today
in an e-mail.  Pension Manager  Caisse de Depot is  Canada ’s largest pension-fund manager,
with net assets of about C$176 billion. Provost oversees Caisse
de Depot’s portfolio of private equity and infrastructure
holdings, which was worth about C$24 billion at the end of last
year.  Benoit Poirier, an analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in
Montreal, said in a March 2012 note to clients that the proposed
800-kilometer (500-mile) line would probably cost about C$5
billion, with Canadian National contributing two-thirds of the
amount, and could open as soon as 2017.  Labrador Iron Mines Holdings Ltd. (LIM) , New Millennium Iron
Corp., Cap-Ex Ventures Ltd. and Alderon Iron Ore Corp. also had
agreed to work with Canada’s largest railroad on the feasibility
study. The proposed rail line and a terminal handling facility
would serve the Quebec-Labrador iron ore range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  