-- CNPC to Buy Stake in Eni Mozambique Assets for $4.2 Billion
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-03-14T08:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/cnpc-to-buy-stake-in-eni-s-mozambique-assets-for-4-2-billion.html
China National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s largest oil producer, will buy a 28.57 percent stake
in  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s  East Africa  subsidiary for $4.2 billion.  The deal will give CNPC indirect ownership of 20 percent of
Eni’s Mozambique assets, state-controlled CNPC said in a
statement on its  website  today. Eni, Italy’s largest oil
company, has discovered about 75 trillion cubic feet of gas in
Mozambique’s Area 4, CNPC said.  The purchase will be the biggest deal involving an Asian
company announced so far this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. China’s largest producers have bought African oil
and gas fields in countries ranging from Nigeria to  Uganda  to
feed energy demand in the world’s fastest growing major economy.  “It was only a matter of time before the Chinese showed up
to take a stake in the  Mozambique  LNG projects,” Simon Powell,
head of Asian oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd., said from  Hong
Kong . “East Africa is well positioned to serve Asian
customers.”  Mozambique may have 250 trillion cubic feet of reserves,
according to Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos, the country’s
state-backed energy company. ENH, Galp Energia SGPS and Korea
Gas Corp. each own 10 percent of Area 4, according to today’s
statement.  Mozambique’s offshore fields may hold enough gas to meet
world consumption for more than two years, according to ENH. Eni
and Anadarko Petroleum Corp., the two companies leading
exploration in Mozambique, agreed last year to build the world’s
second-largest liquefied gas export plant to start sending fuel
abroad in 2018.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the listed unit of CNPC, fell 0.2 percent
to HK$10.66 at the close today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  