-- Commerzbank, Eric Holder and Too-Big-to-Jail
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-03-14T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/commerzbank-eric-holder-and-too-big-to-jail.html
Dennis Lerner, a former tax
director at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in New York, isn’t too big to jail.
But the bank he once worked for may well be, along with the
other executives there who made his crimes possible.  Lerner, 60, pleaded guilty this week to public-corruption
charges. Commerzbank hired him from the Internal Revenue Service
in 2011 while he was an examiner responsible for negotiating a
tax-fraud settlement with the bank, according to the  criminal
complaint  that prosecutors filed in September. Commerzbank paid
the IRS $210 million one day before offering Lerner the job,
which he accepted immediately. The figure was 62 percent of the
potential taxes due. Bank employees later told federal
investigators it had been willing to pay much more money to
settle the audit.  “We will not tolerate corrupt government employees and
will prosecute and punish them to the full extent of the law,”
 Preet Bharara , the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of
New York, said in a March 12  news release . Notably, Bharara said
nothing about prosecuting the people and companies that
participate in corrupting them.  Why hasn’t the Justice Department charged Commerzbank or
anyone else who worked there? That is a mystery, but perhaps
only partly. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder last week told
the Senate Judiciary Committee, in essence, that some financial
institutions are indeed  too big  to prosecute, because of the
damage to the U.S. and world economy that might ensue.  So Big  Commerzbank is certainly big. The company had 636 billion
euros ($839 billion) of assets on its Dec. 31  balance sheet ,
making it  Germany ’s second-largest bank. The German government
 owns  about 25 percent of the company, after bailing it out in
2009. We can imagine how upset some German political leaders
would be if the Frankfurt-based lender were ever indicted in the
U.S., jeopardizing its ability to survive.  Julie Bolcer, a U.S. Attorney’s Office spokeswoman,
declined to say if the Justice Department’s investigation is
continuing. Margarita Thiel, a Commerzbank spokeswoman, declined
to comment. (The government’s court papers refer to Commerzbank
only as “Bank 1.” Bloomberg News and other news organizations
previously have identified the bank as Commerzbank.)  There are signs the investigation might be wrapping up.
Lerner’s plea deal doesn’t require him to cooperate with
government investigators, which suggests the feds aren’t trying
to use him to target bigger fish at the bank. Prosecutors said
they would recommend only four to 10 months in prison, in line
with federal sentencing guidelines. He also isn’t required to
admit to breaking the law while he was a Commerzbank official.  Of the original four counts against him, Lerner pleaded
guilty to the two charges related to his conduct while he was an
IRS employee. One was for violating conflict-of-interest laws,
the other for illegally disclosing IRS audit information.
Prosecutors said they would drop the two counts stemming from
his actions as Commerzbank’s tax director.  If Lerner committed crimes, it stands to reason that others
at Commerzbank did, too. Lerner didn’t act alone. The notion
that he’s the only one who violated the law in this case seems
beyond belief, based on the facts the government alleged. At the
very least, someone at Commerzbank should have known Lerner
wasn’t allowed to do some of the things he did.  The government’s  complaint  said Lerner met in New York with
unidentified Commerzbank executives in July and August 2011 to
discuss the IRS’s audit and his possible employment at the bank.
After Lerner told the IRS he was resigning in August 2011, his
supervisor there gave him a document describing his lifetime
prohibition on attempting to influence IRS employees regarding
matters he had worked on at the agency. Lerner’s resignation
letter didn’t identify Commerzbank as his new employer. Later
that month, Lerner participated in a meeting at the IRS about
the bank’s settlement, according to the government’s complaint.  Settlement Pending  The $210 million tax settlement Lerner negotiated with
Commerzbank was still pending final approval when he left the
IRS. After Lerner began working at Commerzbank in September
2011, the government said he spoke repeatedly with IRS examiners
involved in the audit, asking about the status of the case and
arguing on Commerzbank’s behalf to bring it to a close. Some of
the discussions took place with another Commerzbank employee
present.  The criminal inquiry began after an IRS examiner notified
investigators in November 2011 that Lerner refused to recuse
himself. The next month, the same examiner sent Commerzbank a
new request for additional documents as part of its audit. It’s
unclear what became of the bank’s IRS audit after 2011.  If the government’s investigation is over, the public
deserves to know why. We learned after the 2008 financial crisis
that executives of too-big-to-fail companies are unlikely to be
prosecuted, even if it’s  obvious  that  crimes  were  committed , for
fear that charging them might grievously harm the institutions
themselves. If we are going to place some banks above the law
for the sake of financial stability, we also must recognize the
threat this poses to our democracy. For starters, the banks can
buy off government officials and get away with it.  Today, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
led by Democrat Carl Levin of  Michigan , is scheduled to hold a
hearing on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s London Whale trading debacle
from last year. It would be a great service to the country if
Levin’s panel probed the tax scandal at Commerzbank next.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  