-- Credit Suisse Settles National Century Suit Before Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-03-14T17:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/credit-suisse-to-take-chf134-million-charge-on-ncfe-settlement.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  agreed to
settle a fraud lawsuit by noteholders of affiliates of National
Century Financial Enterprises Inc.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, was sued
last year in federal court in New York by noteholders who
claimed the bank, the placement agent, knew or should have known
of a $2.9 billion fraud that led to National Century’s collapse
in 2002.  The Zurich-based bank said in a statement today that it
will book an after-tax charge of 134 million francs ($141
million) against 2012 financial results, reducing the reported
net income for the year to 1.35 billion francs.  Ten executives of the Dublin, Ohio-based health-care
finance company were convicted of crimes, including former Chief
Executive Officer Lance Poulsen, who is serving 30 years in
prison after he was found guilty of fraud, conspiracy and money
laundering.  The accord was reached two weeks before the start of a
consolidated trial before U.S. District Judge James Graham. The
litigation related to notes issued by affiliates of NCFE between
1998 and 2002.  “This settlement closes the last, important chapter in the
10-year NCFE litigation,” Kathy Patrick, a partner at Gibbs &
Bruns LLP, who represented the  Arizona  noteholders, said in a
statement.  Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in New York,
declined to comment on the settlement.  The case is Crown Cork & Seal v. Credit Suisse, 12-cv-5803,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  