-- Bofa Battles Credit Suisse for 50% Markups on State Loans
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-03-14T16:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/credit-suisse-battles-bofa-in-booming-state-loans-brazil-credit.html
Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  and  Bank of
America Corp . are exploiting guarantees from  Brazil  to help its
states refinance $200 billion of bailout debt at  interest rates 
that are 1.5 times higher than the nation’s own borrowing costs.  The firms are among at least five lenders in talks to loan
five states $6.5 billion this year -- more than double last
year’s total -- as local governments seek to chop debt costs by
replacing loans from a 1997 federal bailout that average 14.4
percent in reais. Credit Suisse is lending Mato Grosso, an
agricultural state in western Brazil, $1 billion for 15 years.
The loan, with a rate equal to about 11.2 percent in reais and
guaranteed by Brazil if Mato Grosso defaults, compares with
7.35 percent for yields of similar-maturity government debt.  Municipalities are seeking to refinance bailout debt and
take on more loans to compensate for lower tax transfers, after
Brazil authorized 21 states in August to borrow a total of 60
billion reais ($30.4 billion) through 2014 with government
guarantees. Joining the foreign lenders are local banks, which
raised a record $19.5 billion abroad last year and are looking
for alternatives to government debt after the most-aggressive
rate  cuts  among Group of 20 nations damped returns.  “Two years ago nobody had the money, neither state nor
private banks,” Luiz Carlos Hauly, the finance secretary for
Parana state, said in a telephone interview from the capital
city of Curitiba. “Six months ago they started running after
us, realizing it’s a low-risk deal.”  Market Opening  Average overseas borrowing costs for  Brazilian banks
plunged  116 basis points last year, or 1.16 percentage points,
to 3.87 percent, according to Credit Suisse indexes. Brazilian
banks’ dollar issuance last year was the most since Bloomberg
began tracking the data in 1999.  The combination of near-zero benchmark rates abroad and
record low borrowing costs at home, where the benchmark rate was
cut 5.25 percentage points since August 2011 to 7.25 percent,
have stoked private banks’ interest in lending to states,
according to Aod Cunha, the director responsible for public
sector banking at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Brazilian unit.  “This market only opened up with a more accentuated drop
in interest rates,” Cunha said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “When interest rates were much higher, it was
difficult to make this type of transaction happen.”  While JPMorgan hasn’t lent to any states, it is “looking
at the market,” he said.  Improving Finances  Privately owned lenders are also being drawn to state
lending now because stronger total  tax revenue , even as the
federal government cuts back on transfers, has improved their
finances, according to Marcio Tunholi, the executive manager for
government relations at  Banco do Brasil SA .  The ratio of states’ net debt to revenue has been declining
and probably fell below 1 in 2012, according to a Feb. 22 report
by  Fitch Ratings  on state borrowing. States had a total of 408
billion reais of debt in 2011, 88 percent of which was owed to
the federal government, according to the report.  Brazilian  states  and cities haven’t been able to take
advantage of the unprecedented decline in interest rates because
they have been restricted from selling bonds since the 1997
bailout, leaving the country without a municipal  bond market .
States ran into financial difficulties in the early 1990s after
years of mismanagement and hyperinflation.  State Payments  States’ interest payments have exceeded the size of the
original federal bailout loans, which carry an interest rate of
6 percent plus inflation as calculated by the  IGP-DI index ,
currently at 8.24 percent. Parana, which originally borrowed 5.7
billion reais, has already paid 10.2 billion reais and still
owes 9.3 billion,  “No father treats his son like this,” Hauly said.  Parana state, in the south of Brazil, is seeking approval
for a 1.1 billion-real loan from Credit Suisse to repay debt
owed to the state-owned electric utility, according to Hauly. It
also wants to refinance an additional 2.5 billion reais of
federal bailout debt.  Bank of America,  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Banco Santander
Brasil SA (SANB11)  and  Banco BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11)  have all offered credit to
help refinance the federal debt, he said.  Bank of America, Banco BTG, Credit Suisse, Itau and
Santander declined to comment on their lending activities.  Overdue Payments  Mato Grosso do Sul is negotiating a loan with several
banks, including Santander, to amortize 3.2 billion reais in
overdue payments on its total 7.3 billion reais debt, Jader
Julianelli, the state’s finance minister, said by phone. The
cost of the new loans, when converted to local currency,
shouldn’t exceed 7 percent, he said.  The state of Rondonia, which borders  Bolivia , is seeking to
refinance 1.7 billion reais of federal debt with private banks,
according to a notice in its official gazette on Feb. 22.  Goias, in central Brazil, is also seeking to refinance
federal bailout debt, according to Vivaldo Lopes, the deputy
finance secretary of Mato Grosso. Attempts to reach the finance
secretary in Goias by telephone were unsuccessful.  Under pressure from governors, the federal government has
sent a bill to Congress that would ease the terms of the bailout
loans. The proposal would reduce the rate to 4 percent plus the
 IPCA inflation index .  “The government has been more sensitive toward
restructuring debt because it’s good for the states to amortize
their debt and have more money to invest in Brazil’s
infrastructure,” Julianelli said.  ‘Transparency’ View  The federal government has supported requests by states and
municipalities for debt exchange operations “as long as the
financial conditions are more advantageous than those of their
contracts with the” federal government, the  Finance Ministry 
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The time it would take to collect from the federal
government should a state default is unknown and the factors
used to evaluate states’ fiscal conditions isn’t public,
according to the Fitch report. Grace periods on private loans
could also tempt states to loosen fiscal discipline by pushing
back payments to their political successors.  “The more transparency in this process, the better,”
Paulo Fugulin, a Fitch analyst and author of the report on state
borrowing, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 169 basis points at
1:19 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose one basis point to 124 basis points, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.9687 per dollar.  Even if the federal government agrees to lower the rates
charged on bailout debt, states will still have an interest in
taking loans from private banks to raise money for investments,
according to Hauly.  “Even with a new law, private banks will continue to be an
interesting alternative,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  