-- Current-Account Deficit in U.S. Narrowed 1.8% in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-14T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/current-account-deficit-in-u-s-narrowed-1-8-in-fourth-quarter.html
The  current-account  deficit in the
U.S. unexpectedly narrowed in the fourth quarter, helped by a
the biggest surplus on income in a year.  The gap, the broadest measure of international trade
because it includes income payments and government transfers,
shrank 1.8 percent to $110.4 billion from a revised $112.4
billion shortfall in the prior quarter, a Commerce Department
report showed today in Washington. The  median  forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a $112.5 billion
deficit in the final three months of 2012.  Stable growth in overseas markets would help underpin
demand for U.S.-made goods, keeping the current account gap from
ballooning as sustained spending in the U.S. drives import
growth. The figures underscore the dependence of the world’s
largest economy on foreign investors for funding.  “The current account deficit has held fairly steady,”
Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
 New York , said before the report. TD Securities was the top
forecaster of the current account in the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The trend has
recently started to move toward slightly wider current accounts,
which does show normalization going on in the market.”  For all of 2012, the current-account gap expanded 1.9
percent to $475 billion, the widest in four years, today’s
figures showed.  Estimates of 40 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from fourth-quarter deficits of $108.3 billion to $120 billion.
The third-quarter shortfall was revised from an initially
reported $107.5 billion.  The gap represented 2.8 percent of gross domestic product
last quarter, the same as in the prior quarter. The deficit
reached a record high of 6.5 percent of GDP in the fourth
quarter of 2005.  Trade Deficit  The  trade deficit  in goods and services, which accounts for
most of the current-account gap, widened to $128.4 billion, from
$124.8 billion in the prior three months, today’s report showed.  After adjusting for the influence of prices, the  trade gap 
climbed to $48 billion in January from $44.2 billion in
December, Commerce Department data showed March 7. The January
level was little changed from the fourth-quarter average,
indicating trade so far is having little influence on growth
estimates.  Stability in the global growth outlook, which supports
stronger exports, may bolster earnings at companies including
Moline, Illinois-based Deere & Co., the largest agricultural-
equipment maker in the world. Deere in February raised its
annual profit estimate and said equipment sales will rise about
6 percent, more than its prior prediction.  ‘Good Shape’  “Our key markets remain in good shape,” Susan Karlix,
manager of investor communications, said during an earnings
teleconference on Feb. 13. “Current government programs in
Brazil support higher amounts of equipment sales,” and in
 China , agriculture “subsidies are expected be higher and very
supportive of equipment sales.”  Today’s report showed U.S. income on overseas assets
increased by $8.1 billion to $190.9 billion in the fourth
quarter. Foreign earnings on U.S. assets, including wages and
compensation, grew by $2.3 billion to $138.5 billion.  That left a $52.4 billion surplus on income payments from
$46.6 billion in the prior quarter. U.S. investments overseas
generally yield more than the  Treasury securities  that foreign
investors prefer to buy, helping maintain the income surplus.  Payments by the U.S. government to foreigners and other
private transfers abroad exceeded official inflows from overseas
by $34.4 billion last quarter, compared with $32.8 billion in
the previous period.  The Commerce Department also said today that on March 26,
it will begin publishing international investment positions data
on a quarterly basis. Previously, the agency produced only
annual statistics on the comparison between the value of
American investments abroad and foreign investments in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  