-- Czech Telecommunication Office Starts Drafting New Auction Rules
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-03-14T08:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/czech-telecommunication-office-starts-drafting-new-auction-rules.html
The Czech Telecommunications Office
 started  preparing rules to replay a radio frequency auction as
bidders in a failed first tender are given the chance to appeal
its March 8 cancellation.  “We started drafting the new auction terms and we expect
to be able to announce a new sale in months,” telecom watchdog
spokesman Frantisek Malina said by phone.  The office, or CTU, declined to provide details on the new
conditions until the 15-day appeal period lapses.  T-Mobile Czech
Republic AS (DTE) ,  Telefonica Czech AS (SPTT)  and  Vodafone Czech Republic 
declined to say if they would appeal, while  PPF  Mobile Services
AS spokesman Radek Stavel said his company wouldn’t file one.  CTU canceled the sale of 800 MHz, 1,800 MHz and 2,600 MHz
spectrum because of a belief that “excessive” bids totaling
more than 20 billion koruna ($1 billion) would be passed on to
customers in the form of higher charges for fast Internet
services. While governments across the region are cutting
spending to meet austerity needs, they are also concerned a
simultaneous rising cost of living is creating voter anger.  In  Bulgaria , soaring energy costs sparked more than two
weeks of protests that led to action against Czech utility CEZ
AS and brought down the government of Premier Boyko Borissov.  Officials from the Czech telecom regulator decided to halt
the auction as the price exceeded the original estimates and the
companies would have problems to finance building the new
networks. It also considered protecting customers more important
than completing the process, CTU head Pavel Dvorak said in a
statement on March 8.  No Appeal  The new auction will probably go ahead without any of the
four bidders lodging a protest, said  Cyrrus AS  analyst Tomas
Mencik.  “In my view, it’s unlikely that anyone will complain and
complicate the situation, which is already pretty unclear,” he
said in a phone interview.  The cancellation was also more “positive” for the
existing operators than for new industry entrant PPF because
they now have more time to develop their networks for fast
Internet, Mencik said.  The high bids in the previous tender indicates the
importance of LTE technology for the existing operators on the
Czech market and the newcomer’s enthusiasm, London-based Citi
analyst Dalibor Vavruska in a note to clients. LTE, or Long Term
Evolution, allows operators to provide improved mobile data
speed for customers and offer new services such as broadcast
video or on-demand movies.  ‘Globally Unprecedented’  He called the watchdog’s decision to give up the potential
revenue from the auction  “globally unprecedented.” The money
would have gone to shore up the state budget and cut the
deficit.  Earlier LTE auctions that were completed in countries like
 Germany ,  France ,  Italy  indicate operators highly value the 800
MHz spectrum, according  Arthur D Little . Depending on the
auction rules, market operators either “aggressively” push for
the 800 MHz spectrum or side step and deploy the LTE 1,800 MHz
or 2,600 MHz spectrums if available.  The Czech auction included six blocks in the 800 MHz band
and the four bidders would need two blocks each to build a full-
fledged LTE network.  CTU’s Dvorak told Czech TV on March 8 that he would
consider it a “good” result if the auction is restarted in two
or three months. Dvorak, whose term as CTU chairman expires at
the end of April, estimated the “real” total price of all the
spectrums to be as much as 15 billion koruna, CTK reported on
March 8.  Industry and Trade Minister Martin Kuba told Mlada Fronta
Dnes on March 10 he wants to replace Dvorak when his term is
finished.  Telefonica Czech started an LTE pilot project in the  Czech
Republic  last year. T-Mobile Czech also started testing LTE
networks in  Prague  and Mlada Boleslav, in the eastern part of
the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  