-- Dassault Says Canada Mulling Rafale Warplane as JSF Costs Soar
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-14T14:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/dassault-says-canada-mulling-rafale-warplane-as-jsf-costs-soar.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , maker of the
Rafale combat jet, said  Canada  has commenced talks about an
order for the plane as it reviews options amid mounting costs
for the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.  Discussions began in January, and Dassault considers the
chances of Canada making a purchase sufficiently good that it’s
willing to spend the money to undertake a sales campaign, the
French company’s Chief Executive Officer Eric Trappier said.  Canada’s minister of public works and government services,
Rona Ambrose, said Dec. 12 that the country had “hit the reset
button” on a deal for 65 JSFs after consultant KPMG said the
estimated $25 billion bill could jump to $46 billion.  “Canada was the first to raise difficult questions about
the F-35 and we’ve been talking to them since the beginning of
the year,” said Trappier, who was appointed Dassault’s CEO in
January after Charles Edelstenne stepped down upon turning 75.  Other countries may be less inclined to consider breaking
ranks with the U.S., the executive said at an earnings
presentation near Paris, where Dassault in based.  While the JSF has 10 customers for the plane, Britain,
 Italy , the Netherlands, Turkey, Australia and Norway are full
partners with a share of work on the project. Denmark, like
Canada, holds the same status, and it, too, has re-opened the
order process, while not including the Rafale.  Battle Proven  The Rafale’s performance in engagements in Libya and more
recently in Mali, where France used the jet to help retake
territory held by Islamic militants, will provide military
officials with examples of its combat ability, Trappier said.  The F-35, the Pentagon’s costliest weapons system, hasn’t
yet begun combat testing and isn’t scheduled to complete it
until 2019, seven years later than planned, according to a
recent report by Pentagon chief weapons tester  Michael Gilmore .  Dassault was selected last year by India for the purchase
of 126 Rafales, though is still negotiating the final deal. The
jet has yet to conclude a single export contract, even though
its predecessor, the Mirage, drew two-thirds of orders abroad.  The  United Arab Emirates  shortlisted the Rafale for a 60-
plane deal, though other models are under consideration. The
Dassault plane is also competing with the  Boeing Co. (BA)  F/A-18
Super Hornet and  Saab AB (SAABB)  Gripen for a contract in Brazil.  Dassault is currently producing 11 Rafales a year for the
French government and couldn’t drop below that level without
sacrificing quality, Trappier said after reporting a 25 percent
jump in full-year net income to 524 million euros ($677
million), aided by the delivery of 66 Falcon corporate jets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris,  France , via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  