-- Diabetes Drugs Evaluated by FDA on Pancreatic Cancer Risk
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-14T17:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/diabetes-drugs-are-being-evaluated-for-pancreatic-risk.html
Diabetes drugs including  Merck &
Co. (MRK) ’s Januvia,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Byetta and  Novo
Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Victoza are being scrutinized by U.S. regulators
for a potential link to pancreatic cancer.  The Food and Drug Administration is reviewing unpublished
findings by a group of academic researchers that suggest pre-
cancerous cellular changes may be associated with Type 2
diabetes drugs called incretin mimetics, according to a
statement today from the agency. The findings suggest the class
of medicines may be linked to the risk of developing an
inflammation of the pancreas tied to cancer and kidney failure
that was previously reported in some of the medicines.  Doctors have been concerned that this category of  diabetes
treatments  may damage the pancreas since the FDA said in 2007 it
received a high number of reports of pancreatitis in patients
taking Byetta. The agency issued a similar alert for Januvia in
2009. An analysis of insurance records published last month in
the journal JAMA Internal Medicine showed such drugs may double
a user’s risk of pancreatitis.  The drugs in the class include exenatide, liraglutide,
sitagliptin, saxagliptin, alogliptin and linagliptin. They mimic
incretin hormones that the body usually produces naturally to
stimulate the release of insulin in response to a meal, the FDA
said.  No Conclusions  The FDA said it hasn’t reached any new conclusions about
the safety risks associated with the drugs and hasn’t determined
whether they may cause or contribute to pancreatic cancer. The
agency suggested patients continue taking the drugs and talk
with their doctors.  Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, is confident in
the safety of sitagliptin, which is found in Januvia as well as
the company’s Janumet and Juvisync, Pamela Eisele, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based company reviewed all the safety data available to
them on sitagliptin and “find no compelling evidence
establishing a causal relationship between the use of
sitagliptin and pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer,” Eisele
said.  Merck will continue to monitor the safety of the drug with
regulatory agencies and scientific experts, she said.  Merck reported $4 billion in sales, or about 9 percent of
 total revenue , from Januvia last year. The daily pill blocks an
enzyme that breaks down GLP-1. Janumet, which combines Januvia
with the older diabetes drug metformin, generated $1.7 billion
in sales last year.  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, acquired Byetta last year
when it bought Amylin Pharmaceuticals. Byetta, which mimics
GLP-1, had sales of  $148 million  for Bristol-Myers last year,
and $159 million for Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , which
ended its marketing partnership with Amylin in 2011.  Novo Nordisk’s Victoza generated about $1.6 billion in
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  