-- Dimon’s ‘Harpooned’ Whale Resurfaces With Senate Findings
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-03-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/dimon-s-harpooned-whale-resurfaces-with-senate-findings.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has called the bank’s money-losing
London Whale trade “harpooned” and “killed.” Today in
 Washington , it will be revived.  The U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
led by retiring Senator  Carl Levin , will release the panel’s
findings after probing JPMorgan’s record trading loss last year.
The flawed bet on  credit derivatives  cost the company more than
$6.2 billion and stained Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon’s
31-year Wall Street career.  The bank’s stock recovered after disclosure of the trading
loss at JPMorgan’s chief investment office erased as much as $51
billion in market value. The shares have gained 14 percent this
year, closing yesterday at $50.16.  “It’s sad that investors are so complacent,” said  Paul Miller , a bank analyst with FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia. “But political issues never die. It’s a chance to
bring these guys up to Congress and make them shiver a little
bit.”  Former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, 56, among Wall
Street’s most powerful women until she resigned four days after
the bank disclosed the initial trading losses, will testify
tomorrow in her first public appearance since her May 14 exit.
Dimon, 57, said he was “dead wrong” to dismiss as a “tempest
in a teapot” news reports in early April that a trader had
amassed a large and illiquid position in credit derivatives.  Move Markets  The trader, who was dubbed the London Whale because his
positions were large enough to move markets and later was
identified as Bruno Iksil, isn’t on the Senate panel’s witness
list. Dimon, who testified twice about the loss last year before
Senate and House banking panels, also won’t return to Capitol
Hill for the hearing. Iksil’s managers, former boss Javier Martin-Artajo and Achilles Macris, who ran the CIO in Europe,
the  Middle East  and Africa, weren’t asked to appear.  Douglas Braunstein, who stepped down in January as chief
financial officer and is still at the bank, will join Drew
before the panel along with Pete Weiland, who oversaw market
risk for the CIO and has since left the firm. Ashley Bacon,
JPMorgan’s acting chief risk officer, and  Michael Cavanagh , who
led the internal review of the losses and is now co-CEO for the
corporate and investment bank, also are scheduled to testify.  Dimon, who said some executives “acted like children” in
dealing with the fallout, removed, pushed out or replaced
executives involved in the trade or managing its risk. He also
said that the bank had put the matter behind it.  ‘Fish Food’  “The London Whale drama has been harpooned, beached,
eviscerated, cremated, and killed,” Dimon has told clients and
employees, according to a November  report  in  Vanity Fair . “So
help me God! It’s fish food.”  The  Federal Reserve  forced JPMorgan to suspend a $15
billion share repurchase program as a result of the losses and
censured the firm in a cease-and-desist order that requires the
lender to improve risk controls. The bank’s board of directors
cut Dimon’s pay for last year by 50 percent after an internal
review held him partly responsible for the botched trades.  The Securities and Exchange Commission,  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  and the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority are
among agencies still investigating the Whale trades.  The losses could complicate Dimon’s quest to keep both of
his roles as chairman and CEO. The Fed required the board to
review the matter and to explain why it doesn’t want to split
Dimon’s duties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  