-- Dixons CEO Says Profitability Beats Amazon as Stores Sell Extras
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-03-14T16:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/dixons-ceo-says-profitability-beats-amazon-as-stores-sell-extras.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  Chief Executive
Officer Sebastian James said the U.K.’s largest electronics
retailer beats online-only competitors such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
for profitability as stores help it lure customers into buying
the latest, high-margin products and extras.  Dixons, with chains PC World and Currys, has 486 U.K. shops
and enjoys an advantage over online operations in selling newer,
higher-margin items as employees can explain and show off
features on products such as the latest Samsung Electronics Co.
televisions, James, 47, said in an interview at the Retail Week
Conference in  London  today. “Suppliers explicitly reward us for
our ability to demonstrate these products,” he said.  Shop assistants in Dixons’ stores typically sell another
two items every time a shopper buys a washing machine, such as
home delivery and installation, again boosting margins, James
said. Dixons is competing with cheaper online rivals by focusing
on customer services to sell more expensive, newer items and
more products such as software and laptop cases.  “Overall we are structurally a bit more profitable,” said
James, who has overseen the retailer for more than a year.
“Laptops is the best, the most difficult is white goods because
they are big and cost a lot of rent.”  Even with the additional store costs, rents and employees,
Dixons beats online rivals on profitability, James said. Online
operations also have costs of acquiring customers through
channels such as paid-for Google Inc. search advertising.  Dixons is considering adding QR codes, which operate like
bar codes, next to each product in stores, said James. Shoppers
could scan them on their smartphones to link to a price
comparison website, potentially with cheaper offers from
competitors.  While prices at Currys and PC World are still about 6
percent more expensive than Amazon, shoppers will still buy
their products in-store when they weigh up the benefits, James
predicted. The difference was 22 percent three years ago, said
James, who added that he hopes to bring it down to 3 percent for
the stores’ 33,000 products.  Underlying pretax profit fell 17 percent to 70.8 million
pounds ($106 million) in the fiscal year through April 28 at the
 Hemel Hempstead , England-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  