-- Dollar Falls to 1-Week Low as CPI Backs Fed; Pound Erases Gain
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-15T21:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/dollar-remains-lower-as-inflation-seen-no-threat-to-fed-stimulus.html
The dollar dropped to a one-week
low against the euro as a report showed U.S. inflation is
contained, giving the Federal Reserve scope to maintain its
monetary stimulus program.  The greenback headed for its first weekly loss against the
17-nation currency since the start of February before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets next week to review its
bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing, or QE. The
euro rose against 12 of its 16 major counterparts as European
leaders paved way for a deal on financial assistance for Cyprus.
The pound erased gains versus the dollar after Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  said in a television interview he sees a
case for additional central-bank asset purchases.  “The dollar just ran away with the numbers, and this was
just coming back to reality,” Alfonso Esparza, senior currency
analyst in Toronto at the online currency trading firm Oanda
Corp., said in a telephone interview.  The dollar declined 0.6 percent to $1.3076 per euro at 5
p.m. in  New York , touching the lowest level since March 8. The
U.S. currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 95.28 yen.  Japan ’s
currency gained 0.3 percent to 124.58 per euro.  Zloty Falls  Poland’s currency fell against the euro after a more-than-
forecast slowdown in price growth fueled bets record-low
 interest rates  will be reduced further.  The zloty depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.1458 against the
euro.  Malaysia’s currency weakened 0.4 percent amid concern the
government will lose support in upcoming elections. The ringgit
fell to 3.1235 per dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, slid 0.6 percent to 82.138, after rising to
83.166 yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 3.  Fed policy makers indicated in December that an
“exceptionally low” target interest rate is appropriate as
long as inflation isn’t forecast to rise to more than 2.5
percent and unemployment stays above 6.5 percent.  U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, after a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain the
prior month, a Labor Department report showed today in
 Washington . The core CPI, excluding food and energy, also rose 2
percent from February 2012, following a 1.9 percent advance in
the prior 12 month period.  Fed View  “We think the Fed will keep doing what’s it’s doing for
now, and maybe start tapering its open-ended QE toward the end
of the year,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in
New York at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a telephone interview.
“In terms of the dollar weakness, I think it’s more just risk-
on.”  The CPI was up 0.7 percent last month, the first increase
in four months and the biggest since June 2009. The median
forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.5
percent rise. The surge in gasoline accounted for almost 75
percent of last month’s total price advance.  “Even as economic indicators improve, I expect the Fed to
continue monetary easing” and that will weigh on the dollar,
said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist at Mizuho Securities
Co. in  Tokyo . “There isn’t inflation concern yet in the U.S.”  Market Measure  The dollar has appreciated 2.5 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro rose 1.5 percent and the
yen slumped 7.6 percent.  The euro gained for a second day versus the yen after
European political chiefs paved the way for finance ministers to
construct a rescue package for Cyprus, which requested a bailout
in June. A deal on aid has been delayed by debate on how to cut
the island nation’s debt.  Italy’s new lawmakers are scheduled to meet for the first
time to begin electing leaders of both chambers, following an
inconclusive vote on Feb. 24-25 for members of parliament. Party
leaders will seek to build a majority and form a government.  “The news on Cyprus is taken as a positive steps and that
is providing some comfort for the euro,” said  Ian Stannard ,
head of European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London .
“The Italian parliament returns today and we expect some
progress in putting some kind of a government into place even it
will end up being a technocratic government at this stage.”  The pound rose to a one-week high against the dollar
earlier today as King said told ITV News yesterday that
“markets determine the level of  exchange rate , not us.”  The pound gained 0.2 percent versus the dollar to $1.5114
after climbing to $1.5177, the strongest level since March 5.
The currency has still dropped 5.5 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies after the yen,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Sterling has tumbled 3.7 percent against the greenback
since the start of last month. In that time, minutes of the  Bank
of England ’s February decision showed King and two other policy
makers were defeated in a push for more stimulus and Moody’s
Investors Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  