-- Dow Targets More Than $1.5 Billion From Sale of Assets
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-14T20:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/dow-targets-more-than-1-5-billion-from-sale-of-assets.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  plans to generate
$1.5 billion from selling assets including polypropylene-
producing technology as the biggest U.S. chemical maker focuses
on its most profitable units.  Dow plans to complete the sales in the next 18 months, the
Midland, Michigan-based company said today in a statement. The
divestitures exceed a forecast on Dec. 3, when Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Liveris  said the company expected to unload as
much as $1 billion of assets.  Liveris is paring Dow’s operations after announcing in
October that it would cut 5 percent of its workers, close plants
and defer investments. Liveris said in December that the moves
were aimed at boosting adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization to $10 billion a year in “the
near term,” a goal that dates back to 2009.  “We are reviewing our entire portfolio and seeking even
further opportunities to optimize value: selectively pruning
assets that are no longer a strategic or financial fit,”
Liveris said in today’s statement.  Financial information on the units to be marketed won’t be
released, said Nancy Lamb, a Dow spokeswoman.  Dow plans to sell the polypropylene licensing and catalyst
business, which includes the Unipol process used for
polypropylene production. The most likely buyers are W.R. Grace
& Co.,  Albemarle Corp. (ALB) ,  BASF SE (BAS)  and  LyondellBasell Industries
NV (LYB) , Laurence Alexander, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies &
Co., said in a note today. The unit should sell for at least 9
times to 10 times Ebitda, he said.  The plastics additives unit also is among the planned
divestitures. The business supplies additives such as acrylic
polymers, processing aids and impact modifiers for products used
in construction, packaging, electronics and auto parts, Lamb
said.  Dow rose 1.4 percent to $33.67 at the close in  New York .  Dow’s adjusted Ebitda fell to $7.45 billion last year, from
$8.39 billion in 2011, the company said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  