-- Drug Deficit Turning India’s Claris Into Target: Real M&A
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-03-15T13:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/drug-deficit-turning-india-s-claris-into-target-real-m-a.html
Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (CLAR)  may be the
next takeover target among Indian injectable-drug producers as a
 shortage  of medicines in the U.S. prompts buyers to seek
companies with approved manufacturing facilities.  Claris could fetch more than double its  $223 million  market
value as of yesterday, based on the median multiple of 4.1 times
sales paid for Indian pharmaceutical companies in the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Ahmedabad-
based company may draw the interest of  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , said India Infoline Ltd., a
Mumbai-based financial-services firm.  Mylan Inc.  agreed last month to buy Bangalore-based  Strides
Arcolab Ltd. (STR) ’s injectable-drug unit for $1.6 billion, paying the
highest sales multiple ever for an Indian pharmaceutical
company, the data show. That transaction was struck as the U.S.
government seeks to alleviate a shortage of medicines.
Purchasing Claris is a faster solution for a drug company than
the years it could take to win U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval for a new facility, Centrum Broking Ltd. said.  Claris has “a ready-made facility,” Ranjit Kapadia, an
analyst at Centrum Broking in Mumbai, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a scarcity of injectable facilities in the
global space, and in the U.S. there’s a shortage of injectable
products, so this may lead to an acquisition.”  Today, shares of Claris surged 4.8 percent to 199.3 rupees,
the highest closing price in a month. The stock has climbed 34
percent in the past 12 months,  outperforming  the 9.9 percent
gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index.  Injectable Focus  Mit Desai, a spokesman for Claris, declined to comment on
the prospects of a takeover in an e-mailed reply to questions.  The company’s shares began trading in 2010 following a 2.88
billion rupees ($53 million) initial public offering. Carlyle
Group LP, the second-largest private-equity firm by assets,
 invested  $20 million in 2006 and still has an 11 percent stake,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Carlyle declined to
comment on a potential sale of the business.  Claris trimmed down last year, agreeing to sell 80 percent
of its business that makes antibiotics, plasma and nutritional
products to  Japan ’s Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Inc. and
Mitsui & Co. Claris  said  the sale frees it up to focus on
injectable drugs.  The company has zeroed in on injectable drugs at the same
time the U.S. is experiencing insufficient supplies of some
medicines. The recall last year of hundreds of products from
Westborough, Massachusetts-based Ameridose LLC, a compounding
pharmacy associated with a meningitis outbreak, may have
exacerbated the situation, U.S. regulators said in November. The
FDA won additional powers to help resolve the problem last year.  U.S. Approvals  With five manufacturing facilities at its Ahmedabad campus
and approval to ship drugs to the U.S., Claris’s decision to
focus on injectable treatments has proved smart, said Bino Pathiparampil, an analyst at  India  Infoline in Mumbai.  “Injectables was a less commoditized area, but it was much
more capital intensive,” he said by phone. With the FDA
shutting down facilities, companies that still have the agency’s
approval are being rewarded, he said.  Manufacturing injectable drugs requires sterile facilities
to protect against unwanted contaminants, and the FDA has
cracked down on manufacturers that fail to meet its safety
requirements. The agency’s office of manufacturing and product
quality sent 22  warning letters  in 2012, up from 19 the previous
year, according to its website.  Claris Violation  Claris was itself barred from selling its products in the
U.S. after the FDA found it was producing contaminated drugs and
failed to fully investigate the cause, according to a 2010
 warning letter  from the agency. Claris was told in August 2012
that it had  addressed  the complaints and was allowed to resume
U.S. sales. Last month, it got FDA approval for its ninth drug.  The complexity of the manufacturing process means rivals
can’t switch quickly to produce medicines that are in short
supply, making it difficult to plug shortages, the FDA says on
its  website . Currently, 241 drugs -- most of them injectable
medicines -- are in short supply, according to a  list  on the
website of the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists.  This explains why companies seeking to make injectable
drugs are better off buying facilities that have already been
approved, creating an opportunity for Indian drugmakers such as
Claris, according to Centrum’s Kapadia.  Already Scouting  “If you try to start off building a facility that is FDA-
compliant, you’d probably take another two to three years,”
Bhavin Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst at Dolat Capital Market
Ltd., said in a phone interview. “It’s difficult for anybody to
have a consistent, compliant asset in their balance sheet, keep
the quality intact, and play the opportunity when it’s right.”  Claris has a window of opportunity to fetch the highest
possible price as drugmakers seek acquisitions to drive growth,
said India Infoline’s Pathiparampil.  “I would think they would already be scouting for deals,”
Pathiparampil said, referring to Claris. “If they get a good
price, they should sell.”  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , agreed in
February to buy Agila Specialties, the injectable-drug unit of
Strides Arcolab. New York-based Pfizer, the world’s largest
drugmaker, was among companies that considered purchasing the
division, people with knowledge of the matter said in January.  Likely buyers of Claris are either generic drug makers,
including Teva Pharmaceuticals, or drugmakers like Pfizer that
have exclusive rights to products, Pathiparampil said. The
market for injectable medicines will grow 13 percent annually
from 2011 to 2017, according to Mylan, the world’s second-
biggest generic drug maker.  Teva’s Plans  Teva Pharmaceuticals, the 112-year-old drugmaker based in
Petach Tikva,  Israel , said in a Dec. 11  presentation  it had
earmarked $10 billion over the next five years for business
development, including “small- to mid-size” deals.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, didn’t reply to a
voicemail left at her office seeking comment on a possible
acquisition of Claris.  Trupti Deepak Wagh, a representative for Pfizer, said in an
e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Other possible buyers of Claris are companies in need of
low-cost manufacturing sites, said Centrum’s Kapadia, who
declined to name any suitors.  Mylan is paying 6.3 times Agila’s 2012 sales of $255
million, according to data from Strides Arcolab. The multiple
paid, which doesn’t reflect additional payments of as much as
$250 million that Mylan may make, is higher than in every other
foreign purchase of an Indian pharmaceutical company valued at
more than $100 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deal Multiples  The median multiple of enterprise value to sales for the
deals struck in the past five years was 4.1, the data show.
Excluding Mylan’s recent bid, six injectable-drug assets sold
worldwide since 2003 have fetched a median multiple of 4.7,
according to Ernst & Young.  “Claris can become a target, but it will not get the kind
of value Strides has got,” Hitesh Mahida, an analyst at Fortune
Equity Brokers in Mumbai, said in a phone interview. “There is
only one Strides in India. Other companies don’t have the kind
of portfolio or the type of pipeline which Strides had.”  Agila had the highest number of injectable-medicine
approvals for generic drugs from the FDA, with 32 won between
2008 and 2010, according to the company. Claris has FDA
permission for nine drugs.  Still, even if it fetches the median multiple of 4.1 from
recent industry takeovers in India, Claris’s equity would be
valued at about 27.8 billion rupees, or $511 million, about
twice the current amount, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dolat
Capital’s Shah said Claris may fetch between 3 and 4 times
sales, while Centrum’s Kapadia expects 5 to 7 times.  “It’s a low-cost manufacturing base; it’s U.S. FDA-
approved,” he said of Claris. “That’s the most important thing
-- from day one you can start production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  