-- Dubai Islamic Perpetual Bond Price Beats Estimates on Yield Hunt
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-03-14T10:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/dubai-islamic-perpetual-bond-price-beats-estimates-on-yield-hunt.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  priced its
$1 billion perpetual sukuk lower than investors estimated as the
lender benefited from demand for Shariah-compliant debt.  The biggest Islamic lender in the United Arab Emirates paid
a profit rate of 6.25 percent on its perpetual sukuk with an
orderbook in excess of $14 billion, the bank said yesterday.
Investors estimated the lender would pay between 6.5 percent and
7.14 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Dubai Islamic Bank should be very pleased, there was
obviously strong demand,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief
executive officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd. “Primarily it
was a hunt for yield. There aren’t too many sukuk out there
paying 6 percent anymore.”  Global demand for Shariah-compliant debt is growing, with
Islamic financial assets set to double to as much as $3 trillion
by 2015, Standard & Poor’s estimates show. The yield on  Abu
Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB)  hybrid perpetual sukuk sold in November
was at 6.28 percent today, data compiled by Bloomberg show  Banks in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council are
seeking to build their Tier-1 capital ratios as they attract
deposits and extend loans to support state investment programs
and retail demand. Dubai Islamic Bank said on March 5 its
shareholders approved raising as much as $1 billion to boost its
Tier-1 capital, which includes common stock, retained earnings,
and perpetual preferred stock and debt.  Loan Quality  Moody’s Investors Service placed Dubai Islamic Bank on
ratings watch for a possible cut in December because loan
quality “remains very weak compared to peers” and the bank
hasn’t set aside enough money to cover losses. The lender is
seeking to absorb bad loans stemming from a property crash that
sent Dubai home prices tumbling more than 65 percent. Tier 1
capital is the core resources needed to cushion against losses.  “The transaction, which was subscribed to by a variety of
investors from across Asia,  Europe  and the Middle East, will
allow the bank to shore its capital base,” Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Adnan Chilwan said in a statement. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc, Emirates NBD Capital,
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  and Dubai Islamic Bank itself
were joint lead managers of the sale.  The bank, which is taking over mortgage lender  Tamweel
PJSC (TAMWEEL) , last issued sukuk in May, when it raised $500 million from
the sale of five-year securities at a coupon of 4.752 percent.
The yield on those notes has since fallen to 3.45 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield on financial sukuk in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council tumbled to a record 2.52 percent Jan. 23,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Financial Services US
Dollar Sukuk Index. The yield was at 2.66 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  