-- Tea Party Joins Allies Urging Republican Donors to Shun Rove
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-03-14T22:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/tea-party-joins-allies-urging-republican-donors-to-shun-rove.html
Tea Party leaders and Republican
activists renewed their attacks on political strategist  Karl Rove  today, seeking to dissuade donors from backing his effort
to help candidates he views as electable win Republican
primaries.  “Mr. Rove and his allies must stop blaming conservatives
for his disastrous results” in recent campaigns, said a letter
that aims to discourage contributions to the Conservative
Victory Project that Rove has formed.  The letter was sent to major donors to the American
Crossroads super-political action committee, a group previously
created with Rove’s assistance. The 18 people signing the
letters include Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of the anti-tax
Tea Party Patriots, Tony Perkins, president of the Family
Research Council, former Ohio secretary of state Ken Blackwell,
and ForAmerica Chairman L. Brent Bozell.  American Crossroads and its sister nonprofit, Crossroads
GPS, spent more than $175 million in 2012 in independent efforts
supporting the Republican bid to oust President  Barack Obama  and
take control of the  U.S. Senate . Obama won re-election and
Democrats expanded their control of the Senate by two seats.  Rove, 62, last month announced the formation of the victory
project group. Jonathan Collegio, its spokesman, said in an e-
mail at the time that Republicans lost some Senate races last
year and in 2010 because of “undisciplined candidates running
bad campaigns,” and that new group “seeks to help elect the
most conservative candidates in Republican primaries who can win
in general elections.”  The move sparked immediate criticism that Rove was
attempting to play kingmaker.  ‘Stop Posturing’  Today’s letter said Rove must “take ownership of his
record,” and “also stop posturing himself as a conservative --
his record supporting wasteful  government spending  and moderate
candidates over conservatives spans decades.”  Collegio, in a response, said in an e-mail that the new
group is “relentlessly focused on stopping President Obama’s
agenda, winning a conservative majority in the Senate and
expanding the conservative majority in the House.”  Rove shepherded  George W. Bush ’s political career and
served in his White House as deputy chief of staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 