-- ECB Says Euro-Area Economy to Gradually Recover Later in 2013
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/ecb-says-euro-area-economy-to-gradually-recover-later-in-2013.html
The  European Central Bank  said the
economy should gradually recover later this year, aided by its
loose monetary policy.  Contained inflation expectations allow monetary policy “to
remain accommodative,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its
monthly bulletin published today. “Later in 2013 economic
activity should gradually recover, supported by a strengthening
of global demand and our accommodative monetary policy stance.”  The ECB cut its forecasts last week and now expects the 17-
nation euro-area economy to contract 0.5 percent this year
before growing 1 percent in 2014. It sees inflation slowing to
1.3 percent next year, well below its 2 percent limit.  While officials discussed cutting borrowing costs last
week, the “prevailing consensus” was to leave the benchmark
rate unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent, ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said on March 7.  Risks to the economic outlook remain on the downside and
inflation risks are broadly balanced, the ECB reiterated in
today’s bulletin.  While Draghi indicated in February that the strength of the
euro posed a downside risk to inflation, he omitted such remarks
at last week’s press conference and said that the euro is
broadly in line with its long-term average.  Concerns that low borrowing costs aren’t being properly
transmitted to small and medium-sized companies in some nations
have stoked speculation that the ECB may introduce additional
measures to encourage bank lending. “We always think and study
and reflect, but we are not committing to or planning anything
special,” Draghi said last week.  The ECB’s Governing Council “is closely monitoring
conditions in the money market and their potential impact on the
stance of monetary policy and the functioning of the
transmission of its monetary policy to the economy,” the
central bank said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  