-- Echostar’s Sling Media Seeks to Block Imports of Web TV Devices
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-14T18:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/echostar-s-sling-media-seeks-to-block-imports-of-web-tv-devices.html
EchoStar Corp. (SATS) ’s Sling Media, whose
gadgets lets users watch live television shows on their mobile
devices, filed a U.S. trade complaint seeking to keep its
competitors out of the burgeoning market.  Sling Media claims  Belkin International Inc. ’s @TV Plus and
@TV Premium and  Monsoon Multimedia Inc. ’s Vulkano and HAVA
devices are using a technology it invented called place-shifting
technology, which allows media stored on one device to be
accessed on another. The company contends its rivals infringe
six patents.  The EchoStar unit makes the  Slingbox , a device that lets
customers get their pay-TV channels “slung” to laptops,
smartphones and tablet computers. The patented inventions are
incorporated in the company’s new Slingbox 350 and Slingbox 500,
as well as  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s Hopper With Sling set-top box.  “Sling Media has invested tens of millions of dollars in
research and development,” the company said in the complaint
filed with the U.S. International Trade Commission. “Sling
Media’s continued success depends in substantial part on its
ability to establish, maintain and protect its proprietary
technology through enforcement of its  patent rights .”  Rachel Jones-Pittier, a spokeswoman for Playa Vista,
California-based Belkin, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment. A phone message left with FortyThree
PR, an agency that handles press inquiries for Monsoon according
to the technology company’s website, also wasn’t immediately
returned.  Live Television  The ITC complaint, filed March 12 in  Washington , also
targets chips made by  San Jose , California-based C2 Microsystems
Inc. for the Belkin and Monsoon products. The company couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The devices allow consumers to watch their favorite show
when it airs without being tied to the television or waiting for
it to become available on cable companies’ on-demand services.
 Charlie Ergen , chairman of Englewood, Colorado-based EchoStar,
bought Sling Media in 2007 and has used it as part of a strategy
to push the satellite-technology company and Dish, which he also
runs, into Internet and on-demand services.  Sling Media also filed a civil suit against closely held
Belkin and Monsoon in January over some of the same patents.
That case is pending.  Made in China  In addition to its Vulkano devices,  San Mateo , California-
based Monsoon makes circuit boards that are used in Belkin
products, according to the complaint. Sling Media said the
Monsoon and Belkin products are made in  China .  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency that investigates
allegations of unfair trade practices, including patent
infringement, and has the power to block products from entering
the U.S. It typically completes investigations in 15 to 18
months.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
Having Placeshifting or Display Replication Functionality and
Products Containing Same, Complaint No. 2943, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  