-- Teck Seen as Bidder as Rio Plots Exit From Canadian Iron
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-03-14T20:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/teck-seen-as-bidder-as-rio-plots-exit-from-canadian-iron.html
A hunt for acquisitions by  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK)  is likely leading to a bid for Iron Ore Co. of
 Canada , the country’s largest producer of the steelmaking
ingredient.  Teck, Canada’s largest diversified mining company is ready
to look for “opportunities,” the Vancouver-based company’s
Chief Executive Officer Don Lindsay said March 4 during the
annual Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada
convention.  “We have a balance sheet to die for,” he told guests in
the ballroom of the Fairmont Royal York hotel in Toronto, noting
that Teck isn’t among the mining companies that have announced
about $50 billion in asset writedowns in the past year after
takeovers turned sour.  Iron Ore Co. is a perfect target for Teck because it
exports to  Asia , would strengthen Teck’s ties with existing
steelmaking customers and help lessen its reliance on coal and
copper, said Laurence Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle
Investment Research in Fox Island,  Washington .  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , owner of a controlling interest in Iron
Ore Co., hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce to sell all or part of the 59 percent stake, a
person close to the matter said March 1. Rio’s stake in Iron Ore
Co. is valued at $1.8 billion, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG said
in a March 8 note.  Asian Exports  “Teck would be my number-one candidate for taking a run at
the IOC assets,” said  John Goldsmith , deputy head of equities
at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. in Toronto, which manages
about C$5.2 billion ($5.1 billion). A bid would “be consistent
with what they’ve said in the past in terms of getting into
other bulk commodities.”  Chris Stannell, a Teck spokesman, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation about mergers or acquisitions. A Rio
spokesman declined to comment.  Iron Ore Co. operations are located in Labrador City,
Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada’s easternmost province. About
a quarter of its output is shipped to steel mills in Asia, the
Pacific region and the  Middle East . Its owns a 420-kilometer
(261-mile) railway and port on the Gulf of St. Lawrence.  The unit has sufficient reserves to last 30 years at
current production rates and sales were about C$1.8 billion in
2012, according to  Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corp. (LIF) , which  owns 
15 percent of the producer.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  has a 26 percent
stake.  Rio Cuts  The possible sale of Iron Ore Co. comes two months after
Rio fired CEO Tom Albanese following a $14 billion writedown on
the value of takeovers. His successor,  Sam Walsh , said last
month he’ll continue with asset sales to reduce the London-based
company’s costs and strengthen its balance sheet.  “All the majors are looking at their asset portfolio and
seeing what’s non-core and looking to dump the assets they don’t
think are core,” Ken Hoffman, a Princeton, New Jersey-based
senior analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said yesterday by
telephone from  Belo Horizonte ,  Brazil .  While Rio is busy selling assets, Teck has repeatedly said
it’s interested in acquisitions. The company has kept most of
its cash in recent years, completing five purchases worth a
combined $505 million in the past four years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  As of Dec. 31, Teck had C$3.27 billion of cash, up from
C$1.33 billion in 2009. Teck is rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB by  Standard & Poor’s .  Teck’s Sales  Coal and copper accounted for 75 percent of Teck’s 2012
sales, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Zinc and energy
revenue accounted for the rest.  “We’ve talked about in the past that  iron ore  would be a
good fit for our portfolio, and it really would, for all sorts
of good reasons,” Teck CEO Lindsay, 54, said Feb. 7 on a
conference call.  “Values have come down,” he said. “There’s a few new
assets that have become available.”  Valuations for iron ore producers have fallen amid weaker
commodity prices and slower demand growth. The Bloomberg World
Mining Index is trading at about 20 times earnings, compared
with a  multiple  of 27 three years ago.  Teck fell 0.8 percent to C$30.10 in Toronto. The shares
have dropped 14 percent in the past 12 months, while the S&P/TSX
Materials Index has declined 15 percent.  Asian Producer  Iron Ore Co. may not be the best opportunity for Teck, said
Shane Nagle, a Toronto-based analyst at  National Bank of Canada. (NA) 
Teck already ships metallurgical coal from  Vancouver  across the
Pacific to Asian buyers. An iron-ore producer closer to Asia,
such as Australia’s  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , may make more
sense, he said.  Yvonne Ball, a spokeswoman for Fortescue, didn’t
immediately return a call from  Bloomberg News  for comment
outside of normal business hours.  Teck doesn’t want to jeopardize its ratings by taking on
too much debt for acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer Ron Millos said Feb. 7.  S&P cut the company’s long-term foreign issuer credit
rating to BB+ in March 2009 from BBB-, the year after Teck
acquired Fording Canadian Coal Trust for C$10.4 billion. The
deal, Teck’s biggest, was completed just as commodity prices
collapsed during the financial crisis and left the company
struggling with debt repayments. Teck temporarily suspended its
dividend and in 2009 sold a 17 percent stake in the company to
China Investment Corp.  Potential Bidders  Other potential bidders for Iron Ore Co. include the
province of Quebec and Cleveland, Ohio-based  Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc. (CLF) , according to Credit Suisse in a March 4 note.
Pat Persico, a spokeswoman for Cliffs, declined to comment on
the speculation. Genivieve Heon, a spokeswoman for Quebec’s
Ministry of Natural Resources, didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment.  Interest also may come from Asian steelmakers who have
established a presence in the so-called Labrador Trough
geological belt that straddles Newfoundland and Labrador and its
neighboring province of Quebec, said Adam Low, a Toronto-based
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc.  Labrador Iron Ore Royalty, with a market value of C$2.31
billion, may be a potential takeover target. As well as its 15
percent stake in Iron Ore Co., it collects a 7-cent payment on
every dollar of revenue generated by the producer and has two
seats on its board.  Teck is a potential buyer which may put the royalty at
risk. Labrador Iron Ore CEOBruce Bone didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  “If you’re a mining company, like Teck, and you’re trying
to mine for profit, rather than securing supply to your  steel
mills , then perhaps eliminating that 7 percent royalty off the
top becomes a lot more important,” Low said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  