-- Meet the Man Who Showed Us Romney’s Hidden Side
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2013-03-14T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/meet-the-man-who-showed-us-romney-s-hidden-side.html
History sometimes has a way of
tying itself up with a little bow. That’s the way I felt in
January when I introduced Scott Prouty, the bartender-turned-
videographer who helped sink  Mitt Romney ’s presidential
campaign, to Teddy Goff, the 28-year-old director of digital
media for President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  Prouty was a new source. After scratching at the story for
weeks as part of research for a  new book , I had convinced him to
meet me in  Washington  in January. I wanted him to tell me
everything he could about  recording  Romney at the now-famous
 Boca Raton  fundraiser where the Republican candidate said that
47 percent of Americans were “victims” who wouldn’t “take
personal responsibility and care for their lives.” David Corn of
Mother Jones broke the original story; I wanted the back story.  Goff is the kind of young campaign worker whose competence
and dedication caused the president to shed tears at his Chicago
headquarters the day after the election. The aide had cracked
the code on Internet fundraising, helping take the Obama
campaign from $15 million a month in online donations in the
spring to more than $150 million a month in the fall, with an
average donation of just $65.  The night after our first meeting, I ran into Prouty and
his girlfriend at an inaugural ball. I asked if he wanted to
meet someone from the Obama campaign. He had been given tickets
to the inauguration and the ball by friends at the  United
Steelworkers  of America; he had never met or even corresponded
with anyone from the campaign or the White House.  Bartending Videographer  Prouty said he wanted to say hello -- he had become an
Obama fan -- but asked that I not reveal his name or that he was
the bartender who shot the  images  in Boca Raton. He was still
uncomfortable with the idea of becoming a public figure and
worried that his old friends at the Florida catering company
where he worked would suffer repercussions.  Goff and his family were floored when they met Prouty, and
they promised to keep their mouths shut. Goff’s mother gushed,
“You changed the campaign! You changed history!”  Indeed, he did. We’ll never know for sure whether the
president would have been re-elected without the footage, which
crystallized perceptions of Romney as callous and unconcerned
about almost half of the people he sought to lead. Obama was
already ahead in battleground states before the feeding frenzy
over the video and had a much better digital strategy and field
organization.  But a fortnight later, the president lost the first debate
to Romney. It could be argued that he needed the cushion of the
47 percent imbroglio (and a good answer about it at the end of
the second debate) to regain momentum.  To me, this unanswerable question was less compelling than
finding out Prouty’s motivation and how he fit into the “makers
versus takers” theme of the campaign. As I researched his past,
he seemed to be who he said he was: A blue-collar guy from
Quincy,  Massachusetts , whose life experiences equipped him with
unusual empathy.  Prouty, who looked as if he was straight out of the white,
middle-aged male demographic that voted overwhelmingly for
Romney, described himself as a registered independent. Except
for attending one demonstration against the  Iraq war , he hadn’t
been politically active, and his actions weren’t driven by a
grudge against Romney. He did put a big memory card in his Canon
camera before working the bar at the Boca Raton event, convinced
he might hear something different than what he saw on
television.  Barbed Wire  As Romney talked, Prouty wasn’t most offended by the
candidate’s comments on the 47 percent that later got all the
attention. He was more disturbed by Romney’s retelling of a tour
of a Chinese appliance factory that he said was surrounded by
barbed-wire fences and guard towers and where young female
workers were stacked “12 to a room” and paid “a pittance.”  “I was waiting for him to say, ‘And I knocked down those
fences and improved the working conditions and it became more
profitable because of it,’” Prouty told me. “But he never did.”  Instead, he said Romney seemed to suggest it was a good
investment.  For two weeks, Prouty agonized over whether to post the
recording. Finally, he looked in the mirror in the middle of the
night and said to himself: “You [expletive] coward.”  The next day, under the assumed identity of a young Chinese
female worker and the pseudonym Anne-onymous, he began posting
short clips of the China portion of Romney’s remarks, with
details darkened so that they weren’t traceable to the $50,000-
a-head fundraiser.  Prouty made contact with Corn after the journalist  reported 
that, in 1998, Brookside Capital Partners Fund, an affiliate of
Bain Capital Partners LLC, which was run by Romney, bought 6.13
percent of Hong Kong-based Global-Tech Appliances. Prouty
thought Global-Tech sounded just like the appliance factory
Romney described at the fundraiser, though Romney’s campaign
refused to comment.  After the furor last September, Prouty quit his job,
delisted his phone number and hid. He wasn’t sure what to do
with the rest of his life.  As I was leaving the inaugural ball that night, I suspected
that Prouty wouldn’t stay underground until the publication of
my book in June. Sure enough,  Ed Shultz  scooped me March 13 when
Prouty surfaced on his MSNBC show.  My guess is that he went public because he needs a job, and
I expect he’ll get one with the Pittsburgh-based Institute for
Global Labour and  Human Rights , a United Steelworkers-backed
nonprofit known for accusing the talk-show host Kathie Lee Gifford in 1996 of manufacturing her clothing line in
sweatshops.  The institute, which sent undercover investigators to
Global-Tech after seeing the clips posted by Anne-onymous, is
the perfect place for Prouty, who can move from bartending to
helping expose inhumane working conditions around the world.  He’s a humble guy and isn’t looking to cash in. He now
takes his rightful place as an important footnote in U.S.
history.  (Jonathan Alter is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” His book,
“The Center Holds: Obama and His Enemies,” will be published in
early June. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jonathan Alter  at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 