-- Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood Condemns UN Report on Women
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-03-14T15:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-condemns-un-report-on-women.html
Egypt ’s  Muslim Brotherhood , the
country’s largest Islamist movement, criticized a  United Nations 
report that aimed to end violence against women and girls,
saying it violates principles of Islamic law.  The Brotherhood, the movement from which Egypt’s President
Mohamed Mursi hails, sent a 10-point critique of a document
being drafted at a meeting of the UN  Commission on the Status of
Women  in  New York . The text is due to be formally adopted when
the session ends tomorrow.  Russia ,  Iran  and the Holy See have
also expressed objections.  “The Muslim Brotherhood calls on leaders of Islamic
countries, their foreign ministers and representatives in the
United Nations to reject and condemn this document,” the group
said in a  statement.  It urged the UN “to rise up to the high
morals and principles of family relations prescribed by Islam.”  The growing power of the Brotherhood since the overthrow of
 Hosni Mubarak  in 2011 has raised concerns Egypt may adopt
religiously motivated laws that would curtail freedoms,
especially for women and Christians. Persistent protests against
Mursi and the Brotherhood have frequently erupted into violence,
eroding political stability and hopes of reviving an economy
suffering from the flight of tourists and investors.  While the Brotherhood’s response to the UN document
“doesn’t represent a shift in policy” from the Mubarak era,
“it will still hurt Egypt’s image,” said Karim El Assir, an
analyst at the Signet Institute, a research center in Cairo.  ‘Deceptive’ Theme  “It backs up fears that the Muslim Brotherhood is more
conservative and more Islamist, which is also associated with
more conservative values on  women’s rights ,” El Assir said.  The  primary theme  of the commission’s 57th session was the
“elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against
women and girls.”  The Brotherhood described the theme of the conference as
“deceptive,” saying it violated Islamic principles. The UN
document seeks to destroy the institution of family, which
Egypt’s constitution confirmed as the basis of society, the
group said.  Among the 10 points the Brotherhood said it opposed were
resolutions to ensure women’s rights to complain of marital
rape; promote equal inheritance rights and equal rights between
men and women within the family; and allow Muslim women to marry
non-Muslims. It also criticized recommendations to abolish the
need for male permission for travel, work or use contraception,
according to the statement.  Sexual Assault  The Brotherhood also criticized what it said were UN
recommendations to give a woman the right to choose the gender
of her partner, raise the marriage age and legalize abortion.  Russia, Iran, and the  Holy See , seat of the newly elected
Pope Francis, also opposed the document, according to a senior
UN diplomat, who asked not to be identified as the discussions
have not been finalized.  For Iran and the Holy See, like Egypt, the objections are
on religious grounds, while in the case of Russia, which has low
birth rates, it may be an attempt by President  Vladimir Putin  to
gain traction with the conservative Russian Orthodox Church, a
second UN official, present at the discussions, said on
condition of anonymity.  Ten Arab civil society organizations from Egypt, Tunisia,
 Palestine , Lebanon and Jordan published a  statement  today
expressing concern over their countries’ role in the UN
negotiations. “Our governments are increasingly using arguments
based on religion, culture, tradition or nationality to justify
violence,” the statement said.  Rape Cases  An increase in cases of rape and sexual harassment of women
in public locations in Cairo in recent months led  Michelle Bachelet , the top UN official for  gender equality , to express
“deep concern” in a January statement.  Volunteer groups in Cairo that seek to protect women
protesters reported 29 assaults in  Tahrir Square  on Jan. 25,
when thousands rallied to mark the second anniversary of the
uprising against Mubarak.  The state-run National Council for Women is drafting
legislation to criminalize sexual harassment and assault. A 2008
study by the Egyptian Center for Women’s Rights said 62 percent
of men acknowledged sexually harassing women, and 53 percent
said women who are subject to such offenses “bring it on.”  The council, which is participating in the New York
conference, said on its website today that the Brotherhood’s
comments are “baseless.” The document is still under
discussion and the argument that it violates the principles of
Islamic law is “deceptive” and a misuse of religion to settle
scores with the UN and limit women’s rights, it said.  Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  in October said Egypt’s
transition to democracy will be in part measured by the status
of women in the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  