-- HeidelbergCement Debt Falls More Than Expected on Higher Profit
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-03-14T06:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/heidelbergcement-debt-falls-more-than-expected-on-higher-profit.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  said debt
declined more than expected last year as improved earnings
covered dividends and repayments, bringing the German company
closer to reclaiming investment grade status.  Borrowings declined 700 million euros to 7 billion euros,
the company said today. Analysts had predicted 7.4
billion euros, on average.  Chief Executive Officer Bernd Scheifele had been targeting
the net debt reduction to 7 billion euros. The Heidelberg,
Germany-based company lost its investment grade in 2008 after
buying Hanson for $18 billion and suffering a near 100 percent
drop in profit amid the onslaught of the financial crisis. The
company forecast a “significant” improvement in profit this year.  “In 2012, we took the next consistent step towards
reaching our strategic goals,” Scheifele said in today’s
statement. “A major contributing factor was the significant
increase in free cash flow.”  HeidelbergCement is regaining ground, with some investors
speculating the cement maker will now benefit from the
strengthening U.S. construction industry.  The company, which makes about 25 percent of its sales in
North America, is graded Ba1, the highest junk ranking, by
Moody’s Investors Service. It is rated an equivalent BB+ by
Fitch Ratings. An “acceleration in the improvement in credit
metrics” may justify an upgrade, Fitch said Dec. 17.  A dividend of 0.47 euros was proposed to investors, missing
the 0.50 euro average analyst estimate.  HeidelbergCement has raised its cost-cutting target for the
three years to the end of 2013 to 1.01 billion euros, of which
240 million will be realized this year. It reduced net debt in
the third quarter by almost 10 percent, and beat its spending-
reduction target by 21 percent. The rebound in U.S. housing was
“pivotal” in meeting targets, Group Tresurer Henner Boettcher
told Bloomberg last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  