-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Asian Valuations as Jobs Lift ETF
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-14T22:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/emerging-market-stocks-drop-as-china-index-falls-10-from-peak.html
Emerging-market equities dropped
for a fourth day, the longest losing streak in five weeks, as
declines in Philippine and Indonesian stocks outweighed an
unexpected drop in American jobless claims.  Bank of the Philippine Islands  fell 4 percent in  Manila ,
sending the nation’s benchmark index to its longest stretch of
losses in almost three months. PT  Indofood Sukses Makmur (INDF)  sank
the most since June.  OGX (OGXP3)  Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
Brazil’s biggest decliner this year, rose the most in a week
after declaring three fields commercial. The iShares MSCI
 Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund and Mexican stocks rose.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.1 percent to
1,047.70 in New York. Philippine stocks traded at 21.9 times
reported profit March 11, the most expensive level since 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indonesian shares were
valued at 19.4 times March 8, the most since 2010.  “We have been leading gains in Asia for some time, so
people are bound to take some money off the table,” Mark Canizares, who helps manage $1.5 billion as head of equities at
Manulife Philippines, said by phone from Manila.  Stocks pared losses after government data showed that the
number of people filing claims for U.S. unemployment benefits
averaged 346,750 over the past four weeks, the lowest level
since March 2008. The iShares ETF added 0.4 percent to $43.16 in
New York, the first day of gains this week. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 3 percent to 16.11.  ‘More Favorable’  “These jobless claims lead us to a more favorable
conclusion that the economy is growing,” said  Robert Lutts , the
president and chief investment officer at Cabot Money Management
Inc., which oversees $500 million in Salem, Massachusetts.  Five out of 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated as consumer discretionary and staples shares had the
biggest losses. The broader measure has slipped 0.7 percent this
year and trades at 11 times  estimated  12-month earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
multiple of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index of developed-nation
shares, which has climbed 7.6 percent in 2013.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  sank 1.2 percent, the
biggest loss among Asian benchmark gauges, while the Jakarta
Composite index declined 1 percent.  Bank of the Philippine
Islands (BPI) , the nation’s biggest lender by market value, fell the
most since Jan. 31 while Indofood sank 4.5 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell a third day, declining 0.2
percent. OGX, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , gained 0.8
percent in  Sao Paulo . The Rio de Janeiro-based explorer
yesterday announced up to 1.3 billion barrels of oil in place at
the Tubarao Tigre, Tubarao Gato and Tubarao Areia fields it
declared commercial in the Campos Basin.  Poland’s WIG20 Index led gains in eastern Europe rising to
the highest level since Feb. 1.  PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s biggest power
utility, rose 4.2 percent after saying it will review investment
projects to adapt to “shifting market conditions.”  Russia’s  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  gained 0.2 percent.  OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,
Russia’s second-biggest natural-gas producer, rallied for the
first time in four days after winning a license for a new field
in the Arctic.  The Shanghai Composite rose 0.3 percent, snapping a five-
day drop. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 0.6
percent after earlier falling more than 10 percent from its Feb.
1 peak.  China Resources Gas Group Ltd. (1193)  climbed to a record after
posting higher earnings.  Vipshop Holdings  Chinese stocks rebounded from a three-month low in New
York, led by Vipshop Holdings Ltd., on optimism the nation’s new
leaders will focus on boosting consumption to fuel economic
growth. The online fashion discounter rallied 7.9 percent after
raising $96 million selling shares.  India’s  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  added 1.1 percent, led by banks and
consumer companies.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s
largest non-state-owned lenders, climbed more than 2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined 2 basis point, or 0.02
percentage point, to 281 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  