-- Merkel Rides Pro-Growth Bandwagon as EU Loosens Budget Shackles
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-03-14T17:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/merkel-rides-pro-growth-bandwagon-as-eu-loosens-budget-shackles.html
European leaders are loosening the
shackles on national budgets as the euro-area recession deepens
and unemployment climbs, with pro-growth calls coming even from
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the leader most closely
associated with austerity.  Merkel went into a European Union summit today urging a
stepped-up fight against youth unemployment, now over 50 percent
in  Greece  and  Spain , and skipped the appeal to fiscal discipline
that has been her standard message throughout the debt crisis.  “We will have one focus above all: the fight against youth
unemployment,” Merkel told reporters before the 27 national
leaders gathered in Brussels. “We passed a growth pact last
summer and what matters now is putting life into this growth
pact. The money is there, we have to get the money to the people
so young people in  Europe  get jobs.”  The euro zone’s continued economic slump has shoved aside
the financial crisis as the bloc’s biggest headache, leading the
EU to push back deficit-reduction deadlines and making it
perilous for politicians to wrap themselves in the flag of
austerity.  Caretaker Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  found out that
budget cutting can be a career-ender when he managed only 10
percent of the vote in an election last month. He arrived at his
last EU summit calling for “margins for flexibility” on
budgets. Merkel is running for a third term in September.  Bond Yields  European leaders are cloaking the easing up on the
budgetary reins in language designed to reassure investors who
have driven bond yields lower since mid-2012. Balanced budgets
remain the goal and large-scale spending programs or bond issues
aren’t on the agenda.  A milestone toward overcoming the debt crisis came
yesterday, when Ireland sold 10-year bonds for the first time
since its bailout in 2010. The relative calm in markets was
barely disturbed by the election in  Italy , which still hasn’t
produced a government.  With growth and jobs the dominant theme, officials in
Brussels and national capitals said that an aid package for the
next problem country, Cyprus, doesn’t even need to be discussed
at the summit. It will be dealt with tomorrow at a separate
meeting of euro-area finance ministers that starts about 5 p.m.  Thousands of protesters against budget cuts and the
perceived dictates of financial markets converged on the
meetings, carrying banners saying “European Austerity =
Misery.” About 10,000 people gathered by a park close to the
summit, Brussels police said.  Economic Contraction  The 17-nation currency region will follow last year’s 0.6
percent contraction by shrinking 0.3 percent in 2013, the first
back-to-back decline since the euro’s debut in 1999, the
 European Commission  forecasts. It sees bloc-wide unemployment at
12.2 percent in 2013, with joblessness as high as 27 percent in
Greece and 26.9 percent in Spain.  Leaders will endorse the commission’s plans to make
“structural” assessments of national budgets, according to a
draft statement, using code for granting countries such as
 France , Spain and Portugal extra time to bring down deficits.  “We have to restore sound and sustainable public finances,
via continued differentiated fiscal consolidation and focused on
structural efforts,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said at a
pre-summit briefing.  In a nod to Italy, the draft statement said euro-area rules
provide space for “productive public investment” by countries
with deficits under the limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product. Italy was one of eight euro states to pass that test
last year.  Budget Pressure  Pressure remains on France, Italy and the countries tapping
emergency financial aid to make their economies more productive
by reducing labor costs and deregulating professions. The
commission, the Brussels-based enforcer of the budget rules,
fended off attacks from southern Europe that it has been too
strict and parried warnings from northern Europe that it is
becoming too lax.  “The simple allegation that the commission pursues
austerity inflexibly does not hold,”  Marco Buti  and Nicolas
Carnot of the commission’s economics department said in a  policy
paper  yesterday. “Nor obviously does the opposite accusation
that the framework is being weakened.”  German officials have backed the commission’s approach,
indicating that the Berlin leadership is sensitive to criticisms
that budget cutting has gone too far. A “pro-growth” bias may
even play to Merkel’s advantage, enabling her to siphon votes
away from the opposition  Social Democrats  -- and potentially
forge a coalition with them if dictated by the election outcome
in September.  Extra Time  Greece, Portugal and Spain were granted extra deficit-
reduction time last year, with the permission of  Germany  and
other governments. More extensions may come “in the near
future,” the two officials wrote. Portugal is set for another
respite, the commission’s president,  Jose Barroso , told Expresso
newspaper last week.  France is counting on estimates that it has made sufficient
reductions in the “structural” deficit -- a figure that
factors out the effect of the economic cycle -- to escape a
European order to cut more.  “If there is too much austerity, there will be too much
unemployment,” French President  Francois Hollande  said.
“Flexibility is necessary if we want to make growth the
priority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Brussels at   fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  