-- Ethanol RINs Aren’t Raising Gasoline Prices, RFA’s Dinneen Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-03-14T18:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/ethanol-rins-aren-t-raising-gasoline-prices-rfa-s-dinneen-says.html
Record prices for Renewable
Identification Numbers aren’t causing more expensive gasoline
prices at the pump, Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable
Fuels Association, said.  The value of RINs, which are used to help the Environmental
Protection Agency track compliance with federal biofuel policy,
touched a record $1.06 for the corn-based ethanol variety on
March 8, compared with 7.1 cents on Jan. 7, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ethanol advocates and oil interests differ over the impact
of the higher RINs values and their effect on gasoline prices.
The American Petroleum Institute said March 8 that its members
can’t blend more ethanol into gasoline and that fuel shortages
may occur if the U.S. doesn’t repeal the Renewable Fuels
Standard.  “There is no way that the opaque marketplace for RINs is
driving up the cost of gasoline today,” Dinneen said on a
conference call with reporters from  Washington , where the
 ethanol advocacy group  is based.  Conventional RINs for corn-based ethanol rose 12 percent to
86.5 cents yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show, while
advanced RINs, which include biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-
derived ethanol, dropped 5.4 percent to 87.5 cents. Both
certificates reached records on March 8.  Dinneen said refiners are using RINs to create “hysteria”
and “undermine” the 2007 energy law that requires the U.S. to
consume 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this year and 14.4
billion in 2014.  Tracking Fuel  RINs are attached to each gallon of ethanol produced. Once
ethanol is blended with gasoline, refiners can keep the
certificate to show compliance with the mandate or trade it.
There are about 2.5 billion RINs available, Dinneen said.  Ethanol is mixed into gasoline and sold at filling stations
in a formula of 10 percent additive and the rest motor fuel.
Ethanol  production  last week averaged 797,000 barrels a day, or
12.2 billion gallons on an annual basis, the lowest level for
the period in records going back to June 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Tom Buis, chief executive officer of Growth Energy, a
Washington-based renewable fuels trade group, said refiners can
sell higher concentrations of the fuel to ease RIN prices and
meet the government requirements.  The EPA in 2011 granted an industry request to allow 15
percent ethanol in gasoline, a mix known as E-15, for vehicles
made after 2001.  AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization, has said
that more testing of the fuel is needed and the American
Petroleum Institute and other groups last month said they
petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn the EPA’s
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  