-- EU Carbon Fix in Energy Report Survives Rejection Attempt
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-14T17:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/eu-carbon-fix-in-energy-report-survives-rejection-attempt-1-.html
The European Parliament upheld by a
margin of three votes a non-binding recommendation for
regulators to tackle oversupply of carbon permits in the world’s
biggest market.  Carbon prices surged as much as 20 percent after members of
the Parliament voted 292 to 289 with 32 abstentions today to
keep a reference to a carbon-market intervention in the
assembly’s report on the European Union’s energy policy through
2050. The decision came before the 754-seat assembly’s vote
scheduled for April 16 on a separate measure drafted by the
European Commission that would enable delaying auctions of some
carbon allowances to reduce a record glut in the market that
pushed prices to all-time lows.  The European  People’s Party , the biggest political group in
the Parliament, was seeking to remove from the report a call on
the commission to amend “if appropriate” the carbon-permit
auctioning regulation “in order to implement appropriate
measures which may include withholding the necessary amount of
allowances.” The party is split on the commission’s legal
proposal to alter the auctioning timeline in the 54 billion euro
($70 billion) market, highlighting the controversy over the plan
known as backloading, which has also divided governments and
industry.  April Vote  “Today’s ballot confirms just how tight the April vote is
likely to be,” said Itamar Orlandi, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  London . “The margin of only three votes can
easily be tipped given 173 members have not expressed their
opinion because of abstentions or absence. That is far too
narrow for backloading proponents to be  comfortable .”  Social Democrats  in the Parliament cast 146 votes to keep
the reference to a carbon fix in report today, most among
political groups in the assembly. Greens and Liberals cast 53
votes each to uphold the supply-curbs call on EU regulators.  EU carbon permits for delivery in December rose to as high
as 4.23 euros and were up 7.7 percent at 3.79 euros on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange as of 4:39 p.m. in London.  A plenary debate on the first element of the backloading
strategy, or a draft amendment to the EU emissions trading law
to enable carbon-permit supply curbs, is scheduled for April 15
and a vote will take place the following day, according to the
Parliament’s legal database. Should the Parliament issue a
positive opinion about the proposal, representatives of the
assembly and national governments will start negotiations about
the legal change that eventually needs their approval in further
votes to be held in the coming months.  Second Element  After a potential deal on the legal amendment has been
reached, representatives of  member states  will get the  green
light  to vote on the second element of backloading, or a measure
to delay 900 million of carbon allowances from 2013-2015 to
2019-2020. To be implemented, the plan needs a qualified
majority from member states in an EU weighted-ballot system that
favors larger nations.  While there are more supporters than opponents of
backloading among member, the backing is short of 255 out of 345
votes needed for the measure to pass as several nations,
including  Germany , remain undecided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  