-- EU Said to Plan Concession on Tax Credits as Bank Capital
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-03-15T11:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/eu-said-to-plan-tax-credits-concession-in-rules-on-bank-capital.html
The European Union plans to give
banks longer to prepare for rules restricting the use of tax
credits as part of their capital, four people with direct
knowledge of its negotiations said.  The Basel 3 regulations will stop European banks from using
so-called deferred tax assets, or losses they can write off
against tax, for more than 10 percent of their capital base. The
EU plans to double the period that lenders have to implement the
change to 10 years, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Tax credits already account for about 10 percent, or 105
billion euros ($136 billion), of the core Tier 1 capital of
banks assessed under the continent’s July 2011 stress tests,
though some lenders’ levels are far higher, according to the
 European Banking Authority . European governments lobbied to
extend the tax-credits change because it may encourage foreign
banks to buy their most troubled lenders, the people said.  “A relaxation of the rules on deferred tax assets as part
of  capital ratios  would make it easier for banks which incurred
losses during the credit crisis,” said Gregory Turnbull Schwartz, an Edinburgh-based  fund manager  at Kames Capital Plc,
which manages 52 billion pounds ($79 billion) of assets
including European bank bonds. “However, it would not make the
banks any more sound and may in fact be detrimental, as banks
would appear better capitalized, but the quality of that capital
would be poorer.”  Phasing Out  The extension refers only to existing deferred tax assets
and will be phased out gradually over the 10-year period, the
people with knowledge of the EU negotiations said. European
policy makers are discussing how to implement the Basel banking
standards published by regulators in 2010 as part of global
efforts to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.  “The treatment of deferred tax assets” by the EU “is
fully in line with Basel 3 guidelines,” Stefaan De Rynck, a
Brussels-based spokesman for the European Commission, wrote in
an e-mail. “For existing deferred tax assets, however, the EU
legislators agreed to foresee a longer phasing-in of the
deduction period,” he said, without confirming how long that
period will be.  Deirdre Farrell, a spokeswoman for Ireland’s rotating
presidency of the EU, declined to comment.  Ratings companies typically strip out tax credits when
assessing banks because of their limited ability to absorb
losses compared with other forms of capital such as stock and
certain junior debt.  Standard & Poor’s  discounted 3.7 billion
euros of  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) ’s tax credits when rating the
Dublin-based bank in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  