-- EuroCCP-EMCF to Merge, Forming Pan-European Clearinghouse
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-03-14T13:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/euroccp-emcf-to-merge-forming-pan-european-clearinghouse.html
EuroCCP , the European unit of the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., and European Multilateral
Clearing Facility NV, plan to merge to form the biggest pan-
European clearinghouse.  The combined company, which will be called EuroCCP, will be
based in Amsterdam. Diana Chan, chief executive officer of
London-based EuroCCP, will retain that role at the new firm, she
said in a phone interview today. Jan Booij, CEO of EMCF, will be
chief operating officer. Financial terms of the transaction
weren’t disclosed.  EuroCCP clears stocks across 19 markets, including Bats
 Europe , Stockholm-based Burgundy and  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE) ’s Turquoise. Competition in equity clearing arrived in
Europe with alternative trading systems in 2007, driving down
costs of buying and selling securities and processing the
transactions. As volumes have shrunk, alternative trading
systems have combined or shut down. EuroCCP and EMCF previously
held talks in 2010, without reaching an agreement.  “This combination will simplify the clearing landscape and
result in a more robust central counterparty,” Chan said today.
“We will involve market participants and there’s the
possibility of additional entities joining in the future. This
is a structure that will welcome additional shareholders.”  The new clearinghouse will be owned equally by four
shareholders.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and ABN Amro Clearing Bank,
both shareholders in EMCF, will own half and New York-based DTCC
and Bats Chi-X Europe Ltd. will hold the rest.  Clearinghouses act as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, protecting them if
other traders default.  EuroCCP and EMCF compete in Europe with London-based
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s largest securities
clearinghouse, and SIX x-clear Ltd., the clearinghouse owned by
 Switzerland ’s SIX Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  