-- Lew Says He Is Optimistic About Agreement Over U.S. Budget
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-03-14T21:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/lew-says-he-is-optimistic-about-agreement-over-u-s-budget.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew expressed optimism the Obama administration and Republicans
can reach a budget agreement and warned that the lack of a deal
would hurt the economy and job growth.  “I actually have found it heartening that as more and more
senators and congressmen look at the details, they’re finding
that on many of the things there’s room for us to maybe agree,”
Lew said in an interview with  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg Television
today. While both sides see the “contours” of an agreement,
“we just can’t quite figure out a way to get there.”  During a day trip to the Atlanta area, his first venture
outside Washington as Treasury secretary, Lew toured a
manufacturing facility of Munich-based Siemens AG and held
private talks with local business people. His department
announced he’ll travel to China next week for discussions with
new government leaders in Beijing.  President  Barack Obama ’s first meeting with the House
Republican conference in three years yesterday produced no
agreements in the quest for a deal on debt reduction amid
skepticism from lawmakers about his intentions.  Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner , spoke of
a frank and positive tone among the president and members of
their caucus. Still, they voiced disappointment over Obama’s
opposition to their plan to balance the U.S. budget in a decade
and his insistence on another tax increase as the price for
overhauling entitlement programs such as Medicare.  Revenue ‘Movement’  “With some movement on revenue, there is room for the
parties to get together. Ironically, at the end of the year,
beginning of the year, December-January, we were very close,”
Lew said. “So we need to get back to the spirit in which just a
few months ago there was a bipartisan understanding that we
could broaden the base and raise” revenue, he said.  “We can get there,” Lew said. He said estimates that
sequestration would cut economic growth this year by 0.5
percentage point and cost 750,000 jobs are giving politicians an
incentive to act. “I think that’s why these conversations are
going on,” he said. “It’s where there’s an interest on both
sides.”  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts, to begin this year and be spread over nine years,
as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit. The
reductions are to be split almost evenly between defense and
non-defense spending.  The spending cuts are intended to shrink the  federal budget 
deficit, which has exceeded $1 trillion in each of the past four
years. The reductions were intended to be so onerous that
Congress and the president wouldn’t let them occur and would
come up with a plan to replace them.  Dow Record  Forecasts that the cuts, known as sequestration, would hurt
the economy haven’t deterred investors. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  extended the longest rally since 1996 as U.S. jobless
claims unexpectedly dropped. The Dow added 0.6 percent in its
10th straight gain to close at 14,539.14.  Asked about the potential for a so-called currency war
among developed and emerging economies, Lew signaled little
change from his predecessor’s view on exchange rates.  “It’s obviously very important that currency be determined
through the market, not that we be in a place where currencies
are being set in other ways,” Lew said. Recent Group of 20
statements “made clear that our position is one that’s shared,
and we’re going to continue to advocate that.”  Dollar Policy  In a separate interview with CNBC, he repeated the
Treasury’s stance that a strong dollar is “in America’s
interest” and “will continue to be our policy.”  Lew, who had told members of Congress earlier this year
that addressing  China ’s exchange rate would be his “top
priority,” is going to Beijing next week on his first
international visit as head of the Treasury.  “We have a very important relationship with the Chinese.
They have a new government that’s in place now. We have many new
people in our government,” Lew said today. “It’s important
that we engage immediately on a broad range of issues because
it’s important to each of us to have that conversation.”  During his first press conference as Treasury chief earlier
today, Lew said no company is above the law and that the
department will continue to implement the Dodd-Frank law
designed to keep taxpayers from paying for the mistakes of
financial companies.  Dodd-Frank Intent  “No one and no company is above the law, and we need to
enforce our laws so that we protect the American people,” Lew
told reporters at the Siemens facility in Alpharetta,  Georgia .
“We’re going to complete the implementation of Dodd-Frank and
we will continue to implement all the laws that we have.”‪  Lew was responding to a question about U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder’s comments last week that the size of the
largest financial institutions makes it difficult for the
 Justice Department  to bring criminal charges when there’s
wrongdoing.  Lew also met with a group of Atlanta-area executives to
discuss topics including their concern over fiscal policy, the
economy and immigration, said Sam Williams, president of the
Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce.  “Business people talked about the things you have written
about: From businesses’s point of view, that corporations are
uncertain as to what the political future is so they are keeping
their cash” and investing less, he said.  There was “a lot of discussion” of immigration, and Lew
spent most of the session hearing the issues raised by the
attendees, Williams said.  “The secretary was here mainly to listen. Out of the hour,
he talked for maybe 10-12 minutes and he asked people to ask
questions,” Williams said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  