-- Ex-Web Producer Charged in Anonymous Hack of Tribune Site
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-15T23:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/ex-web-producer-charged-in-anonymous-hack-of-tribune-site.html
A former Web producer for a  Tribune
Co (TRBAA) .-owned television station in  Sacramento ,  California , was
accused by federal prosecutors of conspiring with the hacker
group “Anonymous” to break into a Tribune news website.  Matthew Keys, 26, of Secaucus,  New Jersey , was charged in
an indictment yesterday with providing log-in credentials to
Anonymous members for a computer server belonging to Tribune,
the  Justice Department  said in a statement. Prosecutors said
Keys, formerly the Web producer for KTXL Fox 40 in Sacramento
and now deputy social media editor at Thomson Reuters Corp.,
encouraged Anonymous members to disrupt the website.  One hacker used the credentials to log into the server and
make changes to the Web version of a Los Angeles Times story,
the Justice Department said. Tribune owns the newspaper. Keys,
after allegedly trying to help the hacker when he was initially
unsuccessful with the login, learned that he made changes to
content on the site and wrote “nice” in an Internet chat-room
conversation, according to the statement. He was terminated by
Fox 40 in October 2010.  The station learned that its e-mail contact list, located
on a company server in  Los Angeles , had been compromised in
December 2010, according to an FBI affidavit. The station’s news
producer began receiving unsolicited e-mails from someone
claiming to have the e-mail addresses of Fox 40’s customers.  Potential Suspect  The producer told the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  that
Keys, who had been let go a month before the hacking, was a
potential suspect, according to the affidavit.  Tor Ekeland, a lawyer for Keys, said in a phone interview
that he maintains his client’s innocence and looks forward to
“contesting these charges in court.” He said his client has
been suspended with pay from Reuters.  Anonymous is a loosely affiliated group of computer hackers
who have claimed responsibility for computer crimes including
intrusions and denial-of-service attacks on the websites of
Amazon.com Inc. and PayPal Inc., among others.  Keys is charged with one count each of conspiracy to
transmit information to damage a protected computer,
transmitting information to damage a protected computer, and
attempted transmission of information to damage a protected
computer.  The two latter counts each carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in prison and a $250,000 fine, prosecutors said. An April
12 arraignment is scheduled in federal court in Sacramento.  Keys didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on the charges.  News Employee  David Girardin, a  Thomson Reuters  spokesman, said in a e-
mailed statement that the company is “aware of the charges.”  Keys joined the Reuters news organization last year,
according to the statement.  “Any legal violations, or failures to comply with the
company’s own strict set of principles and standards, can result
in disciplinary action,” Girardin said. He said the company
declined to comment on specifics of the case.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  Nancy Sullivan, a Los Angeles Times spokeswoman, also
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Keys, 13-cr-00082, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  