-- Mexico’s Peso Volatility Hits Five-Month High Amid Price Surges
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-14T19:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/mexico-s-peso-advances-as-u-s-jobs-data-bolster-export-outlook.html
Volatility in Mexico’s peso
increased to a five-month high as prospects for a  Standard &
Poor’s  rating upgrade and telecommunications-industry overhaul
drove up the currency’s value over the past week.  One-month historical volatility, a gauge of the magnitude
of the peso’s fluctuations over the period, is at the highest
level since Oct. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Over the past five sessions the peso has gained 2.1 percent, the
most among 17 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  S&P raised the outlook on the nation’s BBB rating to
positive on March 12, saying in a statement that the country was
improving its “economic resiliency.” A day earlier, President
Enrique Pena Nieto unveiled a bill that gives regulators the
power to break up phone and television companies to foster
competition in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  It’s been “one-sided” volatility,  Pedro Tuesta , the chief
economist at 4Cast Inc., said in a telephone interview from
 Washington . “We had the telecom reform, we had the S&P outlook
upgrade.”  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent today to 12.4570 per
 U.S. dollar  as of 2:49 p.m. in Mexico City, the first decline in
six days.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.91 percent today, after yesterday
falling to a record low 4.88 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.38 centavo to 145.42 centavos per
peso today.  A report earlier today showed U.S. jobless claims declined
unexpectedly, adding to signs of improvement for the Latin
American country’s biggest export market.  Mexico  sends about 80
percent of its exports to the U.S.  “The liquidity dried up a little bit despite the good data
point this morning,” Roberto Galvan, a currency trader at
Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s part of an adjustment in portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  