-- Lexus Chases Mercedes as Sporty $89,000 LS Adds Luxury
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-03-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/lexus-chases-mercedes-as-sporty-89-000-ls-adds-luxury.html
I was stuck in the mother of all
traffic jams while test-driving  Lexus (7203) ’s reworked, range-topping
executive sedan. And I was counting my lucky stars.  The inside of the $75,800, all-wheel-drive LS 460 F Sport
is a most agreeable place. A leather lair separated me from the
horn-honking hoi polloi and the trucker who kept switching lanes
in slow motion. (Yeah, the other non-moving lane is surely
faster).  As I crept-crept-crept along, I had plenty of time to take
in the finely grained cowhide and the finish of the dark wood on
the steering wheel.  It got me thinking that no matter how fantastic your new
car looks, most of the time you won’t be the one appreciating
the bling on the grill or the design of the LED headlamps.  Nope, you’ll be stuck inside, so you better enjoy your
car’s interior. And, boy, Lexus does it right on this sedan.  Still, Lexus has long been known for nice cockpits and
might prefer you notice the remodeled exterior, as the 2013  LS
460 F Sport  marks a new beginning for Lexus’s long-running
sedan. The LS has a much more aggressive face, as well as a
reworked suspension and steering components.  The entire Lexus line is being revamped to make the
vehicles sportier and more interesting to drive.  This comes from a directive by Toyota Motor Corp.’s chief
executive officer and president,  Akio Toyoda , who loves fast
cars. He spearheaded the development of Lexus’s first-ever
supercar, the $400,000 LFA, which recently ceased production.  Spindle Grill  The most obvious manifestation of the more compelling
approach to design is found on the new front of the LS, GS and
ES sedans. The company calls it a “spindle grill.” I’m not
sure what the name refers to -- it doesn’t look like something
you’d wind wool onto -- but there’s no mistaking one from 10
paces away.  It is distinctive, and looks surprisingly at home on the
nose of the big-boned LS. This is suddenly a car with a lot more
presence than earlier models.  The rear-wheel-drive LS 460 starts at $72,800. An extra
$10,000 gets you a long-wheelbase, all-wheel-drive model. And
those who really love riding in the back seat can go hog wild
with a long-wheelbase hybrid version called the LS 600h L
($120,800).  My test model cost $89,479 in all, including a newly-available F Sport package with added visual bite and a whiff of
greater sportiness.  Power Rating  The $7,860 package doesn’t upgrade the engine,
unfortunately. It has the LS 460’s standard 4.6-liter V-8 with
386 horsepower. Worse, all-wheel-drive models actually have less
power, at 360 hp.  Compare that to the 429 horses on the Mercedes-Benz S550
sedan or the 445 hp on the BMW 750i, and the LS 460 seems a bit
wan. Nonetheless,  Lexus  says the rear-wheel drive will hit 60
miles per hour in 5.4 seconds, more than acceptable for most
drivers. (The AWD takes a leisurely six seconds.)  The F Sport package does get you better bolstered seats,
aluminum pedals, upgraded Brembo brakes, a limited slip
differential and summer performance tires.  Fortunately, since I was driving on icy roads, my car was
shod with winter tires. They produce more road noise than
regular rubber, but the trade-off is worthwhile. (An ice-related
accident was the cause of the massive traffic jam.)  Like the AWD, the LS was sure and confident. The eight-speed automatic transmission is excellent, and the suspension is
just firm enough to corner well without seeming harsh. Driving
the LS is pleasurable if not quite thrilling.  Interior Quality  Which brings me back to the interior. Quality counts most
on things you touch every day. It’s the small details that bring
joy over time, not necessarily the upgraded aluminum rims or
special metallic paint.  Designers spent a lot of time thinking about the interior
of the LS, and craftsman obviously took great care carrying out
that vision.  The leather work on the LS shows a mastery of stitching and
subdued patterns. The convergence of shapes in the door panels
is calming to the eye. Edges line up precisely with wood and
aluminum accents (all real, too).  I even obsessed over the interior door pulls. The
undersides of the handles were covered in contoured leather,
supremely pleasing to the touch. A minor detail you’d never
notice on an initial test drive, but a tiny pleasure you’ll
relish every time you close the door.  My only real gripe was the seating position. My head nearly
brushed the Alcantara roof lining.  The LS is nominally a sportier, more engaging car. Still,
it is those long commutes in traffic jams when buyers will most
appreciate its cocoon-like charms.  The 2013 Lexus LS 460 F Sport AWD at a Glance  Engine: 4.6-liter V-8 with 360 horsepower and 347 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in six seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city, 23 highway.  Price as tested: $89,479.  Best feature: Oh, the comfort!  Worst feature: Less power on the all-wheel-drive.  Target buyer: The daily commuter looking for serenity.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Richard
Vines  on food,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 