-- Flaherty Says Next Canada Budget to Be March 21
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-14T18:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/flaherty-says-next-canada-budget-to-be-march-21.html
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty will
deliver the next  federal budget  on March 21, saying he will
still eliminate a deficit by 2015 even with signs of slower
economic growth.  The fiscal plan will be presented in Ottawa at about 4
p.m., Flaherty said, adding that private economists last week
gave him forecasts for gross domestic  product  through next year
that are “a little more pessimistic.”  “It’s an interim concern, it’s not a long-term concern in
terms of real GDP growth,” Flaherty said at a press conference
today in Ottawa. “Our target is to balance the budget in 2015.
We remain on target.”  Canada’s growth forecast for this year was cut to 1.6
percent in a Bloomberg economist survey published today, slower
than the 1.8 percent predicted last month and less than the Bank
of Canada’s January estimate of 2 percent. Flaherty said in
November he would eliminate the deficit by clamping down on
spending even as he  pared  revenue projections by C$36 billion
($35 billion) over five years.  Canada is the only Group of Seven country with a stable top
debt rating from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings.  Keeping the rating and signs of slower growth have helped
hold down government borrowing costs. Economists in the
Bloomberg survey pared their forecast for two-year bond yields
to 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter, down from 1.55 percent a
month ago.  Later Increases  The central bank’s key interest rate will remain 1 percent
until the third quarter of 2014, according to the Bloomberg
economist survey. That’s two quarters later than the survey done
last month, the biggest delay since November 2011.  Flaherty has pledged not to reduce transfers to individuals
and provinces, or raise taxes other than closing loopholes.
Instead, he is focusing on the C$120 billion Canada’s government
spends on operating and capital expenses, which represents less
than half of his total program spending.  The governing Conservatives already have been working to
reduce the state payroll by about 19,000 workers, a pledge made
in last year’s  budget . This year’s fiscal plans will include the
findings of a newly formed cabinet committee, led by Treasury
Board President Tony Clement, delegated to uncover additional
savings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  