-- Florida Top Court Affirms Ruling Enabling Tobacco Suits
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-14T22:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/florida-top-court-affirms-ruling-enabling-tobacco-suits.html
The Florida Supreme Court
reaffirmed its 2006 “Engle” ruling that made it easier for
thousands of smokers to sue tobacco companies for smoking-
related illnesses.  Florida’s high court today upheld a $2.5 million award to
the family of a deceased smoker against  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s
Philip Morris USA,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco and  Vector Group Ltd. (VGR) ’s Liggett unit. The verdict was
won by James Douglas, whose wife, Charlotte Douglas, died in
2008 of lung cancer at the age of 62.  The court, in a 6-1 decision, rejected arguments by the
tobacco companies that its ruling in the Engle case violated
their constitutional right to due process of law.  “We decline the defendants’ invitation to rewrite Engle,”
Chief Justice Ricky Polston said in an opinion on behalf of a
majority of the court.  In the 2006 ruling, Florida’s highest court decertified a
statewide class action and threw out a $145 billion punitive
damage verdict against the industry. At the same time, the court
endorsed many jury findings in the case, including that the
companies were negligent, conspired to hide information about
the dangers of smoking and sold defective products. The court
also ruled that individual class members could sue and could use
the jury findings in their cases.  Companies’ Argument  The industry has argued that the ruling improperly
restricts their ability to defend themselves at trial. Four of
the seven current members of Florida’s Supreme Court were
appointed after the Engle case was decided.  The ruling is known as the Engle decision after Howard Engle, the lead plaintiff in the case filed in 1994 on behalf of
Florida smokers who were addicted to nicotine and developed
cancer, heart disease and other illnesses. Engle, a Florida
pediatrician, died in 2009.  Philip Morris, the biggest U.S. cigarette maker, said in
its annual report last month that it faces about 4,800 post-
Engle smoker claims in federal and state courts in Florida. No.
2 Reynolds is named in about 5,750, the company said in its
annual report last month.  The U.S. Supreme Court last year declined Reynolds’ request
that it review a $28.3 million verdict against it in an Engle
suit.  Further Appeals  Philip Morris, which is based in Richmond, Virginia, said
in a statement today that it plans to seek further court review
in the case. Bryan Hatchell, a spokesman for Winston Salem,
North Carolina-based Reynolds, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  Tobacco companies have lost hundreds of millions of dollars
in judgments in post-Engle cases, many of which are on appeal.  In the Douglas case, jurors awarded $5 million in damages
against the three tobacco companies. The amount was cut to
$2.5 million after the jury found  Charlotte  Douglas fifty-
percent responsible for her own injuries.  The case is Philip Morris v. Douglas, No. 12-617, Florida
Supreme Court (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  