-- Forint Resumes Worst Emerging-Market Slide After One-Day Rebound
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-14T10:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/forint-resumes-worst-emerging-market-slide-after-one-day-rebound.html
The forint resumed its slide after
a one-day reprieve as Hungary’s government failed to quell
concern it will push for lower interest rates and deepen a rift
with the European Union on constitutional changes.  The forint depreciated the most this month among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after Prime
Minister Viktor Orban called for a cut in interest rates,
announced plans to convert companies’ foreign-currency loans
while his lawmakers passed constitutional amendments criticized
by the European Commission, the U.S. and  Germany . The forint
gained from a nine-month low yesterday after Foreign Minister
Janos Martonyi said the Cabinet had no intention to weaken it.  “The currency market has remained under pressure primarily
as a result of concerns about monetary- and exchange-rate
policy,” Budapest-based analysts at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB
unit, including Mariann Trippon, wrote in a research report
today. “Plans to reduce the foreign-currency-debt burden
without announcing specific details of the methods to be used”
are also weighing on the exchange rate, CIB said.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 305.27 per euro by 9:59
a.m. in Budapest, extending its slump this month to 3.2 percent,
exceeding a 1.6 percent weakening of the South African rand and
1.5 percent decline of the South Korean won. Yields on the
government’s 10-year bonds were little changed at 6.583 percent,
the highest since Dec. 10.  Hungary ’s  industrial production  fell 1.4 percent in January
from a year ago as the country struggled to exit its second
recession in four years, data from the statistics office in
Budapest showed today.  Hungarian President Janos Ader will sign the constitutional
amendments approved by Parliament on March 11, Ader said in
comments broadcast on M1 television late yesterday, adding he’s
obliged to do so “regardless of whose taste that meets or
whether I like it or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  