-- France May Supply Arms to Syrian Rebels Without EU Accord
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-14T12:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/france-may-supply-arms-to-syrian-rebels-without-eu-accord.html
France  may start delivering weapons
to  Syria ’s anti-government rebels without agreement from its
European Union partners, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said.  There is an “imbalance” in Syria because Russia and  Iran 
are sending weapons to President Bashar al-Assad while rebels
lack arms to battle the government, Fabius said today on France
Info radio. France is working with the U.K. on the matter and
wants to move forward an EU meeting to discuss the 27-member
bloc’s embargo on sending arms to Syria, Fabius said.  The Syrian conflict has killed more than 70,000 people and
the United Nations said this month that 1 million refugees had
fled to Lebanon, Jordan,  Turkey  and other countries.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague told reporters in
 London  today that while Britain’s policy was largely similar to
France’s, it has no plans to send lethal weapons to the rebels.
“We are on the same page in many ways,” Hague said. “We have
no plans at the moment to do anything different to what I
announced in Parliament last week.” That included the provision
of armored vehicles and body armor.  “There is no such thing as non-lethal military aid,”
Brigadier Ben Barry, senior fellow for land warfare at the
 International Institute for Strategic Studies  and a former
officer in British army, told journalists in London today. “An
armored Land Rover supplied to the rebels could be used to move
casualties, but equally to move commanders in support of an
attack.”  Independent Action  Prime Minister David Cameron said two days ago he could
envision circumstances in which Britain might have to take
independent action in Syria if it was unable to reach agreement
with its European partners on future steps.  “It’s not out of the question that we might need to do
things in our own way,” Cameron told a committee of lawmakers.
“We have an independent foreign policy. If for instance, action
needed to be taken to bring about change in Syria, and we felt
our European partners were holding it back, we’d have to change
the approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  