-- French Unions, Business to Trim Pensions for Three Years
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-14T09:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/french-unions-business-to-trim-pensions-for-three-years.html
French unions and business leaders
agreed to cut increases in pensions to 14 million private-sector
workers to below the rate of inflation over the next three
years, helping trim the nation’s retirement system deficit.  Companies and 18 million employees will also increase their
payments into the pension system by 0.1 percentage point this
year and next. Together, the measures will save 3.1 billion
euros ($4 billion) by 2017, reducing the system’s deficit to
about 5.5 billion euros, according to the Medef business lobby.  “There’s an effort on the part of companies because their
contributions will increase slightly and there’s an effort for
employees,” Labor Minister Michel Sapin said today on French
television channel I-Tele.  The agreement shows how President  Francois Hollande  is
seeking to trim French social benefits that are among the most
generous in the world as he comes under pressure from his
European Union partners to cut the government’s  budget deficit 
and improve competitiveness.  Hollande is planning an overhaul of all state pensions in
coming months for which options include delinking payouts from
inflation and raising the  retirement age . An increase in the
retirement age would further reduce the deficit of the so-called
“complimentary” private-sector pensions dealt with by the
agreement reached between unions and the business lobbies late
yesterday.  Pensions will increase 0.5 percent this year for executives
and 0.8 percent for other workers under the accord, which has to
be ratified by three out of five unions as well as three French
business lobbies. The government expects inflation to be 1.8
percent in 2013. Increases in 2014 and 2015 will also be below
the rate of inflation.  “Asking retirees to take a smaller revaluation of their
income isn’t something we do happily,” said Jean-Francois Pilliard, a negotiator for Medef. “Nor is it with great
pleasure that we ask contributors to pay more but we’re in an
environment that demands tough decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  