-- Generali Reports Fourth-Quarter Loss After Writedowns Increase
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-14T06:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/generali-reports-fourth-quarter-loss-after-writedowns-increase.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (UCG) , Italy’s
biggest insurer, reported a loss for the fourth quarter after
1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) of writedowns on equity
holdings, including a stake in  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   The net loss of 1.04 billion euros compared with a profit
of 31 million euros a year earlier, the Trieste, Italy-based
insurer said in a statement today. The average estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a loss of 203 million
euros. Generali kept its dividend unchanged at 20 cents a share.  “The impairments follow the completion of the prudent and
detailed asset review and incorporate the impact of the group’s
decision to align its impairment criteria with international
best practice,” the company said in the statement. The firm
took a 148 million-euro writedown on Telecom Italia stake and
792 million euros on assets available for sale, it said.  Chief Executive Officer Mario Greco, who took over in
August, is seeking to convince investors he can revive profit
and boost capital by cutting costs, selling non-strategic assets
and targeting faster-growing  emerging markets . The company is
selling its U.S. life reinsurance business and Swiss asset-
management unit BSI Group as part of a plan approved in January.  Fourth-quarter operating income rose 12 percent to 928
million euros from a year earlier, boosted by the non-life
insurance segment. Non-life operating profit rose 41 percent to
505 million euros in the quarter. Operating income at its life
business declined to 462 million euros from 564 million euros.  Generali’s solvency ratio, a measure of an insurer’s
capacity to absorb losses, rose to 150 percent as of Dec. 31
from 140 percent at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  