-- German Economy May Grow 2.4% as Unemployment Drops, Experts Say
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-03-14T12:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/german-economy-may-grow-2-4-as-unemployment-drops-experts-say.html
The German economy,  Europe ’s
biggest, may grow as much as 2.4 percent next year as
unemployment declines, two of the country’s leading economic
research bodies said.  German growth will accelerate in 2014 from 1.3 percent in
2013, the Halle-based IWH institute and Kiel Economics said in a
joint forecast. Earlier today in a separate report, the Kiel-
based IfW institute said the expansion will speed to 1.5 percent
in 2014 from 0.6 percent this year.  “At the moment we have a very robust labor market,”
German Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Berlin. “We have the highest
employment rate since ever, actually we have 1 million vacant
jobs.”  With unemployment near a two-decade low and a shortage of
skilled labor, German workers won wage deals of as much as 6.5
percent last year, helping the economy recover from its fourth-
quarter slump. Retail sales rose the most in more than six years
in January as consumer sentiment improved.  Germany ’s unemployment rate will decline from 6.4 percent
this year to 5.7 percent in 2014, the IWH and Kiel Economics
said. The IfW institute said the rate will drop from 6.7 percent
to 6.6 percent.  Accelerating growth and declining unemployment will help
Germany reduce its budget shortfall, with Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  forecasting a balanced  federal budget ,
adjusted for one-time effects and swings in the economy.  Budget Surplus  Germany’s overall budget deficit, which includes state and
municipal finances as well as social-insurance coffers, will
turn into a surplus next year, with IWH and Kiel economics
predicting a surplus of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product
and the IfW institute forecasting a surplus of 0.3 percent.  The government has selected four economic institute groups
to provide twice-yearly, joint assessments of the economic
outlook. The eight organizations, grouped into four cooperating
units, are Munich’s Ifo institute with the KOF institute in
Zurich; the IfW institute in Kiel with the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research; the IW Halle institute with Kiel
Economics and Research Forecasting; and the RWI Essen institute
with the Institute for Hoehere Studien in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  