-- Gilat Says Hard to Plan Amid U.S. Cuts: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-14T23:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/gilat-says-hard-to-plan-amid-u-s-cuts-israel-overnight.html
U.S.  defense spending  cuts are
hindering  Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. (GILT)  from planning ahead in
the Israeli company’s largest market.  “The biggest concern is the uncertainty,” Chief Executive
Officer Erez Antebi said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York yesterday. “It’s very hard to plan.”  Gilat, the second-best performer among  Nasdaq
telecommunications (CUTL)  stocks since August, makes satellite Internet
connection systems that are also used by the military. The
company got 46 percent of revenue from the U.S. in 2011 and
sells its technology to companies including  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  U.S. defense programs face a $42.7 billion
reduction, according to Bloomberg Government estimates, after
automatic spending cuts came into effect March 1 amid a
political stalemate over how to reduce the  U.S. budget deficit .  Shares of Petach Tikva, Israel-based Gilat have slumped 1.8
percent since the $85.3 billion in total cuts known as
sequestration took effect. Gilat added 0.2 percent yesterday to
$5.55 in New York, as the Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Israeli companies in the U.S.increased 0.4
percent to 91.15. Partner Communications Co. and  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  led the gains.  As much as 20 percent of the satellite technology maker’s
sales come from defense-related projects, the company said. The
 U.S. Congress  let across-the-board budget cuts at the start of
the month, split evenly between defense and nondefense, proceed
because it couldn’t compromise on  deficit reduction .  Defense Deals  Gilat’s subsidiary, Wavestream, which makes transceivers
for in-flight communication, announced on Jan. 29 that it signed
a contract with Honeywell. In December, the Israeli satellite
company said a Southeast Asian navy will use its products and
services to upgrade ground operations.  Antebi said that while uncertainty lingers in the U.S.
markets, there’s still opportunity in the defense industry. “I
seriously think this market will grow significantly,” he said.
“The need for satellite broadband around the world is growing
so much in all these applications, that everybody needs it.”  Shares of the satellite technology developer lost 0.4
percent to 20.41 shekels in  Tel Aviv , the equivalent of $5.52.
Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index was little changed at 1,240.51.  Gilat has more than doubled in New York since hitting a
three-year low of $2.35 in early August. The company will
probably  report sales  of $86.1 million for the first quarter, a
12 percent increase from the prior year, according to the
average estimate of two analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Partner, Cellcom  Shares are trading at 20 times estimated earnings, near the
highest valuation in a year.  Partner, Israel’s second-largest mobile phone services
provider, advanced 5.8 percent to $6.05.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) ,
the nation’s largest, rose 1.9 percent to $7.85. The companies
have been among the three worst performers on the TA-25 Index in
the past 12 months after competition in the sector intensified.  “Even if 2013 will continue to be challenging, investors
feel worst of competition is over and price rationalization will
come sooner rather than later,” Zach Herzog, a Tel Aviv-based
analyst with Psagot Investment House Ltd., said yesterday.  In Tel Aviv, shares of  Partner (PTNR)  increased 2.9 percent to
21.64 shekels, the equivalent of $5.85, and Cellcom gained 2.4
percent to 28.94 shekels, or $7.84.  Teva Penalty  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  added 0.7 percent to
$41.06. The Petach Tikva, Israel-based company agreed to pay a
$2.25 million civil penalty to settle environmental violations.
Separately, Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh said Teva is
looking for “small” acquisitions. Shares in Tel Aviv rose 1.6
percent to 152.30 shekels, the equivalent of $41.22.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)  surged 5.6 percent to $7.49, the
highest in a month. The company said Israeli banks will extend
its existing loans’ maturity dates and cut principal payments
for 2013 and 2014.  “All they’ve done is extend the debt,”  Jay Srivatsa , an
analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC who rates Tower a buy,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “In some ways it’s good
because they don’t need to make a big payment right now, but at
the end of the day, it still remains on their balance sheet.”  Shares in Tel Aviv rallied 4.6 percent to 27.50 shekels, or
$7.44.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  