-- Glencore Said to Study Sale of Australia Malt Unit Joe White
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-03-14T17:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/glencore-said-to-consider-sale-of-australia-malt-unit-joe-white.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodity supplier, is considering a
sale of its Australian malt unit and is working with Bank of
America Corp., said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Joe White Maltings division, the biggest producer of
the grain in Australia, may draw interest from agricultural
companies including Ridley Corp. as well as brewers and private
equity firms, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified as the process is confidential. Glencore bought Joe
White as part of its C$6.1 billion ($5.9 billion) purchase of
Canada’s Viterra Inc. last year.  The Swiss trading company, led by Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Glasenberg, is trimming assets after expanding through
acquisitions such as the proposed $35 billion all-share takeover
of  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  Malting barley futures have dropped 7.3 percent
in the past year on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  “This is a business that Glencore has always been pretty
clear would be potentially seen as non-core within Viterra,”
 Jeff Largey , a mining analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London,
said today by phone. “The Viterra acquisition was really about
the grain handling and how that enhances Glencore’s agricultural
trading business.”  A spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore declined
to comment. Representatives for Viterra and Bank of America said
they couldn’t immediately comment, while Ridley CEO John Murray
wasn’t available, his assistant said.  Beer, Whiskey  Ridley, based in  Melbourne , provides rural services and
owns stockfeed mills that produce animal feed, according to its
 website . In November, it agreed to sell most of its Cheetham
Salt Ltd. unit to billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s CK Life Sciences
International (Holdings) Inc. for A$150 million ($155 million).
Ridley had A$517 million of assets as of June 30, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Viterra obtained the malt unit in 2009 as part of its A$1.6
billion purchase of ABB Grain Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest barley
exporter. Joe White produces more than 550,000 metric tons of
malt a year from seven plants, according to its  website .
Customers include brewers in Singapore, Japan,  Thailand ,
 Vietnam , South Korea and  Indonesia .  Malt, a form of barley, is used to brew alcoholic drinks
such as beer and whiskey. Australia accounts for about 32
percent of the world’s malting barley trade, according to Barley
Australia. The country produces more than 850,000 tons of malt
annually, with more than 500,000 tons exported, according to the
 group’s website .  Agrium, Richardson  Glencore is seeking to shed unwanted assets acquired as
part of the takeover of Viterra, which was completed in
December. It’s agreed to deals with  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and Richardson
International Ltd. for parts of the Viterra business for about
C$2.6 billion.  The sale of the various Canadian handling assets to
Richardson is expected to be completed this quarter. The
disposal of an agricultural-products business in Canada and
Australia to Agrium is likely to complete next quarter,
Glencore’s director of agricultural products Chris Mahoney said
this month.  An auction process for the sale of other so-called “non-
core assets” had started with sales likely to be completed this
year, he said.  The potential sale of the malt unit “is just one example
of Glencore combing through their portfolio and focusing on what
they view as core,” Macquarie’s Largey said. “It’s probably
something, when we think about the next step with Xstrata, where
those opportunities get even larger.”  Glencore rose 0.3 percent to 389.05 pence by the close in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  