-- Glencore Said to Study Purchase of Mechel Ferroalloys Assets
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-03-14T14:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/glencore-said-to-study-acquisition-of-mechel-ferroalloys-assets.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, is studying an
acquisition of ferroalloy assets held by  Russia ’s OAO  Mechel (MTLR) ,
according to three people with knowledge of the deliberations.  The two parties are yet to reach an agreement, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information isn’t
public. Glencore is mainly interested in the company’s assets in
Kazakhstan rather than in Russia, while Mechel is seeking to
divest the entire business, according to the people, who also
cited  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  as a possible bidder.  Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of steelmaking coal, is
seeking to sell assets at home, in Kazakhstan and in eastern
Europe to cut $9.3 billion of net debt after a drop in commodity
prices eroded profit. A deal would enable Baar, Switzerland-
based Glencore to further its ferroalloys expansion after buying
 Vale SA (VALE3) ’s European manganese-ferroalloys unit last year. ENRC
already produces ferroalloys in Kazakhstan.  Mechel’s division may be valued at as much as $550 million,
and the Kazakh assets at about $250 million to $300 million,
 George Buzhenitsa , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone
from Moscow. OJSC Chelyabinsk Electrometallurgical Plant may
also show interest, he said. Ferroalloys are alloys of iron used
to make steel.  Mechel shares pared a 2.3 percent decline to trade down 0.6 
percent at 162.20 rubles as of 6:34 p.m in Moscow. The company 
has lost 46 percent of its value during the past 12 months on 
debts and falling profit.  Mechel’s press service declined to comment. Spokesmen for
Glencore and ENRC also declined to comment. Calls to Chelyabinsk
Electrometallurgical Plant weren’t returned after normal
business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  