-- Gol’s Rebound Is Elusive as Airliners in Brazil Fly Empty
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-03-14T21:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/gol-rebound-elusive-as-jets-empty-corporate-brazil.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ’s
turnaround plan is faltering as the airline flies the emptiest
jets in Brazil.  Even after paring its schedule, Gol filled only 64.9
percent of available domestic seats in February, a peak summer
travel period because of Carnival.  Latam Airlines Group SA (LAN) ’s Tam
unit, Sao Paulo-based Gol’s biggest rival in Brazil, had a load
factor of 75.1 percent.  More cuts may be coming as Gol confronts losses that sent
the shares to a 3.6 percent 12-month drop through yesterday, the
third-worst among 19 Americas peers, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. Travel demand waned when Brazil’s economy slowed in
2012, and new entrants such as  Panama ’s  Avianca Taca Holding SA (PFAVTA) 
are expanding in  Latin America ’s largest airline market.  “Results should improve, but we still assume losses in
2013,” said Duane Pfennigwerth, an analyst at Evercore Partners
Inc. in  New York . “They’ve been active in reducing capacity in
the domestic market, which we view positively. However, we have
not yet seen these cuts drive profit improvement.”  At minus 28 percent, Gol’s one-year return on equity is the
lowest among 19 peers in the Americas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gol is poised to post a sixth loss in
seven quarters on March 25, according to analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Analysts’ Ratings  The shares fell 0.1 percent to 14.29 reais at the close in
 Sao Paulo . While the February traffic announced yesterday
probably will extend Gol’s January distinction of having the
industry’s least-full planes once all airlines report, the
results suggested that ticket prices were rising.  Yield, or the average fare for each seat flown a kilometer,
rose 17 percent to a range of 23 to 23.5 centavos, Gol said.  Gol shrank 2012 domestic capacity by 5.4 percent and has
said seating would fall as much as 8 percent in 2013’s first
half. Chief Executive Officer Paulo Kakinoff also has returned
older jets to lessors and chopped jobs since succeeding founder
Constantino de Oliveira Jr., who is now chairman, in July.  Marcus de Barros Pinto, a spokesman, declined to discuss
Gol’s strategy ahead of the earnings release.  Market Share  Competitors such as Panama City-based Avianca are nibbling
at Gol’s standing as No. 2 in Brazil by domestic fliers after
Tam, the local carrier acquired last year by Santiago-based Lan
Airlines SA. Tam’s January market share of 42.5 percent slid
from 43.4 percent two years earlier, while Gol’s fell to 34.3
percent from 37.3 percent. Avianca’s share rose to 6.3 percent
from 2.5 percent, according to the Brazilian aviation regulator,
known as Anac.  “Avianca is taking market share from a lot of people,”
said  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
SLW Corretora, who rates Gol as hold. “Those who can fly Gol or
Avianca will prefer Avianca” after Gol cut too many flights and
amenities such as onboard snacks.  Paring capacity is a common response to bolster profit
measures such as unit revenue, or what an airline makes for each
seat flown a kilometer.  Unit revenue “has not yet risen sufficiently to get the
company back to positive margins,” said Pfennigwerth, who has
Gol as equal weight. Third-quarter passenger revenue for each
available seat-kilometer rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier,
while costs on that basis climbed 9.4 percent, according to  Gol ,
which reported a  net loss  of 309 million reais ($157 million).  Fuel Spending  Spending on fuel accounted for 43 percent of sales based on
its most-recent quarterly filing, the fifth-highest total in the
Americas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gol competes in an air-travel market that’s cooling along
with  Brazil ’s economy, whose 0.9 percent expansion in 2012 was
one-third of the year-earlier pace. The nation’s domestic
passengers increased 6.8 percent in 2012 after 2011’s 16 percent
surge, according to Brazil’s aviation regulator.  One bright spot is the pending spinoff of Gol’s Smiles
frequent-flier program, which will provide a cash injection,
said Matheus Mufarej, a research analyst at Victoire Brasil
Investimentos, which holds an undisclosed stake.  Gol surged the most in 16 months on Dec. 26 after signaling
it would hold an initial public offering for Smiles. Tam’s
Multiplus SA loyalty plan has almost doubled since its 2010 IPO,
and now expects to sell more stock to raise 800 million reais.  “The benefit of the IPO is something Gol needs,” Mufarej
said. Of nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey, six recommend
buying the stock, two rate it as a hold and one says sell.  Finding Savings  Kakinoff’s cost savings include a November plan to dismiss
850 workers from the former Webjet Linhas Aereas SA, which then-
CEO Oliveira agreed to buy in 2011. Gol’s third-quarter
workforce of 18,356 was the smallest since the first three
months of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capacity reductions and the Webjet firings give Victoire a
“positive vision” of Gol’s prospects, Mufarej said in an
interview in Sao Paulo.  Kakinoff also is having lessors take back 20 aging  Boeing
Co. (BA)  737-300 jets, a model built from 1984 to 1999, in the first
half. Gol had an active fleet at the end of the third quarter of
127 737-700s and 737-800s, in addition to the -300s, according
to the  airline’s website .  “This year, we expect a smoother scenario,” Mufarej said.
“Gol is doing everything it can to control costs. We believe in
their strategy. They can operate the company well.”  Margin Gain?  Gol’s  margin  on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization as a share of revenue probably
ended 2012 at 2.3 percent, based on analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. It was 17.6 percent in 2006.  “It can get back to 15 percent,” Mufarej said. “The
question is when.”  Along with capacity and job cuts, Gol should be careful
with aircraft management, Evercore’s Pfennigwerth said. Gol said
last year it was buying 60 of Boeing’s new 737 Max jets, which
have a starting  list price  of $100.5 million. Deliveries would
start in 2018.  “There is also a bit of a disconnect, in our view, between
the carrier’s presently low returns, capacity cutting and
continued investment in new aircraft,” he said. “It is not
entirely clear to us why the company would continue to invest in
new aircraft given the currently depressed levels of
profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  