-- Goldman Ranked No. 1 in Commodities in 2012, JPMorgan Second
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a ,   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-14T17:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/goldman-ranked-no-1-in-commodities-in-2012-jpmorgan-second-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  ranked
No.1 in commodities revenue in 2012, according to analytics
company Coalition.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  had the second-biggest revenues from
commodities and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  came third, London-based
Coalition said in a report e-mailed today. Spokesmen for the
three banks declined to comment. Barclays Plc and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch were the strongest performers when
measured against 2011 returns, according to the report.  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest banks slumped 24
percent last year to $6 billion, Coalition estimated in
February. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of raw materials
climbed less than 0.3 percent in 2012, the worst performance in
four years, and is little changed in 2013. The gauge’s 100-day
historic  volatility  fell to as low as 14.1 percent in May, from
as much as 23.8 percent in January 2012, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Low volatility and reduced client activity” spurred a
drop in commodity revenues in 2012, Coalition said in a report
last month. Increasing concerns about regulation and capital
sensitivity also led banks to re-examine commodity strategies,
it said. The Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading and rules
designed to increase transparency in derivatives markets are
among regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act awaiting
completion by U.S. authorities.  Tier Two  Deutsche Bank AG, Barclays and UBS AG were among “tier
two” performers, rated No. 4 to No. 6 for commodity revenues,
Coalition said today without providing the banks with specific
rankings. BofAML,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Credit Suisse were in
“tier three,” and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc wasn’t
ranked, it said.  Barclays said in February it would shut its speculative
agricultural trading, Deutsche Bank has cut power and natural
gas traders in the U.S. and Europe, and UBS is ceasing to trade
oil, industrial metals and agricultural products.  JPMorgan was the largest investment bank, with $24.1
billion in revenue and $14.4 billion in fixed income, currencies
and commodities, Coalition said. Goldman Sachs was the second-
largest investment bank, followed by Citi, BofAML and Deutsche
Bank tied for the third-largest ranking, according to the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  