-- Google Head of Maps & Commerce Moves Amid Executive Shift
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/google-executive-huber-running-geo-commerce-is-stepping-aside.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said Jeff Huber, head
of mapping and commerce, is stepping down to work on new
projects amid management changes aimed at helping Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Page  pursue areas of growth.  Google is splitting the two businesses Huber led, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Alan Eustace , senior vice
president in charge of areas including search, will now oversee
mapping, while Susan Wojcicki, senior vice president of
advertising, will lead commerce, said the person, who asked not
to be named because the changes aren’t public.  Page is realigning the senior staff in charge of the
businesses Google will need as it seeks to step up growth and
lessen its dependence on Web search, which now accounts for most
of revenue. The company said earlier this week that  Andy Rubin 
will hand over the reins of the mobile-software division to
Sundar Pichai.  “Jeff is an extraordinary executive,”  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“He just finished his first decade at Google -- having worked
on some of our most complicated issues like ads, apps, payments
and geo -- and now he is eager to work in more of a startup-like
environment.”  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment
on the reorganization.  L-Team Moves  Sridhar Ramaswamy, senior vice president of engineering, is
joining the so-called “L-Team,” the group that reports
directly to Page, according to another person. Ramaswamy, who
had previously reported to Wojcicki, has worked on search
advertising and Google Shopping.  The L-Team is now made up of Eustace, Wojcicki and Pichai,
along with  Vic Gundotra , who oversees social initiatives, and
Salar Kamangar, who leads video-sharing service YouTube, the
person said.  Rubin’s responsibilities were moved over to Pichai, who
leads Chrome and Apps, Google said March 13. Under Rubin,
Android surged ahead of Apple Inc.’s software to command 70
percent of the operating systems on smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  