-- N.Y. Gun-Show Operators Agree to Background Check Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/gun-show-operators-agree-to-tag-guns-by-private-sellers-in-n-y-.html
Gun-show operators in  New York 
agreed to new rules set by the state to ensure required
background checks on buyers following an investigation that
uncovered firearms sales without the checks.  Twenty-three operators agreed to procedures in which all
guns brought into a show by private sellers are tagged so that
sales and checks can be tracked, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in a statement yesterday.  The announcement of the new rules comes a day after a
shooting that left four dead and two injured in Herkimer, New
York, about 230 miles (370 kilometers) northwest of  New York
City . The suspected shooter, a 64-year-old man whom police say
used a shotgun, was killed yesterday in a shootout with police.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  signed one of the toughest
gun laws in the U.S. in January. The measure bars the sale of
ammunition magazines that hold more than seven rounds and closed
gaps in a 2000 ban on assault weapons. It also requires a
National Instant Criminal Background Check for private gun sales
that don’t take place at gun shows.  In  Chicago  yesterday, seven gun shops sued Cook County,
which includes the city and surrounding towns, claiming a $25-
per-gun  sales tax  unconstitutionally infringes on citizens’
right to bear arms.  “The tax is excessive and arbitrary,” the shops and four
individuals claimed in a complaint filed yesterday in state
court in Chicago. “The tax which is imposed on law-abiding
citizens and retailers has no clear and reasonable relationship
to the victims of violent crime or to any other legitimate
governmental or regulatory function of Cook County.”  Constitutional Claims  The plaintiffs are seeking a ruling that the tax violates
the U.S. and Illinois constitutions and an order blocking its
enforcement.  Tandra Simonton, a spokeswoman for Cook County State’s
Attorney Anita Alvarez, said yesterday she couldn’t immediately
comment on the lawsuit.  New York’s law, called the Secure Ammunition and Firearms
Enforcement Act, or SAFE Act, has been the target of protesters
and lawsuits pushing for its repeal. It was the first U.S.
measure tightening gun laws after the Dec. 14 Newtown,
 Connecticut , massacre that left 20 children and six adults dead
at Sandy Hook Elementary School.  Illegal Sales  Even with the SAFE law, the new rules are needed because
illegal sales could still occur at gun shows, according to the
attorney general’s office.  Wilson Curry, president of  Williston Auctions Inc.  outside
Buffalo, New York, and a firearms auctioneer, said he agreed to
the new rules developed by the attorney general’s office because
he supports background checks on buyers.  “What they’re doing is the right thing,” he said in a
phone interview. “Make sure perps don’t get a hold of a gun at
gun shows. But how many perps really go to gun shows to get a
gun?”  New York enacted a law in 2000 requiring background checks
for all sales or transfers at gun shows. Only the individual
seller of a gun faces liability for a sale without a background
check. Gun show operators face no civil or criminal liability if
they comply with a few requirements, according to the state.  Binding Procedures  The procedures announced yesterday by the attorney general
are binding on the gun show operators, according to the office.  “These procedures are unique to New York state and
represent the first time  law enforcement  and gun show operators
are working together to eliminate illegal gun sales,”
Schneiderman said.  The attorney general began an investigation in 2011 when
the office attended three shows and found guns were being sold
without the required background checks. There were no attempts
to inspect outgoing guns and no systems in place to verify that
the checks had been conducted, according to the office.  During the state’s investigation, officials purchased 11
guns from 10 private sellers, including semi-automatics, without
the checks. The 10 gun sellers who had failed to conduct checks
were arrested.  The 23 operators agreeing to the rules oversee more than 50
scheduled shows and gun auctions in New York this year,
representing more than 80 percent of the shows in the state, the
attorney general said.  The Chicago case is ERP Inc., doing business as Chuck’s Gun
Shop v. Ali, 2013CH07263, Cook County Circuit Court,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  