-- Gun Protections Added to Funding Bill in U.S. Senate
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-14T15:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/gun-protections-added-to-funding-bill-in-u-s-senate.html
U.S. lawmakers included language
that would permanently protect some gun rights in Senate
legislation intended to fund the government through the end of
this fiscal year.  Gun-rights advocates on the Senate Appropriations Committee
would make permanent four firearms provisions in the funding
bill as part of an agreement between Republicans and Democrats
on the panel, according to a Senate aide who asked not to be
identified in describing internal discussions.  Republicans on the panel are seeking to protect gun rights
as the Democratic-led Senate Judiciary Committee this week
advances measures aimed at curbing gun violence following the
Dec. 14 mass shooting at a Connecticut elementary school. The
Senate Judiciary Committee today approved a measure to ban
assault weapons and place limits on high-capacity ammunition
magazines.  The agreement would make permanent the gun provisions,
which have been in U.S. appropriations bills on a temporary
basis since at least 2004, the aide said. The accord was an
attempt by Democrats to stave off a House-sponsored measure
related to semi-automatic rifles strongly opposed by President
 Barack Obama  and gun-control advocates, the aide said.  The provisions would prohibit the  Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives  from requiring gun dealers to
conduct annual inventories to confirm lost or stolen guns, and
make permanent an exception for “antique” guns that can be
imported outside of normal regulations.  ATF Limitations  Another provision would prevent the ATF from refusing to
renew a dealer’s license for lack of business. A final measure
would require the agency to attach a disclaimer to data about
guns to indicate that it “cannot be used to draw broad
conclusions about fire-arms-related crimes.”  Lawmakers put the provisions into stopgap funding
legislation that’s now before the Senate. The bill would fund
federal agency operations through Sept. 30 and avert a
government shutdown after current funding expires March 27.  The agreement derailed a House amendment related to so-
called long guns that would have prevented the ATF from
requiring firearms dealers near the Mexican border to notify the
agency when selling two or more semi-automatic rifles with
detachable magazines to the same buyer within five days. Such
weapons are preferred by Mexican drug cartels, the aide said.  The assault-weapons ban approved by the Senate Judiciary
Committee today prohibits the sale, manufacture and transfer of
more than 150 of the most commonly owned military-style
semiautomatic weapons.  The bill is the fourth gun-related measure to clear the
panel since the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown,  Connecticut , that killed 20 children and six school
employees. Committee members on March 7 endorsed legislation
imposing tougher penalties for gun trafficking, and on March 12
approved expanded U.S. background checks and funding to enhance
school safety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  