-- IBM Puts Its Researchers to Work on Consulting Tasks
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-03-14T21:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/ibm-puts-its-researchers-to-work-on-consulting-tasks.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s Bridget Van Kralingen, its head of business services, is
pulling more of the company’s thousands of researchers out of
isolated labs and having them tackle customer problems, a bid to
give it an edge in data-intensive consulting projects.  One out of every four IBM researchers are now helping
automate tasks such as marketing, sales or services for clients,
rather than sticking to behind-the-scenes work on software or
engineering, Van Kralingen said in an interview. Customers can
come to a new lab that combines consulting with research, or
researchers are getting sent out on client projects to study
analytical questions that haven’t been answered before.  IBM is trying to capitalize on its brain trust at a time
when its consulting work is getting increasingly complex. The
company has 3,000 researchers across 12 labs, and they’re
weighing questions ranging from replicating the human brain to
predicting traffic patterns. By putting more of them in touch
with customers, IBM looks to improve its business analytics --
the ability to mine corporate data to discover patterns or make
better decisions.  “There will be increasing fusion between the skills of a
consultant, who is practical, and the skills of a researcher,
who I think is more analytical and future-oriented,” Van
Kralingen said. Working on new ways for businesses to reach
customers “requires more of an analytical research-oriented and
experimental mindset,” she said.  Revenue Goal  IBM is aiming for $20 billion in sales from business
analytics by 2015, more than double the 2010 figure. IBM has
hired or shifted 8,100 people to solving data-analysis issues in
the last three years, Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty said
in an  annual letter  to shareholders. IBM also has the largest
private mathematics department in the world and has devoted 400
of those staffers to data analysis.  “Two decades ago, 70 percent of our researchers were
working in materials science, hardware and related technology,”
Rometty said in the letter. “Even the one in 10 working in
software were focused on operating systems and compilers.”  The new customer-focused lab was started with a joint
investment from Van Kralingen’s division and the research side
of the company that will total in the hundreds of millions, IBM
said. The company shifted 100 scientists and more than 200
consultants to the project. Armonk, New York-based IBM spends
about $6 billion a year in total on research and development.  Share Gains  IBM’s analytics prospects have helped fuel a stock rally
this year, sending the shares into record territory. The  shares 
rose 1.8 percent to $215.80 at the close today in New York,
bringing their year-to-date gain to 13 percent.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, a Mexican bank, signed a $1
billion deal to work with IBM’s new lab over the next 10 years
on customer-experience technology. The companies said this week
that the project will increase the bank’s return on equity to
more than 20 percent. Shares of the Mexican company jumped 3.6
percent to 98.93 pesos today, reaching a record high.  The bank was looking to differentiate its offering from
competition, especially on mobile, CEO Alejandro Valenzuela said
in an interview.  “If this platform was just the next best thing, we would
be out of business really fast,” he said.  IBM also has researchers collaborating with customers in
one of its most intensive projects -- the effort to
commercialize its Watson artificial-intelligence system for use
in the health and finance fields. Watson helps answer questions
about diagnosing cancer, for example, based on the millions of
pages of medical journals and case studies it has stored.  “It gives us a level of evidence and confidence around
very complex challenges,” Anne Altman, a general manager at
IBM, said today at a Bloomberg Link Big Data conference in
 Washington . The approach lets businesses study giant sets of
information, rather than having to focus on a specific
categories or geography.  “We are no longer going to be thinking in terms of
segments,” Altman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  