-- Michelin Awards Second Star to Copenhagen’s Geranium
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-14T10:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/michelin-awards-second-star-to-copenhagen-s-geranium.html
Michelin today awarded a second
star to Geranium restaurant in Copenhagen and again failed to
award a third to Noma, which holds the title of World’s Best
Restaurant.  There were first stars for  Kadeau , in Copenhagen, and for
Gastrologik and Ekstedt in  Stockholm . There were also stars for
 Dom Beisl  in Vienna and  Hytra  in  Athens , Michelin said in an e-
mailed release. Sjomagasinet, in Gothenburg, regained its star.  Michelin’s “Main Cities of Europe” includes capitals such
as Athens, Vienna -- and those of the Nordic region -- where
there is no separate guide for the relevant countries.  Noma, which last month suffered an outbreak of norovirus,
in which 63 diners fell sick, won its second star in 2007.
Geranium was awarded its first star last year.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two are for excellent cooking, worth a detour; one
denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Martin
Gayford  on London exhibitions,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 