-- Michigan Judge Blocks Health-Care Birth-Control Mandate
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/michigan-judge-blocks-health-care-birth-control-mandate.html
The U.S. health-care reform’s
mandate requiring employee insurance plans to provide coverage
of contraception was blocked by a federal judge in  Michigan .  Tom Monaghan and his property-management company, Domino’s
Farms Corp., sued the U.S. government in December, contending
that complying with the mandate would require him to violate his
religious beliefs as a member of the Catholic Church. Domino’s
Farms would have to provide contraceptive products, including an
abortion-inducing drug, or be forced to pay $200,000 a year as a
tax or penalty, the plaintiffs said.  U.S. District Judge Lawrence P. Zatkoff issued a
preliminary injunction yesterday, finding Domino’s Farms and
Monaghan could be irreparably harmed if the mandate was enforced
while the lawsuit was pending.  “Denying plaintiffs’ motion will result in a substantial
burden on Monaghan’s right to free exercise of religion, since
the mandate requires him to choose whether to comply and violate
his beliefs, or accept the financial consequences of not doing
so,” Zatkoff said in the 20-page decision.  “Such an infringement upon plaintiffs’ First Amendment
rights -- even for a short time -- constitutes irreparable
injury,” Zatkoff wrote.  Bradley Humphreys, a Justice Department attorney in
 Washington , didn’t immediately return a call for comment on
yesterday’s decision.  Restraining Order  Zatkoff had issued a temporary restraining order in
December blocking implementation of the mandate. Monaghan and
Domino’s Farms asked the judge to convert the temporary order
into a preliminary injunction, which would stay in force pending
appeal.  The U.S. opposed that request, contending that “the
relevant question” was whether Monaghan’s religious beliefs
were “substantially burdened by a regulation that applies only
to the health plan of a wholly separate legal entity,”
according to court papers.  “By treating Mr. Monaghan and Domino’s Farms as one and
the same, the court ignored the layers of legal separation
between Mr. Monaghan and the corporation, only the latter of
which is responsible for providing health coverage that includes
contraceptive coverage,” Justice Department lawyers said in a
Jan. 28 filing.  Constitutionality Upheld  The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul in June in a 5-4
decision. Multiple lawsuits, including some after the Supreme
Court decision, have been filed challenging the requirement that
employee health-care insurance plans provide contraception.  The post-Supreme Court ruling suits include one filed by
Michigan and six other states that was dismissed and is now on
appeal, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette said in a
statement yesterday. Schuette filed a brief with Zatkoff’s court
supporting Monaghan and Domino’s Farms.  “Any rule, regulation or law that forces American
employers to violate their free exercise of religion is a
violation of the First Amendment,” Schuette said in a statement
yesterday.  The case is Domino’s Farms Corp. v. Sebelius, 12-cv-15488,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan ( Detroit .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  