-- Improved Truck Trailers Still Capable of Killing Drivers
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-03-14T14:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/improved-truck-trailers-still-capable-of-killing-drivers.html
Heavy-duty truck trailers fall
short in preventing gruesome head injuries that kill hundreds of
car drivers each year in rear-end collisions, according to a
safety group’s study.  Seven of eight trailers failed a toughened crash test
designed to simulate what happens when a car catches a trailer
at a glancing blow, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety
said in a report released today. Trucks are required in the U.S.
and  Canada  to have guards underneath trailers to prevent cars
from sliding underneath them during a collision.  “When the guards failed, head and neck injury measures
were so high that real drivers would have died,” the insurance
institute, based in Arlington,  Virginia , said.  The group petitioned the U.S. Transportation Department to
tighten regulations for the trailers two years ago.  All eight companies’ trailers passed an easier crash test,
simulating a straight-on car-truck crash.  Manac Inc. (4364) , based in
Saint-Georges,  Quebec , had a design strong enough to pass all
three of the industry-funded institute’s crash tests, the only
one of eight companies tested to do so.  Trailers made by Hyundai Translead Inc., a subsidiary of
Seoul-based  Hyundai (005380)  Motor Co.,  Wabash National Corp. (WNC) , Great Dane
Trailers Inc., Stoughton Trailers Inc., Strick Corp., Utility
Trailer Manufacturing Co. and  Vanguard National Trailer Corp. ,
showed potentially fatal injuries to crash-test dummies. These
included heads striking the trucks directly when a corner of a
car was run into the edge of a trailer.  Marked Improvement  The trucking industry is encouraged that the trailers
improved in two of the insurance institute’s tests, said Sean
McNally, spokesman for the Arlington, Virginia-based American
Trucking Associations. Collision-avoidance technology in cars
and trucks may do even more, he said.  “Highway safety for both the motoring public and our
drivers is our first priority,” McNally said. “Underride
guards designed to save lives of automobile occupants must do
exactly that, save lives.”  Still, the best way to prevent car-truck fatalities is to
educate the public about how to share the road with trucks, he
said. Three-fourths of those deaths are “unintentionally
initiated or caused by the driver of the car,” he said.  Canadian Regulations  Canada toughened its regulations to make the guards
stronger, and manufacturers have re-engineered their trailers in
response, the institute said. Manac’s improved design, involving
spreading the guard supports further apart, added about $20 to
the trailer’s cost, the institute said.  “Our tests suggest that meeting the stronger Canadian
standard is a good first step,” said David Zuby, the
institute’s chief research officer. “Manac shows it’s possible
to go much further.”  Dummies weren’t  decapitated  in the latest round of tests,
unlike in 2011, when beheadings occurred in three of six tests
the institute conducted.  In 2011, 260 of 2,241 car passengers killed in large truck
crashes died after the fronts of their vehicles struck the back
of a trailer, the insurance institute said. An 2011 insurance
industry study of 115 car-truck crashes found about four-fifths
involved so-called underride. The cars with the most underride
accounted for 23 of the 28 fatal crashes in the study.  The U.S.  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  in
2009 identified its car-truck underride regulations, adopted in
1996 and 1998, as ones that needed improvement, the agency said
at the time. An agency review of the regulations was scheduled
to be completed in 2012.  Malibu Test  The institute’s tests were performed with the Chevrolet
Malibu sedan, made by  General Motors Co. (GM)  The Malibu was selected
for crash-test performances that earned it five-star ratings
from NHTSA and a “top safety pick” from the insurance
institute.  The Malibu was used to show that even vehicles that protect
effectively in other kinds of frontal crashes have difficulty
withstanding underride impacts, the group said.  The lethal nature of car-truck crashes has been a concern
to automotive safety professionals since the 1970s, the
insurance institute said. The 2011 study came after researchers
wanted to know why fatalities weren’t declining faster, after
improvements like advanced air bags and stronger safety cages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  