-- India Refines Investment Rules for Tax-Free Debt to Spur Demand
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   D i v y a   P a t i l
-- 2013-03-14T13:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/india-refines-investment-rules-for-tax-free-debt-to-spur-demand.html
India  refined an investment rule to
encourage companies to purchase tax-free debt as state-run
infrastructure firms prepare to sell 500 billion rupees ($9.2
billion) of the securities.  The Ministry of Corporate Affairs in a circular today said
companies can buy the debt as long as it yields more than the
Reserve Bank of India’s bank rate. The rule previously limited
companies to purchasing bonds with a “rate of interest” more
than the RBI rate. The monetary authority’s  bank rate  is at 8.75
percent, while benchmark repurchase rate is 7.75 percent.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government is selling the
tax-free securities to attract funds to build roads, ports and
power plants in a nation where the quality of infrastructure is
ranked below Kazakhstan and  Guatemala  by the  World Economic
Forum . Singh seeks to double spending on public work projects to
$1 trillion by 2017.  “This brings clarity and should bring a positive impact to
tax-free bond issuance in the remaining part of this financial
year and next year,” Rajiv Datt, New Delhi-based managing
director at Indian Railway Finance Corp. said in a phone
interview today.  Indian Railway Finance, the funding arm of the state-owned
rail network, extended the deadline for a 88.9 billion rupee
tax-free bond sale to March 15, according to a newspaper
advertisement yesterday.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in his budget
 speech  Feb. 28 some institutions will be allowed to raise tax-
free debt “strictly based on need and capacity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Divya Patil in Mumbai at 
 dpatil7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  