-- Individuals Seen Soon to Return With $10 Trillion: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/individuals-seen-soon-to-return-with-10-trillion-muni-credit.html
U.S. households hold the least
municipal debt since 2008, and are instead stockpiling the most
cash in at least four years, offering a cushion for the $3.7
trillion market as yields reach an 11-month high.  Individuals buying local debt directly through brokers,
instead of using vehicles such as mutual funds, cut municipal
assets to  $1.68 trillion  at year-end, Federal Reserve data show.
While that’s still the single biggest chunk of the local market,
it’s the lowest since March 2008. Holdings fell as local yields
dropped in 2012 to levels  unseen  since the 1960s.  With the U.S. jobless rate at a four-year low and the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  setting a  record high , 10-year Treasury
yields will rise about a half-percentage point to 2.5 percent in
a year, according to the median forecast of 61 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. An increase of that size will draw investors
back to tax-exempt borrowings, said  George Friedlander , head of
muni research at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  The cash pile “provides a real cushion for the municipal
market, specifically in a rising-rate environment,” said
Friedlander. “Any significant increase in yields, and you will
get a bounce in direct retail demand.”  Powder Stash  Even as the Fed keeps its benchmark rate near zero, where
it has been since 2008, money in foreign deposits, checking and
 savings accounts  and money-market funds tallied $10 trillion at
the end of 2012, the most since at least 2008, Fed data show.  “There is this massive pool of uninvested retail-investor
funds which will support the municipal market at some point, if
rates go back up,” said Friedlander, whose firm is the third-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets.  Buyers started shying away from tax-exempts in December as
yields fell to 47-year lows. Treasuries led a fixed-income rally
last year as investors sought a haven from global credit
concerns. Both markets have lost money this month, with munis
declining 0.7 percent and Treasuries 0.6 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  Yields on 10-year benchmark munis rose to  2.07 percent 
yesterday, the highest since April, Bloomberg Valuation data
show. Benchmark Treasury notes maturing in 2023 yielded about
2.02 percent.  Competitive Advantage  The tax-exempt benefit of munis will help the securities
compete against federal debt, corporate bonds and other fixed-
income securities, Mark Maroney, global head of munis and
securitized products at RBC Capital Markets LLC in  New York ,
said in an interview.  Increased tax rates provide another incentive for
individual investors. For those in the highest tax bracket, 39.6
percent, the benchmark 10-year muni yield equals 3.43 percent on
a taxable basis, Bloomberg data show.  “In a rising rate environment, it will be munis that will
rebound quicker as assets start to make their way back to fixed-
income product,” Maroney said.  Combined muni holdings of investors subject to individual
tax rates, or households, mutual funds and money-market funds
accounted for 71.2 percent of the tax-exempt market in 2012,
down from 74.5 percent in 2008, Peter DeGroot, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, wrote in a March 8 report.  Demand Fuel  “Retail investors do engage more aggressively in the
municipal-bond market at higher yield levels,” he said in an
interview. “Should rates rise materially in the future, that
would be additive to demand from the retail sector of the
market.”  About 77 percent of U.S. households face higher taxes after
Congress in January ended a payroll tax cut and boosted income-
tax rates on households earning $450,000 or more to 39.6 percent
from 35 percent, according to the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center 
in  Washington .  The higher the  tax rate , the more individuals will seek
munis for their exempt status, DeGroot said.  “Increases in taxes at the federal level, as well as state
and local level, will definitely over time increase the
proportional ownership of municipal securities by investors who
are subject to those individual tax rates,” DeGroot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  