-- India-Italy Marines Dispute Deepens as Envoy Told to Stay
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-03-15T05:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/india-italy-marines-dispute-deepens-as-ambassador-told-to-stay.html
India ’s  top court  told the Italian
ambassador to New Delhi not to leave the country without its
permission as protests escalated over  Italy ’s decision to block
the return of two marines charged with killing fishermen.  A bench headed by the Supreme Court Chief Justice Altamas Kabir yesterday imposed the curb on envoy Daniele Mancini and
requested he explain by March 18 the Italian government’s move.
The court last month allowed the marines to leave India to vote
in Italy’s election following an undertaking from Mancini that
they would be sent back within four weeks.  The diplomatic  standoff  between the two nations over the
fate of the men has steadily intensified, with Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh this week saying there would be “consequences”
for bilateral ties if Italian authorities in  Rome  don’t “keep
their word.” India’s foreign ministry said it is reviewing the
full range of its relations with Italy.  “If it wasn’t a Supreme Court matter and only between the
two governments, they could have consultations and take their
own decisions,” said Shashank, a former foreign secretary of
India. “Now the court has to decide what action it would like
to take. And the government can’t go beyond the court order.”  Mancini “waived his diplomatic immunity” by voluntarily
giving the undertaking to the Supreme Court that the marines
would return, said Shashank, who uses only one name.  Voluntary Agreement  India’s foreign ministry spokesman Syed Akbaruddin told
reporters yesterday in New Delhi that the “entire expanse of
our interaction” with Italy is being reviewed, while
underscoring that Italy must respect agreements its ambassador
submitted to India’s top court.  The court order doesn’t violate the ambassador’s diplomatic
immunity as he had willingly submitted himself to the court’s
jurisdiction, said Akbaruddin. “No aspect of the Vienna
convention has been impacted on,” he said.  The marines were guarding the Italian-flagged  Enrica Lexie 
tanker on its journey to  Egypt  from  Singapore , a route that
includes crossing the Indian Ocean, where Somali pirates
operate.  Italy has argued that the men shot the two fishermen in
self-defense suspecting them to be pirates, and that the marines
should be tried in their own country because the incident
occurred in seas outside of India’s jurisdiction. India says the
attack happened in its territorial waters off the southern state
of Kerala.  Combating Piracy  “Everything that is necessary to ensure the dignity and
the primacy of India in this matter will be preserved,” Foreign
Minister Salman Khurshid told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.
“This is a matter that will be treated with greatest urgency.
We have to take steps.”  India on March 12 summoned ambassador Mancini to protest
his government’s decision.  The attempted prosecution of the Italians is the first to
hold armed maritime guards accountable for the deaths of
innocent people in an anti-piracy operation. Relations between
the two countries were further strained by allegations that
bribes were paid by AgustaWestland, a unit of Italy’s
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , to secure the contract to supply 12 civilian
helicopters to the Indian government.  Mancini informed the Indian authorities that marines
Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone “won’t return to
India,” the European nation’s Foreign Ministry said March 11.
The Italian government said India failed to respond to a request
to negotiate a diplomatic solution.  Ferrari SpA, the Italian sports carmaker, even weighed in,
having two of its cars carry the flag of the Italian navy during
the Oct. 28 Formula One grand-prix race in New Delhi.  India’s Chief Justice ruled in January that the two men
could be put on trial, ordering hearings before a specially
convened court in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  