-- Indian Non-Food Inflation Eases Ahead of Interest-Rate Review
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-03-14T09:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/indian-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-in-dent-to-rate-cut-case.html
India ’s non-food inflation eased
last month even as the benchmark gauge accelerated from a three-
year low, sustaining scope for the central bank to cut  interest
rates  as it prepares to review monetary policy next week.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 6.84 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 6.62 percent in January, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. That exceeded
the 6.6 percent median of 29 estimates in a  Bloomberg News 
survey. Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of core
inflation, advanced 3.8 percent after a 4.1 percent gain in
January, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  Today’s report provides some room for authorities to move
in the direction of monetary easing, Chakravarthy Rangarajan,
chairman of the prime minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said
on CNBC-TV18 television today. Inflation and risks from the
current-account deficit may limit Reserve Bank of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao to a quarter-point reduction in the benchmark
rates next week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “We expect the RBI to cut rates next week as  core
inflation  eased,” said Jyoti Narasimhan, India economist at IHS
Global Insight in Bangalore. At the same time, “a wide current-
account deficit and inflation above the RBI’s comfort zone will
limit the RBI in its easing cycle.”  India’s government bonds rose on speculation slowing
economic growth will prompt the central bank to cut borrowing
costs next week. The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds maturing in
June 2022 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
7.86 percent as of 3:07 p.m. in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system. That’s the biggest drop since Jan. 17.  Rupee Climbs  The rupee strengthened 0.2 percent to 54.1862 per dollar.
The currency has declined more than 7 percent in the past year.  India’s government “firmly embraced” fiscal
responsibility in last month’s budget as the nation strives to
slow an inflation rate that remains elevated, central bank
Governor Subbarao said yesterday. Economic growth has slowed and
the pace of price increases is “still high and stubborn,” he
said in a speech at the  London School  of Economics.  “Credible” fiscal consolidation is “a necessary pre-
condition for stabilizing inflation and securing non-
inflationary growth,” Subbarao said. While the  current-account 
imbalance poses a challenge for crafting monetary policy, the
threat that a rate-cut will stoke the shortfall is “much less
than apprehended,” Subbarao said.  That’s partly because lower borrowing costs are unlikely to
translate into import demand given economic growth is
“sluggish,” he said.  Budget Target  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram in last month’s
budget targeted a fiscal gap of 4.8 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March 2014, from 5.2 percent, in a
bid to avert a credit-rating downgrade.  “Given the circumstances, I think it’s very measured and
responsible, and if he delivers on that, from the  Reserve Bank ’s
perspective, there is some softening impact on inflation,”
Subbarao said in response to audience questions on the budget
after the speech.  Fifteen of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast the central bank to reduce the benchmark repurchase
rate to 7.5 percent from 7.75 percent on March 19. Subbarao last
cut the repurchase rate by a quarter point on Jan. 29 and
signaled limited space for further easing because of lingering
price pressures and risks such as a record current-account gap.  Higher prices and subdued growth has hurt demand for cars
in India. Domestic sales of passenger cars by companies
including Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. and Tata Motors Ltd.
contracted almost 26 percent in February from a year earlier,
according to data released by the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers .  India’s gross domestic product will rise 5 percent in
2012-2013, the slowest since 2003, according to the statistics
agency.  Fuel and power prices increased 10.5 percent in February
from a year earlier, up from 7.1 percent the previous month,
today’s inflation report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  