-- India Car Sales Poised for First Fall in Decade on Demand
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-03-15T05:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/india-car-sales-poised-for-first-fall-in-decade-on-demand.html
Indian suppliers to automakers
including  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  are looking at
cutting costs and boosting shipments abroad as they brace for
the first annual decline in vehicle sales at home in a decade.  Sona Koyo Steering Systems Ltd. (SONA) , which makes steering
columns for companies including India’s biggest carmaker  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , is increasing its exports to the U.S. to
bolster revenue, Managing Director Sunjay Kapur said in an
interview.  Jamna Auto Industries Ltd. (JMNA) , which produces suspension
components for truckmakers such as Tata and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , may
consider shutting some of its plants should the slump persist,
Chief Executive Officer Randeep Jauhar, said in an interview.  The highest borrowing costs among the major emerging
markets in  Asia  and the slowest pace of expansion in a decade
have damped demand for automobiles in the $1.8 trillion economy,
spurring discounts at manufacturers from  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  as they lure customers to their showrooms. The
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers , or SIAM, reported a
4.6 percent drop in car deliveries in the 11 months through
February, on course for the first yearly decline since the 12
months ended March 2003.  ‘Serious Concern’  “The current situation is of serious concern,” said
Vinnie Mehta, executive director of the New Delhi-based industry
group Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India.
“Companies are looking internally to cut costs and
consolidation. If the downturn continues for another quarter or
two, some of them may be looking at exiting their businesses.”  Shares of Sona Koyo, which reported a 32 percent decline in
 net income  in the three months ended Dec. 31, have  slid  16
percent this year. They fell 0.5 percent to 10.85 rupees at 11
a.m. in Mumbai. Jamna’s stock fell 26 percent after it reported
a 58 percent slump in net income last quarter.  SIAM in January lowered its full-year domestic car sales
forecast for the third time in six months as demand waned.
February car sales fell 26 percent to 158,513 units, the biggest
monthly drop since December 2000, the group said.  “This is going to be a difficult quarter. There’s no doubt
about it,” said Sona Koyo’s Kapur, who is based in  New Delhi .
“If there is a prolonged slowdown, we will have to look at
different markets, products and exports.”  Monsoon, Mining  India’s industrial production rose 2.4 percent in January
after contracting in the previous two months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Output climbed an average 0.8 percent
last year, compared with 4.8 percent in 2011. The nation’s
statistics agency predicts gross domestic product will increase
5 percent in the financial year to March 31, the smallest gain
since 2003.  The consumer-price gauge in February surged 10.91 percent,
one of the highest levels in major economies. The  Reserve Bank 
of India’s benchmark repurchase rate remains the highest among
major Asian economies even after Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut
it on Jan. 29 by 25 basis points to 7.75 percent in the first
reduction since April.  Besides inflation and a slump in factory output, a drier
monsoon that hurt farm production and court-ordered curbs on
mining in many Indian states have deepened a slowdown in truck
sales in the country, with SIAM forecasting as little as no
growth this year.  Sales of commercial vehicles declined 1.5 percent in the 11
months through February, compared with an 18 percent growth in
the year ended March 31, 2012, according to data from SIAM.  Fewer Trucks  In September, the state of Goa, the nation’s biggest
exporter of  iron ore , banned all mining after a government panel
said the state’s exchequer lost an estimated 349.4 billion
rupees ($6.5 billion) because of illegal mining. The nation’s
top court extended the halt in October.  “With both industrial production and agricultural
production down, we are staring at the wrong end of the
barrel,” said Mukund S. Raghavan, executive vice-president at
 India Motor Parts & Accessories Ltd. (IMPL) , a distributor in the
southern city of  Chennai . “Fewer trucks are plying on the roads
and there is less wear and tear of parts.”  The weakest monsoon in three years parched parts of
Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat states in 2012, cutting
harvests of sugar, cotton and rice. The  agriculture sector  is
set to expand 1.8 percent this year, the least in three years,
according to the government’s annual Economic Survey.  ‘No Option’  India’s more than 235 million farmers depend on rain for
irrigating crops such as rice and cotton. The monsoon, which
brings more than 70 percent of the nation’s annual rain, usually
makes landfall in the south in June and covers the whole country
by July 15.  India Motor Parts reported a third consecutive quarterly
decline in net income in the three months ended Dec. 31.  Both Sona Koyo and Jamna are working on reducing costs of
their parts to offset dwindling sales as their factories operate
at a fraction of their capacity. Jamna is operating at 60
percent capacity, Jauhar said.  “We are working on a massive cost reduction this year and
trying to reduce the breakeven point,” said Jauhar. “However,
if the demand stays negative for another 18 months, we will have
no options but to shut plants.”  Motherson Sumi Systems Ltd. (MSS) , India’s biggest auto parts
maker, is targeting  emerging markets  including Brazil and China
to meet its $5 billion sales target, Chief Operating Officer
Pankaj Mital said in an interview last month. China’s passenger-
vehicle market had its strongest start since 2010, with
wholesale deliveries rising 20 percent to 2.84 million units in
January and February.  Distant Markets  Still, exports for local parts makers may be challenging as
the slowdown in India comes on the back of  Europe , where the
auto market is set to shrink for a sixth consecutive year,
according to IHS Automotive research. Component makers may look
at increasing shipments to Southeast Asia and  Africa , said
ACMA’s Mehta.  “Exports are a problem as international markets aren’t
looking up either,” said ACMA’s Mehta. “The U.S. is steady but
is a distant market for us.”  Automakers in the U.S. led by General Motors Co. and Ford
predict demand for cars and trucks in the world’s second-biggest
market, on pace for the best year since 2007, will remain
resilient as Americans replace their older vehicles with more
fuel-efficient models with technology features.  ‘Tight Ship’  Auto components sales in  India  will drop as much as 6
percent in the current financial year, showing no signs of a
quick recovery, said Arvind Goel, president of Pune-based Tata
Autocomp Systems Ltd., which supplies to Tata, Ashok Leyland
Ltd. and local units of companies including Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and reported sales of about 52 billion rupees ($959
million) in the year ended March 31, 2012.  “We will run a tight ship and do all the operational
improvements so we don’t lose money and are ready whenever the
recovery sets in,” Goel said. His company shelved plans for an
initial public offering in 2011 after failing to meet targets.  The slowdown in the component industry make lead to smaller
suppliers being forced to close down their factories, according
to Umesh Karne, a Mumbai-based analyst at Brics Securities Ltd.  “All the companies will be affected but small players will
get hit badly as they are more localized and focused on
supplying one or two OEMs,” said Karne. “There may be
consolidation in the industry, with bigger vendors gaining share
at the expense of the smaller ones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  