-- India’s Bonds Gain Most in Two Months on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 2013-03-14T12:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/india-s-bonds-advance-most-in-a-month-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
The yield on India’s government
bonds maturing 2022 dropped the most in almost two months on
speculation slowing economic growth will prompt the central bank
to cut borrowing costs next week.  The Reserve Bank of India will lower the repurchase  rate  25
basis points to 7.5 percent on March 19, according to 15 of 16
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Nomura Holdings Inc. sees
no change. The government has “firmly embraced” fiscal
responsibility, RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday,
after Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram vowed on Feb. 28
to cut the budget  deficit  by 0.4 percentage point to 4.8 percent
of gross domestic product in the year starting April 1.  “A rate cut is on the cards as growth is a concern,” said
Arvind Chari, a senior fund manager at Quantum Asset Management
Co. in Mumbai. “The efforts to consolidate the government’s
finances will also provide room for monetary easing.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds maturing in June 2022
fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.87 percent
in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.
That’s the biggest decline since Jan. 17.  Asia’s third-largest  economy  grew 4.5 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the three months
through March 2009, the government reported last month.  Wholesale-price  inflation  unexpectedly accelerated to 6.84
percent in February from 6.62 percent in January, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement today. A Bloomberg News survey had
predicted a 6.59 percent increase.  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of core
inflation, advanced 3.8 percent after a 4.1 percent gain in
January, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  ‘Downward Trajectory’  “Headline inflation accelerated mainly due to increase in
fuel product prices but the core inflation is on a downward
trajectory,” said Chari. That spurred gains in bonds, he said.  The RBI cut the repurchase  rate  by 25 basis points to 7.75
percent in January, the first reduction in nine months.  “Credible” fiscal consolidation is “a necessary pre-
condition for stabilizing inflation and securing non-
inflationary growth,” Subbarao said in a speech at the London
School of Economics in the U.K. capital yesterday.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell three basis
points to 7.56 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Manish Modi in New Delhi at 
 mmodi6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  