-- Warjiyo Approved as Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor in Remix
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2013-03-15T10:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/indonesia-panel-approves-warjiyo-as-central-bank-deputy-governor.html
Indonesian lawmakers approved Perry Warjiyo to become the central bank’s deputy governor for
monetary operations, moving closer to filling a post vacant
since 2011 as the nation grapples with a falling currency.  Commission XI, a parliamentary panel for financial affairs,
considered Warjiyo and Hendar, who goes by one name, for the
position yesterday after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
submitted them as nominees. Both are  Bank Indonesia  executive
directors for monetary policy, while Warjiyo also oversees
economic research. Warjiyo’s appointment will have to be
confirmed at a plenary session of parliament.  “He was selected with following notes,” Emir Moeis,
chairman of the commission, told reporters after the decision.
“Implement macro prudential policies that prioritize the
people’s economy. Forex-transaction and capital-inflow policies
must have national interest as their priority. Short-term
capital flow should be limited. Increase and strengthen BI’s
role in managing and controlling annual inflation.”  The same committee will also examine the credentials of
Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  for the position of governor
in less than two weeks. At stake is safeguarding the central
bank’s leadership and curbing prolonged vacancies in an
institution wrestling with elevated inflation, a  trade deficit 
that widened to a record in October and one of the worst
performing currencies in Asia in the past year.  The rupiah weakened by the most in almost a week yesterday,
falling 0.1 percent to 9,700 per dollar, prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg show. It fell further to 9,705 a dollar
today. The Jakarta Composite Index rose today for the first time
this week.  Managing Rupiah  The rupiah’s movement can be managed by intervention,
foreign-exchange supply and the formation of a foreign-exchange
reference rate, Warjiyo said in Jakarta today. Economic growth
is still good and inflation next year will probably be slower,
and based on these assumptions there’s no reason to change the
Bank  Indonesia  reference rate, he said.  Indonesia’s political system can pose challenges for speedy
central bank succession. Current Governor Darmin Nasution, 64,
assumed the top post in September 2010 after more than a year as
acting leader. It took the president about a year to nominate
him after the previous head, Boediono, resigned in May 2009 to
become Yudhoyono’s running mate in the presidential election.  The president last month named Martowardojo as his sole
candidate to succeed Nasution, whose term ends May 23. The
parliamentary committee has agreed to assess the finance
minister for the governor’s job on March 25.  Trade Shortfalls  The government is targeting economic expansion of 6.5
percent to 6.8 percent this year after gross domestic product
rose 6.1 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in more than two years.  Indonesia’s  inflation  accelerated to a 20-month high in
February and Southeast Asia’s biggest economy has expanded above
6 percent for the past nine quarters, limiting the central
bank’s scope to cut interest rates. Bank Indonesia held its
 benchmark  at a record-low 5.75 percent for a 13th straight month
in March. Widening trade shortfalls are a constraint to an
investment grade rating, Standard & Poor’s said last year.  Yudhoyono’s administration has sought to cut fuel subsidies
and allocate more spending to infrastructure to spur growth. It
limited the use of partially government-funded diesel in January,
after protests derailed plans to raise fuel prices in 2012.  Fourth Attempt  “The challenge for the deputy governor is quite
daunting,” said  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia in Jakarta. “Especially when it comes to the
current-account deficit and a shallow foreign-exchange market.”  Bank Indonesia has stepped up intervention to support the
rupiah and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices,
Hendar said in a Jan. 28 interview. The central bank may take
action on its key rate if the currency’s depreciation causes
inflation to quicken, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono has said.  This was Warjiyo’s fourth attempt at becoming deputy
governor. Warjiyo, 54, has a Ph.D. in monetary and international
economics from Iowa State University, and was an executive
director for the Southeast Asia voting group at the
International Monetary Fund from 2007 through 2009. He lost out
to Sarwono in 2008, while in 2010 and 2011 Halim Alamsyah and
Ronald Waas were picked.  Hendar, 55, has a Master’s degree in development economics
from Williams College in the U.S., and was tested for the role
for the first time yesterday.  Supervisory Role  Bank Indonesia is due to hand over its banking supervisory
role to the newly established Financial Services Authority,
which will oversee lenders starting next year. The central bank
currently has three deputy governors and one governor. The law
states the board consists of at least four deputy governors and
a senior deputy governor, besides a governor.  Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah, who oversees banking
supervision, took charge of monetary operations when Budi Mulya
took a non-active position in October 2011. Mulya was removed
from the monetary role after he was investigated by the state
auditor over a 1 billion-rupiah ($103,000) loan he obtained from
the owner of PT Bank Century, which he said was personal. The
lender was bailed out during the 2008 global financial crisis.  As Yudhoyono adjusts his top policy making team, Indonesia
may be at risk from unpredictable policy making ahead of the
next presidential election due mid-2014, according to Capital
Economics Ltd.  “Policy making in Indonesia has become increasingly
haphazard,” said Gareth Leather, a London-based Asia economist
at Capital Economics. Martowardojo has clashed with the cabinet
over fuel-subsidy reform and the need for fiscal discipline, so
Yudhoyono’s move may be an attempt to sideline him from
government decisions and “open the door for a more profligate
approach to fiscal policy ahead of the election,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  