-- Tinkler Blames Noble for Collapse of Blackwood Deal
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-03-14T06:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/tinkler-blames-noble-for-collapse-of-blackwood-deal.html
Former billionaire miner  Nathan Tinkler  told a Sydney court that commodity trader Noble Group
Ltd. was to blame for the collapse of his planned share
investment last year in  Blackwood Corp.   Tinkler said in the New South Wales Supreme Court today
that he thought he had an agreement with Noble for the Hong
Kong-based company to buy his 75 percent stake in a royalty from
the Middlemount coal project, valued at A$25 million ($26
million) to A$30 million. He planned to finance a A$28.4 million
investment in Blackwood with the proceeds, though the deal with
Noble never went through, he said.  “I have a very good working relationship with Noble,”
Tinkler said. He had done transactions with Noble “in the A$100
million to A$200 million range and I didn’t think a A$20 million
deal would be a problem,” he said.  Stephen Brown , a Noble
spokesman, declined to comment in an e-mail.  The case continues the setbacks for the electrician-turned-
entrepreneur who at the age of 35 was ranked as Australia’s
youngest billionaire by BRW magazine in 2011 after he sold his
house in 2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal
lease in Queensland. He sold the lease a year later to Macarthur
Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in cash and shares. He’s now
struggling to meet creditors’ demands, with several of his
companies threatened with liquidation for not paying debts and
taxes.  Wind Up  Blackwood  moved to wind up Tinkler’s Mulsanne Resources Pty
in November after the company failed to buy the Blackwood
shares. Tinkler was ordered to appear in court to answer
questions from lawyers representing Mulsanne’s liquidators about
the agreement and resisted the effort, failing to attend on
March 7 and claiming it was an abuse of the court process. A New
South Wales Supreme Court judge dismissed that claim on March
11.  Tinkler had a 19.4 percent stake in Whitehaven Coal Ltd.,
according to an October statement, making him the company’s
biggest shareholder. He testified today that the stake is owned
by Aston Resources Investments Pty, with his wife owning the
shares of that company.  Whitehaven plunged 2.9 percent to A$2.31 in Sydney today,
to close at the lowest since May 18, 2009.  Tinkler owes as much as $700 million to lenders including
Farallon Capital Partners, Credit Suisse Group AG and Kuok
Group, three people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News
in November. That debt exceeds the current value of the
Whitehaven stake by more than $200 million.  Lost Jet  He lost ownership of his personal jet and helicopter after
GE Commercial Australasia Pty pushed TGHA Aviation Pty into
receivership in November. Tinkler’s Dassault Falcon 900C jet and
AgustaWestland A109S helicopter are now up for sale.  Oceltip, in which Tinkler had a 75 percent share that is
now owned by his wife, holds a royalty under which it receives
A$1 for every metric ton of coal produced at Middlemount, he
testified.  He said he kept records of his discussions with Noble’s
Executive Director  William Randall  over the plans to sell the
commodity trader the royalty, although he can’t find his
notepads, nor any letters or e-mails relating to the deal.  “I didn’t feel the need to document every little thing,”
Tinkler said.  The two also discussed a proposal to buy Australian assets
valued at A$400 million from Vale SA, and Noble was willing to
back him on the deal, with Och-Ziff Capital Management Group’s
Hong Kong office being involved in discussions about financing
the acquisition, Tinkler said.  Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse and UBS AG were the
banks he approached to help finance the Blackwood share
investment, Tinkler said.  The case is In the matter of Mulsanne Resources Pty.
2012/00296966. Supreme Court of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  