-- Interpublic Unit Gains Control of Agency for GM’s Chevy
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-03-15T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/interpublic-unit-gains-control-of-agency-for-gm-s-chevy.html
Interpublic Group of Cos. ’s McCann
Worldgroup is gaining control of a joint venture formed last
year to win  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet ad business, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  McCann will assume the 50 percent of the joint venture held
by  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) ’s Goodby, Silverstein & Partners,
according to the statement issued yesterday. The venture, called
Commonwealth, was created 12 months ago to handle the Chevrolet
business. Detroit-based GM, in a separate statement, said only
that it had been notified about the change in Commonwealth
ownership.  The move and a January announcement to replace the brand’s
Chevy Runs Deep tagline with Find New Roads essentially undo
former Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick ’s 27-month reign at
GM. The company ousted Ewanick in late July over the cost of a
sponsorship deal with the Manchester United football team,
people familiar with the move said at the time.  GM said initially that there wouldn’t be any changes to its
marketing plans with the joint venture. As recently as Feb. 14,
Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said on a conference call
that Commonwealth “is still operative, still in place,” and
savings of $2 billion over five years were still projected.  Alan Batey, GM’s head of U.S. sales and interim marketing
chief, has been pushing for changes in Chevrolet’s advertising
and anticipates McCann doing the bulk of advertising work at
Commonwealth, two people familiar with the matter have said.  Malibu Disappointment  The automaker’s executives had grown increasingly
frustrated with Commonwealth’s  Chevrolet  advertising, the people
said. They believed the company had improved its cars and trucks
while being unable to build marketing momentum, one of the
people said.  A Chevrolet Malibu advertisement that highlighted the car’s
stop-start technology, for example, was seen as ineffective, one
of the people said. Malibu sales in the U.S. rose 3 percent last
year, compared with the industry’s 13 percent. Deliveries this
year are down 12 percent, in contrast with the industry’s 8.4
percent increase.  GM is introducing about 20 new vehicles in the U.S. this
year as it works to regain market share after falling to an 88-
year low in 2012.  Ewanick in March 2012 announced the creation of
Commonwealth with Goodby and McCann as partners to handle all of
Chevy’s advertising as part of an effort to reduce costs. The
plan was to consolidate the work through one agency. GM’s
largest brand by unit sales previously used 70 ad agencies
around the world, the carmaker had said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  