-- Investec Asset Management Employees Buy Stake for $269 Million
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-03-14T10:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/investec-asset-management-employees-buy-stake-for-269-million.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , the owner of a bank
and money manager in  South Africa  and the U.K., said senior
employees of its asset-management unit will buy a 15 percent
stake in the operation for 180 million pounds ($269 million).  The buyers, led by Investec Asset Management Chief
Executive Officer Hendrik du Toit and comprising about 40 senior
managers and employees, have an option to acquire another 5
percent over the next seven years, the Johannesburg- and London-
based company said in a statement today.  “Investec and Investec Asset Management strongly believe
that institutional clients are attracted to asset management
companies that have significant operational independence and
alignment of incentive structures to long-term performance,”
the company said in the statement.  Investec Asset Management, with offices in  Cape Town  and
London, has 69 billion pounds in assets under management. While
Investec’s banking operations have been affected by the  European
debt crisis , the U.K. recession and rand weakness, the asset
management unit has recorded net inflows and 12 percent growth
since March last year.  “This transaction implies a 1.2 billion-pound valuation
for Investec Asset Management, well below our 1.9 billion-pound
fair value,” Greg Saffy, Johannesburg-based analyst for RMB
Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mailed response to questions. At
the same time it “solidifies” management’s stake in the unit
“which we rate highly,” he said.  Half the funding will be raised through equity and half
through debt, the company said. The buyers will finance the
equity investment with cash, deferred bonuses, long-term
incentive awards and borrowing.  Investec Asset Management will pay Investec a special
dividend of about 60 million pounds before the transaction is
closed, the company said in the statement.  Investec declined 0.2 percent to 502.5 pence as of 9:56
a.m. in  London  trading, giving the company a market value of 4.5
billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  