-- Investec Weighs First CLO Since Crisis as Europe Market Recovers
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-03-14T11:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/investec-weighs-first-clo-since-crisis-as-europe-market-recovers.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , a bank and money
manager in South Africa and the U.K., is considering its first
collateralized loan obligation since the crisis as investor
appetite returns for high-yielding structured notes.  “We have been observing the re-emergence of European CLOs
in the past few weeks and are exploring ideas with a number of
investors,” Richard Downer, the London-based head of financial
markets at Investec Corporate & Institutional Banking, said in
an e-mail. “Investec has been a programmatic issuer of CLOs in
the past and is a very active lender in the European leveraged
loan market.”  Money managers in  Europe  including Apollo Global Management
and Pramerica Investment Management Ltd. are considering deals
after Cairn Capital Ltd. issued a 300.5 million-euro CLO last
month, the region’s first since 2011 and only the third since
2008. Investors shunned hard-to-value structured credit
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. meaning
asset managers and banks couldn’t profit from issuing CLOs.  Investec’s last European CLO was the  Gresham Capital  CLO V
BV deal, issued in June 2008 and increased later that year. It
included a AAA rated portion paying a spread of 42 basis points
more than benchmarks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spreads on top-rated portions of European CLOs fell to 150
basis points from 295 basis points at the start of 2012,
according to data from Morgan Stanley. The AAA rated portion of
Cairn’s CLO pays a spread of 140 basis points more than
benchmarks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. Banks can reduce funding costs by
offloading debt on their balance sheet into CLO deals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  