-- Israel Arab Education Plan to Boost Growth
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-03-14T05:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/israel-arab-education-plan-to-boost-growth.html
Israel’s six-year project to
improve its Arab community’s job prospects will also help to
bolster slowing economic growth,  Manuel Trajtenberg , who helped
to draft the plan, said in an interview.  Israeli Arabs have lagged behind the Jewish majority
economically and have accused the government and Jewish
employers of discrimination. The state has pledged to narrow the
gap and sees promoting higher education among Arabs as key.  “There is a huge potential there for economic gains,
economic benefits, first of all for the Arab community itself
and for the Israeli economy at large,” said Trajtenberg,
chairman of the budgeting and planning committee of the Council
for Higher Education in Israel, which formulated the plan.  As the global economic slump hurts exports, Israel is
seeking ways to spur  growth , which was 2.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, the slowest in more than three years. Technology
accounts for nearly half of industrial  exports , making higher
education central to its success.  Over the life of the higher education council’s program for
Arabs, the state plans to spend 305 million shekels ($82
million) to subsidize preparatory courses for entrance exams,
offer tutoring and career counseling for university students,
and scholarships for advanced degrees. Some programs are already
running.  Limited Scope  “This is a definitely a positive step,” said Yousef
Jabareen, head of the  Dirasat Arab Center for Law and Policy  in
Nazareth. “However, it is limited in its scope and it will not
create substantial transformation of the situation unless
additional issues are addressed.”  At a time when the next government will be asked to cut
billions of shekels from the 2013 budget, Jabareen wants more
funding for higher education in Arabic. He charges that college
entrance exams are “culturally biased” toward Jewish students,
and he opposes minimum age requirements for some faculties that
suit Jewish students who perform army or community service after
high school, but hamper Arab students, who generally do not.  Arabs, who account for 20 percent of  Israel ’s nearly 8
million people, lag the population on each level of educational
achievement and have a higher drop-out rate, according to
government data. They make up 12 percent of university students
studying for their first degree, 8.2 percent of masters
students, and 4.4 percent of doctoral students.  Those who do attend university favor professions such as
medicine, pharmacy, nursing and teaching, which enjoy prestige
in their community, and are less present in business schools.  Educational Gaps  Israeli Arabs make up a fifth of the population and produce
8 percent of economic output. Their households earn on average
40 percent less than Jewish counterparts, according to
government figures.  If those gaps were narrowed by half, “you can have a
significant increase in GDP,” said Trajtenberg, 62, a Tel Aviv
University professor and former head of the National Economic
Council, in a March 6 interview.  Unlike Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied  West Bank ,
Israeli Arabs enjoy equal rights under the law. But they have
long complained of discrimination in employment and government
services, including funding for their separate school system.  Arab underemployment is part of a bigger set of labor force
problems hurting economic growth. Nearly 80 percent of Arab
women and more than half of ultra-Orthodox Jewish men do not
work. Cultural mores have kept many Arab women at home, raising
families. Ultra-Orthodox men who don’t work receive state
stipends so they can devote their time to religious study.  The labor force participation patterns have helped to fuel
a 20 percent poverty rate that was the highest in the 34-state
 Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development , according
to the group’s December 2011 economic survey of Israel.  “There are large populations that are not at the center of
activity,” said Trajtenberg. “It is our responsibility as a
society to open the gates to bring them in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net 
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  