-- Italian Police Seize Bulgari Executives’ Assets in Tax Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2013-03-14T15:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/italian-police-seize-bulgari-executives-assets-in-tax-probe.html
Italian police seized more than 46
million euros ($59 million) of assets from executives linked to
jeweler Bulgari including Francesco Trapani, who heads parent
company  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s watch and jewelry
unit, for alleged tax evasion.  Property including real estate, bank assets and company
stakes have been confiscated, Italy’s Guardia di Finanza, or
financial police, said today in a statement from Rome. Also
named in the probe were billionaire brothers Paolo and Nicola Bulgari, chairman and vice-chairman of Bulgari, and lawyer
Valentini Maurizio.  Between 2006 and 2011, the executives allegedly reallocated
about 3 billion euros of Rome-based Bulgari’s revenue into
foreign subsidiaries outside of Italy, including units in
Switzerland, the Netherlands and Ireland, to avoid paying a
higher rate of tax, according to the statement. The company’s
jewelry has been worn by actresses from Elizabeth Taylor to
Julianne Moore.  Bulgari “is extremely surprised” by the allegations as
the units under investigation are “real businesses that perform
an undeniably strategic role for the group,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement. “Bulgari will take all actions
necessary to clarify its position.”  Michele Calcaterra, a spokesman for LVMH, which acquired
Bulgari for about 3.7 billion euros in 2011, didn’t return a
voicemail message left on his mobile phone seeking comment.  ’Dutch Sandwich’  Multinational companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  have set up tax-avoidance strategies with
subsidiaries in countries including the Netherlands and Ireland,
employing structures with nicknames like the “Dutch Sandwich”
and “Double Irish.”  Google, for example, sells advertising around the world
from a Dublin office, yet has moved the resulting profits from
countries where it has actual customers through a Dutch
subsidiary and into another Google unit in Bermuda. In 2011,
Google paid nearly $10 billion to that Bermuda unit, helping to
cut its worldwide income tax bill by about $2 billion.  The Italian tax police began auditing Google in November,
searching the company’s Milan offices, as well as the offices of
Facebook Inc., according to a person familiar with the matter.  Court Battle  The eponymous founders of Italian fashion company Dolce &
Gabbana, meanwhile, have been embroiled in a court battle over
charges of tax evasion since 2007. Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana have been accused by Italian prosecutors of selling
their clothing brands to their wholly-owned Luxembourg-based
holding company, Gado, for less than a third of their market
value, each avoiding more than 416 million euros in taxes. Both
have denied the charges.  Governments around the world are increasingly targeting tax
dodging strategies of big companies as they seek to deal with
outsized budget deficits.  The U.K. Parliament has held two hearings since November on
the issue. In December, the European Commission announced a new
attack on tax evasion and avoidance, which it said cost 1
trillion euros a year. And in February, the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, funded by
governments, released a lengthy report on corporate tax
avoidance, at the request of the Group of 20 nations.  Bulgari Ireland  Irish corporate records show that a Bulgari unit called
Bulgari Ireland Ltd. reported 693.7 million euros of sales in
2011, the most recent year available. Those sales were mostly to
other Bulgari units and included 34.5 million euros of sales in
Italy.  Under a typical structure, an Irish operating company
making sales around the world would shift the resulting profits
out of Ireland by using intra-company payments to other
subsidiaries in places such as Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and
Switzerland. The payments often get funneled through Holland to
avoid Irish withholding taxes on those payments leaving Ireland.  While it’s unclear from Bulgari’s Irish filings if or how
profits were moved outside of Ireland, the unit reported it owed
121.7 million to other Bulgari entities as of the end of 2011.  Bulgari was founded in 1884 by Sotirio Bulgari. Trapani,
who ran the company from 1984 to 2011, is the nephew of Paolo
and Nicola Bulgari, each of whom have a net worth of about $1.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bulgari’s
total revenue reached 1.27 billion euros in 2011, according to
LVMH’s financial documents for that year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in  New York  at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  