-- Italian Lawmakers Face Backlash as Grillo’s Force Arrive
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/italian-lawmakers-face-backlash-as-grillo-s-force-arrive.html
Italy’s incumbent lawmakers, who
united last year to impose austerity on taxpayers, are bracing
for a fight over their own privileges as the upstart movement
led by Beppe Grillo enters parliament and vies for key roles.  Up for grabs as the legislature convenes today are the
speakerships of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies, followed by
appointments to budget committees and commission chairmanships.
The posts could give Grillo’s Five Star Movement, which took a
quarter of the votes in elections last month, enough leverage
over the bodies’ more than 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in
annual operating expenses.  “The costs could be cut in half,” said Elio Lannutti, a
consumer advocate, ex-senator and a friend of Grillo’s. “If
they keep these people out, the revolution is just going to get
bigger.”  Five Star was swept into the legislature with a mandate to
cut taxes, curb public spending and shove career politicians
from power. The party’s power is still up in the air, as no
political force emerged from the Feb. 24-25 election with a
majority. It’s now up to President Giorgio Napolitano to
nominate a figure to form a government.  Still, Five Star has already used its electoral gains to
push its version of an austerity agenda.  Lawmakers make about 20,000 euros a month in salary and
benefits, including train and  air travel . Yesterday, Grillo
called on Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the largest parliamentary
force, to persuade his members to give up more than half of
their pay. Monthly salaries, at about 11,000 euros, should be
reduced to 5,000 euros, Grillo said. There are 945 elected seats
in the Senate and Chamber. That compares to 635 in the  U.S.
Congress .  ‘The Caste’  Dubbed “The Caste” after a 2007 book by Sergio Rizzo and
Gian Antonio Stella, career lawmakers suffered in polls last
year as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  implemented tax increases
with about 80 percent of parliament behind him. Corruption
scandals at the party founded by  Silvio Berlusconi , the
billionaire and three-time ex-premier, also contributed to an
erosion of public esteem and fueled Grillo’s rise.  The 162 Five Star representatives range from lawyers and
scientists to unemployed activists. They have said they will
shun the Italian parliamentarian’s title of “Honorable” and
refuse privileges typically reserved for lawmakers and
unavailable to citizens at large.  They will run into at least one such perk today in the
Chamber, where lawmakers relax with cigarettes in leather
armchairs, even though smoking was banned 10 years ago in
workplaces, public buildings, restaurants and bars.  Covering Costs  Napolitano is set to begin consultations next week with the
speakers and heads of the parties in both houses to pick a
premier capable of mustering a majority of parliament. The
process of forming a new government may be delayed as talks
among the rival parties stall. Bersani told his allies he would
seek to scuttle the speakership votes because progress toward a
coalition hasn’t been made, Ansa newswire said yesterday.  Along with internal budget commissioners, the speakers also
oversee the more than 70 million euros that get handed out
annually to individual party delegations to cover the costs of
their staffs and incidentals.  The particulars of those expenses are kept secret from the
public and the rank-and-file lawmakers, according to Lannutti,
who said he petitioned unsuccessfully for the information when
he was a senator. If Five Star won a speakership or a spot as a
budget commissioner they might be in a position to show the
public how that money is spent, he said.  ‘Tuna Can’  Grillo, an ex-comic, drew cheers during the election
campaign by saying at rallies that his lawmakers would “open
parliament like a can of tuna” by revealing backroom
discussions and detailing expenses that haven’t been published.  Grillo, 64, wasn’t a candidate himself and won’t join his
deputies in parliament because he says he isn’t fit to serve due
to a manslaughter conviction in the 1980s. He was behind the
wheel in a one-car accident that killed two friends and their
son.  Lannutti’s estimate that parliament’s expenses could be cut
in half was rejected by former colleague Lamberto Dini, the 82-
year-old former prime minister whose last day in the Senate was
yesterday. Expenses are reasonable, he said, advising Five Star
to start by learning how parliament works.  “It won’t be easy to manage this parliament,” said Dini
in an interview. “I have nothing against young lawmakers in
principle, but these new members of parliament need to be humble
and then they will be able to be protagonists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  