-- Ivaldi Backs Two Asian Startup Hedge Funds Filling Funding Gap
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-03-14T02:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/ivaldi-backs-two-asian-startup-hedge-funds-filling-funding-gap.html
Ivaldi Capital LLP, founded by
three former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  prime brokers, is backing two Asian
 hedge funds  that will start trading in the first half of 2013,
said Chief Executive Officer William Potts.  They include a team employing a market-neutral long-short
equity strategy that trades with computer models and a stock
fund that focuses on the region’s telecommunications industry,
he said in an e-mail, declining to identify them. Ivaldi is
waiting for the  Monetary Authority of Singapore ’s approval to
start trading in the city-state, he added.  Small hedge funds have struggled to raise money and
managers are under increasing pressure to meet investors’ short-
term return expectations, said Potts. Investors willing to
consider giving capital to new hedge funds whose managers had at
least than three years’ track record at other hedge funds, and
doing so without demanding fee discounts, dropped by 23
percentage points since 2010 to 38 percent this year, according
to a Credit Suisse Group AG survey this month.  “It is proven early-stage or second-generation managers
outperform over time,” said Potts. “With the lack of  seed
capital , closure of proprietary desks and, in Asia specifically,
a seeming reduction of funds’ presence, we have an enormous
opportunity.”  An estimated 263 Asian hedge funds opened in the two years
to December, while there were 33 more liquidations, according to
data from Singapore-based  Eurekahedge Pte .  Smaller Suffer  London-based Ivaldi hires teams of so-called second-
generation managers who used to work at other hedge funds to
join its offices. Successful managers are allowed to raise
capital directly from other investors after at least two years,
with Ivaldi helping market their funds, Potts said.  The arrangement helps new managers focus on investment,
rather than being distracted by marketing, trying to run a
business or concentrating on monthly returns, he said.  The region’s hedge funds have suffered from investor flight
to the biggest managers. Hedge funds overseeing at least $5
billion accounted for $43 billion of the $31 billion new capital
added to the global industry in the first nine months last year
as investors moved assets out of smaller funds, according to
Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research Inc .  Asia Focus  Ivaldi currently runs money only for European state pension
funds, Potts said, declining to identify the investors or give
the amount they have committed. It plans to raise capital also
from sovereign wealth funds, insurers, foundations and
endowments, including those in  Asia , he said.  Ivaldi has hired six equity fund teams in  London . It opened
a  Singapore  office in December and plans to have five Asia-
focused hedge-fund teams eventually, Potts said. So far, all the
managers it has hired trade stocks, and it plans to add managers
that trade non-equity securities in London first later this year.  It aims to allocate 30 percent of the capital committed by
investors seeking global diversification to Asian managers,
Potts said. The percentage will be higher for those who want
bigger holdings in the region, he added.  “Asia combines the most diverse and complex array of
markets while being the youngest and least crowded in the
evolution of alternatives,” Potts said.  Potts, a former London-based European head of  prime  finance
sales at Citigroup, co-founded Ivaldi in 2009 with  Todd Johnson 
and Nick Jarrett. Johnson was a European  head  of prime brokerage
at the bank and Jarrett was Citigroup’s global head of prime
finance technology. Prime brokerage provides services such as
trade settlement, securities and cash lending to hedge funds.  The New York-based bank  owns  a minority, non-controlling
stake in Ivaldi, Potts said, declining to specify the size of
the holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  