-- Mizuho Markets Dollar Bonds as Default Risk Tumbles to 2011 Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-03-14T03:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/mizuho-markets-dollar-bonds-as-default-risk-tumbles-to-2011-low.html
 Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. is
marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds as a gauge of corporate
debt risk in  Japan  heads for its lowest close since March 2011.  Mizuho, a unit of the Asian nation’s third-biggest bank by
market value, is offering five-year notes at about 105 basis
points more than Treasuries and 10-year securities at a spread
of about 155 basis points, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Bank of India  is also in the market with 5.5-year debt at
a premium of about 285 basis points, said another person.  Dollar bond sales from Japanese issuers surged to $13.4
billion this quarter, almost double the prior three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Marubeni Corp., Japan’s biggest
trader of agricultural commodities, and Sompo Japan Insurance
Inc. are also planning offerings. Japan’s benchmark index of
credit-default swaps is set for its lowest close since the day
of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that devastated north-eastern
parts of the nation.  “The timing availability is limited for Japanese issuers
to sell bonds,” Tokyo-based Reiko Hayashi, the head of Japan
debt capital markets at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.
Companies are seizing on a window between earnings season and
the end of the fiscal year, she said.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index declined 1 basis point to 101
basis points as of 9:10 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 102.5 basis points
as of 8:24 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices. The measure rose for the past three
business days, the longest stretch since January, according to
data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was also little changed
at 105 basis points as of 11:12 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. The gauge has fallen 9.3 basis
points so far in March, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  