-- Janus Joins BlackRock to Goldman Marketing Low-Risk Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/janus-joins-blackrock-to-goldman-marketing-low-risk-funds.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the money
manager that made its name placing big bets on stocks, is trying
something new to stem a five-year customer exodus.  Chief Executive Officer Richard M. Weil is introducing
funds that seek to spread risk across asset classes and protect
clients from sharp market drops. Instead of focusing on returns,
which are difficult to forecast, the so-called asset allocation
funds offer investors varying levels of volatility.  “Investors, in general, have less confidence in
aggressive, active equity management than they did 5 or 10 years
ago,” Weil, whose firm oversees $157 billion, said in an
interview. “Risk-adjusted returns, rather than swing-for-the-
fences returns, are absolutely more important.”  Janus, named for the two-faced Roman god who looked to both
the past and future, is following firms from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to
Invesco Ltd. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in using the promise
of lower risk to lure back clients burned by losses during the
stock market rout five years ago. With equities approaching
 record highs  again and volatility declining, the industry’s
latest sales pitch has been hampered by underperformance.  Asset allocation funds returned a risk-adjusted 0.8 percent
in the year ended Feb. 28, compared with 1 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.3 percent for the Barclays
U.S. Aggregated Bond Index. Over three years, the funds gained
2.3 percent, compared with 2.5 percent for stocks and 5 percent
for bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Too Good’  Bloomberg’s calculation of risk-adjusted returns is based
on total return divided by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk.
The figures aren’t annualized.  “There’s definitely been a trend in response to the crisis
of 2008 and to people’s fears about the stock market,” Josh
Charlson, analyst at fund research firm Morningstar Inc., said
in an interview. “There are a lot of new products designed to
lower volatility while also producing some decent returns,
although it sounds like a formula that’s too good to be true.”  Selling safer funds after a crisis isn’t Janus’s first
attempt to staunch investor withdrawals, and it’s turning to a
strategy that’s had mixed results for competitors. Sales of U.S.
asset-allocation funds peaked at $59 billion in 2004, two years
after the collapse of the technology-stock bubble. Investor
deposits rose to $25 billion in 2012 from about $14 billion in
each of the previous two years, according to Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc.  Beyond Conviction  Janus has been hurt by more than a decade of turmoil. Its
concentration in technology stocks led to a rapid rise and steep
fall when the sector’s 1990s boom turned to bust. Assets peaked
at $325 billion in the first quarter of 2000, before shrinking
by 59 percent over the next three years.  The firm, based in Denver, introduced the first of its new
funds, the  Janus Diversified Alternatives Fund (JDAIX) , in December,
using derivatives to mirror returns from stocks, bonds,
commodities, currencies and real estate.  Derivatives are contracts such as futures, swaps and
options whose value is derived from one or more underlying
assets. They typically use leverage to amplify returns.  With 82 percent of its investments in actively run equity
portfolios, the company is seeking to reverse a 24 percent drop
in assets since the end of 2007 as clients pulled money in 18 of
the last 20 quarters.  Janus’s Brand  “Janus’s brand clearly stands for high-conviction stock-
picking,” Weil, who has already built up the firm’s fixed-
income group, said in the interview in New York. “We would like
to expand the brand to mean more than that.”  Among 263 U.S.-registered mutual funds categorized by
Bloomberg as asset-allocation products, 130 have opened since
the end of 2009. The group ranges from traditional stock-and-
bond balanced funds to more varied versions such as Janus’s
Diversified Alternatives.  Invesco, based in Atlanta, beat the wave with its  Balanced-
Risk Allocation Fund (ABRZX)  in June 2009. The fund is similar to
Janus’s offering in its use of derivatives.  Balanced Risk has grown to $12.9 billion, returning a risk-
adjusted 6 percent from its June 2009 inception through Feb. 28,
versus 4 percent for the S&P 500 Index. Versions sold in  Canada ,
the U.K. and continental  Europe  hold an additional $7.5 billion.  “When other fund companies see Invesco getting $12
billion, you’re going to get some copycats,” Charlson said.  Goldman, Franklin  BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, refashioned a
stock-and-bond fund in January 2012 when the New York-based
company added asset classes and renamed it the  BlackRock Multi-
Asset Income Fund. (BIICX)  The $2.4 billion fund has since returned a
risk-adjusted 3.2 percent, compared with 1.3 percent for the S&P
500.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., also based in New York, has seen
its $1.3 billion Dynamic Allocation Fund return a risk-adjusted
2 percent since its January 2010 opening, compared with 2.3
percent for the S&P 500. San Mateo, California-based Franklin
Resources Inc.’s $866 million Franklin Templeton Multi-Asset
Real Return Fund has returned 1.4 percent after price swings
since starting in December 2011, versus 2.3 percent for the U.S.
benchmark.  As money poured into fixed-income and asset-allocation
funds last year, the stock funds in Janus’s traditional
wheelhouse dealt with redemptions. Large-cap growth funds, or
those targeting large-capitalization companies expected to
achieve above-average profit increases, lost $38 billion to
withdrawals.  Black’s Reign  On top of the industrywide redemptions, Janus suffered a
setback in 2004 when it agreed to a $225 million settlement with
New York and Colorado regulators over allegations it permitted
favored customers to engage in the improper trading practice
known as market timing.  Struggling to regain assets even as fund performance
recovered, then-Chief Executive Officer Gary Black set out to
rein in the independence of fund managers and reduce their pay
after taking over in 2006. Several top-rated managers left and
one, Edward Keeley, won $4.8 million in 2009 when a Colorado
jury found the firm had breached his contract and committed
fraud in cutting his pay. Black quit that July, paving the way
for Weil’s hiring in February 2010.  Fund performance slumped anew when the 2008 financial
crisis struck. Even as the picture began to brighten in 2012,
four-fifths of the company’s stock pickers remained in the
bottom half of their Morningstar categories over the three years
ended Dec. 31.  Industry ‘Failed’  In addition to improving core fund performance, Weil said
Janus can do a better job than competitors with products
promising risk-adjusted returns, because the company will focus
more on diversifying the sources of risk.  “The industry has failed investors in the asset-allocation
structure,” he said. Most products “sound diversified, but the
underlying return streams aren’t.” The variation in returns
among asset-allocation funds comes largely from the degree of
equity risk, he said.  That explains why many such funds didn’t protect customers
well enough during the financial crisis, Weil said. The average
asset-allocation fund dropped 25 percent in 2008, the same year
the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  slid 38 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Weil in May hired Andrew Weisman, a former chief investment
officer and board member at Nikko International, to head the
firm’s new alternative-investments group. In September he added
Richard Lindsey, a former Bear Stearns Cos. executive, to be
chief strategist of the group.  Forecasting Volatility  The new fund doesn’t target a specific mix, Weisman said,
but seeks to identify independent sources of risk found within
asset classes. The goal is to make investments across asset
classes that won’t collectively move in step with broad markets.  As of Dec. 31, Janus Diversified Alternatives had invested
29 percent in commodities, 26 percent equities, 21 percent bonds
and 20 percent currencies, according to the firm. The
allocations change over time based on risk weightings.  “We can do an OK job at forecasting volatility,” Weisman
said. By lowering the volatility for a given average return, the
fund can give clients a smoother ride and greater wealth in the
long run.  The first fund seeks 3 percent historical volatility, a
measure of price variation, on an annual basis. That compares
with 2.4 percent  volatility  for the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond
Index in the year ended Feb. 28, and 13 percent for the S&P 500.
Two other strategies Janus offers only to institutional
investors target 6 percent and 9 percent volatility. The company
plans additional mutual funds in the series, Weil said, without
providing details.  ‘Liquid Alternatives’  The push into what Janus calls “liquid alternatives”
follows earlier efforts by Weil, a former chief operating
officer at  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co., to
expand the firm’s bond team and the assets it oversees. Fixed-
income investments have grown to $26.4 billion, or 17 percent of
assets, from $7.8 billion, or 5 percent, since he took over.  Weil, 49, said serving existing clients was “exponentially
more important” than adding products. Even so, he said, “We’ve
elected to make a huge bet on liquid alternatives by bringing in
this really world-class team and making a commitment to filling
out this area.”  Janus faces two hurdles in its latest attempt to diversify,
according to Geoff Bobroff, a fund consultant in East Greenwich,
Rhode Island. It lacks the track record in multiasset investing
that firms such as Invesco and BlackRock carry, and it’s joining
the trend late.  Many financial advisers, he said, will want to see two or
three years of history before they use a fund, and by then, the
draw of conservative asset allocation may have faded if equity
markets continue their recent advance. Invesco’s Balanced Risk
Fund returned 1.3 percent this year through Feb. 28 as the S&P
500 rose 6.6 percent.  “Part of the problem with these products is that they work
well in saw-toothed markets,” Bobroff said, referring to
elevated volatility. “If we end up in a bull market, they will
severely underperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  