-- Japan May Open Beef in TPP Trade Talks, Former Adviser Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-03-15T07:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/japan-may-open-beef-in-u-s-led-trade-talks-former-adviser-says.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may
sacrifice barriers protecting  Japan ’s beef and wheat farmers as
he joins the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks, said a
former government adviser on farm policy.  Japan will fight to maintain tariffs on rice, sugar and
dairy products, said Shinichi Shogenji, an agricultural science
professor at Nagoya University who was chairman of the food
security advisory panel for the Cabinet in 2007 during Abe’s
first term as leader. The prime minister will announce Japan’s
entry to the TPP negotiations today, according to a government
official who asked not to be named ahead of the statement.  “Japan may be able to protect about 5 percent of its total
goods in the TPP talks,” Shogenji said in an interview on March
12. “Rice is the national staple, sugar is vital to Okinawa
prefecture and milk is what our kids drink.”  Eliminating the 38.5 percent tariff on beef would probably
spur a jump of as much as 40 percent in imports and help
exporters including the U.S. and  Australia  displace half of
local produce, according to Tetsuro Shimizu, a general manager
at Norinchukin Research Institute in Tokyo. Cutting the 252
percent tariff on wheat and ending the agriculture ministry’s
control of purchases may bring 600,000 metric tons a year in
shipments, said Masaaki Kadota, executive director at Japan
Flour Millers Association.  “While we must maintain domestic production of rice and
milk to ensure food security, beef may be an easier sector to
concede,” Shogenji said. “Tariffs on beef are not so high
compared with other items, and our wagyu beef is a high-quality
product that can compete with imports.”  Beef Costs  Removal of import duties would lower beef-purchasing costs
for Japanese buyers such as  Nippon Meat Packers Inc. (2282) , boosting
their earnings, said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research
company JSC Corp. in Tokyo.  The share price of the Osaka-based company surged as much
as 9.8 percent today to the highest level since October, 2008.
 Prima Meat Packers Ltd. (2281)  rose as much 5.5 percent and  Itoham
Foods Inc. (2284)  jumped as much as 4.8 percent.  South Korea agreed to phase out beef tariffs over 15 years
when it reached a free-trade deal with the U.S., which took
effect in March, 2012.  Japan imposes tariffs of 778 percent on rice imports, 328
percent on sugar and 218 percent on powdered milk.  The bid to join the TPP talks drew criticism in the U.S.
even before it was announced, with Representative Sander Levin
of Michigan joined by 46 other Democrats in a letter to
President  Barack Obama  that said the automobile import market in
Japan was unfairly closed.  ‘Bridge to Cross’  Brett Stuart, chief executive officer of Global AgriTrends,
a Denver-based meat research company, said there was “still a
big bridge to cross regarding sensitive agricultural
commodities.”  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office last year listed
Japan’s restrictions on beef and rice imports in the agency’s
annual report on foreign-trade barriers.  Keidanren, the nation’s biggest business lobby with members
including Toyota Motor Corp. and Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal
Corp., urged the government to join the partnership to increase
the competitiveness of exporters. JA Group, the largest farmers’
organization, is against the pact and members of Abe’s own
ruling Liberal Democratic Party have called for special
treatment for agricultural produce including beef and wheat.  GDP Impact  While agriculture, forestry and fisheries make up less than
2 percent of Japan’s economic output, JA Group’s 10 million
members make up 8 percent of the population, partly thanks to a
large number of part-time farmers.  In previous free-trade negotiations with countries
including Thailand, India and  Chile , Japan was able to exclude
rice, wheat, sugar, beef and dairy products.  “The TPP talks aim for a high level of liberalization and
it will be difficult for Japan to protect them all,” Satoshi
Fujiwara, vice president at the equity research department of
Nomura Securities Co., said on March 13 “The nation may have to
give up products excluding rice and sugar.”  Japan already depends on imports for 60 percent of its food
and joining the TPP could help exporters from Nissan Motor Co.
to Sony Corp. compete with rivals from South Korea to the U.S.  Global Share  An agreement would be the  biggest free-trade  deal for the
U.S., and the first new accord under Obama. The region
represents more than half of global output and more than 40
percent of world trade, according to the U.S. trade office.  The TPP started in 2005 with Brunei, Chile,  Singapore  and
New Zealand as a pact to open trade in goods, services and
government procurement. Negotiations have extended to Australia,
 Canada ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,  Peru ,  Vietnam  and the U.S., which aims
to complete the TPP talks by the end of 2013.  Japan is Asia’s biggest beef importer and bought 515,108
tons of the meat worth 221 billion yen ($2.3 billion) in 2012,
data from the agriculture ministry show. Australia accounted for
62 percent of shipments, followed by the U.S. with 26 percent
and New Zealand at 6.1 percent.  The nation is the second-largest wheat buyer, with domestic
producers meeting only about 10 percent of requirements,
compared with almost 100 percent for rice and milk, and 40
percent for sugar, Shogenji said.  Japan imported 5.57 million tons of food wheat last fiscal
year, according to the agriculture ministry. The U.S. was the
largest supplier, accounting for 58 percent, followed by Canada
with 23 percent and Australia at 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  