-- Japan’s Lower House Approves Kuroda for BOJ Governor
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-14T04:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/japan-s-lower-house-approves-kuroda-for-bank-of-japan-governor.html
Haruhiko Kuroda was endorsed by the
lower house of parliament to become  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor,
clearing the first hurdle in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s plan to
install a central bank leadership in favor of more easing.  Lawmakers in the chamber, which is dominated by the ruling
coalition, today also approved Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso
for two deputy governor posts,  Abe now needs to get his nominations through an upper house
vote tomorrow, where his Liberal Democratic Party lacks a
majority. The largest opposition party’s pledge to reject Iwata,
who has advocated greater monetary stimulus since the 1990s,
while backing Kuroda, adds to the risk of a BOJ board where
there is less support for boosting asset purchases.  “The first test is cleared without a hitch,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist at RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. in
 Tokyo , a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The focus
is now on the upper house: If all three nominees are approved,
that will prepare the ground for speedier monetary stimulus.”  The Nikkei 255 Stock Average advanced after the vote,
gaining 0.7 percent at 1:22 p.m in Tokyo. The yen pared gains,
rising 0.2 percent to 95.94 per dollar after earlier touching
95.45.  Fukunaga at RBS, who expects all three candidates to win
approval in the upper house, said that Kuroda may call an
emergency board meeting before the next scheduled gathering on
April 3-4.  Smaller opposition parties yesterday said they would back
Iwata in the upper house, putting him above the threshold needed
to win confirmation in the chamber, provided lawmakers follow
their party’s recommendations.  BOJ Law  Iwata, a professor at Tokyo’s Gakushuin University, has
called for revising the law governing the central bank to give
the government more say in setting policy goals.  While supporting Kuroda this time, the opposition
Democratic Party of Japan reserves the right to vote against him
once he is re-nominated next month after completing the term of
outgoing Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , DPJ policy chief Mitsuru Sakurai said this week. Shirakawa steps down March 19, before
his term was due to end on April 8.  Kuroda must be confirmed again to serve for the regular
five-year period beginning April 9, according to the BOJ.  The second vote is a technicality and the DPJ is unlikely
to reverse its support for Kuroda, according to Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, and
Robert Feldman, head of Japan economic research at Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  