-- Japan Joining Trade Talks Fuels Criticism Over Barriers
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-14T22:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/japan-joining-trade-talks-fuels-criticism-over-barriers.html
Japan’s bid to join trade
negotiations aimed at creating the Trans-Pacific Partnership
drew criticism from U.S. lawmakers and a citizens’ group even
before it was announced.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan joined by 46 other
Democrats said in a letter to President Barack Obama today that
the automobile import market in Japan is unfairly closed to
U.S.-made vehicles, and letting the nation join the regional
trade deal would hurt rather than help address that imbalance.  “It’s hard to see how those TPP negotiations could be the
vehicle to address all the decades of exclusion by Japan,”
Levin, the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee
that oversees trade policy, said in an interview. “It’s hard to
see how TPP negotiations could lead to a two-way street.”  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will announce that Japan
will seek to join the negotiations, according to a government
official who asked not to be named ahead of the statement.  The  Trans-Pacific  agreement among 11 nations, including
Brunei and Peru, is being drafted as a model for future pacts as
President  Barack Obama ’s administration seeks to double U.S.
exports by the end of 2014. Negotiators held the 16th round of
talks in Singapore this week and are on track for wrapping up a
deal by the end of the year, according to the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office.  Biggest Deal  An agreement would be the  biggest free-trade  deal for the
U.S., and the first new accord under Obama. The region that
represents more than half of global output and more than 40
percent of world trade, according to the U.S. trade office.  The nations in the negotiations are  Australia ,  Brunei
Darussalam ,  Canada ,  Chile ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,  New Zealand , Peru,
Singapore, U.S. and Vietnam.  Japan , the world’s  third largest
economy , has hinted for years that it would join the talks.  The U.S. trade-in-goods deficit with Japan in 2012 widened
21 percent to $76.3 billion from the previous year, according to
the U.S. Census Bureau. The U.S. Trade Representative’s office
last year listed Japan’s restrictions on beef and rice imports
in the agency’s annual report on foreign-trade barriers.  In addition to the lawmakers, the activist Citizens Trade
Campaign, which is affiliated with public health groups and
labor unions, said the pact may helps destroy U.S. jobs and
reduce wages.  ‘Past Problems’  Japan joining the TPP “only threatens to accelerate past
problems, unless a new model for international trade policy is
embraced,” Arthur Stamoulis, the group’s executive director,
said in a statement.  Lobbyists for U.S. automakers such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  say Japan shouldn’t be allowed to join the
talks with the other nations, which it supports.  “Japan’s inclusion would significantly delay, if not
prevent, proceeding with a high-quality TPP trade agreement with
other more compatible trade partners,” Matt Blunt, president of
the American Automotive Policy Council, said in a statement.  The lawmakers said in their letter that a “flawed, one-way
trade agreement” will not be sufficient to resolve the
longstanding practices. Also, eliminating the 2.5 percent tariff
on automobile imports and 25 percent tariff on truck imports
might lead to further Japanese exports to the U.S. In addition
to the 47 Democrats, Republican Walter Jones of  North Carolina 
signed the letter.  “If they request to be a partner and they’re admitted,
there’s still a big bridge to cross regarding sensitive
agricultural commodities,” Brett Stuart, chief executive
officer of Global AgriTrends, a Denver-based meat research
company, said in a telephone interview before the announcement.  “Historically Japan has not been willing to go duty free
on these sensitive agricultural products,” including beef.  The U.S. has signed a series of deals with Japan, dating
back to the 1980s, seeking to ease auto trade barriers.  U.S. exports “can’t get in,” Levin said. “Past efforts
to open up and transform their market have failed miserably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  