-- Jazztel Shares Climb After Chairman Predicts Consolidation Ahead
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-14T17:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/jazztel-shares-fall-after-setting-profit-sales-growth-forecasts.html
Jazztel Plc (JAZ) ,  Spain ’s smallest
publicly-traded telephone company, rose the most in two weeks
after Chairman Leopoldo Fernandez Pujals said the Spanish
telecommunications market is headed for consolidation.  “Big fish will buy those smaller players that are biting
them all the time,” Fernandez Pujals told reporters in  Madrid 
today. “I don’t know when that is going to happen but there’s
just no way around that.”  Jazztel shares climbed as much as 2.2 percent and gained
1.9 percent at 5:07 p.m. in Madrid, reversing an earlier decline
of as much as 1.2 percent.  The company predicted today profit will increase more than
threefold over the next five years as it continues to lure
customers from rivals such as  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  while it gains mobile-phone customers from its existing
broadband users. Net income will reach as much as 220 million
euros ($285 million) in 2017 compared with 62 million euros last
year, the Madrid-based company said today in a statement.  Jazztel expects revenue to reach as much as 1.6 billion
euros over the same period from 909 million euros and targets as
many as 2 million broadband customers in 2017 compared with 1.32
million at the end of last year. It is also seeking to reach as
many as 2.5 million mobile-phone customers compared with 343,000
in 2012.  Exceed Goals  Fernandez Pujals said the company can exceed business-plan
goals. They “are just a minimum -- we have been very
conservative,” he said.  Jazztel, which has gained market share from Telefonica in
the last few years, is betting on growth driven by consumers who
switch to cheaper bundled offerings that package voice, high-
speed Internet and mobile data. The company is “well
positioned” to tap opportunities from packages as it has the
right infrastructure, Chief Executive Officer Jose Miguel Garcia
told reporters at the same event today.  “This business plan is a bit too agressive and it will be
difficult for the company to actually achieve it,” said
Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores.
“An acceleration of growth could trigger profit margin pressure
in a market that seems to be slowing down.”  ’Very Optimistic’  Telefonica, Vodafone and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange Spain
are also offering integrated services as they aim to be more
competitive, which will make it more difficult for Jazztel to
continue delivering strong growth, according to Salvador.  Jazztel shares fell yesterday by the most in two months
after Vodafone and Orange Spain announced plans to invest in
fiber to homes in Spain. In October, Jazztel reached an
agreement with Telefonica to jointly deploy fiber-to-the-home
network.  “This plan provides a very optimistic sales outlook as the
company seeks to gain customers agressively,” said Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at Banco de Sabadell in Madrid who
recommends buying the stock. “Even if the shares drop today,
they should continue to climb as they have in the past couple of
years.”  No Dividends  The company doesn’t plan to pay dividends in the next five
years as it focuses on growth, Fernandez Pujals said.  “Those that pay dividends either lack creativity or
dynamism to invest with a 20 to 40 percent return,” he said.
“Jazztel investors won’t complain over the next five years if
we don’t pay a dividend.”  Jazztel has 18 buy, four hold and 3 sell recommendations
with an average 12-month price target of 6.51 euros, from
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “I would like to remain as an investor in Jazztel as long
as possible because I only see growth ahead of us,” Fernandez
Pujals said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  