-- Jets Safety Landry Signs With Colts, Seahawks Get Cliff Avril
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-14T19:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/jets-safety-landry-signs-with-colts-seahawks-get-cliff-avril.html
Former New York Jets safety LaRon Landry signed a free-agent contract with the Indianapolis Colts,
while the  Seattle Seahawks  added defensive end Cliff Avril.  Avril, 26, agreed to a two-year, $15 million contract, ESPN
reported today, the second full day of National Football League
free agency. Avril spent the past five seasons with the  Detroit
Lions .  The Colts did not reveal financial details of Landry’s
contract in an announcement on their website. The four-year deal
is worth $24 million, with $14 million in guarantees, according
to ESPN.  A first-round pick by the  Washington Redskins  in the 2007
NFL draft, Landry spent five years with the team before joining
the Jets last season. The 28-year-old played all 16 games with
New York, with two interceptions and a team-high four forced
fumbles.  Avril, selected in the third round of the 2008 draft by the
Lions, had 20 1/2 sacks and eight forced fumbles in his last two
seasons. His signing comes two days after the team acquired wide
receiver Percy Harvin in a trade with the  Minnesota Vikings .  The Seahawks gave up 306.2 yards per game last season,
fourth fewest in the league, and had 36 sacks, 16 fewer than the
league-leading Denver Broncos. Defensive end Chris Clemons, who
led the team with 11 1/2 sacks, tore the anterior cruciate
ligament in his left knee during Seattle’s first playoff game
and the team has not yet announced a timetable for his return.  The  Kansas City Chiefs  released quarterback Matt Cassel
after trading for  Alex Smith . The 30-year-old Cassel was 19-28
with the team and would have made a base salary of $7.5 million
this season, ESPN said.  The Chiefs also agreed to a three-year contract with
cornerback Sean Smith, ESPN said. Smith played the last four
seasons in Miami.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  