-- John Podesta’s Targeted Strike on White House Secrecy
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-03-14T03:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/john-podesta-s-targeted-strike-on-white-house-secrecy.html
John Podesta, one of the most
influential policy advisers in the Democratic Party, has leveled
 a blistering attack  on President  Barack Obama  for his refusal to
provide the legal rationale for drone strikes. The criticism is
sure to rattle the White House and congressional Democrats.  “In refusing to release to Congress the rules and
justification governing a program that has conducted nearly 400
unmanned drone strikes and killed at least three Americans in
the past four years, President Obama is ignoring the system of
checks and balances that has governed our country from its
earliest days,” Podesta writes in an  op-ed  in the Washington
Post. “In keeping this information from the American people, he
is undermining the nation’s ability to be a leader on the world
stage and is acting in opposition to the democratic principles
we hold most important.”  Podesta called on the president to give Congress all the
documents that legally substantiate the drone program. So far,
the administration has released only an abbreviated Justice
Department memorandum; Attorney General Eric Holder told
Congress last week that the administration is “struggling” to
find ways to be more transparent.  The Podesta critique, following the much publicized
filibuster by Republican Senator Rand Paul last week -- which
few Democrats embraced -- is sure to intensify the criticism of
the president from his own party as well as from Republicans.  Podesta was President Bill Clinton’s chief of staff, ran
the presidential transition for Obama, has been a strong
supporter of the president and is chairman of the Center for
American Progress, the influential research organization that
has supplied top officials and policies to this administration.  If the past is any guide, top White House officials will
privately lash out at Podesta -- who almost certainly gave them
advance notice about the article -- and try to head off further
criticism. That’s likely to be futile as pressure builds for
more displays of the transparency that candidate Obama promised
while attacking the secretive policies of President George W. Bush.  Coincidentally, the self-styled citizens lobby Common Cause
is sponsoring  a forum  this week to commemorate the 40th
anniversary of the Watergate hearings. At Wednesday’s session,
Democratic counsels of that era worried aloud that some of the
Obama administration’s justifications for its national security
policies were uncomfortably similar to President Richard Nixon’s
contention that any action is permissible so long as the
president says it is.  (Albert R. Hunt is a Bloomberg View columnist. E-mail him
at  ahunt1@bloomberg.net  or  follow  him on Twitter.)
 