-- Joy Underground-Mining Head Doheny to Be CEO After Sutherlin
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-03-14T20:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/joy-underground-mining-head-doheny-to-be-ceo-after-sutherlin.html
Joy Global  Inc., the world’s
largest maker of underground mining equipment, said Edward L. Doheny II will succeed Michael Sutherlin as chief executive
officer.  While Sutherlin, 66, will officially retire Feb. 1, the
transition will occur at the year-end, Milwaukee-based Joy said
in a statement today. Doheny, 50, has been president and chief
operating officer of the company’s underground mining equipment
division, its largest unit, since 2006. Before joining Joy, he
worked for 20 years at Ingersoll-Rand Corp.  Under Sutherlin, who became CEO in December 2006, Joy’s
sales have doubled amid a boom in global demand for commodities
such as coal and copper. The company completed five acquisitions
worth a combined $2.4 billion in the period, including
LeTourneau Technologies Inc. in the U.S. and International
Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd. in  China , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Doheny and Randal Baker, president and chief operating
officer of the surface mining equipment division who will take
on the underground unit, have been part of developing and
driving Joy Global’s strategy in recent years, Sutherlin said.  “We are in sync,” Sutherlin said in a telephone interview
today. “I don’t think there will be a dramatic change.”  During his tenure he has worked to improve margins,
increase research and development on new products and expand in
China, Sutherlin said.  Sutherlin put Joy Global in a “stronger position” by
focusing on product development and business discipline and
taking advantage of global opportunities,  Eli Lustgarten , an
Independence, Ohio-based analyst for Longbow Research who has a
hold recommendation on the shares, said in an interview today.  Joy rose less than 1 percent to $61.69 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have fallen 22 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  