-- JPMorgan Hid Trades Banned by Volcker Rule, Senate Probe Finds
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-03-14T23:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/jpmorgan-hid-trades-banned-by-volcker-rule-senate-probe-finds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  engaged in
high-risk proprietary trading under the guise of ordinary
hedging, said Senate investigators, who urged U.S. regulators to
strengthen the proposed ban on such trades known as the Volcker
rule.  Regulators should require banks that hold federally insured
deposits to explicitly link positions in derivatives to the
underlying risk they are hedging, the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations recommended in a 300-page  report 
released yesterday.  The issue of which trades are hedges and which are risky
bets that could destabilize a bank is the crux of a stalemate
over the Volcker rule, which was adopted as part of the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act designed to rein in systemic risks. The rule,
which is in the final stage of drafting by five U.S. regulators,
would restrict the kinds of trades permitted by banks holding
deposits insured by taxpayers.  Banks have lobbied heavily against the Volcker rule,
arguing that it will restrict market-making and other standard
banking practices.  The report and its recommendations, issued jointly by the
committee’s Democrats and Republicans, is expected to increase
pressure on regulators to tighten exemptions in the draft
Volcker rule. The Volcker rule was one of the most controversial
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, generating more than 18,000
comment letters from the industry.  Bank officials and regulators are scheduled to be
questioned on the report’s findings in a hearing today.  ‘Increased Risk’  “JPMorgan’s chief investment office increased risk by
mislabeling the synthetic portfolio as a risk-reducing hedge
when it was really involved in proprietary trading,” said
Senator John McCain of  Arizona , the panel’s top Republican.  Subcommittee Chairman Carl Levin, a Democrat from  Michigan 
who sponsored the Volcker rule, said regulators should close a
loophole in an early draft of the rule that would permit broad
“portfolio” hedges.  “We’re going to continue to work very hard for a final
rule that does not allow the kind of manipulation, the kind of
concoctions that were created here by the bank to be accepted in
the name of hedging,” Levin said in a news conference.  The subcommittee released the panel’s findings after a
nine-month probe into JPMorgan’s record trading losses that came
to light when Bloomberg News first reported them on April 5. The
flawed bet on credit derivatives by a trader in  London 
eventually cost the company more than $6.2 billion and stained
Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon’s 31-year Wall Street
career. The trader was dubbed the “London Whale” because the
derivatives positions were so large they moved credit markets.  ‘Significant Mistakes’  “While we have repeatedly acknowledged significant
mistakes, our senior management acted in good faith and never
had any intent to mislead anyone,” Mark Kornblau, a spokesman
for JPMorgan, said in an e-mail.  Levin and Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from  Oregon ,
sponsored the measure that eventually became known as the
Volcker rule in honor of its original proponent, former Federal
Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, and was included in the Dodd-
Frank Act. The law bars federally insured banks from proprietary
trading, or trading for their own account, while allowing
regulators to make exemptions for market-making and hedging.  The subcommittee found that officials at the bank’s main
regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
expressed skepticism that the trades were a hedge. In a May 2012
internal e-mail, an OCC examiner referred to synthetic credit
portfolio as a “make believe voodoo magic ‘composite hedge’.”  OCC ‘Misinformed’  Bryan Hubbard, a spokesman for the OCC, said the agency
continues to investigate the matter. As a result of the report’s
findings on regulators’ shortcomings, the OCC has taken steps to
improve its supervision, he said.  “We are very disappointed that the bank misinformed the
OCC which hampered our supervisory efforts,” Hubbard said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will take additional action as
appropriate.”  The subcommittee said the investigation uncovered evidence
that bank officials portrayed the losing trades as a hedge when
internal communications suggested otherwise.  For instance, in an April 13, 2012, earnings call, former
Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein called the positions
“consistent” with the Volcker rule. However, two months
earlier, the bank made the opposite assessment, the report said.  Proprietary Trading  On Feb. 13, 2012, the bank submitted an official comment
letter to its regulators, including the OCC, expressing concern
that the credit derivatives trading might be prohibited by the
Volcker rule. In the letter, Barry Zubrow, a former risk officer
who retired in December, wrote that under the proposed Volcker
rule this activity “could have been deemed proprietary
trading.”  Also, Ina Drew, former chief investment officer for the
bank, told Braunstein the day before the April earnings call
that the Volcker rule was a “poor fit” with the CIO’s credit
derivatives trading; Braunstein said the opposite on the call
the next day.  “Mr. Braunstein’s optimistic assessment during the April
13 earnings call may have reassured investors, but that is no
justification for misinforming the public about the bank’s
official position that the Volcker rule might prohibit the SCP
as an example of high-risk proprietary trading,” the
subcommittee report stated, referring to the bank’s synthetic
credit portfolio.  Volcker Violation  The report said that Braunstein should have known that his
comments contradicted the bank’s own 68-page Volcker rule
comment letter.  In addition, the investigation found that the bank
considered the unit a proprietary trading operation as early as
2007. In November of that year, the bank’s internal audit group
issued a report characterizing the CIO’s credit-trading
activities as “proprietary position strategies executed on
credit- and asset-backed indices.” The report didn’t mention
hedging as a purpose of the unit.  JPMorgan officials told the subcommittee that the trades
were intended to function as insurance or to “hedge” against
credit risks. Although the original document seeking approval
for the synthetic credit portfolio outlined hedging as a goal,
the bank was unable to produce documentation over the next five
years detailing its hedging objectives, strategies, assets,
risks or events it was supposed to hedge.  “The bank was also unable to explain why the SCP’s hedges
were treated differently from other types of hedges within the
CIO,” the subcommittee report.  Regulatory Action  Levin said the findings call for regulators to quickly
complete the Volcker rule and strengthen it. Specifically, he
said any allowance for banks to hedge should be documented and
tied to a specific risk.  “We cannot allow the argument of the banks that they can
hedge their entire inventory somehow where we get global
hedges,” Levin said at the news conference. “If they are going
to claim that trades are a hedge, they’ve got to be able to
identify what is being hedged against, what are the assets being
hedged and what is the proof that it is a hedge.”  JPMorgan’s loss re-ignited the debate in Congress over
whether aggregate portfolio hedging is appropriate at all and
how to define and spot these trades.  “It has made regulators take another look at hedging and
what constitutes appropriate hedging and what may fit within the
Volcker rule limits,” Satish Kini, co-chair of the Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP’s Banking Group, said in advance of the report’s
release.  ‘Ill-Advised Loopholes’  After the bank disclosed its losses May 10, Levin and
Merkley sent a letter to five federal regulators urging them to
remove “ill-advised loopholes” from the Volcker draft;
regulators have yet to finalize the rule.  Merkley said the PSI report is another reminder for
regulators to complete a “strong, simple Volcker firewall.”  “JPMorgan’s huge losses continue to cast a whale-sized
shadow over these extended delays, and remind us once again just
how important it is to separate risky, hedge-fund-style trading
from the banking system that Main Street depends on,” Merkley
said in a statement.  Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry said in a June
2012 hearing that the JPMorgan incident was a “risk-management
issue, regardless of whether or not the Volcker rule was in
play.”  “I think our experience here, as it unfolds with JPMorgan
Chase, would help inform our views in the final rule-making,”
Curry said.  The subcommittee will hold a hearing on the findings today
with witnesses from the bank, including Drew and Braunstein, and
from the OCC, including Curry.  “The investigation of our Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations into the JPMorgan whale trades opens a window
into the hidden world of high-stakes derivatives trading by a
major bank,” Levin said. “We found a trading operation that
piled on risk, ignored limits on risk taking, hid losses, dodged
oversight and misinformed the public.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  