-- JPMorgan’s $6 Billion Loss Shouldn’t Be a National Matter
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-14T22:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/jpmorgan-s-6-billion-loss-shouldn-t-be-a-national-matter.html
In the  U.S. Senate  on Friday,
legislators  will try yet again  to answer a question of great
concern to the country: How did JPMorgan Chase & Co., a bank
large enough to bring down the  U.S. economy , rack up losses of
$6 billion in a unit that was supposed to be managing its excess
cash and mitigating risk?  Allow us to suggest a follow-up question: Why should any
bank be big and threatening enough to bring down the U.S.
economy?  In recent  editorials , we’ve explained how recurrent
bailouts have encouraged banks to become as large and scary as
possible. The more damaging their failure would be, the more
certain they and their creditors can be that the government will
rescue them in an emergency. This certainty allows the biggest
banks to borrow at lower rates than their competitors -- a
subsidy from taxpayers worth tens of billions of dollars a year.  JPMorgan is a prime example of where the too-big-to-fail
policy has gotten us. Under international accounting standards,
it is the largest bank on the planet: Its total assets stood at
almost $4 trillion as of mid-2012, according to  an estimate  by
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Vice Chairman  Thomas Hoenig .
That’s equal to more than a quarter of the country’s entire
annual economic output. The bank’s tangible equity, the bedrock
capital available to absorb losses, amounted to just $121
billion, or 3.1 percent of tangible assets. In other words, a
decline of 3.1 percent in the value of JPMorgan’s assets could
be enough to render it insolvent and necessitate a taxpayer
bailout.  Growing Support  Lately, the idea that we should stop paying banks to become
dangerous has garnered support on both ends of the political
spectrum. Notably, the  American Conservative Union  has invited a
major proponent of caps on bank size, Dallas Federal Reserve
Bank President  Richard Fisher , to address its annual  conference 
this week outside Washington, D.C.  The essence of Fisher’s solution is  twofold . He would
impose an asset limit on banks that, according to  Bloomberg
News , could force some of the biggest banks to shrink their
consumer and commercial-lending units by more than half. He
would also roll back government subsidies from banks’ trading
and investment-banking operations by requiring them to be walled
off from the units that take deposits and make loans.  Size constraints of some form could significantly reduce
the subsidy enjoyed by the largest financial institutions. If a
bank has $250 billion in assets instead of $4 trillion, it’s
much easier to believe that the FDIC could take it over and wipe
out some of its creditors without triggering a systemwide
crisis. As a result, creditors would be less likely to count on
bailouts.  Problem is, making banks smaller doesn’t necessarily reduce
the chances that they will fail -- and many failures happening
at once could be just as threatening and bailout-worthy as a
single big one.  To make the whole system more resilient, banks need to get
a larger share of their funding in the form of equity from
shareholders, as opposed to loans from depositors and other
creditors. We have  advocated  $1 in equity for each $5 in assets,
a level that would absorb a 20 percent drop in the value of a
bank’s investments, compared with JPMorgan’s 3.1 percent. The
latest global banking rules require only $1 in equity for each
$33 in assets, and use a lenient approach for measuring the
ratio.  Higher equity requirements reduce taxpayer support to banks
in a different way, by making them less likely to require
bailouts. The added discipline would also put natural pressure
on banks to shrink: Once shareholders fully realized how poorly
the largest banks perform in the absence of subsidies, they
would have more incentive to demand that they be broken up into
smaller, more profitable units.  That said, size constraints can be useful to augment the
desirable effects of equity, guaranteeing that banks get down to
a manageable scale. Think of it as a dual containment system for
too-big-to-fail institutions: One measure deals with the “big,”
while the other deals with the “fail.”  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 