-- JPMorgan Boosts Payout More Than Expected After Fed Approval
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-03-14T22:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/jpmorgan-boosts-payout-more-than-expected-after-fed-approval.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, raised its quarterly dividend more than most analysts
estimated to 38 cents and expanded stock buybacks after the
Federal Reserve conditionally approved the firm’s proposal to
return more of its profit to shareholders.  JPMorgan’s new dividend for the second quarter beat the 36-
cent average prediction of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
New York-based bank said in a statement today it would buy back
as much as $6 billion more of its own stock, after scaling back
a $15 billion repurchase program approved last year.  Regulators intent on preventing a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis have run annual stress tests on the largest
lenders to see how they might fare in a recession or economic
shock. JPMorgan was among the bottom four performers last week
in the Fed’s initial test of strength, which showed the bank had
submitted more optimistic estimates of its capital levels in a
severe recession.  While that was still good enough to pass, the Fed also
required the 18 firms to submit plans for managing their
capital, which could include buying back shares and boosting
payouts. The central bank then gauged how strong each firm would
be with the funds that remained.  Today’s approval indicates JPMorgan’s  capital  may stay
above the minimum 5 percent threshold after accounting for
proposed dividends and buybacks. Chief Executive Officer Jamie
Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake had signaled the
bank would request a higher dividend and lower buyback amount
earlier this year.  Planning Weakness  The central bank said in a report today that JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s plans were conditionally approved
because of weaknesses in their planning processes. Projections
of losses and revenue were the issue, according to a Fed
official. The banks can immediately implement dividend and
buyback plans, and must fix the weaknesses and resubmit by the
end of the third quarter, the official said.  “JPMorgan Chase is fully committed to meeting all of the
Fed’s requirements,” Dimon said in the statement.  JPMorgan fell  2.5 percent to $49.75 at 5:08 p.m. in New
York. The lender had gained 17 percent in the year through the
close of normal trading today, compared with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index’s 12 percent advance.  JPMorgan projected its key capital ratio wouldn’t fall
below 7.6 percent, compared with 6.3 percent estimated by the
Fed. The lender said pretax losses through 2014 would total $200
million while the Fed said they would be $32.3 billion.  Net Revenue  The bank also was more optimistic than the central bank in
 estimating  net revenue, loan losses and provisions it would need
to cover those losses.  The Fed’s decision gives a boost to Dimon, 57, whose
reputation suffered during last year’s London Whale episode in
which JPMorgan’s U.K.-based chief investment office lost more
than $6.2 billion with a wrong-way bet on credit derivatives.  Former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew and other current
and former executives are scheduled to testify tomorrow at the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations about the loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  