-- K+S Predicts Earnings Will Rise This Year on Demand for Potash
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-14T08:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/k-s-quarterly-sales-miss-estimate-as-late-winter-cut-salt-demand.html
K+S AG (SDF)  predicts earnings and sales
will rise “slightly” this year as  Europe ’s largest potash
maker benefits from stable demand for the fertilizer ingredient
and a recovery for the de-icing salt business.  Volumes for potash will probably hold steady this year,
after 2012 was the second-best year in history for the unit,
Chief Executive Officer Norbert Steiner said today in a
statement. Wintry conditions at the start of this year are
ensuring a recovery for the salt business, he said. The stock
rose the most in more than seven months.  The potash business has done better than rivals because
it’s less focused on the two large consumer countries China and
 India , Steiner said today in the Kassel, Germany-based company’s
annual report. Canada’s Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and
 Russia ’s OAO Uralkali have both cut output amid faltering export
volumes.  “The outlook was surprising,” said Marc Gabriel, an
analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG. “Growth in earnings and sales
wasn’t expected.” Gabriel rates the stock hold.  The stock jumped as much as 4.2 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since July 30, to 37.59 euros in Frankfurt
trading. It was up 3.7 percent at 37.38 euros as of 9:12 a.m.
local time. The company has a  market value  of 7.1 billion euros
($9.2 billion).  Winter Weather  Earnings before interest and taxes and excluding some
hedging transactions, called Ebit I, fell 12 percent to 183.2
million euros in the fourth quarter, in line with analyst
estimates. Sales dropped 7.8 percent to 941.6 million euros,
after a late start to winter weather in North America hurt
demand for salt. Analysts had estimated 952.3 million euros in a
Bloomberg survey.  While sales volumes for potash will probably hold steady
this year, the average price will be lower than in 2012. The
salt business will see “tangible recovery,” the CEO said.  “We experienced a very decent start into the new business
year in both of our business units,” Steiner said in a video on
the company’s website.  K+S will propose an annual dividend payment of 1.40 euros
per share, up from 1.30 euros, the company said. Analysts
predicted 1.35 euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  