-- Khmer Rouge Official Ieng Sary on Trial for Genocide Dies at 87
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-03-14T05:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/khmer-rouge-official-ieng-sary-on-trial-for-genocide-dies-at-87.html
Ieng Sary, one of several senior
leaders of the Khmer Rouge regime on trial for the deaths of 1.7
million Cambodians in the 1970s, died today in  Phnom Penh  at the
age of 87, according to the court.  Prosecutors will investigate the cause of death of the
regime’s former foreign minister, who had been hospitalized
since March 4, the  Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of
 Cambodia  said in a statement. Other defendants include his wife
Ieng Thirith, 81, former head of state Khieu Samphan, 81, and
Nuon Chea, 86, the movement’s second-in-command.  His death comes as the United Nations-backed tribunal
struggles to finance the trials, which were designed to bring
justice decades after the regime collapsed and have produced one
conviction since the court was established in 2006. Some local
staff members stopped working on March 4 because they haven’t
been paid for three months, said Lars Olsen, a spokesman for the
court.  “Unless we have interpreters and translators it will be
difficult to hold hearings,” Olsen said by phone. “No
resolution has been reached yet in terms of payment for the
national staff.”  The court last month said it had reduced its operating
costs by $15.1 million for 2012-2013 to $69.6 million. The
budget is divided between local and international staff.  Prosecutors have said Ieng Sary directed, encouraged,
enforced and supported the regime’s policies of murder,
political persecution, extermination and forcible transfer of
the population. After his arrest, he said he was “very happy”
the court was established because it would give him a chance
“to discover the truth and also to share what I know.”  Aging Leaders  Khmer Rouge  leader Pol Pot and military chief Ta Mok have
also died. Ieng Sary had been hospitalized on numerous
occasions, including for problems with his urinary system.  His wife, Ieng Thirith, a former social affairs minister,
was found unfit to stand trial in 2011 due to dementia and
remains under court supervision. Both Nuon Chea and Khieu
Samphan were hospitalized in January.  Many Cambodians are too young to remember the Khmer Rouge
reign from 1975 to 1979, with about a third of the  country’s  15
million people under the age of 15. The regime’s leaders lived
freely in Cambodia for years until the government  requested  UN
assistance in 1997 to start a tribunal.  In 2010, Kang Kek Ieu, the regime’s top jailer, was
sentenced to 30 years in prison, the first and only conviction.
The remaining defendants are charged with crimes against
humanity, breaches of the  Geneva Conventions , genocide and
murder, torture and religious persecution under the Cambodian
Criminal Code of 1956.  Money Abolished  The Khmer Rouge took power after a  U.S. bombing campaign 
during the  Vietnam War  stirred discontent in the countryside
against General Lon Nol’s coup-installed government. Led by Pol Pot, the regime evacuated Phnom Penh to put people to work on
farms and closed all schools, universities and monasteries.
Money, markets and private property were abolished.  The regime collapsed in 1979 when  Vietnam  invaded and took
over the capital. The U.S. and  China  backed the Khmer Rouge to
continue representing Cambodia at the  United Nations , providing
the regime legitimacy until 1993, when the first post-conflict
elections were held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  