-- King Sees Case for Supporting Recovery With More Stimulus
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-15T18:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/king-says-boe-isn-t-trying-to-lower-pound-sees-recovery-ahead.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said he sees an argument for bolstering the economic
recovery by expanding quantitative easing.  “What I see are signs of a recovery and I think there is a
case for supporting that through additional asset purchases,”
he said, according to the transcript of an interview with ITV
News released today. “One can take different views on it and
some of my colleagues do.”  King and two colleagues were outvoted last month in a push
to expand stimulus. Today’s comments suggest the governor voted
for more QE again on March 7, when the central bank held its
 bond-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds ($566 billion). The
BOE will publish the minutes of that meeting, showing how
Monetary Policy Committee members voted, next week.  King also commented on the BOE’s remit to keep inflation at
2 percent, after Governor-designate Mark Carney floated the idea
of flexible inflation targeting as one of several measures
central banks can use to fire growth. He said there wasn’t a
case for change.  “I’m not sure that there is any call for a major change in
the remit,” he said. “What‘s most important is that we commit
ourselves again to a very clear target for inflation of 2
percent.’’  The pound pared its gain against the dollar after King’s
remarks, to trade at $1.5089, little changed from yesterday.  Pound Weakness  In the first part of the interview broadcast yesterday,
King said policy makers aren’t trying to talk down the pound
while acknowledging that its drop since before the financial
crisis has helped exports.  ‘‘The markets determine the level of  exchange rate , not
us,” King said, according to a separate transcript. “We’re
certainly not looking to push sterling down.”  The pound has fallen about 7 percent against the dollar and
6.6 percent versus the euro since the beginning of the year.
It’s the second-worst performer after the yen this year among 10
developed-market currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  The BOE governor said sterling’s decline since before the
crisis helped to boost exports and prevent unemployment from
rising to a higher level. On a  trade-weighted basis , the U.K.
currency fell about 30 percent in 2008 and 2009.  King said sterling was now “broadly stable” and “at the
same level we were after the impact of the financial crisis.”  “The markets judged then that was the right level for the
U.K. looking ahead and they seem to judge that now,” he said.
“We just have to accept that and adjust and without the fall in
the exchange rate that did occur from before the crisis to now,
our export industry would not be growing as they are and
unemployment would be a good deal higher.”  Recovery ‘In Sight’  In its Quarterly Bulletin published yesterday, the BOE
noted that there was a “particularly large” drop in the pound
in recent months, which it said may have been partly related to
a weaker demand for currencies traditionally considered havens.  Still, it said some of the decline “may also have been due
to the impact of U.K.-specific factors, including the outlook
for growth and the country’s sovereign credit rating.”  On prospects for the economy, King said the recession in
the euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner, is holding
back the rebalancing. The crisis in  Europe  has also hurt
confidence, which has prompted companies to “hold back” on
investment, he said.  Nevertheless, King said that the recovery of the U.K.
economy was “in sight.”  “I think that during the course of 2013 we will see the
recovery come into sight,” he said. “If you take away what
happened in the North Sea oil production and in construction,
the U.K. economy even last year grew by 1.5 percent. There is
momentum behind the recovery that’s coming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  