-- Knicks’ Carmelo Anthony to Get Knee Drained of Fluid After Loss
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-14T14:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/knicks-carmelo-anthony-to-get-knee-drained-of-fluid-after-loss.html
New York Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony will have his knee drained of fluid in the latest effort
to rehabilitate the injury after a 23-point loss at the Denver
Nuggets.  In a game last night in which center Tyson Chandler was
sidelined early with his own knee injury, Anthony departed the
game against his former team during the third quarter after his
right knee began to stiffen. He injured the knee on March 4 and
missed three games before returning March 11, and finished
yesterday’s game with nine points on 3-of-12 shooting.  “I just didn’t have it,” Anthony said, according to the
New York Post. “I tried it. I think it was just time for me to
give it some time and get to the bottom of it as soon as
possible. It started tightening up. I felt I had no pop or
power. I tried it in the second half and couldn’t move.”  Anthony’s 27.5 points per game this season are tied for
second in the NBA behind Kevin Durant. The Knicks, who lost
forward Amar’e Stoudemire to a knee injury last week, are 38-24,
1 1/2 games ahead of the Brooklyn Nets for the Atlantic Division
lead.  Anthony will return to New York for treatment, possibly
ruling him out for the final three games of the Knicks’ road
trip: at the Portland Trail Blazers, Los Angeles Clippers and
Utah Jazz.  “I’m just going to get it drained, get the fluid out, so I
can get back on the court,” Anthony said.  Chandler exited during the second quarter with a bruised
left knee after a collision with the Nuggets’ Corey Brewer.  He wasn’t on crutches after the game and said he was “all
right,” according to the New York Daily News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  