-- Knot Says ECB to Keep Easy Policy
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2013-03-14T14:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/knot-says-ecb-to-keep-easy-policy-euro-won-t-alter-forecasts.html
European Central Bank council
member Klaas Knot said the euro’s exchange rate won’t affect the
ECB’s economic forecasts and he expects the bank to maintain its
accommodative monetary policy.  “The euro is, according to us, rather close to what the
fundamentals would predict” and “surprisingly stable” in
light of the unrest the region has been through, Knot, who heads
the Dutch central bank, said today in Amsterdam. “So I see no
special impact of the euro exchange rate on the predictions we
made before.”  Knot’s comments echo those of ECB President  Mario Draghi ,
who last week said that the euro is broadly in line with its
long-term average. The ECB cut its forecasts on March 7 and now
expects the 17-nation euro-area economy to contract 0.5 percent
this year before growing 1 percent in 2014.  While ECB officials discussed cutting borrowing costs last
week, the “prevailing consensus” was to leave the  benchmark
rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.75 percent, Draghi said.  “Our monetary policy stance is very accommodative, has
been accommodative for a long time and my expectation is that
the sort of benign inflation environment for the coming months
will allow us to maintain this accommodative stance,” Knot said
at the presentation of the Dutch central bank’s annual report.  The ECB’s announcement of its Outright Monetary
Transactions program has reduced bond-yield spreads in the
region, “so that is also a marked improvement in the monetary
transmission process,” Knot said.  Inflation Outlook  The ECB forecasts that inflation will slow to 1.3 percent
next year, well below its 2 percent limit. Knot today dismissed
fears of deflation risks in the euro area, saying the
“inflation outlook is in line with our mandate.”  “There is for instance still sufficient price pressure in
the production chain,” he said. “There is still the prospect
of governments consolidating public finances also by VAT
increases, leading to a sort of indirect inflation. We have
absolutely no fear of deflation in the euro zone yet.”  The far-reaching measures taken by the ECB have increased
the financial risks for the euro system, including for the Dutch
central bank, Knot wrote in the annual report, noting the
increase in the euro system’s balance sheet.  “At the same time, the money market is still rigid,  market
sentiment  is still vulnerable, while the underlying tensions
have not been solved and can easily increase,” Knot said.  Bond Purchases  The so-far-unused Outright Monetary Transaction program
allows the ECB to buy bonds of member nations that request
assistance and meet certain criteria.  “I think we have been crystal clear about the
circumstances under which OMT can be activated. I don’t want to
speculate on any specific case,” Knot said today. “It is clear
if you communicate that certain circumstances are fulfilled,
then the ECB should be ready for activation.”  The unconventional monetary measures the ECB has taken have
worked out well, Knot wrote. “In general terms it can be
concluded that inflation expectations have been anchored within
the  euro zone , while the fragmentation of the financial markets
have been reduced,” he said. “A destructive scenario of
deflation has been evaded.”  A two-day Brussels summit of European leaders starting
today will endorse plans for “structural” assessments of
national budgets, according to a draft statement, suggesting
countries such as France, Spain and  Portugal  will be granted
extra time to bring down deficits.  Knot said southern European countries need to stick “as
much as possible” to a deficit-reduction path. “Only when the
economy becomes worse than mentioned in the predictions, at a
certain moment you reach a point on which you say that, at this
specific moment, the effects can be more damaging than the
positive effects,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Frankfurt at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  