-- Korean Air to Commit to Holding CSA Stake for Five Years
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-03-14T13:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/korean-air-to-commit-to-holding-csa-stake-for-five-years.html
Korean Air  Lines Co. pledged to
hold its stake in Ceske Aerolinie AS for five years, while CSA’s
majority owner will refrain from making “significant” changes
in its strategy, according to terms of this week’s sale.  Cesky Aeroholding AS Chief Executive Officer Miroslav
Dvorak said today in Prague that the 2.64 million-euro ($3.4
million) contract accepted by the Czech government this week
includes a provision for Korean Air to keep a minimum 34 percent
stake in the carrier over the five-year period.  Korean Air, which is a member of the same  Skyteam  alliance
as CSA, was the only bidder for a 44 percent stake in the
unprofitable national airline, based at  Prague ’s  Vaclav Havel
Airport . The government, which failed to sell CSA in 2009,
streamlined its operations, cut staff and capacity and merged
the carrier into a joint company with Havel Airport operator
Letiste Praha AS into a single entity, Cesky Aeroholding.  Korean Air will also have an option for a buyout of
minority stakes held by the cities of Prague and Bratislava that
were recently sold to Cesky Aeroholding, Dvorak said.  Should the European Commission loosen regulations on
foreign ownership of EU-based carriers, Korean Air has the
option to buy the remaining stake held by Cesky Aeroholding,
according to Dvorak. The price for a such a buy-out would be
based on the current bid if it comes within a year of the
signing of the current contract. After that, the price would
depend on an assessment by an independent adviser, Dvorak said.  The sale of the CSA stake should be finished in the first
half of 2013, he said. The two companies started harmonizing
their flights schedules in  Europe  and  Asia  and Korean Air will
move its European call center to Prague.  The Asian carrier will also have one representative in the
CSA three-member supervisory board, he said. CSA expects to post
a net income for 2012, Dvorak added. The airline had an
operating loss of 1.2 billion koruna ($61 million) in 2011,
Mlada Fronta Dnes reported on Jan. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  