-- Korean Won Falls to Five-Month Low After BOK Keeps Rates Steady
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-14T07:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/korean-won-falls-to-five-month-low-after-bok-keeps-rates-steady.html
South Korea’s won fell to a five-
month low as overseas investors pulled money from local stocks
after the central bank left  interest rates  unchanged.  Government
bonds  declined.  The currency dropped by the most in six weeks after global
funds cut their holdings of shares included in the Kospi Index
by 182 billion won ($164 million) today, exchange data show. The
 Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark seven-day repurchase rate at
2.75 percent for a fifth month today in a decision predicted by
12 of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Four forecast a cut of
25 basis points, after similar moves in July and October  “We expect the BOK to reduce interest rates in April when
it is likely to revise down its growth forecast,” said Ryan Oh,
a fixed-income analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in Seoul. “The
minutes of today’s meeting will be very important in judging the
direction of rates as they show how many board members held a
different view to today’s decision.”  The won fell 1.1 percent to 1,109.11 per dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,110.61, the weakest
level since Oct. 15. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
94 basis points, or 0.94 percentage point, to 9 percent.  ‘Not Unanimous’  Today’s decision to leave rates unchanged was “not
unanimous,” Governor Kim said at a briefing today. Finance
Minister nominee Hyun Oh Seok told lawmakers yesterday that
“short-term policy support” is needed for the economy and that
the country needs to be “cautious” about introducing any taxes
on foreign-exchange transactions as imposing levies on trading
may hamper capital inflows.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due December 2015 rose
three basis points to 2.63 percent, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc.  President Park Geun Hye, who took office on Feb. 25, is
grappling with North Korean tensions, yen weakness that aids
export rivals in  Japan , and a drag on consumption from elevated
 household debt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  