-- Korean Stocks Drop as BOK Leaves Rate Unchanged; Won Weakens
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-03-14T03:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/korean-stocks-drop-as-bok-leaves-rate-unchanged-won-weakens.html
South  Korea ’s stocks dropped the
most in a week after the central bank left interest rates
unchanged. The won weakened for a sixth day.  The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate at 2.75 percent for a fifth month today in a decision
predicted by 12 of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Four
forecast a reduction of 25 basis points, after similar moves in
July and October. Three-year government bonds advanced after the
monetary authority released a statement highlighting downside
risks to the economy, before paring gains as Governor Kim Choong
Soo said borrowing costs are accommodative.  The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of shares fell 0.8 percent, the
biggest loss since March 7, to 1,984.55 as of 12:10 p.m. in
Seoul. The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due December 2015
rose one basis point to 2.61 percent, after climbing as much as
three basis points earlier, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  “We expect the BOK to reduce interest rates in April when
it is likely to revise down its growth forecast,” said Ryan Oh,
a fixed-income analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in Seoul. “The
minutes of today’s meeting will be very important in judging the
direction of rates as they show how many board members held a
different view to today’s decision.”  Today’s decision to leave rates unchanged was “not
unanimous,” Governor Kim said at a briefing today. Finance
Minister nominee Hyun Oh Seok told lawmakers yesterday that
“short-term policy support” is needed for the economy and that
the country needs to be “cautious” about introducing any taxes
on foreign-exchange transactions as imposing levies on trading
may hamper capital inflows.  Weaker Won  The won fell 0.5 percent to 1,103.10 per dollar, extending
its longest losing streak in 10 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility for the
currency, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used
to price options, rose 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage
point, to 8.35 percent.  President Park Geun Hye, who took office on Feb. 25, is
grappling with North Korean tensions, yen weakness that aids
export rivals in  Japan , and a drag on consumption from elevated
household debt. Incoming Finance Minister Hyun said yesterday
South Korea’s economy may grow at a “2 percent range” this
year, falling short of the government estimate.  “There were some bets for a rate cut as the country needs
to boost weak domestic demand, while our view was no change this
time,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based fund manager at Shinhan
BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about $31
billion. “In the stock market, there’s also caution ahead of
the expiry of futures and options contracts later today.”  Mirae Asset Securities Co. led the country’s brokerages
lower, falling 1.2 percent. Samsung Securities Co. slipped 0.9
percent. GS Engineering & Construction Corp. also retreated 1.9
percent, pacing losses among builders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  