-- Koruna Gains as Retail Data Trim Intervention Risk: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-03-14T15:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/koruna-gains-as-retail-data-trim-intervention-risk-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna gained the most in
five weeks as better-than-expected retail data eased pressure on
the central bank to sell the currency.  The koruna reversed an earlier retreat after a data release
today showed January retail sales shrank 0.5 percent from a year
earlier, less than the median estimate for a 2.2 percent drop in
a Bloomberg survey. While the Czech National Bank expects the
economy to start recovering this year from its longest recession
on record, its forecasts imply a weaker koruna may be needed in
the second half, Governor Miroslav Singer said yesterday.  “Retail sales are still falling, but the market expected
even worse figures,” said Lubos Kolarik, a currency trader at
 Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in  Prague , by e-mail. “It’s positive for the
koruna because it slightly reduces the risk of interventions.”  The currency gained as much as 0.4 percent after the data
release, the most on intraday basis since Feb. 7. It traded less
than 0.1 percent stronger at 25.629 per euro by 4:14 p.m. in
Prague. The koruna is 4.3 percent weaker than on Sept. 17, a day
before Singer first signaled the possibility of interventions.  The $217 billion economy contracted for each of the past
four quarters as the government’s austerity program prompted
households and companies to spend less, while the euro area’s
debt crisis damped demand for Czech exports. The central bank is
in unchartered territory after cutting its benchmark  interest
rate  three times last year to 0.05 percent.  “We’re talking about the likelihood of having to intervene
in the second half of the year,” Singer said yesterday at the
meeting of the Nordic Chamber of Commerce in Prague. To meet the
bank’s forecasts for market interest rates, “we may need, in
the second half, a slightly weaker  exchange rate ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  