-- Kuroda Brings Oxford Mindset After Chicago-Alum Shirakawa
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-15T01:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/kuroda-brings-oxford-mindset-to-boj-after-shirakawa-chicago-view.html
It was an elite band of graduate
students that in the early 1970s attended intense economics
sessions in a small, austerely furnished basement under the
15th-century lodge at All Souls College at the University of
Oxford.  The tutor was Nobel Laureate economist John Hicks and he
both terrified and enchanted the attendees: At least 11 of the
16 members of the class of 1971 went on to become professional
economists. Now one of them,  Haruhiko Kuroda , is the incoming
governor of the  Bank of Japan. (8301)   “The impact of his days in Oxford was very large,” said
Masahiro Kawai, dean of the  Asian Development Bank  Institute,
the bank’s Tokyo-based research institute, who has known and
worked with Kuroda for more than 15 years. “He often talks
about his former professors.”  Oxford gave Kuroda, 68, a different mindset than that of
his predecessor,  Masaaki Shirakawa . Kuroda got the BOJ job on a
pledge to pull Japan out of 15 years of deflation, while
Shirakawa’s studies at the  University of Chicago  were steeped in
 Milton Friedman ’s advocacy of low inflation and disciplined
central banks in the context of well-run budget policy.  Stocks Cheer  Kuroda’s views reflect those of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
whose push for aggressive monetary easing has helped lift  stock
prices  to their highest level since September 2008 and pushed
the yen to a 3 1/2-year low against the dollar. Former  Bank of
England  board member  Adam Posen  sees Kuroda as an improvement on
his forerunners, whose “passive-aggressive” policies
contributed to prolonging deflation.  Previous governors “have engaged in rhetoric that
undercuts the credibility of any commitments they made to higher
inflation,” Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics Inc. in Washington, said in an interview.
He is also the author of a book on Japan’s financial crisis and
was an adviser to the government of former Prime Minister
 Junichiro Koizumi .  The bank’s new leadership may expand the range of its
easing tools as part of a credible commitment to reflate, he
said, adding that “the combination will make a material
difference.”  Oxford Professors  Kuroda’s professors at Oxford, including Robin Matthews and
Nobel Laureate James Mirrlees, were focused on getting students
to think for themselves, according to economics students there
at the time. It was “non-doctrinaire,” said John Llewellyn, a
partner at Llewellyn Consulting in London, who earned his
master’s degree a year before Kuroda.  Kuroda “was obviously a very smart student indeed and I am
not at all surprised that he has reached this distinguished
position,” said Richard Smethurst, his tutor then, via e-mail.  Oxford’s approach can be seen in the BOJ nominee’s
insatiable appetite for the written word, which has carried him
through such positions as currency chief at the Ministry of
Finance, adviser to Koizumi, professor at Tokyo’s Hitotsubashi
University and the job he’s leaving: president of the Asian
Development Bank.  “Kuroda is a big reader of economics, mathematics and
philosophy,” Akira Ariyoshi, a Hitotsubashi professor who
worked under Kuroda at the  finance ministry , said in an
interview. “Even when he was trashing a paper, you could see
that he was enjoying reading it.”  Great Depression  The future governor is a devotee of the late U.S. economist
Irving Fisher, whose views on the dangers of deflation helped
shape Kuroda’s conviction in the reflationary power of money-
printing.  “During the Great Depression, Fisher argued that the most
serious problem of deflation is to make real debt mushroom and
damage the whole economy,” Kuroda said in an interview last
month before his BOJ nomination. “So I have long advocated
aggressive monetary easing to eradicate deflation in Japan.”  The development bank declined to make Kuroda available for
an interview after he was named to the central bank. Kuroda’s
nomination was today approved by the upper house of Parliament,
a day after winning backing from the lower house, clearing his
path to take the BOJ’s helm next week.  Despite recent signs of an economic pickup, Kuroda will
have his work cut out for him when he takes the black leather
chair in the governor’s office at the  131-year-old  institution
in Tokyo’s Nihonbashi business district.  Entrenched Challenges  Core consumer prices haven  haven’t risen  since the late
1990s, wages are  stagnant , the nation posted a record trade
deficit last year, and sovereign debt has  ballooned  to more than
double gross domestic product. All this in a country where  more
than a quarter  of the population will be over 65 by the end of
next year.  Shirakawa often mentioned the nation’s graying during his
five-year tenure, blaming “low growth” over the past decade in
part on demographic changes in a speech in London last year. He
also repeatedly said monetary policy alone can’t beat deflation
and other branches of government must do their part.  The departing governor had to deal with the world’s worst
postwar financial crisis within six months of taking the helm in
April 2008. He helped safeguard Japan’s banking system from
shocks, injected liquidity and expanded asset purchases. Yet
this easing lagged behind that of other central banks -- the
BOJ’s balance sheet expanded by about 50 percent during his term,
while that of the  Federal Reserve  went up by 250 percent and the
 European Central Bank ’s doubled.  Kuroda’s Deputies  In picking Kuroda and his deputies, Hiroshi Nakaso and
Kikuo Iwata, Abe sought the advice of reflationary economists
including Koichi Hamada, Etsuro Honda and Yoichi Takahashi. The
bank, urged by Abe, set a 2 percent inflation target in January
-- a month after he took the reins of government for the second
time in six years.  Kuroda will take over after Shirakawa steps down March 19.
Nakaso and Iwata, also confirmed today by the Diet, take the
spots vacated the same day by the two current deputies.  “Kuroda has an out-and-out belief that prices are set by
monetary policy,” Makoto Utsumi, who was the nation’s top
currency official from 1989 to 1991, eight years before Kuroda
took that job at the finance ministry, said in an interview last
month. “No one else is as suited to be Abe’s choice.”  Kuroda’s reflationary views hardened in the 1990s, said
Kawai of the development bank’s research institute.  ‘Inadequate’ BOJ  During that period, “he felt monetary policy support was
inadequate,” Kawai, who worked for Kuroda at the finance
ministry and the development bank, said in an interview last
month. Kawai said his former boss, a fluent English speaker,
would regularly read blogs by influential academic thinkers
including anti-austerity economist  Paul Krugman .  In 2002, while they were both at the finance ministry,
Kuroda and Kawai wrote an  essay  in the Financial Times entitled
“Time for a Switch to Global Reflation.” They called for Japan
to adopt a 3 percent inflation target and “innovative, non-
traditional anti-deflationary policies.”  The authors translated the article into Japanese and made
it available for distribution because many lawmakers had heard
of it and were praising them for publicly advocating
reflationary policy, according to Kawai.  While he was director general of the finance ministry’s
international bureau, Kuroda was the architect of a Japanese
proposal to establish an Asian monetary fund to help mitigate
the regional economic crisis in 1997, according to Lee Jong Wha,
a former chief development-bank economist under Kuroda who also
advised former South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak .  Currency Initiative  While the proposal didn’t succeed, it helped spawn the
Chiang Mai Initiative, a currency-swap arrangement among
Southeast Asian nations, China, South Korea and Japan. Takatoshi Ito, a Tokyo University professor and deputy of Kuroda when he
was vice finance minister, said the initiative was his former
superior’s “baby.”  Since moving to the development bank in 2005, Kuroda has
raised the institution’s international profile and visibility,
and tapped his global network of contacts to make contributions
that have helped triple the bank’s capital base, Kawai said.  “Conventional central bankers probably have found it very
difficult to navigate in a time of financial crisis, and his
developmental background may be an added strength,” said
Bangladesh Central Bank Governor Atiur Rahman, who has
represented his country at the development bank. “Japan, which
is having a lot of problems with growth, can really benefit if
Mr. Kuroda comes in with a developmental agenda.”  Handling Staff  Kuroda may have been a little awkward in his dealings with
bank staff and officials on the ground.  “He was never very comfortable with people-to-people
development challenges, he was more comfortable on the macro
side,” said Curtis Chin, U.S. ambassador to the development
bank from 2007 to 2010 and now a Bangkok-based senior fellow at
the Asian Institute of Technology. “You saw him less engaged
visiting projects than you would at a big conference speaking
economics.”  At those international meetings, Kuroda would often rub
shoulders with financial heavyweights. He said in parliament
last week that he is well acquainted with U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and departing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King .  “He is an activist, he is a communicator,” said Jeffrey Shafer, who was an undersecretary of international affairs for
the  U.S. Treasury  in the mid-1990s and worked with Kuroda. He is
now vice chairman and managing director of Citigroup Global
Markets Inc. in New York. “A very important part of this is
being able to communicate something that people believe in. It’s
more than half about expectations,” he said.  No Athlete  Athletics aren’t Kuroda’s forte.  He struggled as a young bureaucrat on a climb with
officials and journalists up a 1,500-meter (4,900-foot) mountain
in Nagano Prefecture, to the west of Tokyo, according to Utsumi,
now president of Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. Kuroda “got
exhausted and said he’d never do it again,” he said. “He’s not
the sporty type.”  The native of Japan’s southern island of Kyushu joined the
ministry of finance in 1967 after graduating from Tokyo
University’s faculty of law, a pipeline of mandarins and
politicians. He rose up the bureaucratic ranks to reach vice
minister for international affairs, a position he held from 1999
to 2003. He oversaw bouts of foreign-exchange intervention,
selling yen as the currency rose.  Invoking Socrates  His knowledge of  currency markets  and classics can be seen
in a paper he wrote in 1989, entitled “Socrates: The Dollar
Dialogue.” In the essay, the Athenian sage holds a discussion
with a modern-day economist about efforts by international
policy makers to manage exchange rates.  Kuroda followed Eisuke Sakakibara, who was known as “Mr.
Yen” for his comments that moved foreign-exchange markets, up
the finance ministry ladder for six years. He will be the first
ex-vice finance minister for international affairs to become
central bank governor since the currency-chief post was set up
in 1949, according to the BOJ.  During the Asian financial crisis, the pair would spend
about a third of their time visiting countries such as Thailand,
Indonesia and  South Korea  -- trips on which they would make
decisions on loans to countries in financial distress, according
to Sakakibara, who is now an Aoyama Gakuin University professor.  Wine-less Flights  “On these flights, I would drink wine and nap, while
Kuroda was constantly reading,” he said in an interview at his
Tokyo office this month. “He’d rather be home reading than
drinking and talking, which he saw as a waste of time.”  Tokyo University’s Ito debunked a widely reported claim
about Kuroda.  “I asked Mr. Kuroda whether it is true that he read all
the books in the senior high library, and he said, ‘No, but a
substantial part of the science section,’” Ito, who attended
the same school and was also mentioned as a governor candidate,
wrote in an e-mail this month.  Jesper Koll, head of Japanese equity research at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Tokyo, who’s known Kuroda for more than 20 years,
said the two had done “tons” of presentations together,
including speaking on a panel to a Japanese telecommunications
company.  It was at a 1995 event in London, probably at research
institute  Chatham House , after the collapse of the Japanese
asset bubble, that Kuroda showed his sense of humor, Koll said.
Kuroda was asked, during an intense moment in the debate, what a
financial crisis was.  “He said when he was in Oxford one weekend, he was driving
around in his little car through the beautiful countryside, and
he switched the radio on,” Koll said. “They made an
announcement that a particular insurance company had just gone
bankrupt. He said he realized it was his insurance company, and
he stopped, during the debate, and said ‘That’s a financial
crisis.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  