-- Netanyahu Accord on New Israeli Coalition Expected Today
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-03-15T16:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/netanyahu-deal-on-forming-israeli-government-hits-snag.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Likud party signed coalition deals with two other
factions today that will enable him to form a new government
next week just before the arrival of President  Barack Obama .  The agreements with the Jewish Home and Yesh Atid parties
were signed this afternoon, said a member of Netanyahu’s staff,
speaking anonymously because he was not authorized to speak on
the record. Likud party spokeswoman Noga Rappaport had earlier
said that if the documents were signed today, a new government
would probably be sworn in on Monday.  Obama is scheduled to begin a three-day visit, his first
trip to Israel as president, on March 20.  The new government, comprised of Likud, Yisrael Beitenu,
Yesh Atid and Hatenuah, will hold 68 seats in  Israel ’s 120-
member parliament, the Knesset. The coalition’s makeup would
enable the incoming government to make the budget cuts necessary
to keep spending in check, after last year’s deficit came in
above target. Ultra-Orthodox parties that had supported the
previous government in exchange for hundreds of millions of
shekels in subsidies for their community have been elbowed out.  The shekel rose 0.5 percent against the dollar at 6:20 p.m.
in Israel. While Israel’s stock and bond markets were closed,
the  Bloomberg index of Israeli stocks traded in the U.S. 
declined 0.3 percent.  Netanyahu called for early elections last year after his
coalition partners refused to approve 14 billion shekels ($3.8
billion) in budget cuts to meet a deficit target of 3 percent of
economic output.  ‘Hardline Hawks’  The premier’s coalition partners would also support his
previously failed efforts to limit the number of military draft
exemptions given to ultra-Orthodox men so they can pursue
religious study.  “In terms of advancing on domestic issues, this is
probably as good a coalition as Netanyahu could have asked
for,” said Avraham Diskin, professor of political science at
 Hebrew University of Jerusalem . “On the  peace process , the
government has parties and politicians ranging from hardline
hawks to real doves, and is going to come into conflict when it
comes to removing even the smallest West Bank settler outpost.”  Yesh Atid, Hebrew for “There is a Future,” campaigned as
a champion of middle-class concerns and won 19 seats. Its leader
Yair Lapid, a former television interviewer new to politics,
will serve as finance minister.  More Settlements  The third-biggest party in government would be Jewish Home,
with 12 seats. Its leader Bennett, a former technology
entrepreneur, would take over the Ministry of Industry, Trade
and Labor. Jewish Home supports building more West Bank
settlements and opposes a Palestinian state.  Foremost among the coalition members that want to advance
the peace process is the six-seat Hatenuah party, a new faction
headed by former Foreign Minister  Tzipi Livni , who is set to be
justice minister and chief negotiator with the Palestinians.  Netanyahu is holding the foreign minister’s job for Avigdor Liberman, leader of the Yisrael Beitenu party, who resigned in
December after being indicted on charges of fraud and breach of
trust. Liberman continues to serve in the Knesset through his
trial, which is set to resume in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  