-- Netanyahu Reaches Deal on Forming New Israeli Government
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-03-14T12:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/netanyahu-reaches-deal-on-forming-new-israeli-government.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  reached agreement on a governing coalition that’s
united on key domestic issues and deeply divided on making peace
with the Palestinians.  In his first public comments today after the deals were
clinched, Netanyahu said the budget would be his new
government’s top priority.  “The first thing our government will have to handle is to
pass a budget, a budget that will protect the Israeli economy,”
he told a meeting in  Jerusalem  of his Likud party and the
Yisrael Beitenu faction, which ran jointly in January elections,
in remarks broadcast on Israel Radio.  The coalition’s make-up will enable the incoming government
to make the budget cuts necessary to keep spending in check,
after last year’s deficit came in above target. Ultra-Orthodox
parties that had supported the previous government in exchange
for hundreds of millions of shekels in subsidies for their
community have been elbowed out.  Netanyahu’s coalition partners will also support his
previously failed efforts to limit the number of military draft
exemptions given to ultra-Orthodox men so they can pursue
religious study. That measure, which had been opposed by ultra-
Orthodox lawmakers, is designed as a first step toward
encouraging devout men to join the work force. More than half of
them shun work to devote their lives to religious study,
government figures show.  Budget Cuts  Designated Finance Minister Yair Lapid, whose Yesh Atid
party will be the second-biggest faction in the new government,
wrote on his Facebook page that party leaders probably would
sign the coalition agreements this evening.  Netanyahu called for early elections last year after his
coalition partners refused to approve 14 billion shekels ($3.8
billion) in budget cuts to meet a deficit target of 3 percent of
economic output.  “In terms of advancing on domestic issues, this is
probably as good a coalition as Netanyahu could have asked
for,” said Avraham Diskin, professor of political science at
 Hebrew University of Jerusalem . “On the  peace process , the
government has parties and politicians ranging from hard-line
hawks to real doves, and is going to come into conflict when it
comes to removing even the smallest West Bank settler outpost.”  Third Term  The new government may hold 68 of parliament’s 120 seats.
Netanyahu’s third term in office, and second consecutive term,
gets under way just before U.S. leader  Barack Obama  begins his
first presidential visit to Israel on March 20.  Israel’s  benchmark TA-25 index  reacted positively to news
of the government’s formation, rising 0.3 percent today at 1:33
p.m. in Tel Aviv trading. The TA-25 rose 1.4 percent this week
as the composition of the new coalition became clear.  The shekel weakened 0.3 against the dollar today and the
yield on Israel’s benchmark government bonds rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.05 percent.  “The signal this government is giving is one of continuity
and stability, that Israel’s economic strategy of bringing the
 budget deficit  back under control will go on,” said Leo Leiderman, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI)   Palestinian State  The new government yokes together lawmakers who want to
reach a peace accord and others who oppose an independent
Palestinian state.  The coalition will be led by Netanyahu’s Likud party, which
ran in Jan. 22 elections on a joint ticket with the Yisrael
Beitenu, winning 31 seats in the Knesset.  Yesh Atid, Hebrew for “There is a Future,” which
campaigned as a champion of middle-class concerns. won 19 seats.
Yesh Atid leader Lapid, a former television interviewer with no
political experience, will serve as Finance Minister, Netanyahu
said today.  The third-biggest party in government will be the 12-seat
Jewish Home party, whose leader Naftali Bennett, a former
technology entrepreneur, will take over the Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Labor. Jewish Home supports building more
West Bank settlements and opposes a Palestinian state, putting
it at odds with the other coalition parties, which support a
two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Liberman Sidelined  Foremost among the coalition members that want to advance
the peace process is the six-seat Hatenuah party, a new faction
headed by former Foreign Minister  Tzipi Livni , who will head the
Justice Ministry.  Netanyahu is holding the foreign minister’s job for Avigdor Liberman, leader of the Yisrael Beitenu party, who resigned in
December after being indicted on charges of fraud and breach of
trust. Liberman will continue to serve in the Knesset through
his trial, which is set to resume in April.  The parliamentary opposition will be headed by the 15-seat
 Labor party , whose leader, Shelly Yachimovich, refused
Netanyahu’s offer to join the government, saying the prime
minister is not sufficiently committed to the peace process and
supports economic policies that hurt Israel’s weakest.  Joining the opposition for the first time in a decade are
two parties representing  Israel ’s ultra-Orthodox Jewish sector,
Shas and United Torah Judaism, which oppose Yesh Atid and Jewish
Home’s demand to end most draft exemptions.  Iranian Policy  The new government will also need to contend with  Iran’s
nuclear program , which Netanyahu has described as an existential
threat. The Israeli leader told the  United Nations  last year
that by spring or summer of 2013 the Iranians will have reached
the final stage of attaining a nuclear weapons capability. He
has said “all options are on the table” to prevent that from
happening, including a military strike.  Iran , along with the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and
the civil war in neighboring  Syria , will be the main topics of
discussion during Obama’s Israel visit next week, according to
Netanyahu.  “It’s unlikely the Israeli governmental changes will have
any real influence on Iran policy,” said  Mark Heller , research
fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies at Tel
Aviv University. “The important decisions are still going to
rest with Netanyahu and Obama.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  