-- Case for Higgs Boson Strengthened by New CERN Analysis
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-03-14T11:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/new-data-analysis-indicates-particle-is-higgs-boson-cern-says.html
New results from the Large Hadron
Collider in Geneva “strongly indicate” that the particle
discovered last year is a Higgs boson, the European Organization
for Nuclear Research said.  The particle, which scientists said in July was probably
the long-sought Higgs, is “looking more and more” like the
missing link in the Standard Model, a theory explaining how the
universe is built, the organization, known as CERN, said in a
 statement  today. The results, based on analysis of 2 1/2 times
more data than was available last year, were presented at a
conference in  Italy .  It remains an “open question” whether the particle is the
Higgs or the lightest of several other bosons, and answering
that question will take more time, CERN said. Its existence
would help scientists gain a better understanding of how
galaxies hold together, and could open a door to exploring other
parts of physics such as superparticles or  dark matter  that
telescopes can’t detect.  The results “are magnificent and to me it is clear that we
are dealing with a Higgs boson, though we still have a long way
to go to know what kind of Higgs boson it is,” said Joe
Incandela, a spokesman for the CMS research project, one of the
two collaborations looking for the Higgs at CERN.  Particle Fields  Particle physics is the study of the elemental building
blocks that make up matter. These particles, with names such as
quark, fermion, lepton and boson, can’t be subdivided. They
exist and interact within several unseen “fields” that
permeate the universe.  The field that generates mass for objects is named for U.K.
physicist Peter Higgs, who in the 1960s was one of the first
scientists to outline a working theory on how elemental
particles achieve mass.  The new particle has several properties consistent with how
the Higgs boson is postulated to behave, CERN said.  The data are the latest from the $10.5 billion Large Hadron
Collider, a 27-kilometer (17-mile) circumference particle
accelerator buried on the border of France and  Switzerland . CERN
has had 10,000 scientists working on the research, in which
billions of subatomic particles are hurled at each other at
velocities approaching the speed of light.  CERN  shut down  the collider last month for maintenance
after its first three years of operation. It’s scheduled to
resume in 2015, CERN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  