-- NFL Must Block Sexual Orientation Bias, N.Y. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-14T16:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/nfl-must-block-sexual-orientation-bias-n-y-says.html
The  National Football League  must
take steps to ensure that teams don’t discriminate against
players or recruits based on sexual orientation,  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.  Schneiderman said today that he sent a letter to NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  about the issue after three
prospective players said they were asked questions related to
sexual orientation at a scouting session last month.  “From the scouting combine to the playing fields, everyone
deserves equal protection under the law and the right to a fair
workplace,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  The attorney general asked the NFL, which has headquarters
in New York, to issue a public statement and leaguewide policy
that any form of discrimination or harassment on the basis of
sexual orientation by teams against recruits or players
“constitutes a violation of state, local and, in some cases,
contractual law, and will not be tolerated,” according to a
copy of the letter provided by his office and bearing today’s
date.  The NFL said in a statement last month that it would
investigate one recruit’s claims, saying teams are “expected to
follow applicable federal, state and local employment laws.”  At least 20 of the league’s 32 teams are in jurisdictions
that prohibit discrimination in hiring and employment based on
sexual orientation, according to the attorney general’s letter.  Will Respond  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said today in an e-mail that the
league is looking into the matter and will discuss it further at
its annual meeting in Phoenix. Aiello said the league had
received the attorney general’s letter and will respond to it.  University of Colorado  tight end Nick Kasa said in a radio
interview that teams at the NFL scouting combine asked him
personal questions possibly aimed at determining his sexual
orientation.  University of Michigan  quarterback Denard Robinson
and  Michigan State University  running back Le’Veon Bell have
made similar claims, according to ESPN.  “They ask you like, ‘Do you have a girlfriend? Are you
married? Do you like girls?’” Kasa said last month in an
interview with ESPN Radio Denver. “It’s kind of weird, but they
would ask you with a straight face.”  The questions drew criticism from NFL players including
Minnesota Vikings punter Chris Kluwe and Baltimore Ravens
linebacker Brendon Ayanbadejo, who have been active in
advocating for gay rights.  ‘Doesn’t Matter’  “It doesn’t matter what your sexuality is; it matters what
can you do on the field,” Kluwe said on the syndicated Dan
Patrick Show on March 2. “Hopefully, in a couple of years,
maybe a decade, we’ll be past this.”  The NFL in 2011 included in its collective bargaining
agreement a commitment that there will be no discrimination
against any player based on sexual orientation. The provision
doesn’t “appear to provide any protection to prospective
players during the recruitment process,” Schneiderman said.  “It is league policy to neither consider nor inquire about
sexual orientation in the hiring process,” according to last
month’s statement from the NFL. “There are specific protections
in our collective bargaining agreement with the players that
prohibit discrimination against any player, including on the
basis of sexual orientation.”  Schneiderman asked for a meeting with NFL officials about
the issue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  