-- NHL Approves Realignment Plan Adding Wild Card to Playoffs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-03-14T20:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/nhl-approves-conference-realignment-adding-wild-card-to-playoffs.html
The  National Hockey League ’s Board
of Governors approved a realignment plan that will add a team to
the Eastern Conference and change the names of the four
divisions that make up the sport’s top circuit.  The plan creates two eight-team divisions in the East and
two seven-team divisions in the West by switching the Winnipeg
Jets to the West and the  Detroit Red Wings  and  Columbus Blue
Jackets  to the East. The four new divisions have yet to be
named.  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said on a media conference
call that the league is considering division names that are
“fan-friendly” and geographically based.  The changes were necessary after the  Atlanta Thrashers 
moved to Winnipeg, Manitoba, following the 2010-11 season,
Bettman said. The team, which was renamed the Jets, has remained
in the Eastern Conference’s  Southeast Division  since being
relocated. The realignment was delayed by a lockout at the
beginning of this season and the new collective bargaining
agreement that resulted from it.  The NHL’s Eastern and Western Conferences each currently
have five teams in three divisions. The realignment takes effect
next season.  Each conference will still have eight teams in the
playoffs, comprising the top three teams from each division and
the next two teams with the best records as wild cards, the NHL
said in a statement.  The 82-game schedule for Eastern teams will be made up of
30 games against division opponents, 24 non-division conference
games and 28 non-conference contests. Western teams will play 29
games against division opponents, 21 against non-division
conference teams and 32 against non-conference teams.  The changes, according to the NHL website, also affect the
schedules and geographic groupings of the Blue Jackets,
 Minnesota Wild ,  Dallas Stars  and  Colorado Avalanche .  New alignment:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  