-- Norway Keeps Key Rate Unchanged as Currency Gains Hurt Exporters
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-03-14T09:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/norway-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-as-currency-gains-hurt-exporters.html
Norges Bank kept  benchmark interest
rates  unchanged for a sixth meeting as concern over driving the
krone to records prevents policy makers from cooling a potential
housing bubble in  Europe ’s second-richest nation.  The overnight deposit rate was kept at 1.5 percent, the
Oslo-based bank said today in a statement. The decision was
forecast by all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank
also signaled it will keep its benchmark unchanged longer than
previously predicted.  “The analyses suggest that the key policy rate be kept low
longer than previously anticipated,” Governor Oeystein Olsen
said in a statement. “The first increase in the key policy rate
is now projected to take place in spring 2014.”  Policy makers, who have seen the country’s currency surge
about 22 percent versus the euro since early 2009, are caught
between protecting exporters and the need to cool a run-away
property market and prevent a repeat of  Norway ’s 1990s crisis,
which sent real estate prices plunging 40 percent. The bank has
kept rates near a record  for 12 months  after cutting it twice in
2011 and 2012 after the krone emerged as a haven from Europe’s
debt crisis. Low rates spurred household borrowing and sent
private debt levels to a record.  House prices in western Europe’s largest oil exporter have
doubled since 2002, and rose an annual 8.5 percent last month.
Private debt burdens will swell to more than 200 percent of
disposable incomes this year, the central bank estimates.  Weak global growth prospects have prompted central bankers
in the euro zone, the U.S. and  Japan  to resort to additional
stimulus measures, curbing Norges Bank’s scope to damp the
country’s overheated housing market without fueling krone gains.  The currency rose to a  record on a trade weighted basis  on
Feb. 13, closing at 84.30. Governor Olsen said two days later
that the bank was prepared to cut rates to counter further krone
strength.  Norway’s approach to currency strength contrasts with
 Sweden , where Governor Stefan Ingves said last month that he was
“happy” with the krona exchange rate, which has risen 5.5.
percent this year and is the best performer in the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index.  To cool Norway’s overheated housing market, the government
wants banks to assume a higher loss probability on their home
loans. A Finance Ministry proposal to triple risk weights on
mortgages prompted DNB ASA, Norway’s biggest bank, to announce
higher mortgage rates last week. Other banks, including Nordea
Bank AB’s Norwegian unit, followed suit this week.  “Norges Bank is currently backed by Norwegian banks, as
the new capital adequacy requirements have led banks to increase
rates,” Frank Jullum, chief economist at Danske Bank in Oslo
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It does not solve
the problem, but it makes the task easier.”  The world’s fourth-richest nation per capita, which has so
far withstood the recession engulfing much of the rest of
Europe, is also starting to show signs of slowing amid slumping
demand from its debt-burdened trading partners. Norway relies on
exports to generate half its economic output.  Gross domestic product,  excluding oil, gas and shipping,
grew less than estimated in the fourth quarter as non-oil output
expanded 0.3 percent, slowing from 0.8 percent in the prior
quarter. Exports fell 0.1 percent in the quarter.  Gains in the krone, which hit a nine-year high against the
euro in August, have kept  inflation  below the central bank’s 2.5
percent target since mid-2009. Annual underlying inflation,
which adjusts for taxes, fees and energy prices, slowed to 1.1
percent last month from 1.2 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  