-- Novatek Snaps Four Days of Losses on Winning Arctic Field
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-03-14T15:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/novatek-snaps-four-days-of-losses-on-winning-arctic-field-rights.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK) ,  Russia ’s second-
biggest natural-gas producer, snapped four days of declines
after winning a license for a new field.  Novatek closed up 2.3 percent at 311.37 rubles in Moscow.
The benchmark Micex Index of 50 stocks rose 0.2 percent.  The Russian Subsoil Agency today declared Novatek the
winner of an auction to develop the Arctic Vostochno-Tazovskoye,
or East-Tazovskoye in English, oil and gas condensate field with
a bid of 3.19 billion rubles ($103.5 million), according to a
statement posted on the agency’s  website .  “The victory at the auction was positive,” Mikhail Loshinin, an analyst at Rye, Man & Gor Securities, said by phone
today. “The price was acceptable, and the company has existing
infrastructure in this region.”  East-Tazovskoye, located close to Novatek’s North-Russkoye
field in the Yamal-Nenets region, contains 65.3 billion cubic
meters of gas and 13.4 million tons of liquid hydrocarbons in
recoverable reserves under Russian classification, the gas
producer said in a regulatory filing today.  Novatek outbid  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia’s second-biggest oil
producer, gas producer Itera and OAO Gazprombank’s unit Status,
Interfax reported today, without saying where it obtained the
information. The starting price was 1.1 billion rubles, the  news
agency  said.  “The acquisition of a new license is fully consistent with
our strategy and allows us to expand the resource base in our
core region,” Chief Executive Officer Leonid Mikhelson said in
the company statement. “We will benefit from significant
synergies due to the proximity of the East-Tazovskoye field to
our existing asset base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  