-- Obama Makes Campaign-Style Call for Group Backing Agenda
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-03-14T04:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/obama-makes-campaign-style-call-for-group-backing-agenda.html
President  Barack Obama  implored
supporters at a fundraiser-style dinner to embrace a group that
hopes to stir grassroots enthusiasm for his second-term agenda.  Obama said he was confident he can win legislation to cut
the  deficit , help reduce gun violence and revise immigration
laws, if support builds in the public to “break through some of
the gobbledygook of our politics here.”  “You can’t change Washington from the inside,” he said at
yesterday’s event, adding that after his 2008 campaign victory
he erred by failing to engage the public as he pursued his
agenda. “That energy just kind of dissipated,” he said.  The dinner, attended by about 75 people including Google
Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt  at a luxury hotel near the White
House, was part of a two-day “founders summit” for Organizing
for Action, a nonprofit advocacy group that Obama’s former
campaign leaders founded about eight weeks ago.  OFA will use some of the Obama campaign’s assets, including
its e-mail list of millions of supporters and its social-media
brand, to press Congress on issues such as  gun control  and an
immigration law rewrite.  The summit continues today with sessions -- mostly closed
to the press -- on issues such as  climate change  and the  federal
budget . Participants are hearing from top former aides to the
president, including  Lisa Jackson , who served as Environmental
Protection Agency administrator during Obama’s first term.  Yesterday’s meetings at the St. Regis hotel focused mostly
on how to structure Organizing for Action, which is led by
Obama’s 2012 campaign manager  Jim Messina  and former White House
aide Jon Carson. They now serve as OFA’s chairman and executive
director, respectively.  Suggested Donation  Speaking to about 70 attendees yesterday morning in the
hotel’s Chandelier Room, Messina and Carson praised the work of
their “family” of volunteers and urged them to continue
backing the president’s agenda.  “It’s not yes he can, it’s yes we can,” said Messina.  An invitation to the summit, shared by a donor with
 Bloomberg News , listed a $50,000 suggested donation to become a
founding member. Some participants said they will attend for
free as a way to become more familiar with the group.  Katie Hogan, a spokeswoman for the group, declined to
discuss the specifics of fundraising or give details about the
summit.  Last night’s dinner resembled dozens of re-election
fundraisers Obama held last year, with gourmet meals served on
hotel china. The president spoke for 15 minutes and then mingled
with the crowd, which was dotted with would-be fundraisers such
as  New York  public-relations executive Michael Kempner and
former campaign officials.  ‘Not Ready’  Yet without the urgency of an election, some of the most
reliable Democratic fundraisers chose to skip the meal.  “I’m just not ready to start writing checks; it’s only 60
days since President Obama got sworn in,” said Mel Heifetz, a
Philadelphia real-estate investor and gay-rights activist, who
gave $1 million last year to a super-political action committee
that worked to help re-elect Obama.  The response illustrates the challenge of turning Obama’s
electoral victory machine into a durable political force. During
its first-term iteration, as Organizing for America, fellow
Democrats grumbled that the group was alienating factions of the
party as it pushed the health-care law.  The revamped OFA already faces criticism. Democracy 21 and
other Washington-based government watchdogs have accused it of
selling access to the president, saying the group’s structure
marks another move away from the campaign-finance rules Obama
once supported.  Donors’ Influence  The president has reversed course on other promises to
limit big donors’ influence, including condoning a campaign
super-PAC started by former aides that accepted unlimited
contributions, and allowing corporate donations to pay for his
second inauguration.  OFA doesn’t legally have to disclose its donors. The group
will periodically share its contributors’ names, Messina said.
He said the group won’t accept corporate or lobbyist money and
will steer clear of electoral politics.  Still, Democracy 21, joined by the Campaign Legal Center,
sent Obama a letter yesterday saying his involvement with OFA
raises questions about his compliance with the Ethics in
Government Act ban on the solicitation of gifts by executive
branch officials.  “Organizing for Action is a mistake by President Obama
that he should correct,” said Democracy 21 President  Fred Wertheimer . “OFA is also a terrible precedent for the future
that if left in place will spread to members of Congress.”  ‘Absurd’ Accusations  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  has called accusations
that Obama was selling access to a special-interest groups
“absurd and wrong.”  In private meetings and phone calls, Messina and Carson
have reached out to campaign donors to sell them on the new
organization, which will be based in  Chicago  with an office in
Washington. Their requests come as some fundraisers angle for
administration appointments to ambassadorships and other
positions. OFA, in seeking to harness the Obama campaign’s
grassroots fundraising prowess, is including a link to a
donations page each time it sends a message to the millions of
people on its e-mail list.  Orin Kramer, general partner at Boston Provident Partners,
LP, is among those giving money to the group, though he isn’t
attending the summit, he said in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  