-- Obama Says Iran More Than a Year Away From Nuclear Weapon
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-03-14T23:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/obama-says-iran-still-more-than-a-year-away-from-nuclear-weapon.html
President  Barack Obama  said Iran is
still “over a year or so” away from building a nuclear weapon
and indicated the U.S. is ready to take military action if
sanctions don’t force the regime to abandon its pursuit.  Obama, in an interview with  Israel ’s Channel 2 Television
ahead of his first trip to Israel as president, said he still
wants to pursue diplomacy to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions,
saying that would provide a “more lasting solution.”  The U.S. leader said that when he visits Israel next week
he’ll reiterate to Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  that he’s
ready to pursue any means of preventing Iran from getting
nuclear weapons capability.  “When I say that all options are on the table, all options
are on the table,” Obama said. “The  United States  obviously
has significant capabilities.”  Differences over dealing with Iran have been a friction
point between Obama and Netanyahu. The Israeli leader has warned
that Iran is edging closer to building a bomb and that the
regime in Tehran is using negotiations to stall for time. The
Obama administration has repeatedly argued there is still a
window for diplomacy and pressure to work.  Obama departs March 19 for a four-day trip to the  Middle
East  with stops in Israel, the  West Bank  and Jordan. He and
Netanyahu also will discuss the civil war in  Syria  and the
stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace talks.  Administration officials have said they don’t expect any
breakthrough in the  peace process  and that Obama won’t be
bringing any new proposals to his meetings with Netanyahu in
 Jerusalem  and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in
Ramallah.  Abbas Meeting  Obama said he’ll tell Abbas that trying “do an end-run
around Israel” by pressing for recognition of a Palestinian
state in international forums such as the  United Nations  “is
not going to be successful.”  With Netanyahu, Obama said he’ll encourage the Israeli
leader to help strengthen the Palestinian Authority’s moderate
leadership. One way to do that, he said, was to look at the
Jewish settlement construction in the West Bank and asking
whether it was “making it harder or easier for Palestinian
moderates to sit down at the table.”  “It’s complicated; it’s difficult,” Obama said. “But I
continue to believe that that’s the best and only path forward.
How we get into those conversations, whether they can happen
soon or whether there needs to be some further work done on the
ground, that’s part of what I’ll explore when I get there.”  New Government  Administration officials said the timing of the trip --
coinciding with a new Israeli government and the beginning of
Obama’s second term -- presents an opportunity for the U.S.
president to discuss a broad range of issues with Netanyahu and
other leaders in the region.  “There’s value in traveling precisely when there is a new
government in Israel,” deputy national security adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters on a conference call yesterday. While
“you don’t expect to close the deal” on any initiatives, the
visit “can frame those decisions that ultimately will come down
the line,” he said.  In the days leading up to the president’s trip, Iran has
emerged as the dominant issue in talks with the Israeli leader.  Iran has announced that it’s moving ahead with plans to
install 3,000 new-generation centrifuges at its Natanz uranium-
enrichment facility. Iran says its atomic program is for
civilian energy and medical uses, and the UN’s International
Atomic Energy Agency says it hasn’t detected any diversion of
enriched uranium for possible military use.  ‘All Avenues’  The U.S. intends to prevent  Iran  from getting a nuclear
weapon and “we’re going to pursue all avenues to make sure that
that does not happen,” Obama said. “My Cabinet is prepared for
a whole range of contingencies.”  Obama said that while it would take “over a year or so for
Iran to actually develop a nuclear weapon,” he doesn’t want to
“cut it too close.”  The U.S. “commitment to Israel’s security is
unbreakable,” he said. “Our goal here is to make sure that
Iran does not possess a nuclear weapon that could threaten
Israel or could trigger an arms race in the region.”  Iran was the No. 6 producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries in February, and any rise in
tensions would hit oil markets. Crude oil for April delivery
rose 51 cents to settle yesterday at $93.03 a barrel on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. Futures are up 1.4 percent this year.  Pollard Case  Obama also signaled he has no immediate plans to revisit
the possible release of convicted Israeli spy Jonathan Pollard,
as Israeli leaders have been pressing for him to be freed.
Pollard, an American intelligence analyst, was sentenced to life
in prison in 1987 for passing classified information to Israel.  “This is an individual who committed a very serious crime
here in the United States,” Obama said. “He has been serving
his time. There is a justice system that allows for periodic
review and the potential for him ultimately being released. And
the way I, as President, function here is to try to make sure
that I’m following the basic procedures and rules of that
review.”  Obama and Netanyahu have had a rocky relationship over the
last several years. Netanyahu has been critical of the U.S.
president’s stance toward Iran and he heaped praise on
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  during last year’s
U.S. elections. Still, Obama downplayed tensions.  “We’ve got a terrific, businesslike relationship,” Obama
said. “He is very blunt with me about his views on issues and
I’m very blunt with him about my views on issues. And we get
stuff done. We could not have coordinated militarily or on the
intelligence side had it not been for our capacity to work
together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  