-- Locke Lord, McCarter & English: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-14T11:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/locke-lord-mccarter-english-business-of-law.html
Two years after opening a Hong Kong
office, Locke Lord LLP has expanded in the city by forming a
partnership with the local law firm of Cheung & Lee.  Partners at Cheung & Lee, a firm formed recently by lawyers
from several international law firms, include Balbir Bindra, who
will be managing partner of the office, Wing Cheung, Alfred Lee,
Tej Mahil and Matthew Wong. They have experience in banking and
finance, corporate, commercial litigation and mergers and
acquisitions.  “Hong Kong represents one of the true centers of the
global marketplace today, and we believe we have the right team
in place to be front-line participants,” firm chairman Jerry Clements said in a statement.  Bindra’s practice focuses on banking, capital markets,
derivatives, leveraged finance and structured finance matters.
He was previously was head of Gide Loyrette Nouel’s Asia banking
and finance group.  Cheung, who handles transactional and contentious matters
and Lee, who focuses on corporate finance, regulatory compliance
and general corporate commercial matters, were partners at K&L
Gates LLP.  Mahil previously was a member of Winston & Strawn LLP’s
Hong Kong mergers and acquisitions and corporate practice.  Wong’s practice focuses on corporate finance, capital
markets, foreign direct investments, and mergers and
acquisitions and secondary offerings, corporate takeovers and
restructurings, private equity and venture capital investments
and funds and collective investment schemes. Wong was previously
a partner at Stephenson Harwood Ltd.  The new partners will work with Locke Lord’s 34-member
London team as well as with the firm’s 11 U.S. offices. The firm
has more than 650 lawyers.  Moves  Mayer Brown Hires Restructuring, Bankruptcy Lawyer From Barclays  Former Barclays director Joel Moss joined Mayer Brown LLP
in New York as a partner in the restructuring, bankruptcy and
insolvency practice.  At Barclays, Moss handled bankruptcy and restructuring
matters in the U.S., the firm said. He was involved in the
bank’s U.S. resolution plan required by the Dodd-Frank Act. His
responsibilities included advising trading desks on bankruptcy
issues relating to proposed and existing investments; reviewing
and negotiating restructuring-related documentation, among other
matters, according to the firm.  “Joel is highly regarded in the New York market for his
deep experience in providing legal counsel to financial
institutions on a wide range of bankruptcy matters, such as
Chapter 11 representations, debtor-in-possession financings,
section 363 M&A transactions and matters involving distressed
debt,” Brian Trust, co-leader of Mayer Brown’s global
restructuring, bankruptcy & insolvency practice, said in a
statement.  “Joel’s combination of in-house and law firm experience
will greatly benefit financial institution clients facing
bankruptcy-related challenges.”  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in the Americas, Asia
and  Europe .  Global Patent Partner Paul Li Joins DLA Piper in San Francisco  DLA Piper LLP said Zhaoyang “Paul” Li joined the firm’s
intellectual property and technology practice and patent
prosecution group as a partner in the San Francisco office. He
was previously a partner at Squire Sanders LLP.  Li focuses on complex IP matters, particularly involving
Chinese companies, including patent prosecution, patent
infringement assessment opinions, patent right licensing
agreements, patentability, and IP counseling and due diligence.
He also handles patent litigation for private and public
companies in highly technical areas, including biotechnology,
biopharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals, tissue engineering,
telecommunications and electronics, among others.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries
throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle
East.  Brown Rudnick Strengthens Its Global Corporate Practice  Brown Rudnick LLP hired Adolfo R. Garcia in the firm’s
Boston office as a partner in the corporate and capital markets
department. Garcia was previously a partner at K&L Gates LLP and
at Ropes & Gray LLP, where he was co-founder and co-head of that
firm’s international practice, the firm said.  Garcia advises clients on corporate and business
transactions involving public and private clients, including
closely-held and family businesses, various types of financings,
private equity, securities, mergers and acquisitions, joint
ventures, investments, restructurings and contractual
arrangements, the firm said.  Brown Rudnick has 200 lawyers at seven offices in the U.S.
and Europe.  Three Attorneys Join Dickinson Wright’s Columbus Office  Dickinson Wright PLLC hired three attorneys from Roetzel &
Andress LPA, two of whom joins as members in the Columbus
office.  Jeffrey S. Braun and Scot C. Crow have joined the firm as
members along with a legal consultant.  Braun focuses his practice on real estate law, including
cases involving sales and acquisitions, joint ventures and
partnerships, syndications, financings, receiverships and
workouts, property management, tax deferred exchanges, and
leasing and development matters.  Crow focuses his practice on tax, corporate and business
law. He has handled mergers and acquisitions, hedge fund
formation, private equity fund formation and structuring and
general corporate matters.  Dickinson Wright PLLC has more than 350 lawyers in 12 U.S.
offices.  Litigation  Chinese Vitamin C Makers Broke U.S Antitrust Law, Jury Told  A lawyer for American dietary supplement companies asked a
jury to find that Chinese suppliers conspired to fix prices for
vitamin C.  Chinese firms propped up bulk prices of the nutrient and
were not compelled to do so by their government as they claimed,
Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP partner William Isaacson, the
attorney for the U.S. firms, said yesterday in closing arguments
at an antitrust trial in  Brooklyn , New York.  During about two weeks of testimony, the Chinese companies
sought to show they couldn’t be held liable for price-fixing
because they were following the instructions of regulators.  “They needed an excuse,” Isaacson said. “They needed to
point the finger.”  Companies facing claims included Hong Kong-based China
Pharmaceutical Group Ltd., its Weisheng Pharmaceutical unit,
North China Pharmaceutical Co. and its Hebei, China-based unit
Hebei Welcome Pharmaceutical Co.  Before the arguments began, U.S. District Judge Brian M.
Cogan announced that Weisheng and China Pharmaceutical were “no
longer in the case,” without providing more details. A lawyer
for the companies didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
request for comment about whether a settlement had been reached.  Initially,  Aland Jiangsu Nutraceutical Co. (1093)  and Shenyang,
China-based  Northeast Pharmaceutical Group Co. (600812)  were also sued.
They settled out of court.  Altogether, the companies supplied about 80 percent of the
vitamin C in the U.S., according to Isaacson.  Animal Science Products Inc., a livestock-supplement firm
based in Nacogdoches,  Texas , and Ranis Co., a food company based
in Elizabeth, New Jersey, filed complaints in 2005 alleging the
Chinese firms met regularly and agreed to constrict their
supplies in order to manipulate prices.  Over the course of a scheme lasting from about 2001 to
2006, the companies were able to increase prices to as high as
$15 a kilogram ($6.82 a pound) from about $2.50 a kilogram, the
 plaintiffs alleged .  The conspiracy cost U.S. businesses $54.1 million in
damages, Isaacson said when the trial began Feb. 25.  Baker & McKenzie partner Charles Critchlow, a lawyer for
Hebei Welcome and North China Pharmaceutical, told jurors that
exports were Hebei’s “lifeblood” and that it couldn’t risk
breaking rules enforced by Qiao.  The case is  In re Vitamin C Antitrust Litigation, 1:06-
md-01738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  News  Heller Ruling Means Firms Lawyers From Failing Firms a Liability  Hiring a lawyer from a failing law firm who has a large
stable of clients means taking on a liability as much as an
asset, as a result of a decision this week in the liquidation of
the defunct firm Heller Ehrman LLP.  A bankruptcy judge in San Francisco spent 39 pages
explaining why law firms that take on lawyers from a failing
legal practice are automatically liable to the failed firm for
profits on business lawyers bring to their new firms. Whether
the same liability will attach to failed New York law firms is
on appeal.  Partners at California-based Heller Ehrman voted to
dissolve in September 2008. At the same time, they voted in
favor of a so-called Jewel waiver. The term refers to a
 California  appellate decision in a case called Jewel saying that
when a lawyer moves from a failing firm to a new firm, the new
firm and the lawyer must pay the failed firm any profits on
unfinished engagements taken to the new firm.  The Heller Ehrman Jewel waiver provided that the failing
firm wouldn’t hold the lawyers or their new firms liable for
profits on unfinished business.  Heller Ehrman filed under Chapter 11 in December 2008. A
reorganization plan was court approved in August 2010. The
administrator under the plan sued law firms that took on former
partners. Most settled. Four that didn’t were Davis Wright
Tremaine LLP, Foley & Lardner LLP, Jones Day and Orrick
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP.  The four firms came up as losers when U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Dennis Montali in San Francisco wrote his opinion on March 11.  Without needing a trial, Montali concluded that the firms
were recipients of fraudulent transfers for obtaining the
benefit of the Jewel waiver without giving Heller Ehrman
anything in return. Montali said the next order of business is
to decide how much should be paid for profits on unfinished
business.  Montali knocked down numerous defenses raised by the four
firms. He said, for example, that a client’s right to select a
lawyer provides no defense, even if the lawyer might otherwise
refuse to continue handling the business at the new firm.  The bankruptcy judge explained at length why the Jewel
waiver was a fraudulent transfer. Montali concluded that the new
law firms were the indirect recipients of the waivers originally
given to benefit departing partners. He said the new firms gave
nothing of value in return and thus had no defense to the
fraudulent-transfer claims.  The Jewel question is the subject of an appeal in New York
arising from the bankruptcy liquidations of Coudert Brothers LLP
and Thelen LLP. In Coudert, a federal district judge ruled that
Jewel is good law in New York. In Thelen, a different  Manhattan 
judge said Jewel isn’t correct. The appeal pending in the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Manhattan stems from the Coudert opinion.  Once Montali decides the amount of damages to be paid by
the four firms, the lawsuits will go to a district judge who
won’t be bound by Montali’s conclusions. In a decision in
December 2011, a district judge ruled in the Heller Ehrman case
that Montali can’t make final rulings in the fraudulent-transfer
cases. To read about the decision, click here for the Dec. 15,
2011, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  One of the lawsuits is Heller Ehrman LLP v. Jones Day (In
re Heller Ehrman LLP), 10-bk-03221, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco). The Chapter 11
case is In re Heller Ehrman LLC, 08-bk-32514, in the same court.  Bogus Asbestos Claims Cheat Companies, Liability Lawyer Says  Fraudulent claims for asbestos exposure are shortchanging
companies and legitimate victims, former judge and McCarter &
English LLP attorney Peggy L. Ableman planned to testify
yesterday in support of legislation aimed at curtailing false
claims on an estimated $30 billion in assets.  Under the current system, people claiming harm from
asbestos can seek damages from trusts set up by bankrupt
companies and simultaneously sue non-bankrupt companies, using
inconsistent information about how and when they were exposed,
Ableman said in prepared testimony to be presented at a hearing
before the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on
Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law.  Companies are “often led to believe -- erroneously -- that
their products were far more responsible for the plaintiff’s
disease than what may have been the case, because they have no
way of knowing the substance of an individual plaintiff’s
claims,” Ableman said in her prepared testimony.  The proposed rules would affect non-bankrupt companies
being sued under tort law as well as trusts for bankrupt
companies that hold $18 billion in assets today, with as much as
$12 billion that may be added once current bankruptcies are
resolved, according to testimony from Marc Scarcella, an
economist with Bates White LLC in  Washington .  A wave of asbestos bankruptcies from 2000 to 2004 included
companies such as Owens Corning, Fibreboard Corp., Babcock &
Wilcox Co., Pfizer Inc.’s non-operating Quigley Co., Armstrong
World Industries and United States Gypsum Co. All followed the
example of Johns-Manville Corp., which pioneered the concept of
an asbestos trust in its 1982 bankruptcy.  By settling on an amount to be set aside for all current
and future asbestos claims, companies could reorganize and exit
bankruptcy free of lawsuits, leaving a trust and a trustee to
manage distributions to alleged victims.  Ableman was a judge on the Delaware Superior Court for more
than 29 years and joined McCarter & English in February as
special counsel in product liability. She supports legislation
called the Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency Act of 2013,
which she said would limit fraud by requiring such trusts to
file quarterly reports on their claims in bankruptcy court.
Reports would include the name and exposure history of
plaintiffs and the basis for any payments that were previously
made to them.  Elihu Inselbuch, a lawyer at  Caplin & Drysdale (PFE)  in New York,
which represents asbestos victims’ rights, said the proposed
legislation is an attempt by large corporate defendants to “add
a new time-consuming burden” to bankrupt trusts.  The bill would “slow down the trust process such that many
victims could die before receiving compensation since victims of
mesothelioma typically only live for four to 18 months after
their diagnosis,” Inselbuch said in his prepared testimony.
There is no evidence that fraud is widespread, and large
corporate defendants not in bankruptcy can already get details
about a plaintiff’s past claims under state law, he added.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 