-- Lockheed to Use Soviet Submarine Hunt Data in Sea Mine Plan
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-14T17:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/lockheed-to-use-soviet-submarine-hunt-data-in-seabed-mining-plan.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
biggest defense contractor, is preparing to scour the Pacific
Ocean seabed in a search for metals using data obtained in a
cold-war hunt for a sunken Soviet submarine.  Lockheed has set up a unit, U.K. Seabed Resources, to
explore for so-called polymetallic nodules that can contain
copper, nickel, cobalt, manganese and rare earths, it said in
London today. The company, supported by the U.K. government, has
been granted the first commercial exploration rights for a
58,000 square-kilometer (22,000 square mile) area of the Pacific
between Hawaii and  Mexico .  “This is about giving the U.K. access to strategically
important minerals and it’s about growing a nascent industry,
those are the primary motivators for us,” Stephen Ball, chief
executive officer of Lockheed Martin’s U.K. unit and of Seabed
Resources, said in an interview.  Rare earths comprise 17 elements used in magnets, oil
refining and smartphone batteries. They became a political and
legislative flashpoint in July 2010 when China moved to limit
domestic output and slash export quotas by 40 percent, souring
ties with the U.S. and  Japan .  “The U.K. is leading the way in this exciting new
industry,” Prime Minister David Cameron said at the event to
announce the new venture. The exploration “is expected to be
worth up to 40 billion pounds to the U.K. economy over the next
30 years,” the equivalent of $60 billion.  Sea Law  Seabed Resources was granted the license by the
International Seabed Authority under the sponsorship of the
British government at a cost of about $500,000, Ball said. The
company is meeting with potential U.K. suppliers, he said.
Seabed mining outside a nation’s territorial waters is governed
by the ISA, established under the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea.  Exploration will start late in the U.K. summer this year
and the company expects to be ready to seek an exploitation
license in about three years and to start extraction in five to
six, Ball said.  Seabed Resources has applied for a second exploration
license, with a decision due mid-year, he said.  Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin surveyed the area
targeted for exploration in the 1970s and 1980s after being
subcontracted to search for a lost Soviet submarine by
billionaire industrialist, aviator and filmmaker Howard Hughes.  Company Heritage  “We had survey data as part of the heritage of our
company,” said Ball. “We have conducted surveys in the past of
that part of the ocean, so we understood what was there.”  The polymetallic nodules Seabed Resources will look for are
found at a depth of about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles), are 3
centimeters to 5 centimeters in size and lie on top of the
seabed, the company said. Rare earths, along with materials such
as tungsten and niobium, are on a British Geological Survey
supply-risk list of materials needed to maintain the U.K.’s
economy and lifestyle.  “Rare-earth metals are vital to many new innovations such
as mobile phones and low carbon technologies,” Universities and
Science Minister David Willetts said in a statement. “The U.K.
is well placed to lead this first exploration step which could
pave the way for us to be at the forefront of significant new
commercial, engineering and economic opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  