-- Lodestone’s Whyte Said Among FSA Insider-Trading Arrests
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/lodestone-s-whyte-said-among-fsa-insider-trading-arrests.html
Tim Whyte, the chief investment
officer of hedge fund Lodestone Natural Resources, was one of
three men arrested last month in  London  on suspicion of insider
trading, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Whyte was arrested Feb. 27 along with Carl Linderum, a
founding partner of Lodestone, and Carl Esprey, a portfolio
manager at GLG Partners Inc., according to the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information hadn’t been
publicly disclosed.  Calls and e-mails to Whyte seeking comment didn’t receive a
response. Ben Belldegrun, another of Lodestone’s founding
partners, declined to comment. All those arrested hold positions
that required approval from Britain’s Financial Services
Authority. None have been charged.  Whyte, who trades stocks tied to the commodities industry,
started Lodestone last year with Linderum and Belldegrun after
the three left London-based  Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
according to a filing with the U.K.’s Companies House. Prior to
Brevan Howard, Whyte was a hedge-fund manager focused on natural
resources at Sofaer Capital.  The FSA and the Metropolitan Police executed six search
warrants last month on homes and offices in the British capital
and the surrounding areas. The agency has sought to crack down
on insider trading at London’s biggest financial companies after
having previously targeting lower-profile individuals.  Private Trades  Esprey, 33, was questioned about trades he made through a
private account, a person familiar with the allegations said
last month. He joined  Man Group Plc (EMG) ’s GLG unit in January 2008
as a portfolio manager for its European Long-Short Fund,
according to a July 2012 press release. Before joining GLG in
London, he worked in the corporate-finance department of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, GLG has said.  Esprey declined to comment when reached by phone yesterday.  Man Group confirmed that one of its employees had been
arrested by the FSA and said the case regards the person’s
“actions as a private individual and not as an employee of Man
Group or GLG.” The firm said it suspended the employee and had
cooperated with the FSA.  Linderum started his career as a trainee at Morgan Stanley
in 2003, according to the FSA register of people approved to
work in the finance industry. A lawyer for Linderum said he
plans to contest the FSA’s allegations.  Both Linderum and Esprey have been switched to “inactive”
on the FSA register, while Whyte is still active.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  