-- Oerlikon Seeks New Chief as Buscher Leaves After 3 Years
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-03-14T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/oerlikon-seeks-new-chief-as-buscher-leaves-after-3-years.html
OC Oerlikon AG (OERL)  said it’s looking
for a new chief executive officer to replace Michael Buscher,
who has led the world’s largest maker of textile machinery
through a reorganization since joining in May 2010.  Buscher decided to leave and both parties agreed on a
mutual termination of the contract, Burkhard Boendel, a
spokesman at the Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based manufacturer,
said today by phone. The stock dropped as much as 2.8 percent.  “After three intense years at Oerlikon, he now wants to
take the next step in his career and is looking for new
professional challenges,” and it’s “likely in the near
future” that Buscher’s new role will become clear, Boendel
said.  Oerlikon’s share price more than doubled last year as
Buscher, a German-born engineer, supervised divestments of slow-
growing units and re-negotiating an expensive financing
agreement. Buscher joined Oerlikon from the trainmaking division
of Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  as the Swiss company was
struggling to get a grip on its finances.  Today, the stock dropped as much as 0.35 francs to 12.3
francs in Zurich trading and was down 2.4 percent as of 9:48
a.m. The company has a market value of 4 billion francs. ($4.2
billion).  With the backing of Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg ,
Oerlikon’s largest shareholder and the world’s 44th-richest man,
Buscher led a shift to more profitable businesses such as
coatings for airplane and car parts. The reorganization
culminated in announcement in December that Oerlikon was selling
its natural-fibers and textile-components units, with an
enterprise value of 650 million francs ($681 million), to
Chinese investor Pan Xueping’s Jinsheng Group.  Chief Financial Officer Juerg Fedier will act as interim
CEO effective immediately, Oerlikon  said  today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  