-- Molycorp Loss Wider Than Expected Amid Rare-Earth Mine Delay
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-03-15T20:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/molycorp-loss-wider-than-estimated-amid-rare-earth-mine-delays.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest
rare-earth deposit outside  China , reported a wider-than-expected
loss after the company missed a production target and prices for
the commodities declined.  The fourth-quarter net loss was $359.6 million, or $2.91 a
share, the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based company said
yesterday in a statement after the close of trading. The company
reported net income of $26.6 million or 26 cents a year earlier.  Excluding a $264.3 million writedown and other one-time
items, the loss was 45 cents a share, wider than the 30-cent
average of six analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 1 percent to $134.3 million, missing the $138.5 million
average of four estimates.  Molycorp was originally scheduled to report its results at
the end of last month. On Feb. 28, the company said it needed
more time to determine the size of the non-cash impairment
charge related to its C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) acquisition
of Toronto’s Neo Material Technologies Inc., which was completed
in June.  The company said its “financial performance” in the first
half of 2013 will be “slightly weaker” than in the second half
of last year. High inventories held by end-users and lower
prices will offset improving demand from the auto, oil and
battery industries, Chief Executive Officer Constantine Karayannopoulos said in an interview yesterday. Customers will
return to the market “in a meaningful way” by the third
quarter, he said.  Missed Target  Molycorp rose 3.3 percent to $6.19 in  New York .  “Until the inventories are exhausted and customers have
the confidence they can start buying rare-earths from a reliable
producer with some visibility on prices, I don’t think we’ll see
large-scale return into the markets,” the CEO said.  Molycorp said Jan. 10 its Mountain Pass mine complex in
 California  missed a target of producing rare-earth oxides at an
annual rate of 19,050 metric tons by the year-end. The company
now plans to meet that target by the middle of 2013.  In November, Molycorp said it was being investigated by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over the accuracy of its
public disclosures. It fired CEO  Mark Smith  in December,
replacing him with Karayannopoulos.  Investor Credibility  “The biggest issue that’s within their control is
credibility with investors,” said Ben Kallo, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co. Inc in  San Francisco . “The management
team did a good job of starting the process of restoring
credibility which I think is much needed.”  Molycorp raised $414.2 million from bond and equity sales
in January to help fund completion of Mountain Pass. Molycorp
expects  capital expenditures  will be $450 million this year.  In a separate statement, Molycorp yesterday announced a
five-year agreement with Univar Inc. to sell Molycorp’s cerium-
based water-treatment product to municipal and industrial
wastewater treatment plants in  North America .  To contact the reporter on this story: Sonja Elmquist in New
York at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  