-- Home Retail Surges as Sales Beat Estimates on Demand for Tablets
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-03-14T09:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/home-retail-raises-profit-estimate-as-sales-beat-expectations.html
Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  rose the most
in 20 months after sales beat expectations at Homebase home-
improvement stores and the Argos catalog chain in the last two
months of the fiscal year.  The stock gained as much as 17 percent in  London  trading,
the steepest advance since July 11, 2011. The  Milton Keynes ,
England-based retailer increased its full-year pretax profit
estimate to about 90 million pounds ($134 million).  Demand for tablet computers helped boost same-store sales
at Argos by 5.2 percent in the eight weeks ended March 2,
Finance Director Richard Ashton said on a conference call. That
beat the 2.3 percent median estimate of five analysts. The
company has beefed up its online offerings with tablets as well
as more own-brand ranges to lure shoppers. Homebase sales fell
1.5 percent, about half of the drop analysts had anticipated.  “These numbers show the third consecutive quarter of like-
for-like sales growth for Argos and industry outperformance for
Homebase,”  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in
London, wrote in a note to clients.  Dorgan, who recommends selling the stock, cautioned against
too much optimism. “We think that Argos’s turnaround will take
too long and that Homebase is heading towards losses,” he
wrote.  Ashton also warned that the pace of growth would slow this
year as more people come to own tablet computers and people in
southeast  England  who needed a new digital television set don’t
repeat their purchases.  Garden Boost  Home Retail shares rose 14 percent to 151.70 pence at 8:56
a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 1.23
billion pounds.  Pretax  profit  will be about 90 million pounds for the year
ended March 2, the company said in a statement. The retailer
forecast in January that profit would be about 10 million pounds
above the consensus analyst estimate of 73 million pounds.  “This has been a good outcome to a challenging year,”
Chief Executive Officer Terry Duddy said in the statement.  Homebase has suffered from a tough DIY market, according to
Ashton. Same-store sales will probably be “flattish to slightly
positive” this fiscal year, he said. Managing Director Paul Loft told  Bloomberg News  yesterday he expects garden sales will
pick up this year on the prospects of better summer weather. The
retailer generates about 20 percent of sales from garden
products like outdoor furniture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  