-- Online’s PokerStars Opens Card Rooms as U.S. Fight Looms
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-14T00:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/online-s-pokerstars-opens-card-rooms-as-u-s-fight-looms.html
PokerStars , the world’s largest
online poker site, is opening card rooms in casinos to promote
its brand, even as land-based operators in the U.S. try to
thwart its expansion on their turf.  The company, owned by closely held Rational Group Ltd.
based in  Isle of Man , opened a PokerStars card room in London’s
 Hippodrome Casino  this month after buying a minority interest in
the property, according to Eric Hollreiser, a company spokesman.
The company also has agreements for rooms in Spain and Macau.  “There are people who play poker in brick-and-mortar
casinos, who also may play online,” said Randall Fine, managing
director of the Fine Point Group, a Las Vegas-based gambling
consultant. “It makes sense that they’ve developed a very
successful online brand to promote it elsewhere.”  PokerStars, which is using the cardrooms to attract new
customers, is battling a U.S. casino trade group that opposes
its purchase of the Atlantic Club Casino Hotel in New Jersey.
Ownership would give the company a foothold in the emerging U.S.
online gambling market and challenge similar efforts by the
largest operators, including  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)   Letting the Washington-based American Gaming Association
participate in PokerStars’ New Jersey licensing hearing would be
“destructively anticompetitive,” Rational Group said in a
March 10 letter to state regulators. The AGA’s members include
Caesars, Atlantic City’s top operator,  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  and  MGM
Resorts International. (MGM)   PokerStars came to prominence in part due to its
sponsorship of players at the  World Series  of Poker in the U.S.
That business is owned by Caesars.  Thousands Online  PokerStars, founded in 2001, had more than 177,847 players
at its main website at one point yesterday, compared with 15,171
for PartyPoker, owned by Gibraltar-based  Bwin.Party Digital
Entertainment Plc (BPTY) , according to PokerScout.com, a site that
provides industry data. Bwin has partnered with  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  to
offer real-money betting in the U.K.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  last month signed
legislation legalizing online gambling in the state, restricting
the business to local casino owners. H2 Gambling Capital, a
U.K.-based researcher, estimates U.S. online gambling could
reach $7.4 billion annually by 2017.  Last year, PokerStars  reached  a $731 million settlement
with the U.S.  Justice Department  over allegations of money-
laundering and fraud related to its now-closed real-money online
poker service in the U.S.  The gaming association cited that settlement in a filing
with New Jersey regulators this month opposing the Atlantic City
casino purchase.  Not Friends  “It comes down to money,” said I. Nelson Rose, a
professor of gaming studies at Whittier Law School in Costa
Mesa, California. “If some of the big boys want to partner with
them, then it’s OK. If they don’t want the competition, then
it’s not OK.”  PokerStars operates the European Poker Tour, which holds
tournaments in casinos throughout the continent. Last month, the
company  opened  a poker room at the Casino Gran Madrid in Spain
with 20 tables focused on tournaments. It also  announced  an
agreement to open one in  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) ’s City
of Dreams casino in Macau.  “The PokerStars online brand drives more traffic to live
poker events than any other,” Danny McDonagh, director of live
operations in Asia for the company, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  