-- Denmark’s Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Face Up to 5% Capital Add-On
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-14T15:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/too-big-to-fail-banks-in-denmark-face-up-to-5-capital-add-on.html
Denmark’s biggest banks will need
to hold as much as 5 percent additional capital as the Nordic
nation looks for ways to protect its economy from financial
industry losses.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s Danish unit,  Jyske Bank
A/S (JYSK) ,  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  and mortgage lenders Nykredit A/S and BRFkredit
A/S were all designated as systemically important financial
institutions in a report published today by a government-
appointed committee. The banks face 2.5 percentage points to 5
percentage points in additional capital requirements, according
to the report.  “The larger we set the  capital  requirement, the lower the
risk of government having to provide a bail-out,” Michael
Moeller, chairman of the Sifi committee, said at a press
briefing in Copenhagen today. The requirement for more share
capital “is an incentive for shareholders to be on top of
banks,” he said.  Lawmakers now need to negotiate the recommendations, with
the opposition Conservative Party already signaling it will
fight to reduce the additional capital buffer. The nation is
imposing stricter standards on its biggest banks after a
property crisis wiped out more than 12 regional lenders since
2008, plunging the economy into a recession.  Lawmaker Concerns  “The capital requirements laid out in the report will lead
to interest rates increasing and banks cutting lending, so
they’ll have to change,” said Brian Mikkelsen, a Conservative
parliamentary committee member. “Our concern is that banks
won’t be able to facilitate the lending needed for the economy
to grow and that Danish banks won’t operate on a level playing
field with foreign peers.”  Denmark ’s Sifi capital requirements will be added to
minimum standards set by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision and would equal those demanded by Sweden, according
to today’s report.  The committee also recommended creating a so-called
stability fund, financed by the Sifis, to enable bailouts of
troubled lenders in future and giving the Financial Supervisory
Authority more powers. The agency would intervene earlier, when
a capital threshold of 10.125 percent is breached, rather than
the current 8 percent limit, according to the report.  ‘Very Uncertain’  “It’s difficult to find any alternative to a state rescue
if one of the really big financial institutions should get into
trouble,” central bank Governor Lars Rohde said in a statement
today. “That’s an issue that the report addresses.”  Denmark’s bail-in legislation, the first of its kind in
 Europe  and the model for European laws still being discussed, is
inadequate and risks hurting the economy if a Sifi is wound down
under the framework, the committee said in its report.  “To protect the economy, it will be necessary to allow
systemic functions of a Sifi in distress to keep operating,
rather than winding up the entire institution,” it said. The
alternative of finding a buyer is “very uncertain,” it said.  The list of too-big-to-fail banks released today “can
still change,” Stig Nymann, an analyst at Alm. Brand A/S, said
by phone. “I don’t think the list will become shorter, but it
could become longer.”  ‘The JPMorgans’  The recommendations place too high requirements on Danish
lenders given their size, according to Jesper Berg, senior vice
president and head of regulatory affairs at Nykredit.  “The Danish banks are being treated like the JPMorgans of
the world,” Berg, who’s based in Copenhagen, said.  The recommendations are “tougher than we had anticipated
on the capital side,” Peter Rostrup-Nielsen, executive vice
president for group risk management at Danske Bank, said by
phone. Denmark is “again ahead of the curve compared with our
peers when it comes to having a specific framework for Sifis.”  Still, Danske is “more or less there already” and will
maintain its plan to pay dividends as early as this year,
Rostrup-Nielsen said. “Our capital targets are more or less in
sync with what this report would require.”  Danske, which hasn’t paid a dividend since 2007, had a core
Tier 1 capital ratio of 14.5 percent, excluding hybrid capital,
and a total capital ratio of 21.3 percent at the end of 2012.  Countries that have yet to identify and determine capital
demands for their Sifis may well opt to set lower requirements
than Denmark, Joergen Horwitz, head of the Danish Bankers
Association, said.  ‘Remain Competitive’  “It is important for us to secure that our banks remain
competitive,” he said by phone.  All the Sifi banks had capital in the fourth quarter that
exceeded the proposed requirements by varying degrees, according
to the report. Proposed changes in the risk weighting of assets
by European regulators could alter that, the report said.  The changes may lower Danske Bank’s core capital by 2
percentage points and Jyske Bank’s by 0.2 percent to 0.5
percent, the report said.  Jyske Bank  rose  as much as 1.4 percent in Copenhagen
trading while Sydbank gained as much as 1.2 percent. Nordea,
which has its primary listing in  Stockholm , rose as much as 3.1
percent. Danske Bank strengthened as much as 0.9 percent.
Nykredit and BRFkredit are unlisted.  “A Sifi stamp will be positive,” Merete Poller Novak,
head of strategic funding at Jyske, said before the
announcement. “We are already living up to the expected
requirements but we won’t see any upside until we get the
official stamp.”  Spent Less  Denmark’s  economy  contracted 0.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from the third as consumers spent less and business
investment stalled. The nation is still trying to surface from a
housing bubble that burst in 2008, sending property prices
plunging more than 20 percent from their peak a year earlier.  The biggest banks should have buffers of 15.5 percent of
risk-weighted assets while smaller Sifis should hold 13 percent,
according to the report. That compares with 10.5 percent under
Basel and 15.5 percent in  Sweden , the Danish Sifi committee
said.  “The Sifi requirements aren’t as strict as some might have
feared,” Nymann said. “There had been talk about adapting
Swedish levels. As far as can see, however, the requirements are
less strict than in Sweden and also less strict than in other
European countries like the U.K. and Switzerland.”  The committee recommended that, for larger banks, the first
10.5 percent of their capital requirement be met using equity.
Basel sets a minimum requirement of 7 percent, while Swedish
banks must hold 12 percent in equity by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  