-- TOP Oil Market News: Brent’s Premium Over WTI Crude Narrowing
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-03-14T01:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/top-oil-market-news-brent-s-premium-over-wti-crude-narrowing.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Oil Steady as U.S. Inventories Climb; Brent Premium Narrows  West  Texas  Intermediate was little changed after an Energy
Information Administration report showed that U.S. inventories
climbed to a seasonal high. WTI’s discount to Brent narrowed to
the lowest level in six weeks.  Fracking Pushes U.S. Oil Output to Highest Level Since July 1992  U.S. oil production last week rose to the highest level
since July 1992, buoyed by increased drilling in oilfields
including North Dakota’s Bakken shale and the Eagle Ford in
Texas.  Gasoline Futures Slide as Brent Weakens, Dollar Strengthens  Gasoline fell as  Brent crude  weakened versus West Texas
Intermediate and the dollar strengthened, reducing the
investment appeal of commodities.  Ethanol Strengthens Against Gasoline as U.S. Inventory Declines  Ethanol’s discount to gasoline narrowed to the smallest in
more than a week as plant shutdowns led to a record streak of
inventory declines.  U.S. Ethanol Production Declines 1% to 797,000 Barrels a Day  U.S. ethanol output fell 1 percent to 797,000 barrels a day
last week, the U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  U.S. Gasoline Inventories Fall Below Average, Down 1.6%  BI RNMK NOAM KEY U.S. gasoline inventories of 224.3 million
barrels fell 1.6% in the latest week. Inventories are 3.8
million barrels, or 1.7%, below year-ago levels and 1.8 million
barrels (0.8%) below the five-year average. All five PADDs
decreased their inventory levels during the week, led by PADD V,
which had a withdrawal of 1.1 million barrels.  Gulf Coast Diesel Fuel Gains as Distillate Inventories Decline  Diesel fuel in the U.S. Gulf Coast gained for the first
time in three days as distillate inventories in the region
slumped to a 10-week low.  Canada’s  Northwest Territories  Seeks China Cash for Oil (1)  Canada’s Northwest Territories is appealing to Asian
investors to boost oil and  natural gas  drilling after reaching
an agreement with the federal government over control of
resources, the region’s leader said.  Natural Gas at $4 Seen as Plants Beat Forecasts: Energy Markets  Near-record natural gas demand from electricity generators
is driving prices back up toward $4 per million Btu for the
first time since September 2011 even as output climbs to an all-
time high for the sixth straight year.  Fisker Co-Founder Resigns After Rift With Automaker Executives  Henrik Fisker, the auto designer who co-founded luxury
plug-in hybrid manufacturer Fisker Automotive Inc., said he
resigned over disagreements with the  company’s other
executives.  Los Angeles Gasoline Premium Surges After BP Said to Cut Rates  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles jumped to a one-week high
against futures after BP Plc’s Carson refinery was said to cut
rates and stockpiles of the fuel in the state dropped to the
least since December.  Natural Gas Supply Decline Was 85% Above Normal, Forecasts Show  Natural gas inventories dropped 85 percent more than the
historical norm last week as frigid weather moved into the U.S.
East, analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fisker Co-Founder Quits Amid Disagreements With Executives (4)  Henrik Fisker, the auto designer who co-founded luxury
plug-in hybrid manufacturer Fisker Automotive Inc., said he’s
resigning over disagreements with the company’s other
executives.  U.S. Oil Supply: Comparison of Weekly API, DOE Figures (Table)  The following table provides a  comparison between the U.S.
Department of Energy’s crude-oil statistics for the week ended
March 8 and the data from the  American Petroleum Institute , an
industry-funded group.  OPEC  India Said to Line Up OPEC Alternatives to Iranian Supply (2)  OPEC’s biggest oil producers are in talks to supply extra
crude to India as the nation prepares to halt purchases from
Iran because of global sanctions, four people with knowledge of
the matter said.  OPEC Producers Said in Talks to Replace Iran Oil to India (1)  OPEC’s biggest oil producers are in talks to supply extra
crude to India as the nation prepares to halt purchases from
Iran because of global sanctions, four people with knowledge of
the matter said.  IEA Cuts Demand Estimate, Says Venezuela Oil Industry May Suffer  The  International Energy Agency  trimmed global oil demand
forecasts for a second month amid “elusive” economic growth,
and warned that Venezuela’s oil industry may suffer following
the death of leader  Hugo Chavez .  IEA Sees Increased OPEC Crude Output Driven by Gains From Iraq  OPEC crude output rose in February to the highest level in
at least three months, with Iraq and Iran boosting production
even as refinery maintenance damped demand, according to the
International Energy Agency.  OPEC Producers Said to Be in Talks to Replace Iran Oil for India  OPEC’s biggest oil producers are in talks to supply extra
crude to India as the nation prepares to halt purchases from
Iran because of global sanctions, four people with knowledge of
the matter said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Valero Port Arthur Plant Units Operating After Power Upset  All units are either at planned rates or returning to
planned rates,  Bill Day , Valero Energy Corp. spokesman, said by
e-mail.  Husky Lima Refinery Began Turnaround Over Weekend  Husky Energy Inc. began “minor turnaround” maintenance at
Lima refinery in Ohio on March 10, Mel Duvall, Co. spokesman,
said by e-mail.  Valero Port Arthur Reports Electrical Fault at Power Plant  Valero Energy Corp. said workers brought operating units to
“safe operating conditions” at the refinery in Texas.  Naphtha Drops to 2-Month Low; ICE Gasoil Declines: Oil Products  European naphtha falls to a 2-month low as Shell and BP
sell cargoes. April gasoil drops to the lowest level in three
months on ICE Futures Europe exchange as Brent crude declines.  Lyondellbasell Building More Dock Space Next to Houston Plant  LyondellBasell Industries NV is building additional dock
space next to its Houston refinery after reaching “dock
limitations in the short-term,” said  Kevin Brown , senior vice
president of refining.  Phillips 66 Borger Refinery Completes Planned Maintenance  Phillips 66 completed work at Texas plant  Valero Port Arthur Refinery Reports Flaring on Community Hotline  Valero Energy Corp. reported flaring from  Port Arthur ,
Texas, refinery  Exxon Partially Shuts France Gravenchon Refinery for Maintenance  Exxon Mobil Corp. partially halted its Gravenchon refinery
in northwest France for planned maintenance, according to a
company official.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 8.3 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan rose 8.3 percent to 11.22 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 0.3% to 33.88 Points  The cost of delivering  Middle East  crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 0.3 percent to
33.88 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London.  Europe Gasoline to N.Y. Seen Rising as U.S. Refining Slumps (1)  The flow of gasoline cargoes to New York from Europe is
poised to climb for a third week as oil- refining rates in the
U.S. fall to the lowest in two years at a time when demand is
gaining.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Most U.S. Stocks Gain on Retail Sales as Treasuries Pare Losses  Most U.S. stocks rose and the dollar strengthened as
faster-than-forecast growth in U.S. retail sales bolstered
optimism in the economy. Treasuries pared losses after an
auction of 10-year notes drew a lower-than- forecast yield.  Obama Meets With  House Republicans  as Grand Bargain Far Off (1)  President  Barack Obama , in his first meeting in three years
with U.S. House Republicans, said he doesn’t support balancing
the budget over 10 years though he wants to find common ground
on revamping the  tax code .  BNY Mellon Panned Over $400 Million Chesapeake Note Demand (1)  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and a group of noteholders
were panned by a judge over their bid to force Chesapeake Energy
Corp. to pay $400 million in interest if it loses a lawsuit to
redeem $1.3 billion in notes early at par.  Hedge Funds Exposed as Suntech Seeks Time to Repay: China Credit  Five Wall Street investment and hedge funds have the most
to lose as China’s Suntech Power Holdings Co. seeks more time to
repay $541 million of convertible debt.  Uranium Rally Falters on Japanese Nuclear Delays: Energy Markets  Uranium’s rally from a three-year low is stalling amid
signs Japan, once the world’s third-biggest nuclear power
producer, will keep all but a handful of its reactors offline
this year.  SandRidge to Add Four TPG-Axon Board Nominees; CEO May Exit (1)  SandRidge Energy Inc. will add four new directors named by
TPG-Axon Capital Management LP and agreed to give the activist
shareholder majority control of the board if founder  Tom Ward 
isn’t fired by June 30.  Iran Oil Exports Seen Rising by IEA Even as Sanctions Widen (1)  Iranian oil shipments advanced 13 percent last month even
as the U.S. implemented new sanctions against the Persian Gulf
country, according to the International Energy Agency.  China Seeking Solar Consolidation Damps Hope for Suntech: Energy  China won’t rescue Suntech Power Holdings Co. from its
creditors because the former biggest solar-panel maker needs to
retrench along with the rest of the industry, two advisers to
government agencies said.  Exxon Sees  North America  Exporting 15% Gas, 5% Oil by 2040 (1)  Exxon Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil company, said North
America may be able to export 15 percent of its natural gas
output and 5 percent of oil by 2040 as the region’s production
surges and demand stalls.  BHP’s Cerrejon Mine Restarts Coal Exports After Strike Ends  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Cerrejon coal venture in Colombia said
it restarted exports today after a 32- day strike ended, sending
coal to a three-year low.  OTHER MARKETS  Dow Extends Longest Rally Since 1996 as Treasuries Pare Losses  U.S. stocks rose, extending the longest rally for the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  since 1996, and the dollar strengthened
as faster-than-forecast growth in retail sales bolstered
optimism in the economy. Treasuries pared losses as an auction
drew a lower-than-forecast yield.  Dollar Reaches 3-Month High Versus Euro; Kiwi Falls After RBNZ  The dollar reached a three-month high against the euro
after a report showed U.S. retail sales in February increased
the most in five month, bolstering the outlook for the world’s
largest economy.  Brazil Yields to Traders Pouncing on Biggest Gains: Currencies  Efforts by Brazil to tame inflation are providing foreign-
exchange traders with the biggest returns in the world by
purchasing reais with funds borrowed in dollars.  Dow Average Caps Longest Rally Since 1996 as Retail Sales Gain  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average
to its longest rally since 1996, as data showing retail sales
increased in February by the most in five months bolstered
optimism in the world’s largest economy.  CBOE, S&P Dow Jones Extend Exclusive License for Options (2)  CBOE Holdings Inc. and S&P Dow Jones Indices extended the
options exchange’s exclusive license to trade contracts based on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Dow Jones Industrial Average
and other broad gauges until 2032.  Zinc’s Six-Year Glut Seen Ending After China Curbs: Commodities  The first retreat in Chinese zinc output in three decades
and record global demand are spurring Morgan Stanley to predict
the end of a six-year glut.  Copper Falls on Concern China Housing Curbs Will Sap Demand  Copper fell the most in a week amid concern that policy
makers will expand efforts to cool the housing market in China,
the world’s biggest consumer.  Argentina’s Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio Is Elected Pope Francis (3)  Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Argentina was elected as
the first non-European pope in more than 1,200 years, a surprise
choice that reflects the shifting demographics of the Roman
Catholic faith as the Vatican seeks to leave behind an era of
scandals and intrigue.  Napolitano Asks Judges to Ease Strain After Berlusconi March (1)  Italian President Giorgio Napolitano urged judges to help
ease tensions with lawmakers after Silvio Berlusconi’s political
allies protested outside of a Milan courthouse against the
former premier’s criminal trials.  SPORTS  Bayern Munich, Malaga Advance to Champions League Quarterfinals  Bayern Munich  beat Arsenal on the away-goals tiebreaker to
qualify to the Champions League soccer quarterfinals, while
Malaga advanced with 2-0 win over Porto.  Nike, Italian Soccer Team AS Roma Agree to 10-Year Sponsorship  Nike Inc. today agreed a 10-year contract to be the
official apparel and equipment sponsor of Italian soccer team AS
Roma.  Golfer Natalie Gulbis Is Being Treated for Malaria, LPGA Says  LPGA player Natalie Gulbis is being treated for malaria and
will be out for at least three weeks, the world’s top
professional women’s golf circuit said.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       92.36  -0.16  -0.2  Nymex    April
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    108.52  -1.13  -1.0    Ice    April
Gasoil ($/Ton)         915.00  -9.00  -1.0    Ice      May
Gasoline (c/Gal)       313.20  -1.03  -0.3  Nymex    April
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.68     --   0.0  Nymex    April
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    108.14  -0.97  -0.9    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            292.52  +0.10  +0.0  Nymex    April
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.89  +0.4
Gold ($/Oz)          1,588.40  -0.2
MSCI World Index     1,429.84  -0.2
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $790 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  