-- Orban Pledges to Defend Laws Against European Democracy Concerns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-03-14T18:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/orban-pledges-to-defend-laws-against-european-democracy-concerns.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said he’ll defend his government’s constitutional changes
against European accusations that they curtail judicial
authority, escalating a debate about democracy in  Hungary .  Arriving in Brussels for a summit of the 27-member European
Union, Orban pledged that Hungary’s highest court will continue
to be the guardian of the constitution and that he’ll respond to
any concerns that the amendments don’t meet EU democratic
standards.  “Hungary is always interested in transparency and open
discussion,” Orban told reporters today. “We think what we are
doing is in accordance with what we call European-ness.”  The Hungarian leader spoke at a news conference he called
to address foreign accusations that his government’s efforts to
remake the eastern European nation are rolling back democratic
freedoms. Orban’s Fidesz party recently used its two-thirds
majority in Hungary’s parliament to overturn some court
decisions and limit legal interpretations by judges, measures
that previously had been shot down by the  Constitutional Court .  Orban sent a letter to German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
explaining the legislation, saying that the high court still had
the power to rule on the constitutionality of legislation.  “It has every power that it needs in order make sure that
any laws that are against the constitution, that are not in line
with the constitution, that these laws should be amended or
annulled. This is a fact,” Orban said. “There can be no debate
about this.”  Orban has asserted his influence over independent
institutions since winning elections in 2010, drawing criticism
from the EU, the U.S. and the  United Nations . His lawmakers
passed a new constitution over opposition protests, ousted the
chief justice of the  Supreme Court  and set up a media regulator
led by ruling-party appointees.  “Our hope is that anything that is criticized by any
institution could be disputed in a European way, in a European
style, factually, and that we have a chance to provide our
arguments,” Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  