-- Morgan Stanley Will Buy Rest of Brokerage Following Fed Approval
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-14T21:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/morgan-stanley-will-buy-rest-of-brokerage-following-fed-approval.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the
world’s biggest brokerage, will buy the remaining 35 percent of
its wealth-management venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  after winning
Federal Reserve approval in the regulator’s annual stress test.  The purchase is subject to other regulatory approvals, the
New York-based bank said today in a filing. Morgan Stanley would
have a 5.62 percent Tier 1 common ratio in the most adverse
economic scenario even after buying the stake, above the 5
percent minimum, the Fed said today.  Chief Executive Officer James Gorman, 54, already has set a
price with Citigroup to purchase the rest of the brokerage
venture, which was created in 2009. Morgan Stanley said in
January that it will pay $4.7 billion for the last piece, which
will place demands on an additional $400 million of capital.  “The Federal Reserve’s non-objection to our capital plan
is another important step towards full ownership of our wealth-
management business, which has been one of the Firm’s key
strategic priorities since 2009,” Gorman said in a statement.
“We look forward to completing the acquisition of the remaining
35 percent stake in our wealth-management joint venture.”  Gorman has staked his strategy in large part on buying all
of the brokerage and increasing profitability at the unit.
Morgan Stanley has said it will  earn  about $400 million in 2013
from buying the rest of the venture as the company eliminates
non-controlling interest payments to Citigroup and benefits from
more retail orders and deposits.  Morgan Stanley didn’t ask the Fed to approve any additional
return of capital to shareholders through  dividends  or share
repurchases.  ‘First Priority’  “There’s a time for returning capital, but given the
importance of the wealth-management joint venture, that’s our
first priority,” Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in a
January interview. “Longer-term, we are focused on returning
capital to shareholders, whether in the form of share
repurchases or dividends.”  The Fed began  annual stress tests  in 2009 to evaluate the
health of the U.S. banking system. In 2011, the central bank
adopted an approach known as Comprehensive Capital Analysis &
Review, or CCAR, which focused on lenders’ capital plans,
assessing how dividend increases or share buybacks would affect
them. Those results were announced today.  Regulators subject bank portfolios, capital levels and
profit-making potential to conditions that simulate an economic
recession or financial shock. This year’s stress tests involved
three scenarios, including two stressed situations. In one, the
economy contracts for six quarters and inflation and interest
rates rise sharply. In the other, unemployment climbs above 12
percent and stocks fall 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  