-- Morgan Stanley Favors Convertibles in Growth Bet: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/morgan-stanley-favors-convertibles-in-growth-bet-china-credit.html
The China fund management ventures
of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR)  are bullish on the nation’s
convertible bonds, predicting the world’s second-biggest economy
can ride out a stock-market slump.  Chinese debt that can be exchanged into shares lost 1.3
percent in March, set for a second monthly decline, according to
the S&P China Convertible Bond Index. Comparable notes in the
U.S. gained 2.5 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
showed. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of equities tumbled 5
percent since Feb. 1, after rising 20 percent in the previous
two months, on concern limits on real-estate investment will
slow economic growth.  “Even though it’s a weak recovery, those property curbs
will make it healthier and more sustainable,” said Lin Hongjun,
a Shanghai-based bond fund manager at Bank of Communications
Schroders Fund Management Co., which oversees a total of 64.4
billion  yuan  ($10.4 billion) of assets. “China’s long-term
fundamental is good” for convertible bonds this year.  Morgan Stanley Huaxin Fund Management Co. says the
combination of the protected returns of a bond and potential for
equity-like gains is well-suited to the nation’s “weak”
economic rebound. China’s leaders announced on March 5 a target
of 7.5 percent for growth this year at the annual congress
meeting after  expansion  slowed to 7.8 percent in 2012, the least
in 13 years.  Holding Gains  Exchangeable bonds have still climbed 5.8 percent this
year, after a 7.6 percent rally in January. That beat the 0.8
percent advance in the S&P China Government Bond Index and the
1.8 percent gain in the S&P China Corporate Bond Index.  Confidence in  China’s economy  is improving. Five-year
credit-default swaps protecting sovereign notes against non-
payment fell five basis points last month to 64 in  New York  and
were recently at 63, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The yuan gained 0.2 percent
this year to 6.2155 per dollar in  Shanghai .  “Convertible bonds are worth investing in this year,”
said Hong Tianyang, a Shenzhen-based bond fund manager at Morgan
Stanley Huaxin, which oversees 13.2 billion yuan of assets.
“There is a big probability that we will have a weak recovery,
mild inflation and moderately loose liquidity this year, which
is good for both stocks and bonds, especially convertible
bonds.”  Earnings Outlook  The yield on Bank of  China  Ltd.’s 1.1 percent convertible
bond due June 2016 has risen 33 basis points this month to 2.18
percent, according to exchange data. The stock trades at 2.94
yuan, versus its conversion price of 3.44. The rate on China
Shipbuilding Industry Co.’s 0.5 percent note due June 2018
climbed 77 basis points to minus 1.75 percent, exchange data
showed. That reflects a share price of 5.07 yuan that is above
the conversion price of 4.93.  Yields on benchmark 10-year government notes have risen 2
basis points this year to 3.59 percent as of March 13, after
climbing to as high as 3.61 percent on Jan. 29.  Morgan Stanley Huaxin’s Hong prefers convertible bonds
issued by banks because of their good earnings outlook. He also
likes military suppliers because their stock prices are
volatile, increasing the value of the exchange option.  China Minsheng Banking Corp (600016)  will sell 20 billion yuan of
six-year convertible bonds today, according to a statement to
the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  on March 12. Guotai Junan Securities
Co. estimated that the sale may draw bids worth about 450
billion yuan.  Minsheng Sale  “Demand for the Minsheng convertible will be strong,”
said Zhang Yongmin, Beijing-based executive president of the
asset management department at Qilu Securities Co. “The  U.S.
economy  is stabilizing and  Europe ’s will stabilize soon, which
will help China’s rebound. Stocks will rise, and so will
convertible bonds.”  China’s  exports  climbed 21.8 percent in February from a
year earlier, the customs bureau said on March 8. That compared
with a median estimate of 8.1 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey. The nation’s economy will grow 8.1 percent this year,
according to the median of 45 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Data for last month was mixed.  Industrial production  rose
9.9 percent in the first two months of this year and  retail
sales  increased 12.3 percent, the lowest in the same period
since 2009, official data showed on March 9.  Electricity consumption in January and February climbed 5.5
percent from a year earlier, the National Energy Administration
said yesterday. Growth was 6.7 percent in the first two months
of last year and 12.3 percent in 2011.  Slower Recovery  “The economy is recovering at a slower pace than
expected,” said Wang Shen, a bond analyst at Sinolink
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “We should be cautious on
convertible bonds and stocks through April, even though their
performance will be better than bonds this year.”  Consumer prices  climbed 3.2 percent in February, the
fastest pace in 10 months, the statistics bureau said on March
9. The government’s annual target is 3.5 percent this year, down
from 4 percent in 2012. Bocom Schroders’ Lin said inflation
“won’t be a problem” in the first half and may drop to 2.5
percent in March.  Morgan Stanley Huaxin’s Hong said the limited number of
convertible bonds also increase the securities’ attractiveness.
There are about 120 billion yuan of convertible bonds
outstanding, according to Guotai Junan Securities.  “While there are 2,400 stocks, only more than 20
convertible bonds are traded,” said Morgan Stanley Huaxin’s
Hong. “On one hand, the number of convertibles is still
decreasing because some debt will be converted into stocks. On
the other hand, most local funds can buy convertible bonds. This
imbalance in demand and supply adds value to convertibles.”  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Robin Ganguly, Sandy Hendry  To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net . 