-- Morrison to Spend $1.6 Billion on Online Groceries, More Stores
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-03-14T11:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/morrison-posts-drop-in-profit-will-go-online-in-2014-correct-.html
Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  said
it will spend 1.1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to start an
online groceries business next year, add more  convenience stores 
and revamp existing shops.  Morrison  stock  advanced as much as 5.3 percent in London
trading, the biggest intraday jump since July 2009, after the
Bradford, England-based company also confirmed a technology tie-
up with  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  and reported a smaller drop in profit
than analysts’ anticipated. Shares traded at 274.70 pence, up
1.1 percent, at 11:16 a.m. in London.  “Now is the right time to get into” the online grocery
market, because “it’s accelarating,” Chief Executive Officer
Dalton Philips told reporters today. “We see a route through to
profitability,” he said.  Philips said Morrison’s investment includes starting online
sales in January 2014 as well as opening 40 percent more
convenience stores and continuing the revamp of its existing
outlets in an effort to halt a slide in the company’s market-
share. The smallest of the U.K.’s four biggest grocers is losing
sales to discounters Aldi and Lidl and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  as an economic
slump curbs household spending.  “A collaboration with Ocado online is interesting,” said
Andrew Gwynn, an  analyst  at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “These
are necessary changes, but the executional risk is high at the
same time, as the brand needs clarity and the offer needs to
defend against the discounters.”  Ocado Discussions  Ocado and Morrison are in talks that may lead to a
licensing agreement to use Ocado’s intellectual property and
knowledge to help develop an online business. The discussions
don’t involve Morrison buying Ocado or a stake in the company,
it said. Morrison’s decision to enter the internet-based grocery
market isn’t dependent on the outcome of these discussions.
There is no certainty that an agreement will be reached,
Morrison said.  Ocado shares rose as much as 29 percent in  London , the
biggest intraday increase since Nov. 19.  So far, Morrisons’ only move online for groceries has been
buying a 10 percent stake in U.S. Internet grocer FreshDirect.
Online grocery sales in the U.K. will double from 2012’s level
to 11.1 billion pounds by 2017, according to the Institute of
Grocery Distribution, while the convenience-store market will
expand by 29 percent over the same time period, faster than the
18 percent growth expected from the broader sector.  Ant & Dec  Underlying pretax profit at the company fell 3.6 percent to
901 million pounds in the year ended Feb. 3. That still beat the
average estimate of 13 analysts of 885 million pounds, according
to a Bloomberg survey. Sales at stores open at least a year,
excluding gasoline and value-added tax, fell 2.1 percent, more
than the 1.7 percent decline predicted in a separate Bloomberg
survey of eight analysts.  Under Philips, the company is focusing on its fresh-food
offering, hiring comedians Ant & Dec to promote the provenance
of its fresh meats as 100 percent British amid the horsemeat
scandal in  Europe .  Philips has so far remodeled about 100 outlets with in-
store butchers, fishmongers, cheese counters and produce
presented in wooden crates and baskets. Under the plan, Morrison
sources almost half its fresh food directly from farmers and
processes it in its own facilities. U.S. chain  Kroger Co. (KR)  has
gained market share with a similar approach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  