-- More U.S. Drivers Distracted by Phone Talk Than Europeans
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/most-u-s-drivers-talk-on-phone-while-behind-the-wheel.html
Drivers in seven European countries
are less likely to talk on their mobile phones while behind the
wheel than Americans who engage in the dangerous practice,
health authorities said.  Europeans who used their mobile phones while driving ranged
from 59 percent in  Portugal  to 21 percent in the U.K., according
to a  report  yesterday from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention. Sixty-nine percent of American drivers surveyed
reported using their phones within the previous 30 days. The
study found 31 percent of U.S. drivers read or sent text
messages of e-mails while driving.  In the U.S., 3.5 million people suffer serious injuries in
traffic crashes each year and an estimated  24 percent  of those
accidents involve mobile telephone use, according to the
National Safety Council, an injury prevention nonprofit group
based in Itasca,  Illinois . The U.S. has the same number or fewer
mobile phones per 100 people as the other countries in the
survey, according to The  World Bank .  “The cell phone can be a fatal distraction for those who
use it while they drive,” CDC Director Tom Frieden said in a
statement. “Driving and dialing or texting don’t mix.”  Belgium , France,  Germany , the Netherlands, and  Spain  were
the other countries included in the survey.  No. 2 Portugal  Portugal came closest to the U.S. in talking on the phone
while driving and texting behind the wheel. Fifty-nine percent
of Portuguese drivers reported talking on their mobile phone at
least once in 30 days and 31 percent texted or sent e-mail
messages while driving, according to the report.  The data was collected in two different surveys in 2011. No
significant difference existed between men and women though
younger drivers used their phones more often than older ones,
the CDC said.  In the U.S., there were  106 mobile phone  subscriptions per
100 people in 2011 compared with 131 subscriptions per 100
people in the U.K., according to The World Bank. Only  France  had
fewer than the U.S. at 105 subscriptions per 100 people.  While mobile phone use doesn’t vary widely in the U.S. or
European countries, differences in mobile phone laws may not
explain the variation in use while driving either, the CDC
report said.  “While U.S. states differ in their cell phone use laws,
nearly all European countries have hand-held bans in place, yet
there is still a large variation in European estimates,” the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  