-- Hostess Cancels Drake’s Auction After Single Bid by McKee
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-14T21:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/hostess-cancels-drake-s-auction-after-single-bid-by-mckee.html
Hostess Brands Inc. canceled an
auction scheduled for tomorrow for its Drake’s snack-cake brand,
saying McKee Foods Corp., maker of Little Debbie snacks, made
the only qualified bid.  A $27.5 million offer from McKee was the only one received
by the deadline, lawyers for Hostess said in papers filed today
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  White Plains ,  New York . The company
confirmed McKee as the winning bidder in a statement.  “Accordingly, pursuant to the bidding procedures order, no
auction will be conducted and buyer is the successful bidder,”
Hostess’s lawyers said.  Drake’s products include Devil Dogs, Ring Dings, Yodels,
Yankee Doodles, Sunny Doodles, Funny Bones and Drake’s Coffee
Cake. McKee, based in Collegedale,  Tennessee , will buy the
brands and specific equipment, according to court papers.  “We know that Drake’s Cakes are unique baked goods that
have a loyal following,” Chief Executive Officer  Mike McKee 
said in an e-mailed statement. “We will strive to bake the
Drake’s cakes, not just for taste and quality, but also to
deliver on the memories of the loyal Drake’s fans.”  McKee, founded in 1934 by O.D. and Ruth McKee, offers more
than 90 varieties of Little Debbie snacks and 32 varieties of
Sunbelt Bakery snacks and cereals.  Eddy’s Auction  United States Bakery Inc.’s bid of $28.9 million for other
Hostess businesses will be tested at an auction tomorrow. The
company offered to buy the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms
and Grandma Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots,
plus certain equipment.  Earlier this week, Hostess canceled a planned March 13
auction for most of its snack business, including Twinkies. A
$410 million bid from  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and C. Dean
Metropoulos & Co. was deemed the only qualified offer for the
business, which includes Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and Ho
Hos, along with assets including equipment and five bakeries.  Grupo Bimbo SAB won a Feb. 28 auction to buy the Beefsteak
bread brand, beating an initial bid by  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  with a
$31.9 million offer. The Mexico City-based maker of Sara Lee
products, Entenmann’s cakes and Thomas English Muffins topped
Flowers’s $30 million opening offer for the rye-bread brand,
Hostess said in a Feb. 28 statement.  No rivals challenged Flowers’ $360 million bid for the
majority of Hostess’s bread-making business, including its
Wonder brand, and a planned auction was canceled.  Union Standoff  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
liquidation auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets. The company entered bankruptcy in January 2012.  The Bakery Confectionery Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers
International Union, which represented more than 5,000 Hostess
workers, went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Robert Drain imposed contract concessions opposed by more than
90 percent of the union’s members.  The union said the bids for Hostess’s brands offer no
guarantees for workers.  “While the debtor’s secured lenders may view these bids as
the ‘best’ for getting themselves paid, these bids provide
minimal assurance that the rights of the debtors’ workers will
be protected,” the union and its pension fund said in court
papers filed March 12. “Unfortunately, none of the proposed
purchasers in any of the asset sales have committed to preserve
a single job.”  In an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop” with  Betty Liu , Hostess Chief Executive Officer
Gregory Rayburn said he didn’t think any of the buyers “engaged
with the unions in terms of any go-forward plans.”  “That is an issue that is strictly up to the buyers,”
Rayburn said.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-bk-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  