-- Mozambique’s Petroleum Regulator Submits Review of Oil Laws
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-14T16:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/mozambique-s-petroleum-regulator-submits-review-of-oil-laws.html
Mozambique ’s petroleum regulator
said it has completed its review of the southern African
nation’s oil law and submitted it to a ministerial council for
discussion.  The revised draft will then be sent to Parliament during
this session, which ends in May, Jose de Barros, a legal adviser
at the National Petroleum Institute, known as INP, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. Once approved, the bill be
submitted to the president for signoff, published in the
government gazette, and be considered in force, he said.  INP is also revising petroleum operations regulations,
including model concession contracts for production and
transportation, De Barros said.  “We expect to have this legislation approved soon after
the approval and effectiveness of the petroleum law,” he said.  Mozambique is home, along with Tanzania and  Kenya , to the
biggest natural-gas discoveries in a decade. It’s reviewing
petroleum and mining laws as it looks to benefit from higher
commodity prices.  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  found gas
under the ocean off Mozambique, while Vale SA, the largest iron-
ore exporter, and Rio Tinto Plc have coal assets there.  Eni said today it will get $4.2 billion from the sale of a
stake in its assets in the country to China National Petroleum
Corp. Anadarko is in talks with potential customers in  Japan  to
buy supplies from a joined liquefied natural-gas plant in
Mozambique that it’s planning with Eni, it said today.  The southern African nation’s offshore fields may hold as
much as 250 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet world
consumption for more than two years, according to Mozambique’s
petroleum exploration company, Empresa Nacional de
Hidrocarbonetos.  “We’re going to try to give it priority,”Mozambican
Energy Minister Salvador Namburete said of having a revision
to the petroleum law passed. The ministry didn’t have control
over its passage through parliament and council, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  