-- Panel Approves Assault Weapons Ban Opposed by Republicans
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-14T17:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/panel-approves-assault-weapons-opposed-by-republicans.html
The Senate Judiciary Committee
approved a measure to ban assault weapons and place limits on
high-capacity ammunition magazines, legislation with strong
opposition in the full Senate and in the House.  The bill is the fourth gun-related measure the panel has
endorsed since the Dec. 14 shootings at an elementary school in
Newtown,  Connecticut . Committee members on March 7 approved
legislation imposing tougher penalties for gun trafficking, and
on March 12 approved expanding U.S. background checks and
increasing funding for school safety.  Lawmakers pushing for tougher gun restrictions had counted
on public outrage after the Newtown shootings, in which 20
children and six school workers were killed. Backers of gun
restrictions now say it will be difficult to pass any measure
limiting weapons ownership in either chamber.  Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat sponsoring
the assault-weapons bill, said today that “the road is uphill”
and that there is misinformation about the measure, which was
approved, 10-8, with only Democratic votes.  “The whole point of this bill is to reduce over time the
supply, the possession, the transfer and the sale of military-
style weapons,” she said. “Anyone that has a concern that
their weapon is affected need only look at the bill and you’ll
see most likely your weapon is exempted by name, make and
model.”  Feinstein said current and retired law-enforcement
officials are exempt from the ban and the bill doesn’t require
anyone to surrender a weapon they legally own. It protects more
than 2,000 firearms by make and model, she said.  ‘Need a Bazooka?’  “Isn’t that enough for the people of the United States? Do
they need a bazooka? Do they need other high-powered weapons
used to kill in high-powered combat?” Feinstein said.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters today he plans to meet with Judiciary Committee
Chairman Patrick Leahy of  Vermont  to craft a bill to come to the
floor “as soon as we can.” Reid declined to comment on whether
the assault-weapons ban would be included in the package or be
allowed as an amendment on the Senate floor, saying he would
make that decision in consultation with Leahy.  The growing complexity of the debate on Capitol Hill
reflects the influence of the National Rifle Association, a
Second Amendment advocacy group that claims 4 million members.
The gun lobby, led by the NRA, opposes any limitations on the
ownership of firearms.  In recent weeks, supporters have said that banning
magazines in assault weapons that hold more than 10 rounds also
will be difficult to advance in the Senate.  ‘Distracting Congress’  Texas Senator John Cornyn, in opposing the bill, said the
push to prohibit assault weapons is “distracting Congress”
from enacting solutions to stop the seriously mentally ill from
purchasing guns. Such a ban “does nothing to deal with the lack
of ineffective enforcement of current gun laws,” Cornyn said.  “The law would infringe on the ability of law-abiding
citizens to defend themselves and their families,” said Cornyn,
who offered four amendments that were defeated.  Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said
while he credits Feinstein’s sincerity in wanting to curb gun
violence, the measure “will not appreciably change things and
is giving a false sense of safety.”  “The crooks are going to get the guns” regardless of any
ban, Graham said.  Poll Data  Polls show more Americans favor a nationwide ban on the
sale of assault weapons, including an ABC News/Washington Post
survey conducted March 7-10 that found 57 percent in support and
41 percent in opposition.  White House press secretary Jay Carney called the assault
weapons ban “an important piece of the president’s plan to
reduce gun violence.” It won’t “take a single firearm away”
from law-abiding Americans, he told reporters today.  The measure approved by the panel prohibits the sale,
manufacture and transfer of more than 150 of the most commonly
owned assault weapons.  It also outlaws large-capacity magazines and other devices
that hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition and allow shooters
to fire numerous rounds of bullets in rapid succession without
having to stop and reload.  Protecting Hunters  The bill wouldn’t affect more than 2,200 hunting and
sporting rifles by specific make and model and any gun operated
by bolt, pump, lever or slide action.  At least six of the 55 lawmakers in the Senate Democratic
caucus have expressed skepticism or outright opposition to an
assault-weapons ban. That includes senators representing pro-gun
states such as Max Baucus and Jon Tester of  Montana , Mark Begich
of  Alaska  and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota.  That would make it difficult for Democrats to put together
a 51-vote majority to pass the measure, and especially the 60
votes needed to advance most major legislation in the Senate.  Instead, proponents of new laws want to expand background
checks for gun buyers, including on private firearms sales at
gun shows and weapons transactions between non-family members.  Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, said he didn’t
see the assault-weapons ban getting enough votes to pass and is
asking for a separate vote on ammunition magazines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  