-- Patriots Add Amendola After Losing Welker, Falcons Sign Jackson
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-15T04:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/patriots-add-amendola-after-welker-loss-falcons-sign-jackson.html
The  New England Patriots  signed
free-agent wide receiver Danny Amendola one day after losing Wes Welker to the Denver Broncos.  The Atlanta Falcons agreed to terms with running back
Steven Jackson, the Seattle Seahawks added defensive end Cliff Avril and former New York Jets safety LaRon Landry signed a
free-agent contract yesterday with the Indianapolis Colts on the
second full day of National Football League free agency.  The Patriots didn’t reveal details of their deal with
Amendola, 27, in an e-mailed release. The five-year agreement is
worth $31 million, with $10 million guaranteed, ESPN reported.  “We are excited about Danny’s addition to our team and we
look forward to beginning work with him this spring and into the
future,” Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  said in the release.  Amendola, who at 5-foot-11 (1.8 meters) is considered
undersized for a receiver, had 63 receptions for 666 yards and
three touchdowns last season with the  St. Louis  Rams despite
missing five games with a broken collarbone.  Yesterday’s announcement came one day after the 5-foot-9
Welker signed with the Broncos following six seasons in New
England. The two have drawn comparisons for their similar size
and style as shifty inside receivers.  The Patriots also said that they signed free-agent running
back Leon Washington, 30, who played for the Jets in 2006-09
before spending the last three seasons with Seattle.  The 29-year-old Jackson, who had opted out of his contract
with the Rams, signed a three-year contract with Atlanta, the
Falcons said in an e-mailed release. The Falcons cut running
back  Michael Turner  on March 1.  A three-time Pro Bowl selection, Jackson rushed last year
for four touchdowns and 1,042 yards, his eighth consecutive
season eclipsing the 1,000-yard mark. He has played in just two
playoff games in his nine-year career, spent entirely in St.
Louis.  Avril’s Deal  Avril, 26, agreed to a two-year, $15 million contract with
the Seahawks after playing the past five seasons in Detroit,
ESPN said. A third-round selection in the 2008 draft by the
Lions, he had 20 1/2 sacks and eight forced fumbles in his last
two seasons.  The Seahawks gave up 306.2 yards per game last season,
fourth fewest in the league, and had 36 sacks, 16 fewer than the
league-leading  Denver Broncos . Defensive end Chris Clemons, who
led the team with 11 1/2 sacks, tore the anterior cruciate
ligament in his left knee during Seattle’s first playoff game
and the team has not yet announced a timetable for his return.  Selected in the first round of the 2007 NFL draft by the
 Washington Redskins , Landry spent five years with the team
before joining the Jets last season. The 28-year-old played all
16 games with New York, with two interceptions and a team-high
four forced fumbles.  His new four-year contract is worth $24 million, with $14
million in guarantees, according to ESPN.  Cassel Moves  The  Minnesota Vikings  signed quarterback Matt Cassel after
he was released by the  Kansas City Chiefs , according to ESPN.
The Chiefs traded for quarterback  Alex Smith  this offseason and
would have owed Cassel a base salary of $7.5 million this season,
the network said.  The Chiefs also agreed to a three-year contract with
cornerback Sean Smith, ESPN said. Smith played the last four
seasons in Miami.  The  New York Giants  said they had signed cornerback Aaron Ross, 30, who spent five seasons with the team before leaving in
2012 for a year with the  Jacksonville Jaguars . Ross started in
two  Super Bowls  for the Giants.  The Giants also re-signed linebacker Keith Rivers to a one-
year deal, according to the Newark Star-Ledger. The 26-year-old
started six games for the team last year, finishing the season
with 44 tackles.  The  San Diego Chargers  signed cornerback Derek Cox to a
four-year contract, the team announced. Cox, 26, had 12
interceptions over the past four seasons for the Jaguars.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  