-- Patriot Coal Asks Court to Modify Wages, Benefits
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-03-15T02:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/patriot-coal-asks-court-to-modify-wages-benefits-in-bankruptcy.html
Patriot Coal Corp., the U.S.
producer that sought bankruptcy protection in July, filed a
court motion seeking to modify collective bargaining agreements
to trim labor and health care costs as it restructures.  The proposed modifications include establishing a Voluntary
Employee Benefit Association trust for retirees represented by
the United Mine Workers of America and changes to pay, benefits
and work rules for unionized employees, St. Louis-based Patriot
said today in a statement.  “Our labor and retiree benefit costs have risen to levels
that simply cannot be sustained given the challenges facing the
Company and our industry,” Patriot’s Chief Executive Officer
Bennett K. Hatfield said in the statement. The requested cuts
will save more than 4,000 jobs and health care for 23,000
employees, retirees and dependents, Hatfield said.  Patriot’s attempt to change its collective bargaining
agreement is “totally unacceptable,” Cecil E. Roberts,
president of the UMWA said in a statement. Patriot wants “to
scrap the health care benefits our retirees earned through
decades of blood and toil,” he said.  Patriot also said it filed a lawsuit against Peabody Energy
Corp., the country’s largest coal producer, from which Patriot
was spun off in 2007. That suit asked the  Bankruptcy Court  to
declare that Peabody must continue to pay for the health care
costs of certain retirees who were employed by Peabody entities
that were transferred to Patriot when the company formed,
Patriot said in the statement.  ‘Untenable Position’  Under the terms of a contract, Peabody has been funding a
portion of Patriot’s retiree healthcare expenses for specified
retirees since the spinoff, the St. Louis-based company said in
a statement. The contract also states that should Patriot’s
benefit obligations decrease, Peabody’s funding would
proportionately be reduced, it said.  “Patriot is taking the untenable position that our
payments should continue in full in the future even if Patriot’s
expenses are reduced,” Peabody said. “Such a claim is not only
unreasonable, but counter to the fundamental basis of
the language in the contract.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  