-- Pegas Nonwovens Posts Fourth-Quarter Profit on Currency Swings
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-03-14T08:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/pegas-nonwovens-posts-fourth-quarter-profit-on-currency-swings.html
Pegas Nonwovens SA (PEGAS) , a Czech maker
of nonwoven textiles, swung to a fourth-quarter profit as
currency swings boosted earnings.  Net income for the three months ended Dec. 31 was 3.2
million euros ($4.1 million) from a loss of 2.3 million euros a
year earlier, the Znojmo, Czech Republic-based company said
today in an e-mailed statement. Revenue rose 20 percent to 47.6
million euros.  Pegas expects 2013 Ebitda, or earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, to rise between 5 percent
and 15 percent from 38.1 million euros last year, it said. Total
capital expenditure for the year won’t exceed 41 million euros,
it said.  “I don’t expect a strong market reaction as they met their
full-year guidance,” Komercni Banka analyst  Josef Nemy  said by
phone. “Their 2013 forecast is also pretty decent and the news
that the Egyptian plant should have positive results is also
good.” Nemy has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  Pegas shares traded down 0.2 percent at 520 koruna at 9:09
a.m. in Prague, their lowest level since Feb. 26, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The priority for 2013 is the commissioning of the new
 production line  in  Egypt , Chief Executive Officer Frantisek
Rezac said in the statement. The new plant in Egypt should have
a positive Ebitda, he said.  The company expects production volume this year to rise
helped by its Egyptian line. Because of the new capacity and the
need to create inventories at the Egyptian plant, there should
be a slight increase in the level of inventories of finished
products compared with 2012. Pegas’ Egyptian plant should post a
positive Ebitda this year, it said.  Production capacity should be sold out for this year, Pegas
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  