-- Philip Morris Sells Bonds Amid Busiest European Market This Year
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   J o a n   L e e
-- 2013-03-14T11:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/philip-morris-sells-bonds-amid-busiest-european-market-this-year.html
Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,
the largest publicly traded tobacco producer, and  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
of Spain sold bonds in Europe as companies raise money at the
fastest pace this year.  They’re taking advantage of near record-low borrowing
costs, while uncertainty over European growth and Italy’s
political future fuel a sense of urgency. The euro-region
economy will shrink 0.2 percent this year, according to the
median of 51 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Between weak growth and uncertainty over Italy’s
government, you have reasons to borrow sooner rather than
later,” said Andrew Sheets, the head of European credit at
Morgan Stanley in London.  Philip Morris offered 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of
bonds in its first fundraising in the currency since May, while
Madrid-based Telefonica issued benchmark-sized notes for the
first time since January, people familiar with the transactions
said. Including today’s deals, non-financial companies will have
sold at least 9.8 billion euros of bonds this week, making it
the busiest period for issuance this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on investment-grade bonds in euros fell to 1.92
percent from 2.23 percent at the end of January, approaching the
record-low 1.81 percent reached Dec. 7, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial Index. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Bond Terms  New York-based  Philip Morris  is issuing 1.25 billion euros
of seven-year bonds at a yield of 55 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate and 750 million euros of 12-year notes with
an 83 basis-point spread.  Telefonica in Madrid is selling eight-year notes that will
be priced to yield about 260 basis points over swaps, according
to a person familiar with the deal. Spain’s biggest phone
company also offered to buy back as much as 100 million pounds
($149 million) of bonds due next January.  Miguel Angel Garzon, a spokesman for Telefonica in Madrid,
declined to comment on the debt issue.  St. Louis , Missouri-based  Belden Inc. (BDC) , a maker of cable and
networking products, is selling 300 million euros of 10-year
senior subordinated bonds callable after five years, a person
with knowledge of the deal said. German builder  Hochtief AG (HOT) , and
Europe’s largest tax and legal publisher  Wolters Kluwer NV (WKL)  also
issued benchmark-sized bonds in euros today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Joan Lee in London at 
 jlee176@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  