-- Philippines Beats Indonesia as Aquino Finds Favor: Asean Credit
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-15T05:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/philippines-beats-indonesia-as-aquino-finds-favor-asean-credit.html
The yield on the junk dollar bonds
of the  Philippines  is at a record discount to higher-rated
Indonesian notes as confidence in the nations’ leaders diverges.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , 53, halfway through a
six-year term, increased taxes and ousted the country’s top
judge last year for illegally concealing his wealth, impressing
Pictet Asset Management and Kokusai Asset Management Co.
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , 63, who is in his
final year in office, failed to cut fuel subsidies in 2012 as
the annual shortfall in the current account rose to a record.  “In terms of fundamental reforms, the Philippines is
improving while Indonesia is not,” Wee-Ming Ting, the
Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at Pictet Asset,
which oversees $29 billion of emerging-market debt globally,
said in an interview last week. “The yield gap between their
hard-currency bonds is likely to stay or widen until  Indonesia 
starts to implement real reforms.”  Philippine debt due 2037 yielded 3.97 percent on March 5,
91 basis points less than similar-maturity securities from
Indonesia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread,
which was 72 as of 1:12 p.m. in  Manila , increased from 26 basis
points a year ago. The outperformance raises question marks over
why Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have left the
Philippines’ rating unchanged after raising Indonesia from junk
status more than a year ago.  Dollar Sales  The Philippines may shun the global  bond market  this year,
breaking a run of sales that stretches back a decade as it
boosts domestic borrowing, Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said this
month. Indonesia said in February it would sell dollar debt in
the first half of 2013.  Aquino’s government recorded a current-account surplus of
$7.2 billion for the first nine months of last year as
remittances from overseas workers increased 6.3 percent in 2012
and revenue from foreign companies outsourcing functions,
including  call centers , to the Philippines rose 18 percent.  In Indonesia, the broadest measure of trade swung to a
deficit of $24.2 billion in 2012, the biggest annual shortfall
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989, from an excess
of $1.7 billion in 2011. The government spent 211.9 trillion
rupiah ($22 billion) on fuel subsidies last year, discouraging
the energy saving required to reduce its import bill.  It has been cheaper to insure Philippine debt against non-
payment than Indonesia’s since July 2011. Five-year credit-
default swaps on the former’s bonds dropped 40 basis points to
96 basis points in the year through yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Those on Indonesia’s notes fell 20 basis points to 131.  ‘Policy Slippages’  Standard & Poor’s  said in April 2012 it refrained from
awarding Indonesia investment-grade status as the country’s push
to lure investment was at risk from “policy slippages” such as
the failed attempt to cut fuel subsidies earlier that year.
President Yudhoyono said this week that his government is
weighing the pros and cons of raising fuel prices or choosing
another method that would more effectively target the subsidies
at poorer consumers in a nation where almost one in five people
lives on less than $1.25 a day, according to the  World Bank .  Both countries have the highest junk rating of BB+ from S&P,
which raised the outlook on the Philippines rating to positive
in December, saying a revision is possible this year as public
finances and governance improve. Aquino said in January the
nation “is on the cusp” of winning an investment-grade rating.
Moody’s rates Indonesia at its lowest investment grade of Baa3,
while it assesses the Philippines one level below that at Ba1.  Corruption Perceptions  “The Philippines’ credit has been improving while there
are some short-term concerns about Indonesia’s macroeconomic
management,” Takahide Irimura, Tokyo-based head of emerging-
market research at Kokusai Asset, which runs  Japan ’s biggest
mutual fund, said in a March 5 interview. “Political situations
in both countries have been stable, but Yudhoyono’s term ends
soon” raising concern about what will happen next, he said.  Yudhoyono, who campaigned on promises to reduce corruption
in 2009, has been beset by recent scandals within his own
Democrat Party. Last year, Muhammad Nazaruddin, the former
treasurer of the party, was sentenced to four years and 10
months in prison for taking 4.68 billion rupiah in bribes.  The Philippines is now seen as less corrupt than Indonesia,
according to Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
 Index . It improved to 105th place in 2012 from 139th in 2009, a
year before Aquino became president. Indonesia was ranked 118th
last year, slipping from 111th three years earlier, according to
the Berlin-based watchdog’s website.  Priced In  Indonesia’s dollar bonds are “slightly more attractive”
than its neighbor from a valuation perspective because
Philippine bonds have already priced in an investment-grade
status, Jonathan Liang, a Hong Kong-based senior portfolio
manager for fixed income at AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees
$437 billion globally, said in a March 7 e-mail interview.  Gross domestic product in Indonesia will increase 6.3
percent in 2013, while the Philippine economy will expand 5.9
percent, according to the median estimates of economists in
Bloomberg News surveys. Authorities in Jakarta plan to invest
more than $300 billion by the end of next year on infrastructure
and manufacturing facilities, Coordinating Minister for the
Economy Hatta Rajasa said in December.  “Indonesia continues to devote a meaningful amount of
capital towards fixed-asset investment, helping to alleviate
bottlenecks in its economy, which we believe will help them
sustain long-term economic growth and lower inflation,” Liang
said.  ‘Weak Momentum’  Pioneer Investments said it prefers the Philippine’s local-
currency debt due to the “weak momentum” for the rupiah notes.
The Philippine 10-year peso bond  yield  slumped 87 basis points
this year to 3.53 percent today, while the Indonesian rate added
26 basis points to 5.45 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Indonesia’s securities returned 0.6 percent this year, compared
with 7.8 percent for the peso-denominated notes, according to
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The peso will strengthen 2 percent against the dollar in
2013 after rallying 6.8 percent last year, according to the
media estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It
strengthened 0.1 percent today to 40.597. The rupiah will
advance 0.7 percent this year after weakening 5.9 percent in
2012. It was little changed at 9,701 today.  Hakan Aksoy, a  fund manager  at Pioneer in  London , which
oversees 156 billion euros ($203 billion) of assets, said his
company was short against its benchmark for rupiah bonds,
meaning the firm holds less than the index it follows.  ‘Inflow Bandwagon’  “After the election in Indonesia, we may increase our
position,” he said in a March 5 interview. “We also expect to
see lower rupiah levels in the meantime.”  Developing-nation bond funds have attracted inflows of
$15.3 billion in the first two months of this year, compared
with $10.1 billion in the same period in 2012, according to EPFR
Global. Overseas investors raised their  holdings  of Indonesian
local-currency government notes by 46.1 trillion rupiah in the
six months through March 13 to 284.8 trillion rupiah, according
to finance ministry data. There are no equivalent figures
available for the Philippines.  “We are still more positive on the Philippines than on
Indonesia,” Pictet’s Ting said. “Indonesia is riding on the
emerging-debt inflow bandwagon and benefiting from that. If they
do not take the opportunity to address their structural problems,
it will not be nice when outflows start.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  