-- Philippines Lowers Special Deposit Account Rate, Holds Benchmark
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-03-14T08:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/philippines-lowers-special-deposit-account-rate-holds-benchmark.html
The  Philippines  refrained from
cutting its benchmark interest rate, and instead cut the rate on
special deposit accounts for a second time this year as it steps
up efforts to curb inflows and restrain currency gains.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the  rate  it pays lenders
for overnight deposits at a record-low 3.5 percent, according to
a statement in Manila today. The decision was predicted by all
16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Policy makers cut the
rate on all SDAs to 2.5 percent effective immediately.  Governor  Amando Tetangco , who has imposed limits on lenders’
currency forward positions and expanded monitoring of real
estate loans to curb inflows, said this week the central bank is
moving to an interest-rate corridor approach as the peso’s gains
hurt exporters and erodes the value of remittances. Capital
volatility poses a risk for Asia-Pacific economies, Standard &
Poor’s said last week, raising the potential for asset and
credit bubbles 15 years after the 1997-98 financial crisis.  “The BSP is moving to ensure currency gains are not
excessive and prevent potential bubbles in the asset market,”
Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in
Manila, said before the decision. “While we don’t see any
changes in the benchmark rate for the rest of the year, the BSP
will probably continue unveiling macro prudential measures.”  The peso has strengthened more than 5 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months, the best performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark
Philippine Stock Exchange Index has risen 15 percent this year,
the biggest gain among major emerging nations in Asia.  Portfolio Inflows  The $225 billion  economy  grew 6.8 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, beating expansions in Indonesia, Malaysia and
 India . Net portfolio inflows were almost six times higher in
January compared to December, spurred by funds including
Manulife Asset Management and Western Asset Management Co.  Policy makers in the Asia-Pacific region have warned about
the danger of rising currencies. New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler held borrowing costs today and said they may reduce the
benchmark if the local dollar rises more than the economy
justifies. South Korea also held its policy rate today.  Philippine President Benigno Aquino is increasing spending
to a record this year while seeking more than $17 billion of
investments in highways and airports to spur growth to as much
as 7 percent. Standard & Poor’s in December raised the nation’s
sovereign rating outlook to positive on improved governance and
public finances, bringing it closer to investment-grade status.  Philippine  exports  unexpectedly fell in January, its first
decline in five months. Shipments abroad accounted for about 30
percent of the economy in 2012. Remittances, which gained 6.3
percent in 2012, comprise about 10 percent of the economy.  Inflation accelerated to a five-month high in February,
with consumer prices rising 3.4 percent from a year earlier. The
central bank targets price gains to average 3 percent to 5
percent this year and next.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  