-- Philippine Stocks Drop Most in Asia on Valuations: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-03-14T04:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/philippine-stocks-slump-most-among-asia-markets-manila-mover.html
Philippine stocks fell for a fourth
day, poised for the longest losing streak in three months, after
 valuations  climbed to a nine-year high.  The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  sank 1.5
percent to 6,672.91 at the noon break in  Manila , the biggest
loss among Asian markets. The measure jumped 17 percent this
year through March 11 on expectations the nation will win an
investment-grade sovereign rating,  interest rates  will stay low
and economic growth will accelerate. That pushed valuations to
21.9 times reported earnings, the highest since December 2003.
 Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL) , the biggest company by
weighting on the index, dropped to a one-month low.  “The valuation looks too high,”  Garry Evans , global head
of equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a phone
interview today. “While the story is a good one, there’s a
limit to how much you can pay. It’s about the most  expensive  in
the world.”  Bank of the Philippine Islands , the nation’s biggest bank
by market value, lost 3.4 percent, heading for the biggest
decline since Jan. 31.  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI) , operator of
the nation’s biggest casino, fell 3 percent, poised for a one-
week low. Philippine Long Distance, Aboitiz Equity Ventures Inc.
and Aboitiz Power Corp. trade ex-dividend today, contributing to
half of the index’s 103.65-point drop.  The measure has surged 292 percent since October 2008,
making it the world’s biggest equity  bull market . That’s at
least 135 percentage points more than every other bull market in
emerging and developed nations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fundamentals ‘Bullish’  The gauge has dropped 2.4 percent this week, bound for the
biggest weekly loss since July. The measure has advanced 15
percent this year, the biggest gain among major emerging nations
in Asia.  “We have been leading gains in Asia for some time, so
people are bound to take some money off the table,” Mark Canizares, who helps manage $1.5 billion as head of equities at
Manulife Philippines, said by phone from Manila. “This an
opportunity to re-enter the market at attractive levels because
fundamentals still support a bullish outlook.”  Philippine  gross domestic product  is forecast to grow as
much as 7 percent this year as President  Benigno Aquino ’s
government boosts spending to a record and seeks more than $17
billion of infrastructure investments, Economic Planning
Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said on Jan. 31. The economy grew
6.6 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2011.  The nation’s credit rating, now at the highest speculative
grade, will probably be upgraded in the first half, central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Jan. 25.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on
the Philippines to positive from stable on Dec. 20, citing
economic growth and the stability of Aquino’s administration.  The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas may cut interest rates on
central  bank deposits  at a meeting today. The authority may keep
its benchmark overnight borrowing rate at a record low 3.5
percent, according to analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Shares in the  Philippine stock index  are valued at 19.7
times projected 12-month earnings. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index trades at 10.9 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  