-- Pimco Says U.S. Won’t Reach 3% Growth Until Second Half
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-03-14T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/pimco-says-u-s-won-t-reach-3-growth-until-second-half.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest mutual fund, said a recent
forecast by founder  Bill Gross  for 3 percent economic growth in
the U.S. won’t be reached until the second half of 2013.  Growth will be 1.5 percent to 2 percent for the full year
because of slower expansion in the first half triggered by
fiscal policy tightening, Saumil Parikh, a portfolio manager who
leads  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s cyclical forum,
said in a March report being posted on the firm’s website today.
The firm said in a December report U.S. economic growth would be
1.25 percent to 1.75 percent in 2013.  Gross said last week in a  Bloomberg Radio  interview the
U.S. was moving toward a 3 percent growth rate in real gross
domestic product this year. Parikh said in an interview that
rate won’t be reached until the housing recovery strengthens in
the second half. Pimco in 2009 coined the term “new normal” to
describe an era of lower returns, heightened  government
regulation , and shrinking U.S. clout in the world economy
following the 2007-2009 financial crisis.  “We want to make clear that we aren’t expecting 3 percent
growth for the year as a whole, but can easily see growth
approaching a 3 percent level at the end of the year,” Parikh
said in the telephone interview before the report was released.  Economists expect expansion of 1.8 percent in 2013, the
median forecast of 77 respondents in a Bloomberg survey. They
predict growth of 1.8 percent this quarter followed by 2
percent, 2.5 percent and 2.7 percent over the next three
quarters.  Housing Pickup  The biggest driver of private-sector growth in the U.S. is
the housing rebound, Parikh said in the interview. Pimco
anticipates a two- to three-year recovery in that market, though
rising  home prices  will have less influence on  consumer spending 
than they historically have, with banks reticent to lend and
aging Americans wary of adding debt.  “The reason why the U.S. is watched so closely today is
that if its hyperactive monetary policy combined with aggressive
stimulative fiscal policy results in the  U.S. economy  achieving
this escape velocity,” Parikh said, “then it’s likely other
countries such as  Japan , the U.K. and perhaps the euro zone will
adopt a softer stance toward austerity.”  Pimco raised its 2013 Japanese growth forecast to 1.25
percent to 2.25 percent from 0.5 percent to 1 percent in its
December report. The change is a result of Japan embarking on
more-active monetary policy and new fiscal stimulus, Parikh
wrote.  Europe, China  With policy makers in  Europe  unlikely to make substantive
progress similar to the U.S. in 2013, the recession there will
probably deepen, Parikh said. The euro-area economy will shrink
0.75 percent to 1.25 percent, according to the report.  China will experience expansion of 7 percent to 7.5
percent, which may not be sustainable as it focuses on
investment and production rather than moving to an economy
driven by services and consumer spending, Parikh said.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed
$2 trillion in assets as of Dec. 31. Gross runs the $288 billion
Pimco Total Return Fund, the biggest bond fund in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  