-- Polish Inflation Slows to 2006 Low
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-03-14T14:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/polish-inflation-rate-falls-to-lowest-since-2006-as-gdp-fades.html
Polish inflation slowed to its
weakest pace in more than six years as the flagging economy
curbed demand, providing scope for further interest-rate cuts
even after borrowing costs were trimmed to a record low.  Consumer prices  rose 1.3 percent in February from a year
earlier, the smallest advance since October 2006 and less than
January’s 1.7 percent increase, the statistics office in Warsaw
said today. That’s less than the 1.5 percent median estimate of
36 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices were unchanged from
the previous month.  The central bank is signaling a pause in its easing cycle
after cutting the main interest rate by 50 basis points to 3.25
percent last week amid the steepest economic slowdown in 12
years. Inflation will stay near the lower end of policy makers’
1.5 percent to 3.5 percent tolerance range through 2015,
according to the bank’s March forecast.  “The wait-and-see period will be very short,” Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw, said by phone
today. “A rate cut is very probable in May and I don’t rule one
out in April because the data show that this is a very broad-
based disinflation caused by falling consumption.”  Zloty Falls  The zloty extended its decline, weakening 0.3 percent to
4.1513 per euro at 3:07 p.m. in Warsaw. That brought this year’s
drop to 1.6 percent, the fifth-worst performance among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on
two-year notes fell six basis points to 3.27 percent.  The central bank has delivered five  interest-rate 
reductions since November as the euro-area recession curbed
exports while rising unemployment hurt consumer spending.
Private consumption, which accounts for 62 percent of gross
domestic product, fell 1 percent from a year earlier in the
fourth quarter, the first contraction since 1996 in the European
Union’s largest eastern economy.  Inflation has also eased this year as gas monopoly  Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  sealed a 10 percent reduction
in fuel prices from  Russia ’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , allowing it to offer
cheaper energy starting Jan. 1.  ‘One-Time Events’  “A whole series of one-time events” pushed last month’s
inflation rate lower in an expected decline, Jan Winiecki, one
of the central bank’s 10 rate setters, told TVN CNBC after the
release.  Governor  Marek Belka  and fellow policy maker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said yesterday interest-rate cuts are still
possible. Further reductions “could happen if it turns out
economic growth and inflation diverge from our projections,”
Belka told reporters on the sidelines of a banking conference.  While the current rate level allows rate-setters to “adopt
a short-term ‘wait-and-see’ stance,” they’ll react if inflation
gets “better or worse,” another policy maker, Anna Zielinska- Glebocka, told TVN CNBC late yesterday.  That’s consistent with expectations from derivatives
traders, who’re betting on a quarter-point reduction by the end
of December, based on the spread between nine-month forward-rate
agreements and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Cutting More  “There seems to be a group on the council that wants to
cut rates further,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE
Bank SA, said yesterday by phone from Warsaw.  The euro-area recession is damping price pressure across
eastern  Europe . Czech inflation was the slowest in 18 months in
February, while Hungarian consumer prices rose the least in
almost seven months.  Polish inflation will continue to slow through June before
picking up “slightly” in the second half, Deputy Finance
Minister Janusz Cichon told reporters yesterday. Consumer-price
growth will average less than 2 percent this year and further
monetary easing is “necessary,” he said.  February’s data included an annual revision in the so-
called inflation basket to reflect changing consumption
patterns.  “Inflation will continue to creep lower to 1.1 percent in
April,”   Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Polish unit, said yesterday by phone from Warsaw. “A couple of
months of worse economic releases may still convince the central
bank to cut again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  