-- Pope Francis’s Reduced Lung Capacity Shouldn’t Limit Work
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-14T17:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/pope-francis-single-lung-shouldn-t-hamper-activity.html
Pope Francis, who had part of a
lung removed at age 21 because of illness, probably won’t be
physically restricted in any way as a result.  The only threat the 76-year-old pontiff might face from his
diminished lung capacity is from pneumonia, which can be caused
by common bacteria and viruses in the environment, said Blair Marshall, chief of thoracic surgery at MedStar Georgetown
University Hospital in  Washington .  The amount of lung function at birth well exceeds what the
average person needs, Marshall said. Recent scientific reports
suggest the lung is able to partially regenerate when it’s
damaged at an early age. The new pope’s lung issue shouldn’t
restrict his travel schedule or his ability to perform the high-
stress role of leading the church, she said.  “He’s had several decades to adjust to this and his other
lung has taken over,” Marshall said in a telephone interview.
“He’s been functioning well for decades and should have no
limitations. The only risk would be if he gets pneumonia.”  Today, lung infections are almost never treated with
surgery. In the mid-1950s, however, doctors didn’t have
widespread access to antibiotics that are available now, and
thus removing the lung was often the best option. While no
specific cause has been given for the pope’s partial lung
removal, the young Jorge Mario Bergoglio may have had
tuberculosis or  necrotizing pneumonia , where bacteria destroys
the lung tissue, Marshall said.  Damaged Portion  In some cases, a chronic illness may trigger so much
inflammation that antibiotics traveling through the bloodstream
can’t reach the site of the infection, said Sumita Khatri, a
pulmonologist and co-director of the Cleveland Clinic Asthma
Center in  Ohio . The damaged portion may be removed to stop the
disease from spreading, she said in a telephone interview.  “This must have been a very difficult infection and he
wasn’t responding to treatment,” she said. “He was young and I
expect rather healthy. It seems like by removing this infection,
anything that could have become a chronic problem may very well
have been cured and poses no risk to him now.”  The fact that only part of a lung was taken out, rather
than the entire organ as earlier reports suggested, is even more
reassuring, Khatri said. People who have lost half their lung
function, particularly as they age, should monitor their
exertion, be wary about infection and perhaps reduce their
exposure to people who are sick, she said. Losing just a portion
of one lung shouldn’t carry any restrictions.  “A whole lot of people get a portion of their lung removed
and do just fine,” she said. “His experience for the past 50
years more than tell us that he has lung enough for the job.”  Washing Feet  The pope hasn’t limited his exposure to the sick. Before
Easter in 1999, about a year after being named archbishop of
 Buenos Aires , Bergoglio washed the feet of 12 AIDS patients in a
local hospital. The next year he washed the feet of 12 prison
inmates. He has done the same thing every year since, with
members of different social groupings.  Pope Francis was born on Dec. 17, 1936, in Buenos Aires,
one of five children of an Italian immigrant father who worked
on the railways. Bergoglio trained as a chemist before being
ordained a priest in 1969. He had part of one lung removed after
developing an illness at about age 21 and has remained in good
health since then, a Vatican spokesman, Father Federico Lombardi, said today at a press briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  