-- Pope Francis Got His Name Right
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-03-14T02:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/pope-francis-got-his-name-right.html
With Pope Francis, we have someone
completely new, if not completely different.  There are  many firsts : Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, the
former archbishop of  Buenos Aires , is the first non-European in
modern times to become the bishop of Rome, the first South
American, the first Jesuit and the first to take the name
Francis,  after the  sainted shepherd of the poor from Assisi.  Bergolio was rumored to be the runner-up to  Pope Benedict
XVI  in 2005, but he’s not particularly well-known. His
biographer, Sergio Rubin, says he is self-effacing and humble,
the antithesis of those who cloak themselves in Vatican
splendor. He never moved into the ornate church mansion in
Buenos Aires, sleeping in a simple apartment heated by a small
stove. For years, he took public transportation around the city
and cooked his own meals. At meetings in  Rome , he sits in the
back row. He spends time in the slums.  But don’t mistake him for a liberal. Francis is from the
conservative wing of the Catholic Church. As leader of the
Jesuit order in  Argentina  in the mid-1970s, he did  not stand up 
to the country’s military dictatorship. When Argentina legalized
same-sex marriage in 2010, then-Cardinal Bergoglio urged
Catholics to demonstrate against the legislation. He predicted
it would ruin the family.  And then there is the dark cloud hanging over the church
and its new pope, although it may have been hard to see amid the
pomp of the cardinals floating down the aisle of the Sistine
Chapel this week. Last week the Pew Forum on Religion and Public
Life released  a survey of American Catholics . We view sexual
abuse by clergy as the most important problem facing the church
today. Some 34 percent of U.S. Catholics cited the scandal as
the church’s more pressing challenge. No other issue got more
than 10 percent.  Yet many of the cardinals implicated in the scandal
participated in the papal conclave as if nothing were wrong.
They must have known sexual abuse was going on in their
archdioceses, but they opted to cover it up rather than bring
the perpetrators to justice.  Cardinal Roger Mahony, the former archbishop of  Los
Angeles , was allowed to vote for a new pope despite being
stripped of most of his public duties when civil authorities
forced the release of documents that revealed his complicity. On
the day before he voted for pope, Mahony’s former archdiocese
 announced  it would be paying four men who were molested as boys
a total of $10 million, on top of the more than $600 million it
has already paid out.  There was a pattern to the cover-ups, as if instructions were
coming from on high. Priests were simply moved to a place where
their predatory past was unknown, in hopes the incidents would
stay quiet, as would their victims. Most did. Even with groups
formed to help them, victims have remained far less powerful
than those protecting the powerful.  Among the princes of the church there’s been no Eliot Ness,
which doesn’t mean the new pontiff couldn’t be. Pope Benedict XVI was celebrated for meeting with and apologizing to some
victims. Thanks for that. But he let his moment pass. He denied
the extent of the scandal, blamed homosexuals and insisted the
church was being picked on.  As a cardinal, Pope Francis, like Benedict, pointed to
homosexuals and the church’s failure to weed them out as a big
part of the problem. That was then, however, and this is now.
Francis of Assisi did not protect the powerful but the
powerless. So too may the first pope to take his name.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her
on Twitter.)
 