-- Postal Service Urged to Weigh Contracting Most Operations
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-03-14T22:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/postal-service-urged-to-weigh-contracting-most-operations.html
The U.S. Postal Service should
consider keeping door-to-door delivery while privatizing the
rest of its operations, a panel led by former Government
Accountability Office head David Walker found.  The Postal Service, which lost $15.9 billion last year and
exhausted its $15 billion borrowing limit, should consider
expanding partnerships with the private sector, a  report 
released today by a National Academy of Public Administration
panel said. The post office already partners with companies
including  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)   “We do believe that this deserves serious consideration,”
Walker said on a conference call with reporters.  The recommendations in today’s report may lay the
groundwork for a new business model for the Postal Service,
which plans to end Saturday mail delivery in August over
objections from some members of Congress. The service, which has
about 521,000 career employees, is also pushing lawmakers to
relax a requirement to pay now for future retirees’ health-care
costs.  The Walker-led panel analyzed a paper written last year by
a former postmaster general, a former postal union leader and a
former postal regulator. The first group’s work suggested
divesting operations other than last-mile, door-to-door delivery
by letter carriers. The Postal Service has a monopoly by law on
delivering mail to boxes at homes and businesses.  Hybrid Partnership  The academy report recommended reviewing, with caution, the
idea that the Postal Service should get out of mail sorting and
transportation, leaving that to companies that can do the work
more efficiently.  That would cut operating costs by more than half from $67.5
billion in the 2012 fiscal year to about $30 billion, the
earlier report concluded.  While cutting costs is necessary, the idea won’t go
anywhere, said Gene Del Polito, president of the Association for
Postal Commerce.  “There’s no way in hell that Congress would allow this to
happen,” Del Polito, whose group is based in Arlington,
Virginia, said in an interview. “And there’s no one in the
Postal Service that’s going to make it happen.”  Del Polito’s group, whose members include JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Conde Nast Inc., supports cutting postal costs.  Political Feasibility  Shrinking the Postal Service would require further study
and would not solve all of the service’s “challenges,” the
academy concluded. The panel cautioned that privatizing postal
operations would “generate new challenges.”  “We agree that the current business model of the Postal
Service is unsustainable,” David Partenheimer, a spokesman,
said in an interview. “That is why the Postal Service updated
its five-year business plan last year to include expanded
legislative reform proposals and actions that the Postal Service
can and continues to take under existing law to reduce costs and
grow revenue.”  Walker’s group questioned the earlier report’s conclusion
that a private partnership model “is tested, readily available
and politically feasible,” saying Congress might object.
Lawmakers have pushed the service to return to profitability
while standing in the way of ending Saturday mail delivery and
of closing post offices or mail processing plants that serve or
employ their constituents.  The public administration academy is a nonpartisan
organization chartered by Congress to assist federal, state, and
local governments in improving their accountability. Walker now
leads the  Comeback America Initiative , an independent, nonprofit
policy group that promotes fiscal responsibility.  BlackBerry Moment  In 2001, as head of what was then called the General
Accounting Office, Walker added the Postal Service to the
federal government’s list of “high-risk” agencies. That was at
a time mail volume was rising and the service supported itself
without borrowing money, neither of which has been true in
recent years.  Walker, at a congressional hearing about the list, held up
his BlackBerry mobile device to tell lawmakers a shift to
electronic communications endangered the Postal Service’s
business model. He recalls being met by “a bunch of blank
stares because they didn’t know what a BlackBerry was.”  Studying Privatization  George Gould, one of the four authors of the first paper,
describes increasing the private sector’s role in postal
operations as an evolution rather than wholesale change. He
cites early Postal Service use of airlines to ferry mail, of
trains and the growing business that delivers packages to homes
for FedEx and UPS.  “The Postal Service has been an essential part of
contributing to private industry in its whole existence,”
Gould, who helped write the law that created the Postal Service
in 1971 after it had been a cabinet-level government agency
since its creation. “There’s always been a marriage between the
Postal Service and private industry.”  Gould in 2006 left the National Association of Letter
Carriers, where he’d been the national legislative and political
director after a 27-year career at the union representing
workers who deliver mail in cities.  Privatizing mail sorting doesn’t necessarily mean the loss
of union jobs, he said, noting UPS drivers and most sorting
plant workers are unionized as are FedEx pilots.  Union Money  All but five of Congress’s 255 Democrats and independents
received campaign donations from postal worker union groups in
the past six years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
the Federal Election Commission and the Center for Responsive
Politics. Labor unions have opposed postal cost cutting plans
including shuttering processing plants and ending Saturday mail
delivery.  The Postal Service has said it would save about $2 billion
a year by ending Saturday mail delivery except for packages. The
Postal Regulatory Commission, the agency’s regulator, today said
it expects a savings of $1.7 billion. Commission Chairman Ruth Goldway in 2011 challenged Postal Service estimates of annual
savings of $3.1 billion, saying they were too optimistic.  The regulator affirmed its 2011 estimated $1.7 billion
savings from making the cut in a letter to Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, and Representative Gerald Connolly, a Virginia Democrat.  Labor unions have said cutting Saturday delivery would
cannibalize the business. The union representing mail processing
plant workers today criticized the idea to privatize non-
delivery operations.  “Privatization is not the answer,” said Sally Davidow, a
spokeswoman for the American Postal Workers Union. The union
supports cutting postal costs by easing the retiree health
benefit pre-funding mandate and by giving the service more
flexibility to increase revenue.  The Parcel Shippers Association, whose board members work
for companies including UPS and FedEx, said in comments
submitted to Walker’s group that it “strongly supports”
private companies replacing Postal Service operations for
sorting and transporting mail.  Pitney Bowes  Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI) , which makes and rents postal machines,
helped pay for the academy’s work. The company, based in
Stamford, Connecticut, did $30 million worth of work for the
Postal Service in the 2012 fiscal year, making it the 49th
largest contractor, according to a list compiled annually by
David Hendel, a lawyer at Husch Blackwell LLP in Washington.  “By concentrating on its strength in delivery, and
charging only for that service, the Postal Service will
encourage increased use of commercial providers to collect,
transport and sort the mail, create a private sector market for
mail use, and encourage development of new products and services
that can help sustain universal delivery service well into the
future,” Pitney Bowes said today in an e-mailed statement.  Davidow said Pitney Bowes “stands to benefit enormously
from privatizing mail processing operations,”  The Postal Service spends about $13 billion per year
contracting business to private sector companies, including
about $7 billion for transportation services, according to the
academy report. The report didn’t estimate the market size for
postal sorting operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  