-- Potash Said to Plan Concessions to Win Israel Support in Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-03-14T20:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/potash-said-to-plan-concessions-to-win-israel-support-in-bid-1-.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
considering a takeover bid for  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , is
preparing concessions ranging from job guarantees to a local
stock-market listing to allay concern that a deal would harm
 Israel ’s national interests, according to a person familiar with
the plans.  Any bid for the company put to the newly formed Israeli
government, which can veto a transaction, would include pledges
to improve environmental protection and maintain employment and
production levels, according to this person, who asked not to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. Potash is also
mulling an offer that would be partly cash-based to generate  tax
revenue  for the government in a revised bid, which may be put
forward in about a month, the person said.  “Potash has to do everything within their power to show
that they are coming in friendly terms and that this deal is
good for Israel,” said Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel.
“The odds are still against them as here they are seen as a
foreign interloper.”  Israel Chemicals fell less than 1 percent to  47.26 shekels
in Tel Aviv trading.  Negev Region  To win over the Israeli government in a bid to become the
world’s biggest producer of potash, Potash Chief Executive
Officer Bill Doyle needs to deliver a deal that overcomes public
objections to the plan. Yesh Atid, Israel’s second-biggest
political party, has criticized the proposed deal for its
potential to harm the Negev region, and Israel Chemical workers
have staged protests against the takeover.  Potash may also propose a listing on the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange to ease concern that Israel Chemical’s delisting would
hurt trading volume on the exchange, the person said.  Israel Chemicals, the nation’s second-largest publicly
traded company, has a market value of 60.6 billion shekels
($16.4 billion) based on yesterday’s close in  Tel Aviv . Potash
buying the 86 percent of Israel Chemicals it doesn’t already own
would be the largest takeover in the  Middle East , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A windfall from a tax-based deal may come at a critical
time for Israel as the new government will have to slash
spending by 14 billion shekels from the 2013 budget, according
to Alper.  Critical Resources  “No politician wants to be seen as the one who gives away
a critical natural resource for nothing,” said Alper. “On the
other hand, if Potash can sweeten the deal and a transaction
becomes a tax event, it certainly helps to make their proposal
more persuasive.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today reached an
agreement on a governing coalition that may hold 68 of
parliament’s 120 seats. The coalition will be led by Netanyahu’s
Likud party, which ran in Jan. 22 elections on a joint ticket
with the Yisrael Beitenu faction, winning 31 seats.  The government can block takeover bids using its so-called
golden share. Israel Corp. Ltd., which is controlled by
billionaire Idan Ofer, has a 52 percent majority stake in Israel
Chemicals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  