-- Pound Gains Most in Seven Months on Qatar Report, Budget Outlook
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-14T17:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/pound-gains-second-day-versus-dollar-after-boe-quarterly-report.html
The pound rose the most in seven
months versus the dollar on speculation Qatar will invest in
infrastructure projects, boosting demand for sterling amid calls
for growth-based policies in the government’s annual budget.  The so-called 10-year  break-even rate , which predicts the
annual rate of inflation over the next decade, climbed to the
highest in 4 1/2 years. Sterling rose for a third day against
the euro and advanced against all but two of its 16 major peers.
U.K. and Qatari officials and ministers have held talks on
potential projects, the Financial Times reported today without
saying where it got the information.  The Qatar report “is causing the market to cut its short
pound positions,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund
sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . Sterling “could
go to the $1.5150 area but still remains in an overall downward
channel.”  The pound climbed 1.1 percent to $1.5091 at 5:03 p.m.
London time, after advancing 1.2 percent, the steepest gain
since July 26. It rose 0.7 percent to 86.28 pence per euro after
reaching 86.16, the strongest since March 5.  “What you’re seeing is probably some nascent profit-taking
on long euro-sterling positions,” said Peter Kinsella, a
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in London, referring to a
bet an asset will gain. “If you do see euro-sterling up towards
88 to 90, at those levels the pound is looking pretty attractive
from a valuation point of view.”  The pound last traded at 90 pence per euro in July 2011.  Annual Budget  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will deliver the
budget on March 20 amid an economy that is forecast to have
contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter and after a
national statistics office report on March 12 showed industrial
production unexpectedly dropped in January.  Confederation of British Industry Director-General  John Cridland  called on the government in February to boost
infrastructure investment to promote a rebalancing of the
economy.  Sterling has depreciated 5.2 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It
has fallen 7.2 percent against the dollar and 5.9 percent versus
the euro.  Currency Crisis  The U.K. is risking a currency crisis, according to  James Rickards , senior managing director at Tangent Capital Partners
LLC in  New York , citing the nation’s lack of gold.  The government disposed of all of Britain’s gold reserves
more than a decade ago, selling 400 tons of the precious metal
in a two-and-a-half year period ending in March 2002.  “Look for sterling to go down a lot,” Rickards said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with
 Francine Lacqua .  The pound’s advance today may have been the result of a so-
called short squeeze, according to Daragh Maher, a strategist at
HSBC Bank Plc in London. A short squeeze is when traders are
forced to buy back a security whose price is rising after they
sold it short, expecting the price to fall.  Rabobank International strategist Jane Foley said the drop
may have been the result of the expiration of options with stops
above $1.50.  Sterling may reach the strongest level in seven weeks
against the euro if it breaks through 85.76 pence as the market
is “stretched” above its 233-day Bollinger band, according to
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  technical analysts Anders Soderberg and Dag Muller in a e-mailed note.  The currency may appreciate to 84.44 pence per euro, the
analysts wrote.  Bollinger Bands  Bollinger bands are designed to alert investors when a
security rises too high or falls too low by comparing its price
to the average level over the past 20 days. The system of
analysis was created in the 1980s by  John Bollinger .  U.K. inflation expectations earlier rose to the highest in
4 1/2 years on speculation the government will allow the central
bank to place less emphasis on maintaining  price stability  when
it announces its budget next week.  Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney  has signaled
support for allowing the bank more flexibility in meeting its 2
percent inflation goal. He told lawmakers in February that
taking longer to meet inflation goals if necessary was
“superior” to refocusing on other aims.  The 10-year break-even rate, which measures the yield
difference between gilts and index-linked securities, climbed as
high as 3.37 percent, the highest since September 2008, before
falling to 3.31 percent.  Widened Spreads  “If you look at break-even spreads, they’ve widened
sharply in the run-up to the budget, so I think the inflation
market is very much expecting some kind of relaxation of the
inflation target,” said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in London.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 1.96
percent. The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 changed hands
at 98.17.  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped 0.7 percent and
Treasuries fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .
NI UK
NI GLT
NI FXMARKET
NI BON
NI GBN
NI SOVEREIGN
NI FRX
NI GFX 