-- Purpose is Good. Shared Purpose is Better
-- B y   M a r k   B o n c h e k
-- 2013-03-14T16:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/purpose-is-good-shared-purpose-is-better.html
Companies are turning to "purpose" and "authenticity" as a way to engage consumers and employees.  But it's hard enough to find a purpose in life if you're an individual, let alone an entire company.  And being authentic is a bit like being cool — sometimes the harder you try, the less you are. So what's a leader to do? The first step is to recognize that there are different kinds of purpose. Sometimes purpose is about values — who you are and what you stand for. Other times it is about value — what you do and how it benefits others. 
The ultimate goal would seem to be having your values and value aligned:  have what you do reflect who you are, have what you stand for guide what you make, and have your value to the community enhance your value to customers and shareholders. 
This goal is of aligning values and value is espoused by many eminent leaders, from  Jim Stengel   to  Bill George . It's a core tenet in the field of corporate social responsibility. 
But in a social age, this kind of purpose isn't enough.  The problem comes down to a simple preposition.  Most leaders think of purpose as a purpose  for .  But what is needed is a purpose  with . 
Customers are no longer just consumers; they're co-creators.  They aren't just passive members of an audience; they are active members of a community.  They want to be a part of something; to belong; to influence; to engage.  It's not enough that they feel good about your purpose.  They want it to be their purpose too.  They don't want to be at the other end of your  for . They want to be right there  with  you.  Purpose needs to be shared. 
To understand the power of shared purpose, it's useful to look at the mission statements of leading companies.   To be clear, I'm not equating mission statements with company purpose.   But  they illustrate the point, and in fact are remarkably representative of the differences between the companies.  So with that caveat, let's look at our first mission statements from Adidas and Nike: This is a perfect example of a "Values and Value" approach to purpose.  The vision covers values, and the mission covers value.   But something is missing.  There is no shared purpose here.  Nothing for people to participate in, belong to, engage with, co-create, or share with others that aligns the commercial side of the business with social responsibility. 
By contrast,  Coca-Cola has declared  as its mission: While the third line is a bit generic, the first two lay a stronger foundation for a shared purpose.  It is perhaps no coincidence that Nike, Starbucks, and Coca-Cola all feature the word inspiration in their mission statements.  You can't inspire someone without their participation and engagement. 
How can you create your own shared purpose?  It's simple, but not easy. The essential question is: 
What is the shared purpose that ... a)	We and our customers can work on together? 
b)	Is a natural expression of who we are and what we stand for?  
c)	Connects how we make money with how we contribute to the world? When you apply this lens to the brand we have covered here, you can see how Nike, Starbucks, and Coca-Cola pass the test.  Nike to inspire the athlete in all of us.  Starbucks to nurture the human spirit.  And Coca-Cola to refresh the world with moments of optimism and happiness 
.   
As you formulate your shared purpose, don't go for what you think it should be.  Look for who you already are.  How you already connect with your customers.  What your fans already say about you. 
Remember, this is not something you are going to do  to  them, or  for  them, but  with  them. It's a journey you will be on together, hopefully for a very long time.  