-- Securitization Group Formed With BofA After Exodus at Rival
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-14T22:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/trade-group-formed-with-bofa-after-securitization-rival-exodus.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are among more than 20 companies forming
a trade organization after some members defected this month from
the existing American Securitization Forum.  The Structured Finance Industry Group will “be an advocate
for the structured finance and securitization community, share
best practices and innovative ideas, and provide educational
opportunities for our members,” Reggie Imamura, a  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC)  executive and chairman of the group’s board,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  The  American Securitization Forum  was thrown into turmoil
this month after most of its board quit in a dispute with its
 executive director  over governance and bonuses. That group today
took its first public action since the exodus, sending a comment
letter to the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  on  capital
requirements  for bonds backed by loans and leases.  The Structured Finance Industry Group, which was mainly
started by sellers of securitized debt and the firms they hire,
said that it intends to represent a range of interests in the
market, from issuers and dealers to rating firms, accounting
companies and investors. Global issuance of such bonds without
government backing exceeded $500 billion last year, according to
newsletter Asset-Backed Alert.  Active Participants  A list of 21 firms that the group said will “actively
participate” in its formation also included  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , a  Ford Motor Co. (F)  unit, law firm Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and Fitch Ratings.  While the list didn’t include any that mainly focus on
managing money, more than 50 investor firms have expressed
interest in learning more about the organization, Patrick
Tucker, a spokesman for the group, said in an e-mail. “We
expect these organizations, among others, to be an important
voice” and will seek “to add several investors and firms from
other sectors to the board in the near future,” he said.  The resignations from the ASF came after the board
attempted to remove its executive director,  Tom Deutsch , and was
unable to fire him because of the way the association’s
governing documents are written, six people familiar with the
matter said this month, asking not to be named because the
conflict wasn’t public.  Part of the dispute concerns bonuses that Deutsch was paid,
the people said.  Bonuses Dispute  Deutsch said in a statement e-mailed March 11 that the ASF
would remain active, representing the “breadth and depth of the
structured-finance markets.” He said his compensation had been
consistent with research conducted by Mercer Consulting specific
for the ASF, “input from a number of ASF advisory board members
and consistent with the annual compensation of my predecessor.”  The association was founded in 2002 as part of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall
Street’s biggest lobbying group. In 2010, it decided to split
off from Sifma in a contentious divorce, during which Deutsch
was allowed to set up the ASF as a separate entity with himself
as the sole member and director, one of the people said.  The ASF said in a statement today about its comment letter
that its members exceeded “300 firms, including issuers,
investors, servicers, financial intermediaries, rating agencies,
financial guarantors, legal and accounting firms, and other
professional organizations involved in securitization
transactions.” In a January statement, the group said it had
more than 330 members fitting a similar description.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  