-- Radio Plan Formed After 9/11 Needs More State Input, Walden Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-03-14T17:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/radio-plan-formed-after-9-11-needs-more-state-input-walden-says.html
States need a larger role in
forming a U.S. emergency-services radio network authorized by
Congress after communication breakdowns among police and
firefighters during the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, U.S.
lawmakers said.  That the First Responder Network Authority’s board doesn’t
include a current state official “feels like an insider deal to
me in terms of the federal government pretending to represent
somebody it’s not,” Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon
Republican, said at a House Energy and Commerce Committee
hearing today. “We wanted somebody who was actually from a
state.”  The committee held the hearing to assess progress of the
emergency network, which would be paid for by $7 billion in
proceeds from a U.S. auction of television airwaves to wireless
phone carriers.  Congress passed legislation last February to fulfill a
recommendation of the 9/11 Commission that investigated the
attacks in  New York  and  Washington .  Given the network’s ambition to cover the U.S. with a
fraction of the resources available to the private sector,
“states are understandably nervous that the combination of
increased cost and insufficient funding will result in the
uncovered cost being passed on to the state and local
governments,” Chris McIntosh, Virginia statewide interoperable
communications coordinator, told the committee.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in August appointed
12 members to the board that runs the authority, known as
FirstNet. The chairman is Sam Ginn, a senior adviser to New
York-based investment bank Greenhill & Co. and former chairman
of Vodafone AirTouch Plc, now  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Heather Phillips, a spokeswoman for the Commerce
Department’s National Telecommunications and Information
Administration, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  