-- Rand Rebounds From 4-Year Low as Manufacturing Beats Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-14T13:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/rand-rebounds-from-four-year-low-on-signal-decline-overdone.html
The rand gained for the first time
in four days, rebounding from a four-year low against the
dollar, after manufacturing growth beat analysts’ estimates and
mining output unexpectedly increased.  South Africa ’s currency strengthened as much as 0.5
percent, and traded 0.2 percent up at 9.2438 per dollar by 3:24
p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 7.45 percent.  Manufacturing growth accelerated to 3.9 percent in the year
through January, from 2 percent in December, a report showed
today. The median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for growth of 2.7 percent. Mining production rose 7.3
percent, the first increase since August, a separate report
showed. The data raised speculation that the nation’s current-
account deficit will narrow as exports pick up.  “The rand is essentially the mechanism for the current
account to correct itself,” Jonathan Meyerson, head of fixed-
income investments at Cadiz Asset Management in Cape Town, said
by phone. “With the weaker currency, we should see some kind of
recovery.”  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent, the lowest in more than 30 years, since
July to help support growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  Gross
domestic product  will expand 2.7 percent this year, less than
the 3 percent estimated in October, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in his budget speech in Cape Town in February.  Self-Correcting  The rand slumped 1.9 percent in the first three days of
this week to the weakest level since April 2009 as the current-
account shortfall remained near a four-year high and retail
sales slowed in January, adding to signs Africa’s largest
economy is stalling. The depreciation may have been too steep, a
technical indicator signaled today.  “The reality is that the trend in the rand cannot continue
in this one direction unabated,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a
Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed
comments. “At some point, the weakness of the rand will be
self-correcting.”  The stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar
was at 14.9 today, below the 30 threshold that signals the
currency may have depreciated too quickly and is poised for a
rebound. The measure, which tracks the price of a currency
relative to its highs and lows during a particular period, has
been below 30 for the past six days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  