-- Transocean Maintenance Showed Negligence, Engineer Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/transocean-maintenance-showed-negligence-engineer-says.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s internal
documents show the company failed to maintain the Deepwater
Horizon, avoiding critical repairs and upkeep for years before
the drilling rig burned and sank in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010,
an engineer testified in the trial over fault for the disaster.  Edward G. Webster, a marine engineering expert testifying
for plaintiffs, reviewed in court yesterday a Transocean
computerized maintenance system report for the Deepwater
Horizon, dated a day before the April 20, 2010, blast, which
listed 222 overdue maintenance tasks, including 76 “high
priority” jobs.  “Safety critical” systems and equipment had been waiting
for maintenance or repairs for months and, in some cases, years,
Webster said, citing the report. Transocean owned the Deepwater
Horizon, which exploded and sank off the  Louisiana  coast,
setting off the largest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  “This shows gross negligence to the rig,” Webster
testified. The maintenance history of the Deepwater Horizon was
“recklessly kept,” he said.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , owner of the well,
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, and Houston-based
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services.  Gross Negligence  A nonjury trial over liability for the disaster began Feb.
25 before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.
Barbier will determine responsibility for the disaster and
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion
in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive
damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion
settlement the company reached with most private party
plaintiffs last year. For Transocean and Halliburton, findings
of gross negligence would mean the companies could be held
liable for punitive damages for all plaintiffs.  Webster testified that an e-mail from the Deepwater
Horizon’s chief engineer to a Transocean manager also showed a
lack of attention to maintenance.  ‘Top Performer’  “Historically, the rig has been a top performer that has
traded performance and staying in operation rather than
maintaining the equipment,” Stephen Bertone, the chief engineer
and maintenance supervisor, wrote in an Oct. 30, 2010, e-mail to
 Paul Johnson  in Houston.  “When the rig does receive maintenance time, that time is
generally taken up by repairing the equipment that was broke,”
Bertone wrote, according to the exhibit of his e-mail displayed
in court.  “That first sentence says it all,” Webster testified,
under questioning by a plaintiffs’ attorney. “It suggests a
severe lack of maintenance. It should have been put in the
shipyard” for repairs, he said.  The Deepwater Horizon hadn’t been to a shipyard during its
nine years of operations in U.S. waters, Webster said. He said
he reviewed almost 10 years of maintenance audits of the rig.  Conrad “Duke” Williams, an attorney for plaintiffs, asked
Webster why Transocean wouldn’t bring the rig into a shipyard
for repairs.  Dry Dock  “When the rig is in dry dock, it’s not making money,”
Webster said.  Bertone has invoked the Fifth Amendment right against self-
incrimination and declined to testify at the trial.  Williams asked Webster if the Deepwater Horizon was
seaworthy on the night of April 20, 2010.  “No, it was grossly unseaworthy,” Webster replied. “It
was unseaworthy several years before that.”  John Kinchen, a Transocean attorney, challenged Webster’s
description of the rig as unseaworthy, citing audits and
inspections by licensing authorities such as the U.S. Coast
Guard and maritime classification agencies including the
American Bureau of Shipping.  The American Bureau of Shipping concluded the Deepwater
Horizon was in good condition and compliant with the bureau’s
requirements, Kinchen said during his cross-examination of
Webster.  ‘Blinders’  “They said it was in good condition; we know it was not,”
Webster said. The ABS inspector “must have had blinders on,”
the witness said.  The Coast Guard, which had the authority to “take the
vessel out of service,” found the Deepwater Horizon compliant
with maritime safety requirements following inspections dating
to 2002, Kinchen said.  Webster dismissed Coast Guard inspections of offshore rigs
in general as “cursory.”  Kinchen asked the witness if he also had a “major
disagreement” with another international classification agency
that also found the rig in compliance with safe maritime
standards.  “Yes -- because they were probably not given the truth,”
Webster said.  The trial is set to enter its fourth week on March 18 with
Transocean beginning its defense. Transocean attorneys have said
they will start with testimony from a drilling rig expert and a
company employee who was in charge of firefighting operations on
the Deepwater Horizon.  Cement Samples  Before yesterday’s testimony began, Halliburton said it
would turn over missing cement samples from the Macondo well to
the court. The company said it found the samples and would
produce a report to the court on why they hadn’t been produced
earlier to lawyers suing Halliburton over the spill.  Halliburton provided a timeline to the court late yesterday
on its transfer of samples to the U.S. Joint Investigation Team.
The company “properly preserved all rig samples, fully complied
with all preservation orders, and expeditiously turned over all
Macondo samples for testing to the JIT,” Halliburton lawyers
said in the filing.  The plaintiffs and BP claim that the Halliburton cement,
used to seal the well from hydrocarbon leaks, was defective.
They contend Halliburton used leftover cement from BP’s Kodiak
well off the Louisiana coast to prepare a cement barrier for
the Macondo.  Halliburton said in yesterday’s filing that the company is
“currently investigating a recent discovery of certain
materials associated with” BP’s Kodiak well “that have been
preserved and are currently being stored” at a Halliburton lab
at Broussard, Louisiana.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  