-- REC Climbs as Polysilicon Gains Boost Debt Prospects: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-03-14T11:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/rec-climbs-as-polysilicon-gains-boost-debt-prospects-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC) , the
solar maker facing excess capacity and falling demand, climbed
in Oslo as a faster-than-expected recovery in polysilicon prices
improves the prospects for its debt restructuring.  The Sandvika, Norway-based company gained as much as 4.9
percent to 1.45 kroner and traded 1.6 percent higher as of 12:01
p.m. That extends the stock’s gain to 86 percent since falling
to  0.7555 kroner  on Feb. 11, the lowest level this year.  “Polysilicon prices have started to recover at a faster
pace than we anticipated,” Pareto Securities ASA said in a
report today. “The positive trend could continue as the market
now looks more balanced, supported by strong demand growth
coupled with supply curtailments.”  Prices for photovoltaic-grade polysilicon, used to make
solar panels, climbed 3.2 percent to an average of $18.58 a
kilogram last week, researcher PV Insights said on its website
yesterday. That comes after jumping 7.1 percent a week earlier,
it said.  “Although REC still has a challenging debt situation, it
should be easier to solve with the positive market sentiment,”
said Pareto, which has a hold recommendation on the stock.  REC has about 3.1 billion kroner ($534.4 million) of debt
maturing in 2014 and refinancing will probably be announced
within the next six months, SEB Enskilda AB credit analyst
Henrik Blymke said in an e-mailed report today. REC will be
about 400 million kroner short of cash to meet all its
obligations according to the broker’s estimates, he said.  ‘Quite Optimistic’  REC is in talks with banks about changes to covenants on a
2 billion-krone credit line maturing in April 2014, Chief
Financial Officer Kjell Christian Bjoernsen said on Feb. 8. The
solar maker must also  refinance  a 320 million-euro convertible
bond and a 650 million-krone fixed-rate note due in 2014.  Chief Executive Officer Ole Enger is “quite optimistic”
REC will be able to refinance its debt, he said on Feb. 8,
without giving further detail. His company, like European peers
 Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-Cells SE, is under pressure from Chinese
rivals that expanded capacity just as demand slowed, causing
solar-wafer and cell prices to plunge. Cuts in renewable-energy
subsidies in France, Italy and Germany also hit sales.  REC will probably report first-half earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization that will miss the
300 million-kroner cut-off point set by its banks, according to
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company will post Ebitda of 37.3 million kroner in the
first quarter, according to the average of seven estimates, and
84.9 million kroner in the second quarter, according to the mean
of six estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  