-- Redbox Instant Service Opens to Subscribers After Test
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-14T20:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/redbox-instant-streaming-service-begins-accepting-subscribers.html
Redbox Instant, the movie-streaming
venture by  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , began
commercial service today, vying with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  for online viewers.  The service concluded its testing and began offering sales,
rentals and subscription streaming of movies, Chief Executive
Officer Shawn Strickland said today in an interview. It had been
in testing with a limited number of customers.  “We think we’ve got a real strong market position for
getting the titles faster than other services,” Strickland said
in an interview. “We’ll grow from there.  The service, which combines streaming with discs available
from kiosks, is focused on movies and aims to draw customers
from competitors that don’t offer physical rentals, Strickland
said in January. A marketing campaign will start next week and
the service will be available through Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox
console, Apple Inc. products and web browsers, he said today.  With its offering of downloads for sale, video-on-demand,
streaming and physical rentals, the Redbox business will be able
to offer titles as they become available to competitors in those
markets, and sometimes sooner in the case of DVD rentals,
Strickland said. Redbox Instant’s partners have identified a
potential audience of as many as 35 million users.  Redbox Prices  Redbox Instant, at $8 to $9 a month, is counting on price
and convenience to attract customers. Users will get unlimited
streaming plus four DVDs a month from kiosks. The service also
offers on-demand rentals and digital sales of newer titles.  ‘‘There’s a core group of DVD lovers who really see the
value,” Strickland said. “They see the value of the four
credits and the streaming looks like a very affordable add on.”  Redbox Instant will offer streaming titles from Time Warner
Inc.’s Warner Bros. and Epix, which includes movies from  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount,  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Studios. It also has an agreement with an
aggregator that represents other major studios, Strickland said.  New Epix films will be available for rental and purchase at
the same time they go to other VOD services. They will become
available for streaming a few months later, but also at the same
time Netflix and other streamers get them.  Films from Lions Gate,  Paramount Pictures , Warner Bros.,
 Universal Pictures , Sony Pictures and Relativity Media will be
available for purchase and on-demand rental.  Coinstar, based in Bellevue, Washington, was little-changed
at $57.11 at the close in New York. Verizon Communications
advanced 1.1 percent to $48.48. Netflix, the online leader with
more than 33 million subscribers worldwide, declined 2.1 percent
to $188.37.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  