-- Trinity Mirror Dragged Into Hacking Scandal With 4 Arrests
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2013-03-14T16:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/trinity-mirror-dragged-into-hacking-scandal-with-four-arrests.html
Trinity Mirror Plc’s Sunday Mirror
was dragged into the U.K. phone-hacking scandal today as London
police arrested four journalists connected to the newspaper.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  said it arrested three men
and a woman who either currently or previously worked at Mirror
Group publications. The investigation is focusing on activities
at the Sunday Mirror in 2003 and 2004, the MPS said in a
statement.  James Scott, the editor of Trinity Mirror’s People tabloid
and his deputy, Nick Buckley, were among those arrested, the
London-based company said.  At least 36 people have been arrested in phone-hacking
probes that have centered on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now defunct News of
the World tabloid. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the
newspaper in 2011 in response to public anger over reports that
journalists had listened to voice-mail messages on a murdered
school girl’s mobile phone.  “We take any allegation against employees very seriously
and are cooperating with the police on this matter,” Trinity
Mirror said in a statement.  Neither Scott nor Buckley were in the office today and
weren’t available to answer calls.  Shares Fall  Shares of Trinity Mirror, which today reported a drop in
2012 revenue, extended losses after police disclosed the
arrests. The company  fell  21 percent to 95.5 pence in London
trading.  It’s not the first time Trinity Mirror has been linked to
the phone-hacking scandal. A former reporter at the  Daily Mirror 
was arrested in July and the company was sued in October by
former England soccer managerSven-Goran Eriksson and actor
Shobna Gulati.  Piers Morgan , who edited the Daily Mirror between 1995 and
2004 and now hosts a CNN program, told an ethics inquiry
triggered by the  News Corp. scandal  that phone hacking didn’t
take place at the newspaper while he was there. A former Daily
Mirror reporter later testified to the same inquiry that hacking
happened on a daily basis among the newspaper’s show-business
reporters.  The Daily Mirror is the second-most popular national
morning newspaper in the U.K. behind The Sun with an average
circulation of 1.04 million, according to the U.K. Audit Bureau
of Circulation. The Sunday Mirror is the third-most-popular
Sunday edition with 1.05 million copies, behind The Sun and The
Mail on Sunday.  Brooks, Coulson  Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , former lead editors of the
News of the World, are among eight former News Corp. journalists
and a private investigator who were charged in July with
conspiring to intercept voice mail to get stories.  Police in February began a new investigation into phone
hacking at the News of the World’s features desk and arrested
six more people who worked at the tabloid, once the country’s
largest publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  