-- Robot Surgery Isn’t First Choice for Uterus Removals
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-03-15T20:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/robot-surgery-isn-t-most-cost-efficient-hysterectomy.html
Robotic surgery for hysterectomies
doesn’t improve outcomes and shouldn’t be the first choice for
most women, a doctors’ group said, sending  Intuitive Surgical
Inc. (ISRG)  to its lowest value in almost 14 months.  The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists,
which represents 56,000 U.S. physicians, said expertise with
Intuitive’s da Vinci robot system is limited and surgeons
learning the new technology may have higher rates of
complications. Intuitive, based Sunnyvale, California, sells the
only robotic system approved in the U.S. for soft tissue
procedures that include gynecological surgery.  “There is no good data proving that robotic hysterectomy
is even as good as -- let alone better -- than existing, and far
less costly, minimally invasive alternatives,” James T.
Breeden, the organization’s president, said in a  statement 
posted yesterday on the group’s website.  Angela Wonson, a spokeswoman for Intuitive, defended the
product, saying in an e-mail that “evidence supports that
robotic surgery has dramatically decreased the number of open
hysterectomies in the U.S.”  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is surveying surgeons
about the safety of the machines, their training and how the
robots are used, Bloomberg News reported last month. Data
published in February found that use of the Intuitive robots,
priced at $1.5 million each, drives up surgical costs by as much
as $2,189 per procedure without reducing complications compared
with standard less-invasive procedures.  Intuitive fell 6.2 percent to $459.44 in New York, its
lowest closing price since Jan. 30, 2012. The company has
 declined  20 percent since Feb. 27, the day before the FDA survey
became public.  Misguided Statement  The ACOG statement is “misguided” and “reflects a lack of
desire to move the surgical field forward,” said Mario Leitao,
a gynecologic oncology surgeon who uses the robot at Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Leitao, who has
consulted for Intuitive, also said that the robot has been
marketed “inappropriately and aggressively” by the company,
and by many hospitals that hadn’t learned how to use the device.  In robot surgery, a doctor sits at a video-game style
console several feet from the patient and peers into a high-
definition display. Foot pedals and hand controls maneuver
mechanical arms equipped with surgical tools, guided by a 3-D
camera that shows the work as it is done inside a patient.  600,000 Operations  About 600,000 hysterectomies are done each year in U.S.,
mostly for benign conditions, said  Barbara Levy , vice president
for health policy at the doctors’ group. Intuitive’s da Vinci
system was used in about 176,000 uterus removals in the U.S. in
2012, according to a Feb. 4 regulatory filing.  The robots were used for about 367,000 total procedures in
the U.S. last year, including prostate surgeries and gall
bladder removals, the company has reported.  The robot “is absolutely not” the least invasive type of
hysterectomy,” Levy said in a telephone interview. Among other
things, scars with the robot often “are higher up; they are
more visible; there are more of them; and they are bigger” than
the scars produced with other less invasive uterus removal
techniques, she said.  Meanwhile, the robot comes with a significant learning
curve, Levy said. Until a doctor becomes proficient on the
machine, there may be more complications using the robot, not
less, she said.  Cherry Picked  Hospital and industry marketing touting the robot surgical
systems often contain “cherry picked and very misleading
information” comparing hysterectomies done with the robot
against traditional operations with large incisions, rather than
other minimally invasive options, such as removing the uterus
through the vagina, Levy said.  The location and number of robotic incisions “depends on
the technique” and “can be as invisible as traditional
laparoscopy,” said Michael Pitter, a gynecological surgeon and
robot user in Newark and Hackensack, New Jersey, who sometimes
conducts training sessions for Intuitive.  Intuitive’s Wonson said the company’s website “is fully
sourced with clinical outcomes data.”  A review of adverse incident reports sent to the FDA since
2009 by Bloomberg News shows that injury reports involving the
procedures jumped to at least 115 in 2012 from 24 in 2009, while
deaths rose to 30 from 11. The robots are also linked to at
least 70 deaths since 2009, the review found.  Unverified Deaths  The reports from doctors, patients and companies, don’t
necessarily mean the robots caused deaths, only that they were
involved in procedures in which deaths occur. They’re largely
unverified by the agency, and can be incomplete or misleading,
the FDA has said.  Adverse event reports have served in the past as a valuable
early-warning system on medical-device safety. While the number
of complications reported may be small compared with the
operations done, it has set off warning bells. In January, the
FDA sent letters to hospitals asking its surgeons about
complications, training and the procedures the robots may be
most and least suited for.  Myriam Curet, Intuitive’s chief medical adviser, said in an
interview in response to the review that she is confident the
robots are “extremely safe.”  Intuitive, in a statement yesterday, said it had changed
its practices for reporting adverse events to U.S. regulators in
September 2012, resulting in an increased number of reports of
device malfunctions, none of which involved injuries or deaths.
The company also said it changed how certain adverse events were
characterized, which will result in higher numbers of reported
serious injuries, and fewer adverse events listed in the
“other” subcategory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  