-- Paul Touts Change, Rubio Sees Steady Path in 2016 Preview
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-15T04:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/rubio-slams-elites-as-paul-declares-party-moss-covered-.html
Two Republicans who may compete
against each other in the 2016 presidential race are offering
different takes on the pitch their party needs to make to
voters.  In speeches yesterday to the Conservative Political Action
Conference outside Washington, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida
said traditional Americanism is the answer, while Senator  Rand  Paul of Kentucky called for a revised message.  “We need a  Republican Party  that shows up on the south
side of Chicago and shouts at the top of our lungs, we are the
party of jobs and opportunity” and the “ticket to the middle
class,” Paul said, referring to a section of President  Barack Obama ’s adopted hometown that has some of the city’s lowest-
income residents.  Rubio and Paul were the first of more than a half-dozen
prospective presidential candidates appearing at the three-day
CPAC gathering, sponsored by a Washington-based group that
promotes smaller government. Others speaking today and tomorrow
include Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , Wisconsin Governor
 Scott Walker , former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, former Senator
 Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania and Representative  Paul Ryan  of
Wisconsin, the 2012 Republican vice presidential nominee.  “We don’t need a new idea,” Rubio said in his speech.
“There is an idea. The idea is called America and it still
works.”  Paul countered in remarks immediately following his Senate
colleague. Their party “has grown stale and moss-covered,” he
said, adding, “I don’t think we need to name any names.”  Settling Scores  Along with serving as a potential preview of 2016
Republican presidential contest, the gathering in Oxon Hill,
 Maryland , provided a forum for one of the party’s failed 2012
White House aspirants to settle some scores.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  slammed Obama’s leadership and
implicitly criticized some of his party’s most prominent
members. Perry argued that Republicans hadn’t fielded
“conservative” candidates either in 2012, when former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  bested him for the
nomination, or 2008, when the standard bearer was  Arizona 
Senator  John McCain .  “The popular media narrative is that this country has
shifted away from conservative ideals, as evidenced by the last
two presidential elections,” Perry said. “That might be true
if Republicans had actually nominated conservative candidates in
2008 and 2012.”  CPAC attendees applauded.  Peter Boddie, a water consultant attending the conference
from  Colorado , said he likes both Rubio and Paul and wants both
of them to run.  ‘Real Deal’  “Rubio is a much more polished speaker,” he said. “Rand
Paul is the real deal in a different way.”  Katrina Lautenschlager, a college student attending from
Washington state, said she would like the two men to run
together on the presidential ticket.  “Rubio was more passionate, so that drew me in,” she
said. “Rand had more big points.”  Paul, 50, arrived at the convention with momentum from a
13-hour filibuster last week on the Senate floor against  John Brennan , Obama’s nominee for Central Intelligence Agency
director, and the administration’s secret drone program.  As he took the stage, Paul dropped two spiral notebooks
stuffed with papers onto a side table and joked that he’d only
been given 10 “measly” minutes to speak -- yet had brought 13
hours worth of speaking material.  “For liberty to expand, government must shrink,” Paul
said. “For the economy to grow, government must get out of the
way.”  Mutual Respect  Rubio, who like Paul is a favorite of the anti-tax Tea
Party movement, told the audience that mutual respect is
required in U.S. politics, if there is to be compromise.  “Just because I believe that states have the right to
define marriage in a traditional way does not make me a bigot,”
he said. “The people who are actually closed-minded in American
politics are the people who love to preach about the certainty
of science with regards to our climate, but ignore the absolute
fact that science has proven that life begins at conception.”  Rubio also stressed his opposition to additional federal
taxes as part of the debate on reducing federal deficits.
“There is no tax increase in the world that will solve our
long-term debt problem,” he said.  Although he’s viewed as a Republican leader in the push to
revise immigration policy, Rubio, 41, made no significant
mention of the issue.  Hispanic Appeal  Republican pollster  Whit Ayres  told his CPAC listeners that
they need to do more to reach out to Hispanic voters, who exit
polls showed gave 71 percent of their votes to Obama in
November’s election.  “In order to be resurrected, we’ve got to have a different
message, particularly on this issue,” he said.  “We are in many ways in the same position the Democrats
were in 1988” after they had lost three consecutive
presidential races. Pointing to the emergence of  Bill Clinton 
and his 1992 presidential win, Ayres said, “We are only one
candidate and one election away from resurrection.”  In addition to the speakers, the annual CPAC gathering has
drawn notice for who isn’t there: all of the governors who have
said they will seek federal funds provided by Obama’s health-
care law for expansion of Medicaid, which serves the poor.
Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives still assert
that the health-care law should be repealed, as do many Tea
Party activists.  Excluded Governors  Among those excluded are two governors considered potential
presidential contenders --  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  and  Bob McDonnell  of Virginia.  Without naming Christie, Perry referenced him and the
others seeking the Medicaid expansion, saying, “Unfortunately,
some of our friends and allies in the conservative movement have
folded in the face of federal bribery and mounting pressure from
special interest groups.”  Perry, 63, also said Obama is “dangerously releasing
criminals onto our streets to make a political point” in a
“federally sponsored jailbreak” designed to sow “hysteria”
about the impact of across-the-board government spending cuts
that are taking effect.  A U.S. immigration official said yesterday that the
administration released more than 2,000 illegal immigrants last
month because of budget concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Oxen Hill, Maryland, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  