-- India’s Rupee Forwards Gain on Speculation RBI Will Cut Rates
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-14T12:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/rupee-declines-on-concern-inflation-will-limit-rbi-easing-room.html
India’s onshore rupee forwards rose
on speculation inflation slower than 7 percent will allow the
central bank to reduce interest rates at a March 19 review,
boosting an economy expanding at the slowest pace in a decade.  Investors such as ING Groep NV had been concerned that
 consumer prices , which rose more than 10 percent in February for
a third straight month, would push the benchmark inflation rate
to at least 7 percent.  Wholesale price-based inflation 
accelerated to 6.84 percent last month from 6.62 percent in
January, a government report showed today.  The Reserve Bank of India will “opt for a 25 basis point
cut in next week’s policy” meeting, economists at Deutsche Bank
AG, including Mumbai-based Kaushik Das, predicted in a report
today. “Though we are concerned that the window for policy
easing could be closing if inflation pressures don’t abate
further and the current-account deficit does not improve.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards advanced 0.2 percent to
55.32 per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were at 55.43
versus 55.38. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  The rupee ended at 54.3675 per dollar in the spot market
compared with 54.3075 yesterday, Bloomberg data show. It swung
between losses of as much as 0.4 percent and gains amounting to
0.3 percent today. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 9.05 percent.  ‘Fragile’ Sentiment  India ’s government predicts gross domestic product will
increase 5 percent in the year through March 2013, the slowest
pace since 2003. The pickup in inflation reported today is due
to higher fuel costs as the government looks to reduce
subsidies, Barclays Plc said in a report, adding that stripping
this out would provide a number closer to 6.3 percent.  Rupee sentiment is still “fragile,” according to a report
from Westpac Banking Corp. today. The shortfall in the current
account, the broadest measure of trade, is expected to be
“significantly higher” in the year through March 2013 from the
previous period’s record 4.2 percent of GDP, Reserve Bank of
India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Feb. 11. The gap is a
“greater worry” than the fiscal deficit, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said Feb. 28.  Chidambaram aims to narrow the budget deficit to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March 2014
from an estimated 5.2 percent, partly by cutting subsidies.
India’s  trade deficit  shrank to $14.9 billion in February from
around $21 billion the previous month, official data showed
March 11.  “There has been some very welcome, although much delayed,
action on correcting both the current-account deficit and the
fiscal deficit over the last six months,” Subbarao said in a
speech at the London School of Economics yesterday. Economic
growth has slowed and the pace of price increases is “still
high and stubborn,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  