-- Russia Claims A- Rating in Push to Dethrone S&P, Moody’s
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-14T14:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/russia-claims-a-rating-in-push-to-dethrone-s-p-moody-s.html
Russia ’s government finally got the
grade it thinks it deserves. And it’s an A-.  Russia, which has long complained of bias by the three U.S.
rating services that dominate the industry, won the mark from
Moscow-based  Expert RA . The company today published the first
sovereign debt ratings issued out of Russia.  “It’s already abundantly clear that the work of all three
American agencies is directed toward inflating the U.S. rating
and lowering ratings for emerging economies,” Sergei Glazyev,
an economic adviser to President Vladimir Putin, said at a
 presentation  in the Russian capital today.  Putin in 2011 said the rankings given to Russia were an
“outrage” that increased borrowing costs for both domestic
companies and the government. The country has “more than
earned” an upgrade to within a step of A, Deputy Finance
Minister Sergei Storchak said in an interview in June.  Russia, which relies in part on U.S.-based ratings to
invest its $522 billion in foreign-currency and gold  reserves ,
should stop using credit grades issued by Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, Glazyev said.  The world’s largest energy exporter last had its debt score
changed by one of the three U.S. companies in February 2009,
when Fitch cut it one level to BBB, three steps below A and two
above junk. That came three months after S&P took the same
action. Moody’s has held Russia at Baa1, the third-lowest
investment grade, since July 2008.  U.S. Lawsuit  S&P and Moody’s have said Russia’s high reliance on  oil 
revenue, which makes the budget vulnerable to swings in
commodity prices, outweighs the low level of sovereign debt.
Russia plans to follow last year’s sale of $7 billion in
Eurobonds with another offering of the same amount in 2013.  Rating companies are also facing greater scrutiny in
developed economies, which accuse them of misleading investors
and helping ignite the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The U.S. government last month filed a lawsuit
seeking as much as $5 billion from S&P, accusing it of inflating
grades on mortgage-backed securities to win business. An
Australian court this month ordered S&P and two other companies
to pay about A$20 million ($20.7 million) to Australian towns
for losses on top-rated securities.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
That’s worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based
on more than 300 changes since 1974. Investors ignored 56
percent of Moody’s rating and outlook changes and 50 percent of
those by Standard & Poor’s.  Russia, U.S.  When judged on the basis of budget deficits, debt levels
and the stability of revenue, though, Russia should have a
higher rating than the U.S., said Glazyev, a member of the
Russian Academy of Sciences and a former lawmaker.  Expert RA gave  Germany , the U.K., the Netherlands and
Luxembourg its highest mark, AAA. The U.S.,  Canada  and  Austria 
are rated one level lower, at AA+, followed by  France  at AA and
 China  at AA-. Kazakhstan, rated above Russia by S&P and Fitch at
BBB+, earned a BBB grade.  Grigori Marchenko, chairman of Kazakhstan’s central bank,
said in December he’d boycott ratings companies until the
country wins an A rating.  Glazyev said he backed Expert RA’s  approach , which looks to
separate sovereign risk from the overall credit risk of doing
business in a country.  “Our analysts and experts are no worse than foreigners in
understanding the nature of risks in our economy,” Glazyev
said. “That’s proved in how the foreign ratings agencies work.
They lure away Russian experts. They’re using our brains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  