-- SAC Fund Manager’s Tipper Nguyen Gets One Year in Prison
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/sac-fund-manager-s-tipper-nguyen-gets-one-year-in-prison.html
An expert-networking consultant who
leaked illegal tips to former SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Noah Freeman and other portfolio managers was sentenced
to a year and a day in prison.  The term imposed yesterday for Tai Nguyen by U.S. District
Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in  New York  is almost four years
shorter than the sentence sought by prosecutors, who argued that
Nguyen corruptly used his sister, then an employee at  Abaxis
Inc. (ABAX) , to give him nonpublic information which he then sold to
fund managers including Freeman, Barai Capital Management LP
founder Samir Barai and others from 2006 to mid-2009.  Nguyen’s lawyer asked that the prison term be less than the
2 1/2 years recommended by probation officials, saying Nguyen
was a refugee from Saigon,  Vietnam , who emigrated with his
family to the U.S. in 1975.  The judge ordered Nguyen to surrender to U.S. Bureau of
Prison authorities by May 1.  “The law teaches to impose a sentence which is sufficient,
but not greater than necessary,” Reice Buchwald said. “Apart
from the history of the life of Mr. Nguyen, I accept his sincere
remorse for the unusually severe consequences that his crime
caused his family, and here it is an extended family bearing the
consequences.”  Sister Fired  Nguyen, 50, said his crimes destroyed his relationship with
his siblings and that his sister was fired from her job.  ‘I am ashamed to be here, ashamed to be sentenced,’’ Nguyen
told Reice Buchwald in court yesterday. “It’s a relief to me
that my parents are not alive to see me today.”  He said he decided to use his sister for the illegal tips
because he had lost an earlier job and was desperate to continue
having Freeman and Barai as his customers.  “When I lost my job, my best customers were Sam and
Noah,” Nguyen said. “They were always asking me for the best
information. I was wrong. Sam and Noah made money on my
recommendations in the past. But they were not satisfied. They
wanted an edge.”  Prosecutors had argued that Nguyen, president of Insight
Research LLC, deserved as long as 57 months in prison. The U.S.
said Nguyen fed tips to Freeman when he was working as a fund
manager at Sonar Capital Management LLC and continued after he
joined SAC. Barai and Freeman and their funds earned about $6.2
million as a result of the insider-trading scheme, according to
prosecutors.  Cheated System  “He conspired with talented portfolio managers who were
privileged to have graduated from this country’s best schools,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Miller  said in court papers.
“Together, they attempted to cheat the system and gain an
unfair advantage over the average investor.”  “The defendant’s sister was in a position to get extremely
good information about Abaxis and provide it to Noah Freeman and
Samir Barai for a period of years, and which resulted in a
significant windfall for them,” Miller said. “This was not
aberrant behavior, this took place over a long period of time.
This was not a one-off.”  Nguyen’s lawyer, David Wikstrom, identified Nguyen’s source
of inside information as his sister, whom he didn’t name.  ‘Weight of Punishment’  “If there is ever a person in court who felt the weight of
punishment and is significantly deterred, it is my client,”
Wikstrom said. “I ask the court to be gentle with him.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in a related
lawsuit against Nguyen, said his sibling reported directly to
the company’s chief financial officer and that her duties
included calculating the company’s quarterly revenue.  Nguyen pleaded guilty in June to a count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud  and  wire fraud  by passing material
nonpublic information about companies. Nguyen said he passed the
illegal tips to Freeman and Barai and other fund managers. The
SEC alleged Nguyen that reaped $145,000 by trading in Abaxis in
his own personal account.  Nguyen agreed to forfeit $400,000 to the U.S. as part of
his sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 12-cr-00495, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  