-- Samsung-Apple Phone Fight Creating Winner in Korean Air
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-03-15T10:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/samsung-apple-phone-fight-creating-winner-in-korean-air-freight.html
The introduction of  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy S4 smartphone has one clear winner --
Korean Air Lines Co.  Samsung Electronics may ship about 44 million of the
smartphones in the second and third quarters, according to Young Park, an analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .
A Boeing Co. 747-8 freighter plane carrying nothing else can
hold about 1 million phones.  Moving high-value goods such as a smartphone by air quickly
to various markets is important for Samsung to capture market
share when the product has maximum demand. The introduction will
likely reverse a two-year decline in freight sales at the  Seoul-
based carrier , the world’s second-biggest international cargo
airline.  “The Galaxy can provide  Korean Air (003490)  with the relief it
needs during these difficult times,” said Joo Hae Mee, an
analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. with a  buy rating  on
the airline. “While the introduction of one product isn’t
enough to make a full recovery, given the dire situation of the
cargo industry worldwide, this is positive.”  The global air-freight market shrank 1.5 percent in 2012
for a  second consecutive year  and airlines were filling less
than half of their cargo planes, according to the  International
Air Transport Association . Hurt by the economic slowdown, cargo
carriers such as  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  have turned to
high-value items like diamonds because moving low-technology
goods is adding little to profits.  Inventory at Sea  Mobile phones are one of the top three products that are
moved by air in South Korea, home to Samsung and  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  Airlines haul about $5 trillion annually of total cargo,
accounting for a third of the global trade in terms of value,
according to IATA.  Sending phones by ship on long distances, although cheaper
per unit, can be uneconomical because of the high value of
inventory in transit at sea. Still, sometimes the sea route is
preferred when urgency isn’t at stake.  Samsung, which unveiled the Galaxy S4 in New York yesterday,
will first sell the phone initially in three countries by end-
April and reach 155 nations by early May, said Chenny Kim, a
company spokeswoman. The phones will be made at factories in
South Korea,  China  and  Vietnam .  Samsung aims to take market share in the $358 billion
market from  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5, which was introduced last year.
Apple’s sales growth  last quarter  was the slowest in more than
two years.  S4 Impact  Shares of Korean Air, which counts Samsung as its  biggest
customer , dropped 0.2 percent to 42,150 won in Seoul trading
today. Samsung fell 2.6 percent to 1,480,000 won while the
benchmark Kospi Index declined 0.8 percent.  Korean Air expects the shipment of Samsung’s new Galaxy
phone will help increase cargo demand in South Korea, China and
other Asian countries, said Kim Jong Cheol, managing vice
president of Korean Air’s cargo sales and marketing division, in
an e-mail based interview.  Volumes are expected to start picking up from early next
month for the smartphone as well as materials that goes into
making it, Kim said.  “The impact of Galaxy S4’s shipment won’t be just short-
term and limited to South Korea because it could also prompt
competitors likes Apple, LG and Nokia to push for early release
of their products,” Kim said. “There’s a high possibility that
this could have positive effect on air cargo demand originating
from Asia, including China, within the second quarter.”  Cargo Fleet  Korean Air gets 1.6 percent of its revenue from Samsung,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Korean Air plans to add one  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 and 747-8
freighters this year, keeping its fleet unchanged at 27. It
currently has 23 747s, two 747-8s and two 777s cargo planes.  The nation’s biggest airline posted a  profit  of 259.6
billion won last year, helped by higher passenger numbers. This
year, the company expects cargo traffic to increase 2.1 percent,
while reducing capacity by 1.2 percent. The airline plans to
fill 79.1 percent of its cargo planes, according to its  Feb. 1 
earnings statement.  “Korean Air will benefit most from the rise of Samsung,”
said Michael Lee, a Taipei-based analyst with Primasia
Securities Co. Ltd. “This is a silver lining for the carrier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  