-- Samsung Will Release Tizen-Based Smartphone This Year
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-03-15T01:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/samsung-will-release-tizen-based-smartphone-this-year.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
biggest seller of devices using the Android operating system,
plans to release a smartphone powered by the open-source
platform Tizen as soon as August.  “The Tizen phone will be out in August or September, and
this will be in the high-end category,” Lee Young Hee,
executive vice president of Samsung’s mobile business, said
during an interview in  Seoul . “The device will be the best
product equipped with the best specifications.”  The model will be one of at least three premium handsets
released by Samsung this year -- including the Galaxy S4
unveiled yesterday and a new Galaxy Note -- to compete with
Apple Inc. and Chinese producers in a slowing market. Samsung is
among 12 companies, including  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , developing Tizen as an alternative to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android, which runs two of every three smartphones worldwide.  There currently are no Tizen devices sold globally. The
first users will have “thousands” of applications to choose
from, Chase Perrin, an official with the  San Ramon , California-
based  Tizen Association , said in an e-mail.  “Android, among other mobile operating systems, is tightly
controlled,” Perrin said. “As an open-source software
platform, Tizen is designed to make it easy to develop for a
range of devices.”  Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones, is
under pressure to develop its own software after Google, owner
of the world’s most popular search engine, acquired handset
maker Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for more than $12 billion
in May, boosting its patent portfolio.  ‘Safety Net’  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung relied on Android for 96
percent of its smartphone shipments in the third quarter,
according to Bloomberg Industries. The company released its Bada
software in 2009, and it is used primarily in lower-end
smartphones in  Europe  and  emerging markets .  Samsung’s new flagship S4 uses the latest version of
Android.  “This is just sort of a safety net,” said Doh Hyun Woo,
an analyst for Seoul-based Mirae Asset Securities. “But if
Google dominates the market just like Microsoft did in the PC
market with more than 90 percent share, it may turn totally
opposite.”  Smartphone Shipments  Samsung fell 2.4 percent to 1,484,000 won at 10:48 a.m. in
Seoul trading. The stock has gained 19 percent in the past 12
months compared with a 2.4 percent decline in the benchmark
 Kospi index .  Samsung sells about a quarter of all mobile phones
globally, according to research firm Strategy Analytics. It
shipped 213 million smartphones last year, compared with 135.8
million for Apple and 35 million for  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   Android’s share of the global smartphone market rose to
68.4 percent in 2012 from 48.7 percent a year earlier, according
to a January report by Strategy Analytics. Android and Apple’s
iOS software combined for 87.8 percent of all smartphones
shipped last year.  Huawei Technologies Co., China’s largest maker of
telecommunications equipment, is among manufacturers developing
the Tizen operating system.  “We see open source and web-based platforms, like the one
provided by Tizen, as a good collaboration opportunity,” said
Scott Sykes, a spokesman for the Shenzhen-based company. “Any
discussion on specific products is premature.”  The Tizen Association’s members also include  Panasonic
Corp. (6752) , NTT DoCoMo Inc. and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   DoCoMo, Japan’s biggest mobile phone company, expects to
release a Tizen handset in the second half of the year.  “Android’s challenge for 2013 will be to defend its
leadership, not only against Apple, but also against an emerging
wave of hungry challengers that includes Microsoft, BlackBerry,
Firefox and Tizen,”  Strategy Analytics  said in its Jan. 28
report.  Mozilla Corp. is developing the Firefox smartphone
operating system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  