-- Scana Reactors to Cost $10 Billion More Than Gas Plants
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-03-14T23:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/scana-s-reactors-to-cost-consumers-10-billion-over-40-years.html
Scana Corp. (SCG) , owner of South
Carolina’s largest power and natural gas utility, would save
consumers almost $10 billion over 40 years by scrapping two
nuclear reactors it’s constructing and instead building gas-
fired plants, according to a report.  The case for Scana’s Summer nuclear project “could not be
more abysmal for ratepayers,” Mark Cooper, an economic analyst
with the Vermont Law School’s Institute for Energy and the
Environment, said in a statement today. The reactors face $283
million in new construction costs, recession-flattened demand
and a 73 percent drop in gas prices since regulators approved
the project in 2009, according to the report.  Scana, based in Cayce, South Carolina, responded that the
$10.2 billion project is under-budget and will help the power
company avoid becoming overly dependent on a single fuel, with
nuclear energy, coal and natural gas each producing about one-
third of its electricity.  “We continue to believe that nuclear power is the best
low-cost, long-term solution for our state’s growing energy
needs,” Eric Boomhower, a spokesman for Scana, said in an e-
mail.  South Carolina  regulators have reviewed and approved
Scana’s new nuclear strategy “numerous times,” Boomhower said.
“Our construction work on the new units is going well,” with
projected costs about $615 million less than the $6.3 billion
that Scana anticipated in 2008, he added.  Little Incentive  The first reactor at the site near Jenkinsville, South
Carolina, is scheduled to begin generating power in 2017,
according to Scana’s website. Santee Cooper, the state-owned
power and water utility, owns 45 percent of the project.  Cooper said the reactors would cost consumers $9.4 billion
more than power from combined-cycle gas plants over 40 years,
with costs rising if the nuclear project runs over-budget.  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s proposed Levy County nuclear reactors in central
 Florida  would cost $4 billion more than gas plants, according to
the report.  Regulated power companies face little incentive to use
cheaper gas and renewable energy alternatives because ratepayers
bear project costs, not investors, Cooper said. South Carolina,
Florida and  Georgia , where  Southern Co. (SO)  is building two
reactors, allow utilities to charge consumers for construction
costs as they are incurred.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  