-- Scene in D.C.: Kissinger, Rometty, Tillerson, Scowcroft
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-14T14:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/scene-in-d-c-kissinger-rometty-tillerson-scowcroft.html
Everyone had a Brent Scowcroft
story last night.  Former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger  said he and the
onetime national security adviser had been friends for more than
40 years. Rex Tillerson, chairman and chief executive officer of
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , said he got to know the general through the
Scowcroft Group and other organizations.  They were among guests at the Ritz-Carlton in Washington
for a tribute dinner where Scowcroft, 87, received the Lifetime
International Statesman and Business Advocate Award from the
 National Defense University Foundation .  “He’s a giant of the 20th century” and “architect of the
Gulf War,” said Philip Pillsbury, a retired Foreign Service
officer and a great grandson of  Pillsbury Co. (GIS)  founder Charles
Alfred Pillsbury.  “I was a nobody, but he treated me like part of the
delegation,” said  Ashton Carter , deputy secretary of defense,
reminiscing on a trip the two took to Moscow in 1983.  Guests mingling during the cocktail reception included
Ginni Rometty, chairman and president of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ; The Atlantic’s Steve Clemons, sitting with
Kissinger and his wife, Nancy; and Ralph D. Crosby, the former
chairman of EADS North America, who noted that Scowcroft was “a
fellow West Pointer”; and Deputy Secretary of Energy Daniel Poneman.  EADS CEO  Sean O’Keefe  was present, as was Deloitte’s CEO of
federal government services, Robin Lineberger, who attended with
his wife, Terry.  Guests enjoyed a meal of rare seared tuna, pomegranate
glazed duck breast and chocolate tart with peppermint ice cream.  The tributes went late into the evening, prompting
Scowcroft to joke that breakfast was about to be served when he
delivered the closing remarks.  Health Fitness  Herschel Walker, Mia Hamm and Olympic beach-volleyball
player April Ross were some of the athletes at the party Tuesday
night on the eve of  National Health Through Fitness Day .  The reception at the U.S. Capitol Visitor Center was hosted
by the Sports and Fitness Industry Association, a trade
organization for companies such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and Converse Inc.  Paul Rosenlund, an attorney with Duane Morris LLP, said he
would show former Los Angeles Dodger Jeff Kent around Capitol
Hill.  Kent anticipated learning about the legislative process
while lobbying for federal funding for physical-education
programs in schools and advocating sports as preventive health
care.  “I’m a sponge,” he said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 