-- Euro-Crisis Redux Seen as Greatest Threat to Germany
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-03-14T23:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/schaeuble-cites-falling-yields-telling-europe-to-stay-the-course.html
A resurgence of the debt crisis
that scarred the euro-area over the past 3 1/2 years is the
biggest threat facing  Germany  in an election year, policy makers
and leading economists said.  With sovereign bond yields declining in countries such as
Italy and Ireland, governments across  Europe  cannot be lulled
into thinking they can let up on their budget-cutting efforts,
economists including Deutsche Bank AG senior adviser  Thomas Mayer  and Holger Schmieding of Berenberg Bank said during
Bloomberg’s first Germany Day conference in Berlin yesterday.  “No nonsense,” Schmieding said during a panel discussion
at the event, urging governments not to “backtrack in any way
on the achievements” made so far. “If any country tried now to
undo austerity, it would likely shatter confidence, it would
probably spark another row in Europe, another wave of the euro
crisis, and that wave of crisis would leave us all with less
business investment, less jobs across the euro area.”  Policy makers including  Chancellor Angela Merkel , Europe’s
dominant political leader, risk complacency as they use a period
of relative market calm to shift from crisis-fighting to longer-
term efforts to bolster economic growth and combat record levels
of unemployment in countries such as  Spain  and  Greece . Leaders
resume a two-day summit in Brussels today that was due to tackle
Cyprus, the fifth euro country to call for outside aid.  Cyprus ‘Bail-In’  German lawmakers mindful of federal elections on Sept. 22
that will determine whether Merkel wins a third term are likely
to back a bailout for Cyprus, said  Otto Fricke , the budget
spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s Free Democratic junior
coalition partner. Investors will probably have to contribute
the rescue, he said.  “I’m not sure whether we’ll have a decision on Friday,”
Fricke told the conference. “If we have one, it’ll probably be
one which is not only a bailout but also a bail-in.”  Nine months after Cyprus first called for international
help, other concerns remain in the euro region, with Italy in
political limbo following its inconclusive election last month
and French President  Francois Hollande  appealing for fiscal
“flexibility” to allow more time to bring down his country’s
budget deficit.  France , as Europe’s No. 2 economy after Germany, poses a
“serious economic problem,” said Schmieding. Across Europe, he
called for “the political will to see the process through,”
saying that “we have to get through this year until we reap the
rewards.”  Schaeuble’s Call  Europe must hold to austerity to overcome the recession
engulfing much of the region even amid signs the worst of the
debt crisis is easing, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a keynote speech at the event. He cited yield
spreads that have “sharply declined” as budget deficits have
narrowed and labor costs decline.  Italian 10-year yields declined 2 basis points to 4.64
percent yesterday, while the yield on similar Spanish bond debt
gained the most in two weeks. Spain’s 10-year yield rose to 4.87
percent after dropping to 4.70 percent on March 12, the lowest
level since November 2010.  In Ireland, the government this week sold its first 10-year
bond since the country’s 2010 bailout, and five-year borrowing
costs have dropped to the lowest in almost eight years.  “We have no grounds to fall into depression,” Schaeuble
said. “If we stay strong and plow ahead on this path, we will
further strengthen the confidence that we’ve regained in the
financial markets.”  ‘Stupid Course’  Schaeuble rejected the U.K. media’s portrayal of the
“stupid course of austerity” advocated by Germany, saying that
in reality, Europe’s biggest economy is conducting “growth-
friendly consolidation” with a fiscal policy that is fostering
market confidence.  Competitiveness has gained in the past 15 years, the
finances of Germany’s 16 states are “relatively solid” and the
labor market is “robust,” Schaeuble said. Germany enjoys the
lowest rate of youth unemployment in Europe and as a result
wants to attract young workers from across the region.  “No one is snickering at Germany’s economic model now,”
Schaeuble said.  Looking ahead, cheaper energy may give U.S. companies an
advantage over German competitors, Morgan Stanley & Co. chief
European economist  Elga Bartsch  told the conference.  ‘Cheap Energy’  Merkel’s plan to phase out nuclear power and a U.S.-
European Union trade pact that both sides say they want to
negotiate raise the question of “whether Germany will actually
remain this competitive in a situation where the U.S. is sitting
on a lot of cheap energy,” Bartsch said.  Even so, “the thing that really worries me most when it
comes to the outlook for Germany is also the European crisis,”
Bartsch said.  The euro area has to make use of the window of opportunity
opened by ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge of unlimited bond-
buying to defend the 17-nation currency, said Thomas Mayer.  The ECB’s actions have eased pressure somewhat and have
given countries some room to “let up a little bit” on
additional austerity, Mayer told the conference. “But you
should not waste that moment now, where you have a little bit of
breathing room, to attack structural rigidities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  