-- Securitization Group Takes First Public Action Since Defections
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-14T17:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/securitization-group-takes-first-public-action-since-defections.html
The  American Securitization Forum ,
the trade group thrown into turmoil this month after most of its
board quit in a dispute with its executive director, took its
first public action since the defections, sending a comment
letter to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The 24-page  letter  was sent today to the international
regulatory group as it considers revising its framework for bank
capital requirements tied to securities backed by loans and
leases, the New York-based ASF said in an e-mailed statement.
Among its points, the organization said it argued in the letter
that capital charges shouldn’t differ for financial companies in
different areas.  “The securitization markets are important sources of
capital for both consumers and businesses,”  Tom Deutsch , the
group’s executive director, said in the statement. “Bank
capital requirements must be appropriate for the risks
associated with securitization exposures.”  The body was roiled this month by the exodus of board
members and companies including  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and law firm
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, six people familiar with the
matter said this month, asking not to be named because the
dispute isn’t public.  The ASF said in its statement today that its members
include more than “300 firms, including issuers, investors,
servicers, financial intermediaries, rating agencies, financial
guarantors, legal and accounting firms, and other professional
organizations involved in securitization transactions.” In a
January statement, the group said it had more than 330 members
fitting a similar description.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  