-- Senators Plan to Block Singapore Institute Funds in Probe
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-03-15T04:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/senators-plan-to-block-singapore-institute-funds-in-probe.html
U.S. Senators  Max Baucus  and Jon Tester proposed to block funding to a Singapore institute until
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation is certified to have full
data access in the probe of American research engineer Shane
Todd’s death.  The two Montana Democrats introduced the  amendment  to stop
contracts, loans and other funds from going to Singapore’s
Institute of Microelectronics, where Todd had worked, Baucus’s
office said in an e-mailed statement. The institute, a unit of
the state-owned Agency for Science, Technology and Research,
received almost $500,000 in sub-grants from the U.S. Defense
Department in 2010, according to the statement dated yesterday.  The senators propose to block funding until the U.S.
Attorney General certifies the FBI has full access to all
evidence and records in the probe into Todd’s death. His death
may be tied to one of the company’s projects and possible
technology transfers to  China , his father Rick Todd has said.  “IME takes the protection of intellectual property and its
contractual obligations very seriously, and maintains
comprehensive intellectual property policies and practices to
ensure compliance with regulations,” the institute said in a
March 14 statement on its  website .  The institute said it welcomes a team from the U.S. to
audit its processes to verify that there was no wrongful
transfer of controlled U.S. technology.  The city-state will hold a “public and fully transparent
coroner’s inquiry” into Todd’s death, Singapore Foreign
Minister K. Shanmugam  said  after a meeting with Baucus on March
12 in  Washington . There were no illegal transfers of technology
at the institute, which is subject to “rigorous internal
audits,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in  Singapore  at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  