-- Senegal Seeks to Become West African Hub for Islamic Finance
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2013-03-14T13:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/senegal-plans-to-become-west-african-hub-for-islamic-finance-1-.html
Senegal  is trying to position
itself as a center for Islamic finance in West Africa, where
about 52 percent of the population is Muslim, as the government
pursues changes that will enable the first sales of sukuk.  Senegal still needs to adjust its policies to be able to
sell debt that complies with Islam’s ban on interest after
postponing a plan last year to sell such bonds, said Mouhamadou
Lamine Mbacke, managing director of the African Institute of
Islamic Finance, a Dakar-based company that advises governments
and financial institutions and is working with the authorities
on the rule changes. About 95 percent of the nation’s population
of 12.7 million is Muslim.  South Africa and Nigeria, the continent’s largest
economies, are among nations looking to  Islamic finance  to raise
money for development and both have rules in place to sell the
debt. In the eight-nation West African currency union, Senegal
stands out for relative stability after electing a new president
last year and the need to finance everything from energy to
infrastructure and agriculture, according to Mbacke.  “As we have relative political stability, we want
investors to invest in Senegal and then use Senegal as a place
from which to invest in West Africa,” Mbacke said in a March 8
interview in his office in Dakar. “Dakar could become a hub for
Islamic finance.”  Senegal, with a $14 billion economy, is making a push with
the global market for Islam-compliant financing set to double to
$3 trillion by 2015, according to Standard & Poor’s. The U.K. is
considering reviving plans to sell Islamic bonds as part of an
initiative to boost Britain’s role as a center for Shariah-
compliant financing, according to a Treasury statement March 11.  ‘Prospecting’ Markets  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , a Johannesburg-based unit of Barclays Plc,
offers Islamic banking services and is “prospecting in West
African markets,” Mbacke said. “As far as market potential,
West Africa is better positioned than South Africa because it
has a bigger Muslim population.”  In South Africa, less than 2 percent of the 52 million
people in the country are Muslim, while Nigeria’s population of
160 million is split roughly between Christianity and Islam.  The market for bonds that comply with Islam’s ban on
interest is expanding as borrowing costs plunge. The average
yield on sovereign sukuk tumbled 126 basis points, or 1.26
percentage point, last year to 2.65 percent, according to the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Sovereign US Dollar Sukuk Index. The yield was
2.87 percent March 12, the index shows.  Falling Yields  Yields on Senegal’s $500 million of 8.75 percent bonds due
May 2021 fell 2.4 basis points to 5.84 percent by 1:36 p.m. in
Dakar, down from 5.93 percent at the end of 2012. Average
emerging-market dollar-denominated bond yields have risen 1
basis point this year to 5.53 percent March 12, after falling to
a record-low 5.49 percent Jan. 23, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Nigeria approved rules for selling sukuk on Feb. 28, the
nation’s Securities and Exchange Commission said in an e-mailed
replay to questions yesterday. South Africa completed changes to
finance laws last year and plans to raise $5 billion in foreign
debt over the next three years that may include a sukuk
issuance, National Treasury said in October.  The Gambia, which shares borders with Senegal on three
sides, sells three-month sukuk along with Treasury bills at its
weekly central bank auctions. At a sale yesterday, the sukuk
yielded 9.61 percent, compared with 9.52 percent for regular
debt of the same duration.  Senegal, the second-biggest economy in the West African
currency union after Ivory Coast, is set to see growth
accelerate to 4.3 percent this year from 3.7 percent in 2012,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  New President  Senegal ranks 155 out of 187 countries on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures indicators
including education, income and gender equality. It’s ranked the
highest among countries in the West African union, a group that
includes  Mali , where French and African troops are battling for
control of two-thirds of the country’s territory that was
overrun by Islamist insurgents last year.  Senegal elected a new president in 2012 after protests
against attempts by Abdoulaye Wade to remain in office.
President Macky Sall has started investigations into the
previous government, reviewed state institutions and cut
spending to boost investor confidence. Selling sukuk would help
lure investment to the country from areas such as the Persian
Gulf, said Mbacke.  “Raising a sukuk was giving Senegal a lot of visibility to
the country,” Mbacke said. “Investors in the Gulf would keep
an eye on Senegal and that would help us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  