-- Serbia Needs to Agree on Fiscal Policy Goals for New IMF Loan
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-03-14T14:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/serbia-needs-to-agree-on-fiscal-policy-goals-for-new-imf-loan.html
Serbia ’s government needs to agree
with the International Monetary Fund on policy adjustments in
the coming weeks if it wants to start talks on a new loan
program, the Washington-based lender said.  An accord is needed on a “credible fiscal adjustment
package, which includes credible fiscal consolidation and
structural reforms,” for discussions on a new credit to begin
during an IMF mission to Belgrade in May, IMF resident
representative Bogdan Lissovolik told reporters at a business
forum in Kopaonik, Serbia, today.  “We don’t really have a fixed date but sometime in the
next few weeks,” Lissovolik said. “We think there’s a good
window of opportunity early in the mandate” of the government
“to advance on the reform agenda.”  The Balkan nation of 7.3 million people, where one in four
is formally out of work, is struggling with its second recession
in three years. Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s six-month-old
coalition government is seeking to curb price increases and
restart growth after the economy contracted an estimated 1.7
percent in 2012.  The IMF suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan with
Serbia in February 2012 on evidence the previous government was
slipping on deficit and debt targets. It told Serbia in November
to cut debt without choking economic growth, citing an
unsustainable fiscal gap, volatile inflation and high
unemployment.  Dacic wants to negotiate a precautionary loan program as it
assures investors the IMF approves of the government’s policies
even though the country doesn’t intend to draw any of the funds
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  