-- Serbia Can't Snub `Structural Reforms,' WB's Brefort Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-03-14T15:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/serbia-can-t-snub-structural-reforms-wb-s-brefort-says.html
Serbia can’t neglect “structural
reforms” after borrowing costs dropped and the government
should carefully weigh its role in the economy to preserve
macroeconomic stability, a  World Bank  official said.  While the success of Serbia to raise external funding to
cover its  budget deficit  is “good news,” lower  interest rates 
“should not be used as an excuse to avoid structural reforms”
at a time when public debt is extremely high,’’ the World Bank’s
resident representative, Loup Brefort, told a business forum in
the Serbian mountain resort of Kopaonik today.  “We all know that markets are feeble and it’s not time to
lose sight of this fact,” Brefort said. “The government has
taken some very, very bold steps, but concern is that the steps
were mostly one-off.”  Junk-rated Serbia raised $3.25 billion in three Eurobond
sales between September and February to finance the budget
deficit and repay debts, taking advantage of optimism about a
global economic recovery while extra liquidity from central
banks pushes investors to higher-yielding assets.  Consolidating Finances  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s eight-month-old Cabinet raised
the  sales tax  by two percentage points and increased excise
duties in October to bolster budget revenue and narrow the
deficit as part of a pledge to consolidate public finances,
balance the budget through 2016 and lead the country out of its
second recession in three years.  “The tax rates cannot be raised each year and the erosion
of standards of living for wage earners in the public sector and
pensioners cannot be repeated indefinitely,” he said. The time
is right for “politically brave” measures toward fiscal
consolidation as well as a clear “action plan,” he said.  The state should seek to ensure macroeconomic stability and
improve the business climate equally for all firms. While
efforts to expand the economy have a “fiscal cost” and changes
bear a “political cost,”  Serbia  will need to find its “own
dosage of reforms and state aid to growth” to keep fiscal
targets on track, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  