-- Sharp to Get 30 Billion Yen in Loans From Three Banks
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e ,   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-03-14T03:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/sharp-to-get-30-billion-yen-in-loans-from-three-banks.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker struggling to recover from a record loss, will
get 30 billion yen ($313 million) in loans from three banks this
week, three people familiar with the matter said.  Resona Bank Ltd.,  Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. (8411)  and Mitsubishi
UFJ Trust & Banking Corp. will each lend 10 billion yen, the
people said, asking not to be named as the agreement is private.
The banks will join a 360 billion-yen syndicated loan set up by
Sharp’s main lenders Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., which matures at the end of June,
with the total amount remaining unchanged, the people said.  Sharp is selling assets and has formed capital alliances
with  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to raise funds
after posting a 376 billion-yen  net loss  in the year ended March
2012 amid slumping demand for its televisions and display
panels. The company is forecasting a 450 billion-yen loss for
the year ending March 31 and has 200 billion yen in debt
maturing Sept. 30.  “It can be interpreted as a sign of a more supportive
stance” by lenders, said Takao Matsuzaka, a Tokyo-based credit
analyst at Daiwa Securities Co. “The collaboration on panels
between Samsung and Sharp may have enhanced Sharp’s reputation
among lenders.”  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to
comment on agreements with specific lenders.  “We are hoping to get as many financial institutions as
possible to join the syndicated lending initiated by our main
banks,” she said today by phone.  Samsung, Qualcomm  Kensuke Suzuki, a spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ Trust in
 Tokyo , declined to comment on the loan agreement. Shinya Morita,
a spokesman for Resona, and Michio Nagano, a spokesman for
Mizuho Trust, also declined to comment.  The loan agreement was reported yesterday by Kyodo.  Sharp said March 6 it agreed to sell 10.4 billion yen of
stock to Samsung. The Suwon, South Korea-based company, the
world’s largest maker of TVs and smartphones, said the
investment will secure a supply of liquid-crystal displays from
the Japanese manufacturer.  In December, Sharp turned to Qualcomm, the biggest maker of
mobile-phone semiconductors, for as much as 9.9 billion yen in
new capital. The U.S. chipmaker has so far invested 4.9 billion
yen as part of the two-step transaction.  Sharp is also seeking an investment from  Taiwan ’s Foxconn
Technology Group, founded by billionaire Terry Gou, which
initially agreed in March 2012 to buy a 9.9 percent stake for
550 yen a share. The deal floundered after Sharp’s stock plunged
for seven straight months, reaching last year’s low of 143 yen
on Oct. 17.  Mizuho Corporate Bank  and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ are
set to extend the due date of the 360 billion-yen loan package
from June 30, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said
in January. The company must turn to an operating profit in the
second half and forecast a net income next fiscal year to
receive the funding, the person said.  Sharp pledged as collateral a total of 741 billion yen in
assets as of Sept. 30, up from 19 billion yen six months
earlier, according to its quarterly report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  