-- SNB Keeps Up Franc Defense as Euro Crisis Risks Persist
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-14T12:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/snb-vows-to-keep-up-franc-defense-as-euro-crisis-risks-persist.html
The Swiss central bank pledged to
keep up its defense of the franc cap after almost doubling its
currency holdings to shield the country from the fallout caused
by the euro zone’s crisis.  The Swiss National Bank cut its forecasts for inflation and
said it will take all necessary measures to keep the “high”
franc within the limit of 1.20 per euro. In its quarterly
monetary policy assessment today, the Zurich-based central bank
also kept the band for its  benchmark interest rate  at zero
percent to 0.25 percent, as forecast by all 22 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  The SNB, led by President Thomas Jordan, put the ceiling in
place in September 2011 after investors pushed the franc close
to parity with the euro and threatened to choke off growth. The
central bank’s campaign to defend the cap has led to foreign
currency holdings ballooning to more than 400 billion francs,
almost three quarters of annual output. It spent 188 billion
francs on interventions last year, 10 times the 2011 amount.  “The inflation path is being shifted down, but overall the
picture stays the same,” said Alexander Koch, an economist at
UniCredit “Since the cap was set in 2011, their stance has been
relatively unchanged. They’ve made clear that the ceiling is not
for fine-tuning, and I expect the SNB’s stance to continue.”  Far From Exit  The franc fell as much as 0.2 percent after the decision
and was trading little changed at 1.23470 against the euro at
1:30 p.m. in Zurich. It has weakened 2.6 percent since a
European Central Bank pledge to defend the integrity of the euro
area in July eased tensions, and just one of 48 economists in a
Bloomberg survey sees the franc breaching the cap this year.  Jordan said in a newspaper interview on Feb. 27 that an
exit from the cap was still far off given that the euro-zone
crisis could flare up again. He today confirmed that assessment.  “Downside risks to the Swiss economy remain
considerable,” Jordan said in Aarau. “There is a risk that
tensions in the euro area will increase again.”  Shielding Switzerland from recession was one of the reasons
the SNB gave for setting the cap on the franc. So far the
economy has avoided the downturn that has beset the euro area,
its largest trading partner.  Weak Prices  Growth is expected to be 1 percent to 1.5 percent this
year, unchanged from its December forecast, the SNB said today.
It sees  prices  falling 0.2 percent this year, and rising 0.2
percent in 2014, compared with a December forecast of minus 0.1
percent this year and an increase of 0.4 percent next year. In 
2015, prices are predicted to increase 0.7 percent. The SNB 
does not expect a breach of its price stability threshold -- 
positive inflation below 2 percent -- in the next three years.  The economy will expand 1.2 percent this year and then
accelerate to 1.6 percent in 2014, the median forecast of 25
estimates in the Bloomberg monthly survey published today
showed. They expect inflation of 0.2 percent this year and of
0.9 percent in 2014.  While Switzerland’s jobless rate has stayed at a near two-
year high since December, at 3.1 percent it’s far below the euro
area’s average of 11.9 percent. Indicators -- including the
purchasing managers’ index for the industrial sector -- signal
economic expansion for Switzerland in the months ahead.  The lower cost of imported goods due to the franc is
weighing on consumer prices. Prices continued their longest
slump in at least four decades in February, falling for a 17th
month. The SNB termed the risk of deflation acute when it set
the ceiling on the franc.  Deflation ‘Threat’  The SNB will stick to its current policy “as long as
deflation remains a real threat,” Vontobel Chief Economist Ralf Wiedenmann said. “Remember that both the headline and core
inflation rates are negative.”  Switzerland last month unveiled a capital buffer for banks 
to guard against a real-estate bubble. The SNB, which pushed 
for the measure, will continue to monitor the property market 
closely, it said today.  The franc has weakened 2.3 percent since the start of the
year in response to an easing of the region’s debt crisis. It
fell as low as 1.2569 in January, its weakest since May 2011.  The SNB’s interference with the franc made it the world’s
leader of foreign exchange-rate management in 2012, overtaking
 China , according to a BGOV Barometer published in December.  ‘Expensive Currency’  “The Swiss franc on long-term valuation metrics is by far
the most expensive currency within the G-10 and I think that’s
why they’ve been able to get away with keeping that 1.20 floor
on euro-Swiss,” Michael Sneyd, a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas, said at the Bloomberg FX Debate in  London 
yesterday.  Last month’s inconclusive Italian election piqued jitters
among investors again and the franc climbed, hitting a six-week
high against the euro.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the franc to
depreciate against the euro in coming years. They see it at 1.30
in 2014 and at 1.35 in 2015.  Additional steps economists have said that the central bank
could take include charging banks for the deposits they keep on
sight at the central bank, or forcing them to charge offshore
clients for holding deposits in Swiss francs.  The chance of such steps being enacted is regarded as
somewhat remote, given their impracticability, economists in a
Bloomberg survey indicated, while SNB Governing Board member
Fritz Zurbruegg said last month that the central bank won’t be
introducing negative rates.  “If things go wild, it could force banks in Switzerland to
impose capital controls or negative deposit rates,” said Julius
Baer Chief Economist Janwillem Acket. “But these measures are
highly suboptimal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  