-- Southern Air Wins Judge’s Approval to Exit Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-03-14T19:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/southern-air-wins-judge-s-approval-to-exit-bankruptcy.html
Southern Air Holdings Inc., an air-
cargo company that transported troops into  Afghanistan , won
court permission to exit bankruptcy under the control of a group
of lenders lead by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  approved the
company’s reorganization plan today, less than six months after
seeking court protection from creditors. Its former owner, Oak
Hill Capital Partners LP, will retain 17.5 percent of the
company and appoint one person to the new, five-member board,
Southern Air attorney Brian Rosen, with Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP, said after the hearing.  “This plan was the product of a long and hard-fought
negotiation,” Rosen told Sontchi today in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware . After unsecured creditors objected to the
original plan filed last year, Oak Hill agreed to increase the
amount of money it put back into Southern Air to boost
recoveries.  The company filed bankruptcy in September, blaming cuts in
U.S.  defense spending  and a drawdown of troops in Afghanistan.
Southern Air provides aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance
services to airline customers, and transportation services to
the U.S. military. The company was founded in Miami in 1947,
according to court records. Oak Hill  acquired  the company, now
based in Norwalk,  Connecticut , in 2007.  The company will be controlled by the lender group, which
will appoint three members to the board. The fifth board member
will be appointed by the company chief executive officer.  The case is In re Southern Air Holdings Inc., 12-12690,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 