-- South Sudan to Truck Oil Through Ethiopia, Djibouti for Export
-- B y   W i l l i a m   L l o y d   G e o r g e
-- 2013-03-14T11:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/south-sudan-to-truck-oil-through-ethiopia-djibouti-for-export.html
South  Sudan ’s government said it
signed an agreement with Ethiopia and  Djibouti  that may enable
the East African nation to export oil by truck from July, while
a study on a pipeline linking the three countries is completed.  An accord signed on March 12 in the Ethiopian capital,
Addis Ababa, envisages crude being exported via Djibouti’s Red
Sea port of Douraleh, South Sudan Deputy Petroleum Minister
Elizabeth James Bol said in an interview today. Douraleh is
1,469 kilometers (913 miles) northeast of Juba, the South
Sudanese capital.  “We need to wait for a technical assessment to be done
first, but Ethiopia and Djibouti agreed for the oil to be
exported by trucks through their countries,” Bol said.  South Sudan is considering building two pipelines, one via
 Ethiopia  and another across  Kenya  to the port of Lamu, as an
alternative to the conduit that runs through neighboring Sudan.
South Sudan halted oil production in January 2012 after accusing
Sudan’s government of stealing $815 million worth of its crude,
a charge the Khartoum administration denied. The two nations
agreed on March 12 to resume production and exports.  ILF Consulting Engineers of  Germany  has been asked by South
Sudan, Djibouti and Ethiopia to carry out a feasibility study on
the plan to export oil by truck, Bol said. The study will
examine issues including the suitability of the countries’ roads
and is expected to be completed in four months, she said.  ILF’s main focus will be to assess the feasibility and
engineering plan for the pipeline to Douraleh, Bol said.  “The long-term goal is the pipeline,” she said. “Sending
the oil by truck is only a short-term measure till the pipeline
is finished.”  South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July 2011, taking control
of about three-quarters of the formerly united country’s output
of 490,000 barrels of oil a day. Oil in South Sudan is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp., Petroliam Nasional Bhd
of Malaysia and India’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  