-- Spain Gas Resources Estimated at 70 Years Domestic Demand
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-03-14T13:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/spain-gas-resources-estimated-at-70-years-domestic-demand.html
Spain , which imports about 99
percent of its natural gas, has enough prospective resources of
the fuel to satisfy current demand for 70 years if shale is
developed, according to a trade group for oil and gas companies.  In what it called the most comprehensive study to date, the
association said today in Madrid that preliminary estimates show
about 80 percent of that gas can be found in shale rock. A total
of 2.05 trillion cubic meters are discoverable and could be
pumped commercially at a value of about 700 million euros ($900
million) based on current market prices, according to the
Spanish Association of Companies in Investigation, Exploration &
Production of Hydrocarbons and Underground Storage.  International oil and gas companies such as  Canada ’s  BNK
Petroleum Inc. (BKX)  are seeking to produce the commodity in three
regions of Spain, primarily by using hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking. They’re promoting shale gas development as a way to
cut Spain’s dependence on imports and lower local prices.  “We have potentially spectacular resources,” said Juan
Carlos Munoz-Conde, the trade group’s vice president and a BNK
civil engineer. Fracking is a “safe and thoroughly proven”
technology, he said at a briefing for journalists that was
targeted by anti-fracking protesters outside.  About 27 investigation permits were requested in 2012 and
19 were granted, most seeking to produce gas using fracking,
according to a report from Spain’s Council of Mining Engineers.  “We will chase opportunities to extract oil and gas
without remorse as long as they comply with environmental
restrictions,” Industry Ministry Jose Manuel Soria said at a
briefing Feb. 14 at the IESE business school in  Madrid .  Basque Region Rich  The most advanced shale-gas exploration projects are
located in the Basque-Cantabrian basin in the north of Spain and
benefit from proximity to water sources, Angel Camara, a
chemical engineering and fuels professor and co-writer of a
study by Spain’s Council of Mining Engineers study, said on
March 11.  Spain is the most arid country in the European Union,
according to the  United Nations  World Water Assessment
Programme. A typical shale gas well will use as much as 30,000
cubic meters of water, though some of it can later be treated
and reused, according to  data  from Shale Gas Espana, an
industry-backed forum.  BNK along with R2 Energy Inc, Hidrocarburos de Euskadi SA,
Heyco Energy Group and  San Leon Energy Plc (SLE)  sponsor Shale Gas
Espana and are some of the companies with granted or requested
permits to produce shale gas.  The explorers trade group includes among its members Repsol
SA and Cairn Energy Plc of the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  