-- Spain Too Fast to Evict in Mortgage Disputes, EU Court Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-14T16:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/spain-too-fast-to-evict-in-mortgage-disputes-eu-court-rules-1-.html
The European Union’s highest court
struck down parts of Spanish mortgage law, saying they lead to
unfair evictions of some consumers challenging the terms of
their home loans.  National courts must now be allowed to ask for eviction
cases to be halted pending separate decisions on whether the
underlying loan agreements are illegal, the  European Court  of
Justice in Luxembourg ruled today.  “That applies all the more strongly” in cases where “the
 mortgage  property is the family home of the consumer whose
rights have been infringed,” the court said in a statement. The
current Spanish system limits consumer protection “to payment
of damages and interest and does not make it possible to prevent
definitive and irreversible loss of the home.”  The Spanish government has proposed a battery of measures
to reduce the burden of defaults and foreclosures amid protests
and suicides linked to home seizures as the country deals with
the second-highest  unemployment  rate in the European Union. The
economy, in its second recession since 2009, will contract 1.4
percent this year as the  unemployment rate  rises to 26.3 percent
by year-end, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The current rules were “drawn up many years ago,” Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told reporters in Brussels today. “There
is a Royal decree law before parliament to improve this
situation and we’ll endeavour to reconcile that with what the
law asks of us.”  Mortgage Terms  Today’s decision may mean that banks have to set more
benign mortgage terms for customers in the future because it
highlights the current mismatch in the relation they have with
clients, Miguel Cordoba, an economics professor at CEU San Pablo
University in  Madrid , said in an e-mailed statement.  It “gives
judges reasons to stop evictions so that at least temporarily
families can keep living in their main home.”  The ruling was triggered by a case involving Mohamed Aziz,
a Spanish resident who was evicted in January 2011 after failing
to make payments on a 138,000 euro ($179,000) loan. His bank
took enforcement measures and his house was put up for auction.
No bids were made and, under the terms of Spanish law, the bank
took ownership of the property for 50 percent of its value.  Eviction Process  The local Spanish court where the case is pending sought
the EU court’s guidance on whether the national rules are in
line with the bloc’s law on unfair terms in consumer contracts.  The ruling “is going in a direction that the commission
wished,” Michele Cercone, a European Commission spokesman, told
reporters in Brussels today. The EU regulator will contact
Spanish authorities to see how they intend to proceed, he said.  While the decision “will allow judges to pause some
eviction processes” it “will have a very limited impact for
the majority” said  Fernando Encinar , co-founder of
Idealista.com,  Spain ’s largest property website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  