-- Spice’s Modi Holds $200 Million on View Dollar Will Appreciate
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-03-14T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/spice-s-modi-holds-200-million-on-view-dollar-will-appreciate.html
Spice Global Chairman Bhupendra Kumar Modi said he raised his U.S. dollar holdings to $200
million, or a 10th of his $2 billion net worth, as he expects
the currency to appreciate against the euro, pound and yen.  Modi said there’s a “currency war” and many countries are
following the U.S. in measures that would depreciate their
currencies. This may help drive gains in the dollar, prompting
him to boost his holdings in the currency, he said. He declined
to quantify the increase.  The yen, pound and euro have fallen against the dollar this
year amid signs that the U.S. economic outlook is improving. The
U.S. Federal Reserve has faced criticism from foreign officials,
including Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who in
October, said that its monetary policies have weakened the
dollar, threatening to fuel a “currency war” of competitive
devaluations.  “The Americans were the first to devalue their currency
and bring interest rates to zero,” said Modi, whose Singapore-
based Spice Global has invested in industries including 
telecommunications and financial services.  “They set the trend 
and now many other countries are also going to depreciate their 
currency as a way to increase exports, GDP and 
competitiveness.”  The Fed expanded assets to a record exceeding $3 trillion
and pushed down the benchmark interest rate close to zero.  Recovery Signs  U.S. economic data is pointing to a recovery. Sales at the
country’s retailers climbed twice as much as forecast in
February, according to Commerce Department figures this week,
showing improving job prospects are helping consumers and the
economy overcome higher taxes and gasoline prices.   The number of Americans filing applications for 
unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to the 
lowest level in almost two months, according to data yesterday,
adding to signs the labor market is strengthening.  Modi, 64, who became a  Singapore  citizen in January 2012,
said as much as 70 percent of his assets are invested in real
estate in cities including New York,  London  and the Southeast
Asian island state. He also has properties in Mumbai and Delhi.  “I invest mainly in the global cities,” he said in an
interview yesterday in his office in Singapore’s financial
district, which overlooks the city’s Marina Bay.  Modi, who made his fortune from mobile-phone services in
 India , is among a growing number of wealthy individuals in Asia.
The region had 3.37 million millionaires in 2011, more than in
North America for the first time, according to a report last
year by Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management. Singapore had the
world’s largest proportion of millionaire households in 2011,
according to a Boston Consulting Group report.  Modi’s Singapore-based Spice Global has invested in
industries including telecommunications and financial services.
He said he also invested in gold and other precious metals,
declining to give a more detailed breakdown of his assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  