-- Sprecher Commitment to NYSE Seen Receding Amid Cost Cuts
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-03-14T02:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/sprecher-commitment-to-nyse-seen-receding-as-cost-cuts-play-out.html
Jeffrey Sprecher , who built the
second-largest U.S. futures market, will likely focus on
reducing costs after acquiring NYSE Euronext even if that means
separating the 220-year-old  New York  Stock Exchange.  While Sprecher, the ICE chief executive officer who agreed
to buy NYSE Euronext in December, has committed to revitalizing
the equity venue, he will probably end up selling it to focus on
derivatives, according to  Diego Perfumo , who advises  hedge funds 
on exchanges at Equity Research Desk LLC. The potential to
streamline the NYSE is shrinking after  expenses  were cut in half
since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  History shows the 58-year-old CEO is willing to carve up
businesses. Sprecher closed trading floors at the New York Board
of Trade and International Petroleum Exchange less than five
years after buying them in the last decade, moving their
operations to all-electronic platforms. The NYSE will be
expendable should Sprecher fail to find ways to improve its
prospects, said  Thomas Caldwell , chairman of Caldwell Securities
Ltd. in Toronto.  “With exchanges, a merger is all about getting costs
down,” said Caldwell, whose firm owns 1.5 million shares of
NYSE. “Where ICE can do easy consolidations of systems they’re
likely to do it, but there’s not much duplicative between a
commodities exchange and cash equities,” he said. “A few years
from now, if he can’t make headway, he may sell NYSE.”  Derivatives Exchange  NYSE Euronext’s allure for Sprecher is its London-based
derivatives business, Europe’s second biggest, where ICE will
eliminate millions of dollars in expenses by handling its
clearing and expanding in an industry where trading fees are
three times as much as stocks, according to government filings.  The Atlanta-based company earns more per derivative
contract traded than NYSE does on in equities in either the U.S.
or Europe. ICE averaged $1.07 per energy contract, $2.59 per
agricultural future trade, and $1.03 on its financial contracts.
That’s higher than NYSE’s 4 cents for 100-share units in the
U.S. and 58 cents for European equities.  Transaction volume of U.S. exchange-listed stocks tumbled
34 percent since 2009, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Competition and the worst financial crisis in seven decades cut
the sales contribution of equity trading to less than 15 percent
from 33 percent in 2008, according to earnings reports and
regulatory filings.  Buying NYSE  ICE said on Dec. 20 it would buy NYSE Euronext for $8.2
billion after its own shares surged sixfold since going public
in 2005. Sprecher will lead the company, with NYSE’s  Duncan Niederauer  becoming president. ICE is learning how the NYSE
equities business works and hasn’t formulated a cost-reduction
strategy, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be named because the deliberations are private.  “The New York Stock Exchange is an unbelievable
business,” Sprecher said March 12 at a conference in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida . “There’s a really good business there that’s
been hard to see inside the way it’s currently organized.
Hopefully as a bigger group we’ll be able to put more
transparency on it and organize it in a way that you’ll be able
to see the value of that franchise, which I think is high.”  Kelly Loeffler , an ICE spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the company’s plans, as did  Eric Ryan  of NYSE Euronext in New
York. ICE’s takeover of NYSE Euronext is subject to antitrust
review by regulators in Europe, who blocked a bid last year by
NYSE to merge with Deutsche Boerse AG.  ‘Bought Liffe’  “Sprecher bought Liffe,” said Perfumo, an analyst at
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Equity Research Desk, whose clients
include fund managers who invest in  exchanges . “It came with
businesses ICE typically would not buy. Those are businesses he
has to run through a filter of whether he can operate them more
efficiently than someone else. If not, he’ll need to sell
them.”  Acquiring Liffe would add interest-rate products to the
derivatives ICE offers on European energy commodities such as
 Brent crude , natural gas and heating oil in  London . In the U.S.,
it provides futures on agricultural commodities such as coffee,
cocoa and sugar as well as Russell Investments stock indexes and
currencies at ICE Futures U.S. The company owns the world’s
largest clearinghouse for credit-default swaps, ICE Clear Credit
LLC.  The potential for cost reductions at NYSE Euronext is 
limited in equities after years of competition among exchanges, 
alternative trading platforms and dark pools. Operating expenses 
excluding transaction rebates and fees have declined in three of 
the past four years, with 2012’s $1.715 billion representing less 
than half the 2008 level, according to annual reports.  Probably Sell  ICE will probably sell NYSE and the company’s other stock
and options exchanges, possibly to  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , Perfumo
said. Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for CBOE, declined to comment.  ICE shut floor-trading operations and shifted to electronic
platforms following two of its largest acquisitions, the
International Petroleum Exchange in 2001 and the New York Board
of Trade in 2007.  Floor trading at the IPE in London ceased in 2005 as all
buying and selling became electronic. The next fiscal year,
ICE’s  revenue  doubled to $313.8 million and operating expenses
rose 37 percent to $109 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. After the company shut floor trading at Nybot in
2008, revenue jumped 22 percent to $994.8 million in 2009 during
the depths of the financial crisis. Operating expenses surged 49
percent to $476 million in 2009.  Power Plants  ICE plans to maintain dual headquarters including the Big
Board’s building in lower Manhattan, Sprecher said when the deal
was announced in December. He also said on a conference call
that day that “everything will be on the table” and ICE’s
 shareholders  weren’t interested in “slow growth or no growth or
low-margin businesses.”  Units that could be cleaved from NYSE Euronext include the
two data centers the company built in Mahwah,  New Jersey , and
Basildon, outside London, Perfumo said. Niederauer told analysts
and shareholders last month that the company has been looking
for “ways to monetize” the data centers since before the ICE
deal was announced.  ICE will explore a sale of the Euronext group of  stock
exchanges  in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon through an
initial public offering, Sprecher said when the deal was
announced. An IPO “unlocks value for our shareholders while
rationalizing our combined businesses,” Scott A. Hill, ICE’s
CFO, said on the conference call the same day.  Cost Savings  The ICE-NYSE combination will create about $450 million in
estimated annual cost savings with 80 percent of that achievable
in 2015, ICE said in a regulatory filing. It’s expected to
increase  earnings  by more than 15 percent in the first year.
Shifting Liffe products cleared by LCH.Clearnet Ltd. and NYSE
Liffe Clearing in London to ICE Clear Europe will save money and
yield new growth opportunities, the filing said.  ICE must decide what to do with NYSE Liffe U.S., owned in
part by six brokers including Citadel LLC, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley. The exchange began trading futures on
Eurodollars and U.S. Treasuries in 2011 to compete with  CME
Group (CME)  Inc., which dominates those markets.  NYSE Liffe U.S. executes about 1 percent of CME’s volume in
Eurodollar futures and has 5 percent of its open interest or
number of active contracts, according to NYSE Euronext. The
exchange appealed to futures brokers and dealers by enabling
them to offset derivatives against cash products and reduce the
collateral they supply to back trades. It did this through New
York Portfolio Clearing, a joint venture owned in equal portions
by NYSE Euronext and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  As ICE assesses that business, there may be a shuffle of
participants at NYPC, the person familiar with the matter said.  Index Contracts  ICE is likely to move trading and clearing for NYSE Liffe
U.S. contracts in  interest rates , MSCI Inc. equity indexes and
other products to its own futures exchange and systems to save
money, according to  Niamh Alexander , a New York-based analyst at
KBW Inc. If dealers and customers want to continue to get margin
reductions with the offset against cash Treasuries, the company
may find a way to maintain the arrangement while cutting
expenses, she said.  New York Portfolio Clearing said last year it’s in
discussions with LCH.Clearnet, the London-based owner of the
world’s largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, to add swaps
to the types of transactions it will allow to lower margin costs
in a venture known as Project Trinity. The presence of ICE rival
LCH within NYPC makes that a difficult relationship to maintain,
the person with knowledge of ICE’s thinking said.  Value Proposition  “New York Portfolio Clearing is in an interesting
position,” Ian Axe, chief executive officer of LCH.Clearnet,
said in a Feb. 27 interview at the company’s New York offices.
“We’re still working with them. We think the partnership has a
unique value proposition.” He declined to comment on what the
ICE purchase of NYSE Euronext could mean for NYPC.  If ICE keeps NYPC, executives may push the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to allow cross-margining for futures and
securities products held by broker-dealers’ customers, Perfumo
said. That would boost NYPC’s value by improving its ability to
yield cost savings, he said. ICE may also urge the SEC to
approve a link between European and U.S. clearinghouses so
offsetting positions can reduce the collateral institutional
clients trading in different regions must post, Perfumo said.  NYSE Euronext, with almost three times as many employees as
 ICE, (ICE)  is the Atlanta company’s biggest takeover and its many
businesses make it more complex than previous purchases,  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sander O’Neill & Partners LP in New York,
said by phone. Sprecher should be up to the task, he said.  “There would be no ICE if he didn’t effectively acquire
companies like the IPE and Nybot,” Repetto said. “He’ll take a
hard look at any asset that’s not producing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  