-- Steak Quesadillas Seen Lifting Yum’s Taco Bell Rebound
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-03-14T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/steak-quesadillas-seen-lifting-yum-s-taco-bell-rebound.html
Tacos are trumping chicken and
pizza at  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)   Just two years ago, the Louisville, Kentucky-based
company’s Taco Bell chain was warding off claims its beef wasn’t
real. Now the taco seller is Yum’s fastest-growing brand in the
U.S. Meanwhile, sister chain KFC is closing stores, and Pizza
Hut is locked in a price war with  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  and  Papa
John’s International Inc. (PZZA)  to sell pies as low as $7.99.  Taco Bell’s secret sauce? New upscale menu items and
premium pricing to go with it. Taco Bell is having success
appealing to young men and women with ranch- and nacho cheese-
flavored taco shells and a Chipotle-esque menu of citrus-herb
marinated chicken and cilantro rice. Sales at U.S. Taco Bell
stores open at least a year jumped 5 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 29, topping KFC and  Pizza Hut , as well as fourth-
quarter same-store sales at  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   “We haven’t seen this kind of a surge of same-store sales
at Taco Bell in some time,” Bryan Elliott, an Atlanta-based
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc., said in an interview.
“What’s working is more upscale pricing.”  The home of the 89-cent nachos will this year introduce its
most expensive single item yet -- fajitas for $5.49. Taco Bell
has been justifying the pricier fare with a series of TV
commercials starring celebrity chef Lorena Garcia, who created
the chain’s Cantina Bell menu. As Garcia says in the ads: People
“won’t even believe it’s Taco Bell.”  Struggling Shares  Taco Bell’s rebound comes as challenges in  China  weigh on
the parent’s shares. Yum is struggling to win back consumers in
its biggest overseas market after a former supplier’s chicken
was found to contain high levels of antibiotics. In November,
Yum was trading at a 64 percent  premium  to the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index on a price-to-earnings basis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Now it’s trading at a 37 percent premium.  Yum rose 0.1 percent to $69.43 at 9:34 a.m. in  New York .
The  shares  gained 4.4 percent this year through yesterday, while
the  S&P 500 Index  has advanced 9 percent.  Taco Bell and its “Think Outside the Bun” slogan
flourished in the mid-2000s until the downturn hurt sales. While
same-store sales rose 2 percent in 2010, they dropped 2 percent
the next year after an Alabama law firm filed a class action
lawsuit claiming the chain was using beef that didn’t contain
enough real meat. While the suit was dropped, Taco Bell was
forced to mount a national marketing campaign to make sure
Americans knew its taco meat was 88 percent real beef, along
with secret seasonings.  Mashup Buzz  Taco Bell  sales  began to pick up last year after its
Doritos Locos Tacos mashup generated buzz even among food
critics. The chain has sold about 375 million of the hard shell
beef tacos, or more than one for every  person  in the U.S. This
year, Taco Bell is expanding its Cantina Bell line from just
burritos and bowls to include double-steak quesadillas for $4.99
and fajitas for $5.49, Taco Bell’s Chief Executive Officer Greg Creed said in an interview.  “Cantina Bell was a great addition” to Taco Bell, Creed
said. “Cantina makes us more relevant.”  While it has about 1,000 fewer stores than in 2000, Taco
Bell is now poised for expansion. In December Creed told an
investor conference that there is room for the chain to open
another 2,000 restaurants in the U.S. in the next 10 years.
There were 5,695 U.S. Taco Bell stores at the end of last year,
of which 18 percent were owned by Yum.  Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn   has expressed confidence
in Taco Bell, saying in October that the “resurgent” chain is
poised to steal share from  Chipotle (CMG)  Mexican Grill Inc. So far
there is little evidence that this is happening.  Customer Overlap  There isn’t much overlap between Taco Bell and Chipotle
customers, said Bob Goldin, executive vice president at Chicago-
based researcher Technomic Inc.  “Chipotle is more good food and good for the environment -
- a different kind of message,” he said.  Taco Bell, long a favorite among the late-night party
crowd, is also trying to attract customers in the morning. Last
year, it began selling breakfast foods in about 820 locations in
the western U.S., a strategy that pits the chain directly
against McDonald’s, which dominates the morning fast-food rush.  The breakout product is the so-called A.M. Crunchwrap --
scrambled eggs, bacon or sausage, cheese and hash browns wrapped
in a flour tortilla for $2.49, Creed said. The chain, which is
also hawking Cinnabon-branded doughnut bites to its morning
patrons, is planning to introduce breakfast across the U.S. in
2014 and will advertise it nationally, Creed said.  Much of Taco Bell’s recent success boils down to smart
marketing, according to Goldin.  “Their food looks pretty good in those ads,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  