-- Stress Tests-Banker Pay, Google, FX Debates: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-14T12:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/stress-tests-banker-pay-google-fx-debates-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  personally stands to miss out on
about $1.39 million a year if the  Federal Reserve  decides last
week’s stress-test results don’t justify a dividend increase.  That’s how much extra income Dimon could get from his stake
of about 6 million shares if his New York-based bank raises its
payout as much as analysts predict. The sum dwarfs the combined
$73,300 of new annual dividends at stake for his CEO peers at
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , based on forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Bankers will find out whether they get any boost today when
the Fed announces which capital plans at the 18 largest U.S.
lenders won approval. Regulators have pressed firms since the
2008 credit crisis to give executives more stock and less cash
to align their interests with those of  shareholders . CEOs are
poised to get a windfall if payouts increase and shares rise --
or to suffer with their investors if results sputter.  Banks are required to pass stress tests run by the Fed and
submit capital plans that include any changes in dividends or
stock-buyback programs. The four lenders haven’t disclosed how
big a raise they’re seeking, while New York-based Citigroup Inc.
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have said they didn’t ask for increases.  Any income boost will be tempered by higher federal taxes
that took effect this year.  Spokesmen for the four banks declined to comment on the
stakes in relation to dividend increases.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Argentina Plans State Bank Credit Card to Cut Commission Charges  Argentina is planning to create a credit card issued by
state-owned Banco de la Nacion Argentina for purchases at
retailers that would agree not to accept cards from other banks,
according to Osvaldo Cornide, president of the  Confederation of
Medium Businesses .  Interior Trade Secretary Guillermo Moreno is studying the
creation of the card that would charge retailers 1 percent
commission compared with the 3 percent levied by banks, said
Cornide, who discussed the plan with Moreno on March 11.  Officials at Moreno’s office didn’t return phone calls and
e-mails seeking comments.  The plan for the new card coincides with efforts by
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government to hold
down costs in South America’s second-biggest economy, where
economists estimate consumer prices rose 26 percent in 2012.  A card with lower fees would help retailers boost profit
margins though it may undermine sales if participating stores
weren’t allowed to accept other cards, said Miguel Calvete,
director of the Federation of Chinese Supermarkets and
Associations.  Federico Sturzenegger, president of Banco de la Ciudad de
Buenos Aires, said Fernandez is seeking to restrict competition
and use the cards as a lever to tighten government control over
supermarkets and their prices.  U.A.E. Considering Currency Swap Accord With China  The United Arab Emirates is considering a currency swap
accord with China, U.A.E. Governor Sultan al-Suwaidi told
reporters in Manama, Bahrain.  The U.A.E. is studying the experience of Asian nations with
currency-swap agreements.  EU May Put Short-Term Bank Creditors in Firing Line for Losses  Overnight interbank loans may no longer be safe from losses
when a lender fails, according to new European Union proposals
to force costs on to creditors before turning to taxpayers.  Liabilities of less than one month had been shielded from
EU plans to standardize how financial failures are handled
across the 27-nation bloc. Now nations are weighing changes to
EU financial services Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s proposed
rules for imposing bank-creditor losses, according to the
document prepared by Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, and obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The draft law should treat debts with the same level of
seniority equally as much as possible, according to the
document, dated Feb. 27. Regulators could be given some scope to
exempt certain classes of creditors from writedowns on a case-
by-case basis, and short-term liabilities could be added to
offset the effect of taking those exceptions out of the pool of
assets that can be targeted, the document showed.  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on legislation setting out how
authorities should handle  bank failures . Senior bank bondholders
are in the crosshairs as the unsecured creditors who might be
most affected.  A spokeswoman for Ireland’s EU presidency, who couldn’t be
named in line with official policy, declined to immediately
comment.  For more, click here.  Japan Securities Group Plans Insider-Trading Rules, Nikkei Says  The  Japan Securities Dealers Association  plans to implement
rules in July to prevent  insider trading  before public share
sales, Nikkei newspaper reported.  Brokerages would be required to talk to issuers to consider
canceling or postponing sale if leaks move prices, Nikkei
reported.  The Association will release the proposal soon for public
comment, and hopes to regain public trust in industry through
new rules, the paper said.  Japan’s ruling party sought changes in July to insider-
trading rules that would allow criminal charges and fines for
brokerages and bankers who leak stock offering information,
according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News at that time.  Germany’s KfW to Be Supervised by Bafin in Proposed Law Change  The German Finance Ministry commented yesterday on a draft
law for  KfW , the state-owned bank, proposing KfW be supervised
by Bafin. The law is backed by Merkel’s Cabinet.  Bafin, the financial regulator, is to cooperate with
Bundesbank in the supervision, according to the ministry
statement.  KfW won’t become a “normal” bank. The ban on the
government using KfW profits won’t change, according to the
statement. Supervision will take KfW’s “special business
model” into account.  KfW, which has assets of about EU500b, has become too large
to be regulated by the Finance Ministry or the Economy Ministry,
Handelsblatt reported. The cabinet was expected to vote on the
law yesterday, according to Handelsblatt.  Citigroup Can Omit Investor Proposal on Splitting, SEC Says  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, can
omit from its annual meeting a question for shareholders that
would require the lender to explore breaking up, the Securities
and Exchange Commission said.  The SEC’s Office of Chief Counsel agreed with Citigroup
that the proposal, submitted by Trillium Asset Management LLC,
was vague enough that shareholders wouldn’t know what actions it
required, according to an SEC letter to the bank dated March 12.  Some investors and analysts have questioned whether the
largest banks would be worth more if broken up into smaller
businesses. Citigroup trades at a discount to tangible book
value, a measure of the firm’s liquidation value.  The proposal called for a committee to explore
“extraordinary transactions” that would increase shareholder
value, even those that separated the bank’s businesses.  Dow Jones Newswires reported the contents of the SEC letter
earlier yesterday.  For more, see Interviews, below.  Compliance Action  Google to Pay $7 Million to Resolve States’ Street View Claims  Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay $7 million to settle a multistate
probe over the collection of data from unsecured wireless
networks across the U.S. by vehicles taking images for the
company’s Street View product.  The Internet search company signed the agreement with 38
states and the District of Columbia to resolve consumer
protection and privacy claims, said the  Connecticut Attorney
General’s Office , which led the eight-state committee that
investigated the matter and negotiated the company’s compliance.  The agreement requires Mountain View, California-based
Google to educate employees about the privacy or confidentiality
of user data and sponsor a nationwide public-service campaign to
teach customers about securing wireless networks and protecting
their personal information, according to the statement.  Google also agreed to continue to secure and eventually
destroy data collected and stored by its Street View vehicles in
the U.S. between 2008 and March 2010, according to Jepsen’s
statement. The antenna-equipped vehicles collected network
identification information along with data being transmitted
over unsecured wireless networks as they were driving by.  The data may have included e-mail communications,
confidential or private information that was being transmitted
to or from the user at the time the vehicles were passing by and
the locations of requested Web pages, according to the statement
by Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine, has
been grappling with scrutiny by government officials around the
world over how it handles private information.  BHP Says Helping Probe After Beijing Olympics Bribery Report  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest mining company, said it’s
helping an inquiry into possible breaches of anti-corruption
laws after the Age newspaper reported bribery claims linked to
the Beijing Olympics.  “We believe our Olympics activities complied with all
applicable law,” Melbourne-based BHP said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement, referring to its sponsorship of the 2008 games
held in China. “As previously disclosed,  BHP Billiton  has been
cooperating with the relevant authorities in an investigation
into possible violations of anti-corruption laws.”  BHP is the subject of a joint U.S.-Australian bribery probe
into its dealings with foreign officials including Chinese
dignitaries under a multimillion-dollar hospitality and
sponsorship program at the 2008 Olympics, the Age reported. The
company said it’s continuing an internal inquiry that stems from
a 2009 probe by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  China, the biggest purchaser of metals, is BHP’s  largest
customer , accounting for $22 billion in sales in fiscal 2012. A
deal in Western Australia is being examined, the Age reported.
The U.S. Department of Justice was conducting “law enforcement
proceedings” involving BHP, the newspaper said. Michael
Passman, a department spokesman, declined to comment.  “No company, that I am aware of, has ever fought a
prosecution in the U.S.” in an anti-corruption case, Mini
vandePol, a partner at Baker & McKenzie in Melbourne, said
yesterday in a phone interview. It’s likely BHP will end up
agreeing to settle with U.S. prosecutors, she said.  The Australian Federal Police has been involved and is
coordinating with foreign counterparts and local regulators, a
spokesman for the force said in an e-mailed statement.  “The AFP has received a referral that relates to the
Australian aspects of the U.S. investigation,” the spokesman
said. “Foreign bribery investigations are inherently complex
due to their cross-border nature.”  The involvement of the  Justice Department , coming after the
company first admitted possible breaches of anti-corruption laws
to the SEC and the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, follows standard
procedure in such investigations, Baker & McKenzie’s vandePol
said. “We were all waiting for it last year,” she said.  Lodestone’s Linderum Said to Be Among FSA Insider-Trade Arrests  Carl Linderum, a founding partner of hedge fund Lodestone
Natural Resources, was one of the three men arrested last month
in London on suspicion of insider trading, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Linderum was arrested on Feb. 27, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information hadn’t been
publicly disclosed. Carl Esprey, 33, who has worked as a
portfolio manager at GLG Partners Inc., was also detained in the
same insider-trading probe.  Linderum is currently listed as “inactive” on the
Financial Services Authority register. He started his career as
a trainee at Morgan Stanley in 2003, according to the register,
and subsequently worked at Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP.
The Financial Times reported his arrest earlier.  Linderum didn’t answer a call seeking comment. Ben
Belldegrun, another of Lodestone’s founding partners, declined
to immediately comment.  The investigation is part of a push by the FSA to crack
down on insider trading by employees at London’s biggest
financial companies after having previously targeting lower-
profile individuals.  Courts  Spanish Consumer Rules on Mortgages Are Unlawful, EU Court Says  The European Union’s highest court struck down parts of
Spanish mortgage law, saying they are unfair on consumers and
must be changed.  Spanish law needs to provide greater protection to
borrowers who claim the terms of their mortgage are unfair, the
Luxembourg-based European Court of Justice said in a statement
on today’s case.  The ruling was triggered by the situation of a Spanish
resident, Mohamed Aziz, who eventually lost his property after
failing to make mortgage payments.  His bank, after unsuccessfully asking him to pay, took
enforcement measures. Aziz’s house was put up for auction and
with no bids made, under the terms of Spanish law, the bank took
ownership of the property for 50 percent of its value. In
January 2011, Aziz was evicted from his home.  The local court where the case is pending sought the EU
court’s guidance on whether the Spanish law is in line with the
bloc’s law on unfair terms in consumer contracts.  Interviews/Panels  Mayo Says Citi Shareholder Vote Should’ve Been Allowed  Mike Mayo, a CLSA Ltd. analyst, talked about the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s decision yesterday to allow
Citigroup to block a shareholder proposal that would have
required the bank to explore splitting up.  He spoke with Stephanie Ruhle and  Adam Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Lunch Money.”  For the video, click here.  Berg, Vamvakidis on Carry Trades, Emerging Currencies  Bernd Berg, emerging-markets strategist at  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , and Athanasios Vamvakidis, currency strategist at  Bank
of America Merrill Lynch (BAC) , discussed emerging-market currencies
and carry trades.  They talked about central bank monetary policies toward the
euro and the dollar as well as emerging market developments.  They spoke at the Bloomberg Link FX Debates in London in a
session moderated by Bloomberg Television’s  Guy Johnson .  For the video, click here.  Bailey Informs Lawmakers About Solvency II, Banker Pay, RBS  European rules for insurance firms, known as Solvency II,
may increase costs for policy holders by “several billion
pounds,”  Andrew Bailey , the U.K.’s chief banking supervisor,
told lawmakers in London yesterday.  U.K. bankers covered by the European Union’s cap on bonus
payouts may get as much as 500 million pounds ($746 million)
more in regular paychecks as a result, Bailey said.  Bailey, who will lead the  Prudential Regulation Authority 
when it starts operations next month, told lawmakers yesterday
that he had “back of the envelope calculations” laying out the
effect of the bonus curbs that are part of the implementation of
global rules drawn up by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  For more, click here.  Bailey also told lawmakers that he hasn’t “asked the
government to put money into”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.   Bailey made the comments in response to lawmakers’
questions on a report by into U.K. banks’ capital levels
scheduled to be published later this month.  Comings and Goings  Japan’s Lower House Approves Kuroda for BOJ Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda was endorsed by the lower house of
parliament to become Bank of Japan governor, clearing the first
hurdle in Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s plan to install a central
bank leadership in favor of more easing.  Lawmakers in the chamber, which is dominated by the ruling
coalition, today also approved Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso
for two deputy governor posts.  Abe now needs to get his nominations through an upper house
vote tomorrow, where his Liberal Democratic Party lacks a
majority.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 