-- Sudan Boosts Gum-Arabic Exports 20% as Far East Demand Grows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   G u n n
-- 2013-03-15T07:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/sudan-to-boost-gum-arabic-exports-20-on-higher-far-east-demand.html
Sudan  will boost exports of gum
arabic, used in the manufacture of soft drinks, pharmaceuticals
and cosmetics, by 20 percent this year as demand from Far
Eastern markets grows, the industry board said.  Shipments may climb to 60,000 metric tons in 2013 from
50,000 tons last year, Abdelmagid Abdelgadir, secretary general
of the state-run Gum Arabic Board, said in an interview on March
12.  China , which previously obtained most of its gum from
European traders, is increasingly buying directly from Sudan,
according to Abdelgadir, with  Malaysia  also showing interest.  Sudan is trying to diversify an economy that contracted
11.2 percent last year after it lost control of about three-
quarters of its oil production when South Sudan seceded.
Companies including  Coca-Cola Inc. (KO)  and  Pepsico Inc. (PEP)  use gum
arabic in their products, according to the  World Bank . The
commodity’s importance to western markets led the U.S. to exempt
it from a trade embargo first imposed on Sudan in 1997 because
of the country’s alleged sponsorship of terrorism.  “Sudan has lost a lot of petrol resources to the south,
meaning we have to find other source of revenue,” Abdelgadir
said. Gum arabic producers are receiving increased financing
from domestic banks and “they’re also being encouraged by
rising global prices. Good rainy seasons have helped production
too.”  Top Quality  Prices for top-quality gum arabic are currently about
$3,000 per ton, according to Abdelgadir. That compares with
about $2,500 per ton in 2011, he said.  France , the U.K.,  India 
and the U.S. are other major buyers named on the  Central Bank of
Sudan ’s export list.  Extracted from the branches of acacia trees grown in
Sudan’s southern savannah, gum arabic is a natural emulsifier,
holding together substances that don’t mix well. Starches, the
most popular alternative, are less successful at retaining
flavors and their use can mean shorter shelf lives.  Beverage makers “have to buy it no matter the price and
the same goes for the medical industry,” Abdelgadir said. “The
sweets industry can switch to starches, to jelly, and many did
long ago to save costs, but lately they are coming back.”  The most recent data available from Sudan’s central bank
show the country earned $81.8 million from selling 45,633 tons
of gum arabic in 2011, compared with 18,202 tons valued at $23.8
million a year earlier.  Market Share  While comparative data for gum arabic exports are scarce,
Abdelgadir put Sudan’s global market share at more than 80
percent. That figure may be inflated and closer to 40 percent,
Abda El-Mahdi, a Khartoum-based economic consultant and former
state minister of finance, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Total output was about 77,000 tons in 2012 and Sudan is
targeting 100,000 tons this year, Abdelgadir said. Output that
isn’t exported goes into storage or is used to cater for growing
domestic consumption, currently about 9,500 tons, he said.  Sudan is considering leasing land to foreign companies for
them to grow and harvest their gum arabic needs, Abdelgadir
said. Chinese companies are currently in talks, he said, without
identifying them.  Sudan mostly produces the hashab, or hard, variety of gum
arabic, according to the World Bank. It’s main competitors
include Chad and Nigeria, which mainly produce the lower quality
talha, or flaky gum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Gunn in Nairobi at 
 mgunn14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  