-- Suicide, Van Gogh’s Ear Obsessed Teenage Picasso: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-03-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/suicide-van-gogh-s-ear-obsessed-teenage-picasso-review.html
On February 17, 1901, a young
Spanish poet and close friend of  Pablo Picasso ’s named Carles
Casagemas invited several people to a Paris restaurant. After
dinner he pulled out a gun, fired at one of his guests -- a
model with whom he was in love -- then, having missed her, shot
himself.  A splendid small exhibition at the  Courtauld Gallery ,
“Becoming Picasso: Paris 1901” raises an intriguing question:
What would we think if it had not been the poet but his artist
friend who had died in 1901? In other words, how good, really,
was the 19-year-old Picasso?  The answer, based on the works in this show, is that he was
an extraordinarily brilliant artistic chameleon (which, in a
way, was what he always remained). Picasso (1881-1973) had
arrived in Paris from Barcelona for the first time in October
1900, and returned in May 1901 determined to make a success of
his Parisian career.  At that time, Paris was the place to make it if you were a
painter: it was the world’s arts capital and the most culturally
exciting city on earth. Picasso’s first major exhibition was
held at the dealer Ambroise Vollard’s gallery at the end of June
1901. Many of the works in the Courtauld exhibition reflect a
whirlwind of energy over a couple of months, producing as many
as three works per day. Clearly, from the very start, Picasso 
proved amazingly prolific.  Toulouse-Lautrec  These pictures reveal him absorbing the influences around
him at a tremendous rate.  Edgar Degas , Henri Toulouse-Lautrec,
 Paul Gauguin : he does them all. Toulouse-Lautrec is the obvious
model for Picasso’s scenes of Parisian night life such as
“French Can Can.”  But most of all, you can see the impact of Vincent van Gogh. Picasso’s biographer,  John Richardson , has written that
Van Gogh meant more to Picasso than any other artist in his
later years. He even got a copy of the newspaper report of Van
Gogh’s ear-mutilation episode so he could frame it.  There isn’t much sign of Van Gogh influence in Picasso’s
mature work, but in 1901 it’s unmistakable. “Mother and Child”
is clearly derived from the pictures that Van Gogh had painted
of the wife and baby of Joseph Roulin, his postman friend.  It’s not hard to guess where Picasso had seen those
paintings. Vollard had bought a magnificent array of works from
the Roulin family given to them by  Van Gogh , which resided in
his gallery storeroom appreciating in value.  Self Portrait  The effect of seeing Van Gogh is evident too in the thick
brush strokes and piercing gaze of the terrific self portrait,
“Yo -- Picasso’ (or “I, Picasso”). Then, abruptly, in the
second half of 1901, the young maestro changed his style.  Casagemas’s death had deeply affected Picasso, who painted
a series of somber, blue-toned pictures in his memory including
“Casagemas in his Coffin” and “Evocation (The Burial of
Casagemas).” The latter is a bizarre apotheosis of the dead
poet in the manner of El Greco, in which Casagemas is carried up
to a heaven full of naked women.  It was these works that led Picasso to develop his first
truly individual style: the “Blue Period.” But as was shown by
another picture from late 1901, the slightly soppy “Child with
a Dove,” the manically energetic 19-year-old virtuoso also
revealed one of his weaknesses: an unexpected streak of
sentimentality. The paintings influenced by Toulouse-Lautrec,
Gauguin and Van Gogh are often better than those which
immediately followed.  “Becoming Picasso: Paris 1901” is at the Courtauld
Gallery until May 26.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 