-- Suntech Falls as Maxim Predicts ‘Likely’ Default, Bankruptcy
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-03-14T20:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/suntech-falls-after-maxim-predicts-likely-default-bankruptcy.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
Chinese solar-panel maker that announced a forbearance agreement
for $541 million in convertible debt due tomorrow, fell to a
record low after Maxim Group LLP said the company is “likely”
to default and enter bankruptcy.  Suntech  tumbled  22 percent to 65 cents at the close in New
York, the lowest since it began trading in December 2005. The
bonds increased to 32 cents on the dollar.  There is “no legal way around the March 15 maturity,”
Aaron Chew, a Maxim analyst based in New York, wrote in a note
to investors today, citing the bond  prospectus .  The company said in a statement March 11 that about 60
percent of the bondholders had agreed to wait until May 15
before exercising their rights.  Such a delay isn’t allowed “without the consent of the
holders of each outstanding note affected,” according to the
prospectus. Some of the remaining 40 percent of bondholders said
they weren’t contacted by the Wuxi, China-based company about a
forbearance and want to be paid on schedule.  A default would be the first for a bond issued by a company
in mainland  China . Suntech, the largest solar panel maker in
2011, has reported losses for the past two years and had about
$2 billion of debt as of the end of August, according to a
bondholder presentation in November filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  If Suntech is taken over by the local Wuxi government, such
a bailout is “likely to be targeted only at local employment
and bank debt” and will come “at the expense of stock and bond
holders,” Chew wrote. He rates Suntech a sell, with a 12-month
price target of $0.  A phone message left for Walker Frost, a Suntech spokesman
in the U.S., wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  