-- Superbank Troubleshooter Role Cuts Risk to ’08 Low
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-03-14T02:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/superbank-troubleshooter-role-cuts-risk-to-08-low.html
The bond risk of  China Development
Bank  Corp. slid to the lowest in more than four years on signs
the lender will maintain government backing as it takes on some
of the nation’s toughest challenges in 2013.  The premium to insure state-owned CDB’s debt from non-
payment for five years over the sovereign’s shrank to 14 basis
points on March 12, the narrowest since October 2008, even as
the so-called superbank granted loans to debt-laden urbanization
and renewable energy projects. That’s down from as high as 149
in January last year, according to data provider CMA.  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  pays 27 basis points more than the U.S. government
on similar contracts.  While CDB’s role in supporting incoming Premier  Li
Keqiang ’s focus on urbanization and cutting pollution increases
the risk of bad debt, it also reinforces its status as a bank
the central government must support to achieve its policies.
 China  Banking Regulatory Commission said last April that
investors can still categorize CDB debt as “zero” risk, even
though the lender said it plans to commercialize five years ago.  “CDB’s policy bank status is the key comfort to investors
even though it’s given these challenging tasks,”  Wilson Li, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co., said by
telephone yesterday. “It will fund heavily indebted
urbanization projects while commercial banks are walking away.”  Sovereign Equivalent  The nation’s policy lenders -- CDB, Export-Import Bank of
China, and Agricultural Development Bank of China -- were
established in 1994 with mandates to help fund infrastructure,
agriculture and trade. The wholly state-owned banks don’t take
deposits from individuals and finance lending by issuing debt.  Li Ruogu, chairman of Export-Import Bank of China, told
Bloomberg on March 11 in Beijing that he didn’t think policy
banks would be turned into commercial lenders. Moody’s Investors
Service rates them all at Aa3, its fourth-highest investment
ranking and the same grade it assigns to the sovereign.  Li Keqiang, whose November appointment as the Communist
Party’s second-highest ranking official put him in line to
replace  Wen Jiabao , highlighted urbanization in his first policy
statement. In an article published by the official People’s
Daily that month, Li called the trend a “huge engine” for
growth.  The statement highlighted plans to support an urban
population that exceeded rural residents for the first time in
2011 and that will add as many as 300 million people by 2030,
according to Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development estimates.  Chen Yuan , CDB’s chairman, said in
January that urbanization would be a focus for policy lenders
this year. Chen is also a vice chairman of the Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference, which advises the country’s
legislature.  Costs Fall  “With China’s urbanization plans, the image of China
Development Bank as a quasi-sovereign institution may endure as
it is seen to be providing funding to support these projects,”
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
Hong Kong, said in a telephone interview March 11.  The extra yield the policy banks pay to sell 10-year bonds
compared with the government fell to a six-month low at  65.3
basis points  on March 12, as economic acceleration pushes up
sovereign yields. Growth will rebound to 8.1 percent from 7.8
percent last year, according to the median forecast of 45
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Gross domestic product
expanded 7.9 percent in the three months through December, up
from 7.4 percent in the previous period.  Sharper Decline  The cost of insuring the debt of China’s largest lender to
roads, bridges and railways against non-payment with credit-
default swap contracts for five years slid to 76 basis points on
March 12, the least since May 2008. It has dropped 34 basis
points this year to 78 as of yesterday, CMA prices show.  Contracts on China’s sovereign debt have fallen 3 basis
points to 63 in the same period, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. That’s down from as much as
145.9 in June last year, after economic growth accelerated last
quarter for the first time in two years. The indexes typically
fall as investor confidence improves and rise as it
deteriorates.  CDB didn’t immediately respond to two e-mails and two faxes
seeking comment on the decline of its bond risk.  Bad Loans  The urbanization push and economic pickup have tempered
concerns about bad loans, which had pushed the swap contracts on
CDB to as much as 382 in October 2011 after rating companies
said the risks of lending to local governments and private
companies had been underestimated.  The bank’s non-performing loan ratio fell to 0.3 percent at
the end of last year from 0.4 percent in 2011, according to its
website. CDB’s total assets increased to 7.37 trillion  yuan 
($1.19 trillion) in 2012 from more than 6 trillion yuan in the
previous year.  Cities and counties are turning to CDB for funds to sustain
investment and pay off debt that surged to 10.7 trillion yuan
following state-directed stimulus spending on roads, bridges and
subways after the global financial crisis. A government audit in
June 2011, showed that 79 percent of the debt owned by local
governments was in the form of borrowing from banks.  China’s banking watchdog urged  lenders  to exercise caution
in holding bonds issued by local government financing vehicles,
the 21st Century Business Herald reported yesterday, citing a
regulatory official it didn’t name. Banks aren’t allowed to
increase their outstanding loans to the financing vehicles above
the level as of Dec. 31, 2011, according to the report.  Policy-Related Lending  Yields on benchmark 10-year government notes have risen 2
basis points this year to 3.59 percent, after climbing to as
high as 3.61 percent on Jan. 29.  The yuan touched a 19-year high at 6.2124 on Jan. 14. The
currency was at 6.2161 per dollar as of 10:04 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System show.  “With the government’s aim to promote growth, China
Development Bank will definitely benefit with its policy-related
lending continuing to climb,” Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Phillip Securities Group, said by telephone on March
11.  While CDB’s near-sovereign status helps it raise funds
easily in the  bond market , its debt does entail “exposure to
high-risk lending,” according to Stanley Li, an analyst at
Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. It has extended financing to
China’s solar industry, “which is relatively risky,” Li said
by telephone on March 11.  Solar Risks  Even after solar panel prices slid 20 percent last year,
prompting losses at Chinese manufacturers, CDB agreed to set up
a joint venture to invest in solar projects at home and abroad,
according to a  China Windpower Group Ltd. (182)  statement this week.
LDK Solar Co., the second-biggest maker of wafers, said Jan. 31
that it received approval for a 440 million yuan loan from CDB.  The superbank has sold $1.4 billion of dollar-denominated
bonds this year, including $50 million of 2016 notes on Feb. 22
at 1.12 percent. Its 2023 yuan-denominated bonds yield 4.36
percent as of yesterday, down 8 basis points from when they were
sold in January, according to Chinabond prices.  Borrowing costs have dropped amid expectations that
authorities will protect the policy banks to sustain financing
for projects that support growth, according to Phillip
Securities’s Chen.  “CDB has a political mission,” Chen said. “The Chinese
government will surely provide backing for the bank and won’t
let it fail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  