-- Swire Properties Underlying Profit Rises on Rent, Home Sales
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-03-14T09:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/swire-properties-2012-profit-rises-on-rental-income-home-sales.html
Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , the Hong
Kong commercial landlord with tenants including JPMorgan Chase &
Co., posted a 59 percent gain in adjusted full-year underlying
profit on higher rental income from its offices and shopping
malls as well as apartment sales in the city.  Profit excluding real estate revaluations and the impact of
the sale of the Festival Walk shopping mall in 2011 rose to
HK$6.9 billion ($889 million) in 2012 from HK$4.4 billion a year
earlier, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange today. That compares with the HK$6.78 billion average
 estimate  of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Swire Properties, the biggest commercial landlord in the
city’s Island East district, is benefiting from companies
seeking to relocate from Hong Kong’s Central Business district,
where office rents are among some of the world’s highest.
Earnings were also boosted by higher rental income from its
shopping malls and profit booked from the Azura luxury home
project in the city.  “Though commercial rents aren’t rising as fast as past
years, they’re still stable income,” said  Castor Pang , head of
research at Core-Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd. “If
investors are looking for more defensive stocks in real estate,
in the short run, they’ll probably prefer landlords over
developers, who’re more susceptible to government curbs on the
home market.”  Shares of Swire Properties have gained 41 percent in the
past year, compared with the 6.2 percent gain of the benchmark
Hang Seng Index over the period. The stock fell 3 percent to
HK$27.30 at the close in Hong Kong, after earnings were
announced.  Island East  Rents of prime offices in Hong Kong’s Central business
district will extend last year’s decline, the biggest since the
global credit crisis in 2008, until at least the end of the
first half, property broker CBRE Group Inc. has said. JPMorgan
and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc are among banks that moved some
of their staff to Island East from Central in the past two years.  Swire Properties, the biggest landlord in the Island East
district, a 15-minute subway ride from Central, and in the
Admiralty area, said gross rental income from offices in the
city rose 7 percent to HK$4.8 billion from a year earlier.  Swire Properties owns about 10.6 million square feet of
prime-office space and 2.4 million square feet of retail space
in the city. It has about 6 million of commercial property space
in mainland  China , according to the statement.  Highest Rents  Gross income from its Hong Kong retail portfolio, which
includes the Pacific Place and the Cityplaza shopping malls,
rose 5 percent, after taking out the effect of Festival Walk,
the company said.  Growth in Hong Kong’s retail rent will be “pretty good”
while office rents will be stable, Swire Properties Chief
Executive Officer Martin Cubbon told reporters at a briefing in
Hong Kong today.  Swire Properties in November sold an apartment in Opus Hong
Kong, a building designed by Frank Gehry, for HK$455 million, or
a record HK$68,083 per square-foot price. Operating profit from
home sales was HK$2.4 billion, compared with a loss in 2011,
after the company completed 98 units at the Azura project.  Home prices  in the city have doubled since early 2009,
prompting the government to impose curbs including raising
mortgage down-payment requirements and imposing extra property
transaction taxes.  Sanlitun Village  Gross rental income from the developer’s properties in
other parts of China, including the Sanlitun Village retail
complex in Beijing and Taikoo Hui in the southern city of
 Guangzhou , was HK$1.4 billion in 2012, it said, without giving a
comparable figure.  Swire Properties is scheduled to open a 6.4 billion  yuan 
retail and office project in the western Chinese city of Chengdu
in early 2014, a joint development with  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings
Ltd. (3377) , and a retail, office and hotel complex in  Shanghai  in 2016.  In a separate statement,  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , the parent of
Swire Properties, said profit fell to HK$17.5 billion from
HK$32.2 billion a year earlier. Swire Pacific also controls
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the city’s biggest carrier,  Created as a trading company in  London  in 1816, Swire
Pacific also bottles Coca-Cola in China and supplies offshore
oil rigs. It spun off Swire Properties in January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  