-- Swiss Stocks Advance to Five-Year High on Dow Optimism
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-14T16:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/swiss-stocks-advance-to-five-year-high-before-summit.html
Swiss stocks  rose to a five-year
high as investors bet that a record set by the Dow Jones
Industrial Average in the U.S. signaled more gains for equities
and as American jobless claims unexpectedly dropped.  Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  followed European insurers and banks
higher.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  rose to the highest price since June 2010
after the largest cement maker proposed new members for the
board and said it will cooperate with HeidelbergCement AG in
 Australia .  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  gained 0.8 percent to 7,842.85 in
Zurich, the highest level since January 2008. The benchmark
gauge has climbed 15 percent this year. The broader Swiss
Performance Index added 0.8 percent today. In the U.S., the Dow
extended a record high and headed for its 10th day of gains, the
longest winning streak since November 1996.  “The market is focusing on the U.S. with the new Dow
record,” said John Plassard, Geneva-based vice president at
Mirabaud Securities LLP, which oversees about $28 billion. “I
say ‘don’t fight the record.’ I’m optimistic about stocks.”  The number of Americans filing applications for
unemployment benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to the
lowest level in almost two months. Claims fell by 10,000 to
332,000 in the week ended March 9, according to data from the
Labor Department in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for an increase to 350,000.  Southern Europe  European leaders started a two-day summit in Brussels
today, with euro-area finance ministers meeting separately
tomorrow to discuss a bailout for Cyprus. Policy makers are
loosening austerity measures as the recession and mounting
unemployment in southern  Europe  overtake the debt crisis as the
region’s biggest headache.  Swiss Re climbed 1.2 percent to 77.85 Swiss francs, while
Credit Suisse added 2.6 percent to 26.86 francs. Gauges of
European insurance companies and banks were among the best
performers of the 19 industry groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP) 
Index, the regional benchmark.  Holcim advanced 2.7 percent to 77.25 francs. The company
said Hanne Sorensen and Anne Wade will be proposed for election
to the board at a shareholder meeting on April 17. Also,
Wolfgang Reitzle will take over as chairman in 2014.  Holcim said it will sell 25 percent of its Cement Australia
unit to HeidelbergCement and both companies will have an equal
footing on the board, with the chairman seat rotating.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the second-biggest maker of
dental implants, jumped 4.6 percent to 9.61 francs. UBS AG added
the stock to its  most preferred  list, saying the company could
provide “a positive message” on its restructuring program at a
conference tomorrow.  The number of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 5.1 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  