-- Syrian Deserters Cut Loyalist Troops to 50,000, IISS Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-03-14T17:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/syrian-deserters-cut-loyalist-troops-to-50-000-iiss-says.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government can only count on the loyalty of 50,000 troops, down
from a total of 220,000 at the start of the country’s civil war,
according to an analysis.  The  International Institute for Strategic Studies , a  London 
based research organization, said the regime now relies on
elite units including special forces formations, the Republican
Guard and the 3rd and 4th Divisions.  “The cumulative effect of defections, desertions,
battlefield losses and damage to morale will weigh heavily in
determining the outcome of the conflict,” John Chipman, IISS
Director-General, told reporters in London today.  The two-year Syrian conflict has killed more than 70,000
people and the  United Nations  said this month that 1 million
refugees had fled to Lebanon, Jordan,  Turkey  and other
countries. The fighting has evolved along largely sectarian
lines, with many in the Sunni majority supporting the rebels
while Assad draws support mainly from his Alawite community.  Rebel forces are being hampered by lack of co-ordination as
much as by lack of weapons, said Brigadier Ben Barry, senior
fellow for land warfare at the IISS and a former British army
officer, citing their failure to press a military advantage in
Aleppo last year.  “The single greatest weakness of the rebels is the lack of
political and military unity,” Barry said. “It considerably
inhibits their ability to gain a military advantage.”  Regional Instability  The collapse of the regime would lead to widespread
instability in the region, said the IISS, which published its
annual research book, “The Military Balance,” today. The
country could also become a training ground for Islamist
militants, exporting fighters and weapons used in the conflict
around the region.  “If Assad falls, there will be considerable focus among
regional states and international actors about the intent of
armed groups and the fate of government and rebel weapons,”
Chipman said. “There is a considerable risk that a rapid end to
the conflict is likely to be as destabilizing as its
prolongation.”  France  wants the European Union to lift the arms embargo
against the Syrian opposition, French President  Francois Hollande  told reporters as he arrived at today’s EU summit in
Brussels.  ‘Lift Embargo’  “We want the Europeans to lift the arms embargo, not to
start a total war,” he said. “The British and French agree on
this option. We can’t let a people be massacred as it is being
right now.”  France may start delivering weapons to  Syria ’s rebels even
without agreement from its EU partners, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said today.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told reporters in
London today that while Britain’s policy was largely similar to
France’s, it still planned to send only non-lethal aid to the
rebels. That will include armored vehicles and  body armor , the
British government has said.  Syria’s conflict may provide training for a new generation
of militants in the same way as past wars, analysts said.  Syria could “become a crucible for a new generation of
transnational jihadists in the same way that the post-Soviet
 Afghanistan  became one in the 1980s,” said Nigel Inkster,
formerly head of operations at Britain’s MI6 intelligence
service and IISS director of political risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  