-- U.K. Offers Renewables Support Ahead of Reforms to Stem Delays
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-14T12:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/u-k-offers-renewables-support-ahead-of-reforms-to-stem-delays.html
Britain will offer renewable energy
developers contracts for the power they generate ahead of
electricity market reforms due to go into force next year to
avoid delays that may threaten the U.K.’s low-carbon ambitions.  The government will provide so-called investment contracts
to successful applicants in Autumn to encourage early decisions
on projects, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said
today in a statement inviting developers to apply.  Lawmakers are scrutinizing a bill that will change the way
wind farms and biomass power plants are subsidized as the U.K.
spurs low-carbon generation. The program of so-called contracts
for difference that guarantee a tariff regardless of market
prices will take effect in the second half of 2014, risking an
investment hiatus as developers delay decisions until it starts.  “We want to give investors and project developers across
low-carbon technologies as much certainty as we can, as early as
we can,” Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said. “That’s why we are
launching a process that will enable investment decisions to be
taken before changes to the electricity market come into effect,
ensuring that renewable electricity projects can get built,
bring investment and jobs,” he said in the statement.  Eligible projects must have a capacity of more than 50
megawatts, or 100 megawatts for offshore wind. They must not be
receiving an existing subsidy, called the Renewables Obligation,
according to documents accompanying the statement. The
government will in July publish a draft set of “strike” prices
outlining the guaranteed price renewable technologies will earn
for their power. These will form the basis of the investment
contracts, according to the government.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  