-- U.K. Government to Get Net $25 Billion From QE Under BOE Model
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/u-k-government-to-get-net-25-billion-from-qe-under-boe-model.html
Britain’s public finances will
benefit by a net 17 billion pounds ($25 billion) from transfers
from the Bank of England’s asset-purchase program, under a
central forecast in a model by the central bank.  The assumption, published in an article in the bank’s
Quarterly Bulletin in London today, is based on the  benchmark
interest rate  increasing in line with market forecasts and gilt
sales of 25 billion pounds a quarter by the BOE’s Asset Purchase
Facility starting in September 2016.  The new model comes as the APF starts transferring coupon
income from the gilts it holds to the U.K. Treasury under a deal
announced last year. Transfers will be reversed in later years
as bonds mature and the BOE begins sales. That’s because the APF
initially bought the bonds at “above par” prices and it is
indemnified by the Treasury for any losses.  The “ultimate net amount that will be transferred is
uncertain, and a wide range of outcomes is possible,” authors
Nick McLaren and Tom Smith of the BOE’s Macro Financial Analysis
Division said in the article. They note that rates may rise at a
different speed and the impact on gilt yields may differ from
that assumed in their model.  They also said the eventual size of the net payments to or
from the Treasury shouldn’t be used as a measure of the success
of  quantitative easing  or its impact on public finances.  It should be judged “by the degree to which it meets its
aims -- to improve corporate credit conditions and boost nominal
spending in order to meet the inflation target in the medium
term,” McLaren and Smith said.  Range of Outcomes  The central model sees the payments running until July
2019. It assumes that the current 375 billion pounds of QE
lowered gilt yields by just under 200 basis points -- 2
percentage points -- and that there will be an equal and
opposite effect from its unwinding. Based on different
assumptions, McLaren and Smith envision a wide range of
payments. These go from a 51 billion-pound net transfer to the
Treasury on the basis of zero impact on yields to a net outflow
from the Treasury if yields rise by 400 basis points.  In a separate chapter, the BOE said market sentiment
“improved significantly” during the review period to Feb. 22,
partly reflecting reaction to global central-bank policy
measures and the U.S. deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  “Against that backdrop, several of the short-term tail
risks to the outlook for world growth appeared to diminish,”
the BOE said. “There was an increase in investors’ willingness
to bear risk, providing support to a broad range of assets and
prompting some significant adjustments in exchange rates.”  Pound Drop  The BOE said that there was a “particularly large” drop
in the pound, one of several “significant moves” in currencies
traditionally considered by investors to be havens.  “Some of that decline may also have been due to the impact
of U.K.-specific factors, including the outlook for growth and
the country’s sovereign credit rating,” the central bank said,
referencing the cut by Moody’s Investors Service of the U.K.’s
grade to Aa1 from Aaa last month.  On bank-funding costs, the BOE said conditions “continued
to improve.” Still, U.K. lenders issued relatively little debt
during the period, which market contacts attributed to
deleveraging, a desire to shift the mix of funding to deposits
and the availability of alternate funding via central-bank
programs.  The Bank of England also reviewed the new arrangements that
will be in place as it absorbs power to oversee the banking
industry and ensure financial stability.  Oversight Panel  Among these is a new oversight committee on its court of
directors, which will have the power to commission reviews of
the bank’s performance and must publish the findings unless that
would be against the public interest. The bank learned last year
the results of three court-mandated inquiries into its
forecasting and internal practices.  As it takes on financial-stability oversight, the BOE also
noted in today’s bulletin that commercial real estate played a
“significant” role in causing destabilizing losses for banks
during the financial crisis.  “It is important for policy makers to monitor developments
closely in commercial property lending and the commercial
property market,” said James Benford and Oliver Burrows of the
bank’s Financial Stability Directorate. “Going forward the FPC
will have powers to recommend, or direct, regulators to take
action where it identifies threats to stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  