-- U.K. Inflation Seen Rising as Stagflation-Lite Endures: Economy
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g   a n d   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-03-14T11:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/u-k-inflation-seen-rising-as-stagflation-lite-endures-economy.html
U.K. inflation forecasts  for this
year were raised by economists, highlighting the quandary policy
makers face as they balance sustaining a recovery with the need
to foster  price stability .  Consumer-price increases will average 2.7 percent this
year, compared with 2.6 percent seen in February, according to
the median forecast of 36 economists in a Bloomberg monthly
survey published today. They raised their predictions for
inflation in each of the next three quarters.  The change in view chimes with the  Bank of England , which
raised its inflation projections last month while saying that
the recovery will probably stay muted. Such a prospect has added
pressure on Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to
rethink the remit for policy makers as soon as next week to
allow more flexibility in achieving price stability while
promoting growth.  “Inflation is probably going to rise further and probably
not peak for another four or five months, and at the same time
the economy is going to continue stagnating and perhaps going
into a triple dip,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at  Capital
Economics  Ltd. in  London  who formerly worked at the Bank of
 England . “What you may call ‘stagflation-lite’ is going to
persist for a while.”  The economists surveyed predicted inflation will average
2.9 percent in the next two quarters before slowing to 2.5
percent in the final three months of the year. They previously
forecast a rate of 2.8 percent in the second quarter, followed
by 2.6 percent in the next three months and then 2.4 percent.  Inflation was at 2.7 percent in January, above the BOE’s 2
percent target.  BOE Forecast  For the second half of 2013, the Bank of England’s
inflation forecast is higher than that of economists. The
central outlook presented by Governor Mervyn King last month was
for 3.2 percent in the third quarter and 3.1 percent in the
fourth, with the pound’s weakness and increases in energy and
other administered costs cited as reasons.  Economists in the Bloomberg survey also cut forecasts for
 economic growth  in the next two quarters by 0.1 percentage point
for each period. They predicted 0.2 percent growth in the second
quarter and 0.3 percent in the following three months.  The euro area, currently in its second  recession  in four
years, will return to growth in the second quarter, according to
the median estimate of 51 economists in a separate survey.
Still, GDP will contract 0.2 percent this year, before advancing
1.1 percent next year and 1.5 percent in 2014.  Price Volatility  The U.K. outlook of price volatility juxtaposed with weak
growth has intensified scrutiny of the bank’s 2 percent
inflation target before the annual delivery of Osborne’s
instruction to policy makers in tandem with his budget.  With Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  having started a
debate on new tools before he replaces King on July 1, focus has
switched to the chancellor to see if he’ll give policy makers
more room for maneuver to stimulate growth.  Even with the higher inflation outlook, King and two other
policy makers voted to increase asset purchases in February,
though they were defeated by a majority on the nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee. Chief Economist  Spencer Dale , who
sided with the majority, may reveal clues on his own outlook in
a speech in London tomorrow.  The MPC also held the target for  bond purchases  at 375
billion pounds ($560 billion) this month, and the minutes of
that meeting will be released on March 20.  ‘Uncomfortable Inflation’  “If the MPC want to loosen policy, they’ll have to do so
against a backdrop of uncomfortable inflation,” said Redwood of
Capital Economics. “As long as the MPC is still thinking it’s
largely temporary factors that are pushing up inflation, and as
long as wage growth is still very subdued, the weaker economy is
still the greater concern.”  The  European Central Bank  said the economy should gradually
recover later this year, aided by its loose monetary policy.
Contained inflation expectations allow monetary policy “to
remain accommodative,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its
monthly bulletin published today. “Later in 2013 economic
activity should gradually recover, supported by a strengthening
of global demand and our accommodative monetary policy stance.”  European stocks rose to a 4 1/2-year high before regional
policy makers began a two-day summit in Brussels. European Union
leaders indicated in a draft statement they may grant countries
such as France, Spain and Portugal extra time to cut deficits.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.5 percent to 296.74 as of
10:58 a.m. in London, the highest level since June 2008.  Krone Weakens  Elsewhere in  Europe , the Norwegian krone weakened against
all of its 16 major peers after the Norges Bank kept benchmark
 interest rates  unchanged at a sixth consecutive meeting and
Governor Oeystein Olsen said the key rate may be kept low for
longer than previously anticipated.  Switzerland ’s franc was
little changed at 1.2339 per euro after the  Swiss National Bank 
pledged to defend its currency cap at 1.20 per euro.  A report today may show that 350,000 Americans filed
 initial claims  for jobless benefits last week, compared with a
six-week low of 340,000 in the previous period, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The Labor Department releases
the data at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Robinson in London at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  