-- U.K. Anti-Doping Seeks Additional Funds After Budget Cut
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-03-14T02:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/u-k-anti-doping-seeks-additional-funds-after-budget-cut.html
The U.K.’s anti-doping body is
seeking additional funding after cuts to its budget following
the  London Olympics .  Annual funding for  U.K. Anti-Doping  from the Department of
Culture, Media and Sport will drop 12 percent to 5.729 million
pounds ($8.5 million) in 2014-15. UKAD received 6.5 million
pounds in 2012-2013 to help the London 2012 organizing committee
deliver the biggest drug-testing program in the history of the 
games, with more than 5,000 samples.  “We’re looking at ways in which we can generate money,”
Andy Parkinson, UKAD’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview yesterday in London. “We get good support from the
government, but we’re in a situation where we aren’t immune to
the current economic climate and we’re taxpayer funded. We need
to be a little bit more creative.”  The cuts, which have forced UKAD to make changes in the way
it operates including moving to a smaller office, haven’t
impacted its “front-line delivery” of catching cheats,
Parkinson said.  Expertise gained during the  London  games is an advantage
when trying to tap alternative funds, Parkinson added. He said
he’s been talking to the  International Olympic Committee  and “a
number of other people” and told them that UKAD must charge for
providing a service “as a tax-payer funded organization.”  UKAD, which was founded in 2009, receives money from
national federations and some professional sports for a system
that tracks testing, Parkinson said. Seeking new funds through
corporate and social responsibility programs is “far more
preferable” than traditional company sponsorships, he added.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  “The opportunities available for sponsorships are limited
because you start getting into a conflict of interest
position,” Parkinson said at the Tackling Doping in Sport
conference in London. “We’re a regulator essentially. What I
don’t want is for a funder to start influencing the decisions of
how we operate.”  The  World Anti-Doping Agency , whose budget has been frozen
in the past two years, called for more funding at national level
in the fight against drug cheats.  “The national anti-doping organizations are at the coal
face,” Rob Koehler, director of education and program
development at WADA, said at the London conference. “More money
needs to be injected as a global effort.”  WADA was founded in 1999 as an international independent
agency. Its funding, which comes from governments and the IOC,
has been $28 million for the past two years.  “The more money you have, the more things you can do,”
Koehler said. “But we’ve been extremely efficient in using the
resources that we have. The reality is that governments
worldwide are cutting costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  