-- U.S. Sanctions Greek Businessman for Helping Iran Ship Oil
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-03-14T18:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/u-s-sanctions-greek-business-for-helping-iran-evade-sanctions.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
imposed sanctions on a Greek businessman, saying he helped  Iran 
evade sanctions by purchasing  oil tankers  and disguising their
cargoes.  Dimitris Cambis, president of Impire Shipping Ltd., will
have his assets in the U.S. blocked, the Treasury said in a
statement today. Cambis used Impire Shipping and other front
companies to buy eight tankers capable of carrying $200 million-
worth of oil per shipment and use them to load Iranian crude
from the country’s own ships, the department said.  “These are very bad rumors created by our competitors
because we are trying to take market share and they don’t like
it,” Cambis said by phone from his office in  Athens . He said he
was unaware of the sanctions against him.  The U.S. and allies are trying to curb Iran’s oil exports,
the country’s largest source of revenue, to pressure the
government in Tehran to stop enriching uranium. Negotiators will
meet in  Kazakhstan  next month to discuss steps toward an
agreement on  Iran’s nuclear program , which the country says is
for civilian use while Western leaders suspect military intent.  “Today we are lifting the veil on an intricate Iranian
scheme that was designed to evade international oil sanctions,”
 David Cohen , Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial
Intelligence, said in the statement. “We will continue to
expose deceptive Iranian practices, and to sanction those
individuals and entities who participate in these schemes.”  Libra Shipping  Impire and a management company called Libra Shipping
loaded the tankers using ship-to-ship transfers to mask the
cargoes’ origin and sell them on the global market, the
department said. In December 2012, Impire and the National
Iranian Tanker Company, known as NITC, completed a transfer of
Iranian oil off Khor Fakkan in the  United Arab Emirates ,
according to the statement. The Treasury has named 58 vessels as
blocked property for ties to NITC, it said.  Iranian oil shipments advanced 13 percent last month even
as the U.S. implemented new sanctions against the Persian Gulf
country, according to the  International Energy Agency . Exports
are still down from an average of 1.5 million barrels a day last
year and 2.5 million in 2011, before sanctions intensified, IEA
estimates show. Net oil revenue dropped to $64 billion for the
first 11 months of 2012, compared with $95 billion for all of
2011, the U.S. Department of Energy said in a Dec. 21 report.  There was no answer at the phone number for Libra
Shipping’s office in Glyfada,  Greece , outside of normal business
hours today. An e-mail to the company seeking comment wasn’t
immediately answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  