-- U.S. Drone Over Persian Gulf Pursued by Iranian Jet
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-03-14T22:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/u-s-drone-over-persian-gulf-pursued-by-iranian-jet.html
A U.S. military drone operating
over international waters in the Persian Gulf was pursued by an
Iranian military aircraft on March 12, according to the
Pentagon.  The MQ-1 Predator drone, which was accompanied by two
manned U.S. military airplanes, was conducting a classified
surveillance flight in international airspace when it was
approached by an Iranian F-4 jet that came within 16 miles (26
kilometers) of the unmanned plane, Pentagon spokesman George Little said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. After a “verbal
warning” from the U.S., the Iranian plane broke off, according
to the statement.  The incident is the latest in episodes going back to
December 2011, when Iran said it captured a stealthy U.S. drone.
In November 2012, the Pentagon said Iranian aircraft had fired
on an unarmed Predator drone that was conducting routine
surveillance over international waters.  After the incident in November, “the United States
communicated to the Iranians that we will continue to conduct
surveillance flights over international waters consistent with
long-standing practice and our commitment to the security of the
region,” Little said in the statement. “We also communicated
that we reserve the right to protect our military assets as well
as our forces and will continue to do so going forward.”  The latest incident was reported earlier yesterday by CNN.  International tensions over the Persian Gulf have increased
as the U.S. and allies have tightened economic sanctions aimed
at forcing Iran to abandon elements of its nuclear program they
say could be used to develop an atomic bomb. Last year, Iranian
officials periodically threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz,
which leads into the gulf and through which about 20 percent of
the world’s oil transits.  For Related News and Information:
Clock Runs as Obama Faces Pressure for Iran Military Strike  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  