-- Hulu Names Forssell Acting CEO as Site’s Owners Weigh Shake-Up
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/hulu-names-andy-forssell-as-acting-chief-executive-officer-1-.html
Hulu LLC, the video website, named
Andy Forssell acting chief executive officer to succeed  Jason Kilar  as the company’s dominant investors,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
 News Corp. (NWSA) , weigh what to do with their stakes.  Forssell, the company’s senior vice president of content,
helped Los Angeles-based Hulu grow from a startup in 2007 to
about $700 million in revenue in 2012, Kilar said yesterday on
the company’s  website .  Disney and News Corp. are completing plans for their
interests in the company, along with Hulu’s senior management,
Kilar wrote. Once those are done, a permanent decision regarding
the CEO will be made, he said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , another investor,
is barred from an active role at the company.  “Andy has built strong relationships with many of our
board members,” Kilar said. “Andy has the board’s strong
support in leading the team during this important time.”  Hulu is poised to post record first-quarter revenue and
subscriber additions, Kilar said.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , gained 0.7 percent to
$57.75 yesterday at the close in New York, while News Corp.
climbed 0.6 percent to $30.65. Philadelphia-based Comcast added
1.4 percent to $41.16.  Disney and New York-based News Corp. are in talks that may
lead to one buying out the other’s interest, two people with
knowledge of the matter said this month.  In that scenario, an agreement would hand control of Hulu
to either News Corp. or Disney, said the people. The companies,
which each own about one-third, are also discussing selling Hulu
or changing the business model, they said.  Disney Goals  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, prefers
an advertising-focused business model, the people said. News
Corp., owner of the  Fox network , along with film and TV studios,
would like Hulu to rely on subscriptions, the people said. Hulu
offers a limited free service and an expanded $8-a-month
offering called Hulu Plus. Both include commercials.  The companies may also choose to take no action, the people
said. Under all of the scenarios, Comcast, the largest U.S.
cable company, would remain a minority investor, they said.  Comcast is prohibited from an operational or board role
under an agreement with federal regulators related to its NBC
Universal acquisition in January 2011.  The Disney-News Corp. discussions follow a decision by
Kilar to step down by the end of this month. He received about
$40 million from the sale of  Hulu  stock back to the company in
October, people told Bloomberg at the time. Hulu repurchased a
10 percent stake held by Providence Equity Partners Inc. for
$200 million.  Hulu Plus  Formed by NBC and Fox, Hulu allowed viewers to watch shows
online with fewer commercials. Disney became an investor in
April 2009. Hulu Plus, started in 2010, provides access to a
bigger library of shows and the ability to watch programs on
mobile devices, Web-connected TV sets and video-game consoles.  Hulu said in December that 2012 revenue climbed 65 percent
to about $695 million as subscribers more than doubled to 3
million. The company lags behind  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s more than 33
million worldwide subscribers, and faces emerging competition
from Amazon.com Inc. and the new Redbox Instant service offered
by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Coinstar Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  