-- Venezuela to Create New Foreign Exchange Market, Maduro Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-03-14T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/venezuela-to-create-new-foreign-exchange-market-maduro-says.html
Venezuela  will create an
alternative currency market to crack down on a black market in
which the dollar is worth about four times more than the
official rate, interim President Nicolas Maduro said.  “It’s now ready, we’re missing some details on the
mechanisms,” Maduro said in an interview on the Venevision
network yesterday. “We hope to announce it very soon, activate
it, incorporating all the economic sectors.”  The new state-run system will replace a central bank-
administered currency market known as Sitme and would seek to
complement the current foreign exchange rate system known as
Cadivi, Maduro said. The complementary system will provide
sufficient foreign currency for the economy while meeting the
country’s “real needs,” Maduro said.  Venezuela will create a market to expand the supply of
dollars with a weaker bolivar exchange rate, said a government
official familiar with the matter. The government is finalizing
operational details of the new market that will exchange cash
and dollar-denominated bonds, said the official, who asked not
to be named because no final decision has been made. The
announcement will be made before the April 14 presidential
election, the official said.  Before his death from cancer on March 5, President Hugo Chavez approved a 32 percent devaluation that weakened the
currency to 6.3 bolivars per dollar. He also shut down the
Sitme, pushing the dollar on the black market to about 22.5
bolivars, according to  Dolar Today  and Liberal Venezolano, two
websites that track the exchange rate on the Venezuelan-
Colombian border. The official exchange rate on the Sitme system
had been 5.3 bolivars per dollar.  Black Market  Establishing a parallel currency market would bring down
the rate of the black market dollar, said  Asdrubal Oliveros ,
director of Ecoanalitica, a Caracas-based financial consultancy.  “We understand that it won’t be a parallel market where
people can go and freely buy or sell dollars as they wish,”
Oliveros said in a phone interview before Maduro’s comments.
“It will be a restricted alternative currency market with an
exchange rate different from the official dollar, which means
the government won’t be able to eliminate the black market
altogether.”  Venezuela’s scarcity index that measures the amount of
goods out of stock on the market reached its highest level on
record in January as the government cut the supply of dollars to
importers.  Chavez, who first established currency controls in 2003, in
2010 shut down an unregulated market operated by bond brokerages
that supplied about $100 million a day to importers. That was
reduced to $45 million after Chavez shuttered the market and
replaced it with the Sitme, which in turn was closed in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  