-- Vestas May Sell Foundries, Colorado Tower Factory to Cut Costs
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-14T15:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/vestas-may-sell-foundries-colorado-tower-factory-to-cut-costs.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the Danish
wind-turbine maker that’s lost money for the last two years, may
sell its tower factory in  Colorado  and foundries in Europe and
 China  to cut costs.  The manufacturer last month listed 124 million euros ($160
million) of property, plant and equipment for sale when it
published its annual report for 2012. Vestas aims to sell plants
that don’t fall within its core activities of making blades,
control systems and assembling turbines, Chief Operating Officer
Jean-Marc Lechene said today by phone.  “There are some manufacturing activities which can be
considered non-core and we can better focus resources on those
areas where we make a difference,” he said. When asked what he
considers “non-core,” he listed “towers, machining and
castings.”  Vestas is trying to return to profit after seeing its  share
price  plunge to as low as 3.3 percent of the 2008 record. The
factory sales are part of the Aarhus-based company’s efforts to
cut fixed costs by 400 million euros over the two years through
the end of 2013 and reduce its workforce to 16,000 by year-end
from 22,721 in 2011.  Lechene declined to specify which factories will be sold.
Vestas owns a tower factory in Pueblo, Colorado and four
foundries in China,  Germany ,  Sweden  and  Norway . The company also
owns a machining factory, which refines cast metal products into
finished components, in Lem, Denmark.  ‘Spanking New’  The stated value suggests Vestas is trying to sell three or
four factories, said Daniel Patterson, an analyst at SEB AB in
Copenhagen. He listed the Colorado plant, the foundries --
especially the one in China -- and a generator factory in
Travemuende, Germany, as likely candidates.  “The generator factory is spanking new,” he said. “Why
not try to sell that to someone who makes a lot of generators,
like  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  or  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) ’s Leroy Somer?”  Lechene said Vestas will want to keep buying components
from any factories it sells. “We want be sure that any new
owner would operate those factories according to our
standards,” he said. “That search may take some time.”  Patterson said Vestas is “on the way” to achieving its
cost-reduction goals, and that if they accomplish them while
receiving orders of 4.5 gigawatts to 5 gigawatts a year, within
a couple of years, the share price could more than double to 100
kroner. He has a buy  rating  on the stock and a price target of
65 kroner.  Vestas  shares  have almost doubled since hitting a low of
23.25 kroner on Nov. 20, their lowest intraday price since 1998.
The shares fell 0.3 percent to 46.44 kroner at 4:07 p.m. in
Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  