-- VIPs Offered ‘Reasonably Priced’ $14 Million Velazquez
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-03-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/vips-offered-reasonably-priced-14-million-velazquez.html
A painting by Velazquez priced at a
“reasonable” $14 million is among works on show at the world’s
biggest art and antiques fair, which opens to VIPs today.  The head-and-shoulders portrait of a bearded man is being
offered for sale by the New York-based dealer  Otto Naumann , one
of 265 exhibitors at the 26th edition of the European Fine Art
Fair, Tefaf, in the Netherlands.  The 10-day annual event in a conference center on the
outskirts of Maastricht presents 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion)
of museum-quality artworks and jewelry ranging in date from
antiquity to the 21st century. It will attract more than 60,000
visitors.  “Collectors, or more generally rich people, will continue
to buy what the market considers are the best pieces,”
Brussels-based art adviser  Henry Bounameaux  said in an
interview. “At fairs like Tefaf, they feel secure.”  With increasing numbers of collectors migrating toward
contemporary art and government austerity programs cooling
demand in the middle range, buyers of more traditional works are
concentrating on exceptional unique pieces, dealers said.  Naumann is one of several exhibitors at Tefaf who is re-
offering works from recent auctions. He acquired the newly
discovered Velazquez for 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) at
Bonhams,  London , in December 2011.  Dream Clean  Works by 17th-century  Spain ’s greatest artist rarely appear
for sale. Though the canvas has “cleaned like a dream,” the
identity of the middle-aged sitter has yet to be confirmed. The
price has been reduced from a “fair” $17 million to its
current “reasonable” level, Naumann said in an e-mail.  The London dealer Daniel Katz is showing an Egyptian stone
sculpture of the goddess Isis that sold for 3.7 million pounds
at Christie’s International, London, in October. The price was a
record for an ancient Egyptian work of art sold at auction.  Dating from about 664-525 B.C., the sculpture, which was
acquired by a French diplomat in Alexandria in the 1840s, is
being re-offered with a price of about 7 million pounds.  “I’m excited by Tefaf,” said Morgan Long, director of art
investment at the London-based  Fine Art Fund . “My only worry is
that there’s a seemingly limited supply of fresh works at the
moment, especially now that the auction houses are offering
collectors the two options of public and private sales.”  One of the exceptional works to emerge from a private
collection is a Tibetan sculpture included in last year’s
“Bronze” exhibition at the  Royal Academy  of Arts, London.  Tsar Shot  The 11-headed painted and gilded Avalokiteshvara, dating
from about 1400, has been kept in a European private collection
for more than 40 years. It will be priced at 6 million euros by
the London-based dealer  Rossi & Rossi .  Among the quirkier items on sale is an Imperial gold seal
by Carl Faberge incorporating a piece of lead shot that almost
killed the Tsar of  Russia  in 1905. (The shot was accidentally
fired from a cannon in a ceremonial salute and missed Nicholas
II by a few feet.) This is being offered by the London dealer
 Wartski  for 500,000 pounds.  Tefaf, aware of competition from last October’s slickly
presented inaugural Frieze Masters fair in London, has updated
its design.  It has also bolstered the modern and contemporary section
by welcoming back Gagosian, the world’s biggest commercial
gallery network, which last exhibited in 2006. First-time
participants include the Germany-based  Galerie Ludorff  and
 Galerie Bastian .  Updating Tefaf  “It wouldn’t be good for Tefaf to be seen just as an Old
Master fair,” said James Roundell, director of the London-based
dealers Dickinson and a member of the Tefaf organizing
committee. “We want it to be part of the 21st century.”  Gagosian will be showing the 1946 Pablo Picasso oil-on-
panel work “Femme avec un couteau a la main et une tete de
taureau” and the 2010 Jeff Koons gilded-steel sculpture “Pluto
and Proserpina.” The gallery’s prices aren’t given to
reporters.  Dickinson will be offering the 1960 Alberto Giacometti
bronze bust “Annette,” tagged at $4.5 million.  “With Frieze Masters, Tefaf has a serious challenger
now,” Bounameaux said. “London has a lot to offer that
Maastricht can’t and I think coming editions will be decisive
for the fair.”  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Richard
Vines  on food,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on
technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Maastricht, the Netherlands, at
 sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 