-- Vipshop Jumps as Consumers Advance on Xi: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-14T20:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/vipshop-jumps-as-consumers-advance-on-xi-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  rebounded from a
three-month low in New York, led by  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , on
optimism the nation’s new leaders will focus on boosting
consumption to fuel economic growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 0.6 percent to 92.65
yesterday, the first advance this week. Vipshop, an online
fashion discounter, rallied 7.9 percent in record trading volume
after raising $96 million in a share sale.  Guangshen (GSH)  Railway Co.
advanced the most in a week while  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL)  gained the
most this week as profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  tumbled to a record low.  Xi Jinping was named China’s new president by the national
legislature yesterday, as the government seeks to move away from
an economy driven by investment and public spending to one based
on consumption and higher productivity. Xi, a former provincial
governor who studied science at university, will lead China as
it emerges from a seven-quarter slowdown and markets rebound
from a slump of as much as 24 percent last year.  “The consumer sector will continue to attract funds as the
big theme of boosting consumption in China will remain
unchanged,”  Lei Wang , who helps manage the $27 billion
Thornburg International Value Fund in Santa Fe,  New Mexico , said
by phone yesterday. “People are now watching closely what
measures the new leadership will roll out after they are
installed.”  Share Issuance  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 1.1 percent to $37.76 in
New York, rising for the first time in four days. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.6 percent to 1,563.23, the highest
level since October 2007.  Vipshop’s American depositary shares jumped to $26.36 as
trading volume surged to more than 12 times the daily average
over the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Guangzhou-based company sold 4 million new ADS in a secondary
offering, netting them about $96 million, according to a
statement yesterday. The new shares were priced at $24 each
after the stock closed at $24.44 March 13 in  New York .  China needs to “change its economic structure in order to
have a sustainable growth, and the new government leadership
understands this very well,” Jasmine Huang, a senior portfolio
manager at Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC, which
has a China fund of about $210 million, said in a phone
interview from Portland, Oregon yesterday. The change will help
drive up equities related to the consumer sector, including
Internet companies, which will benefit from mass market
consumption, she said.  4G License  China Mobile, the world’s largest phone carrier by users,
added 1.1 percent to $53.95, climbing for the first day this
week. Its American depositary receipts, each representing five
underlying shares, traded 0.4 percent  above  the Hong Kong-listed
shares, the first premium in three days.  Beijing-based China Mobile said fourth-quarter net income
increased 6.1 percent to 36 billion  yuan  ($5.8 billion),
according to figures derived from full-year data released to the
 Hong Kong  Stock Exchange yesterday. Analysts projected profit of
32.3 billion yuan. Sales grew 5.3 percent to 151.8 billion yuan,
also beating analysts’ average estimate of 150.4 billion yuan.  China Mobile’s Chairman  Xi Guohua  said the government may
issue a license for fourth-generation services some time around
the end of the year when he spoke in Hong Kong yesterday. The
company started a commercial service with its homegrown 4G
network in Hong Kong in December.  Suntech Sinks  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rebounded 0.6 percent
from a three-month low to 11,101.96 yesterday, while the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares advanced 0.3
percent to 2,270.28, after a five-day decline.  Guangshen, which runs the only train line linking mainland
China to Hong Kong, advanced 3.5 percent to $26 in New York,
extending a two-day rally.  Suntech, the biggest solar-panel maker globally in 2011,
tumbled 19 percent to 67 cents, the lowest price on record.
Trading volume on the stock was almost five times the daily
three-month average, Bloomberg data show.  The company, which this week announced a forbearance
agreement for $541 million in convertible debt due today, sank
after Maxim Group LLP said they will probably default and enter
bankruptcy. Suntech, based in Wuxi of Jiangsu province, said it
doesn’t plan to make a principal payment on the debt in a
statement after U.S. trading closed.  China ’s government “won’t intervene and shouldn’t” rescue
Suntech from its creditors, as officials in Beijing want to pare
excess manufacturing capacity, Li Junfeng, director of the
climate-change strategic research division at the government’s
National Development and Reform Commission, said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  