-- VirnetX Loses Patent Trial to Cisco Over Private Networks
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D e n n i s   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-03-14T20:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/virnetx-loses-patent-trial-to-cisco-over-private-networks.html
VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) , a patent-
licensing firm, fell the most since August 2011 after losing an
infringement trial against Cisco Systems Inc. over virtual
private network inventions.  VirnetX dropped $9.92, or 28 percent, to $25.75 in  New York 
trading of 9.8 million,  more than 12 times  the three-month daily
average. A jury in Tyler,  Texas , today said the VirnetX patents
weren’t infringed by Cisco, rejecting a demand for $258 million
in damages.  The dispute is over virtual private networks, through which
a website owner can securely interact with a customer or an
employee can work at home and have protected access to a
company’s electronic files. Doug Cawley of  McKool Smith , a
lawyer representing VirnetX, had told the jury Cisco used the
technology to improve security in its own networks.  “We are grateful that a jury in Tyler, Texas, agreed with
Cisco that our accused products do not use VirnetX’s
technology,” Cisco General Counsel  Mark Chandler  said in a
statement. “Cisco will continue to do the right thing for our
customers and shareholders by vigorously defending against
patent infringement lawsuits that lack merit.”  Patent Review  The patents are under review by the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office , and Cisco lost an argument in which it sought
to tell jurors about preliminary rejections by the agency. By
law, patents remain valid and enforceable until the review
process, including all appeals, is completed.  VirnetX won a $368.2 million verdict against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in
November over the same technology, including two of the same
patents, before a different Tyler jury. In 2010, Zephyr Cove,
Nevada-based VirnetX reached a $200 million settlement with
Microsoft Corp. over the same inventions.  Lawyers for the two sides declined to comment on the
verdict. Greg Wood, a spokesman for VirnetX, didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  Cisco Sales  The case decided today focused on Cisco routers, software
and phones that have virtual-private-networking functions
including its Unified Communications Manager, Telepresence or
AnyConnect. Cisco, whose products handle traffic over the
Internet, reported sales of $12.1 billion in the quarter ended
Jan. 26.  VirnetX, which said in its annual report that it has an
accumulated deficit of $62.9 million, relies on patent licensing
for its revenue. It is testing its Gabriel Connection Technology
to create secure communications links, it said in the annual
report.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis, who is presiding over
the Apple and Cisco cases, on Feb. 26 upheld the jury verdict
against Apple. Davis denied a VirnetX request for an order to
limit Apple’s ability to provide virtual private networks on its
products.  The verdict came hours after Cisco’s general counsel,
Chandler, testified before the House Judiciary Committee on
patent litigation. In his prepared  statement , Chandler said the
company spends about $50 million a year fighting 50 lawsuits
filed by patent owners that don’t make products.  The case is VirnetX Inc. v.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , 10cv417,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  