-- VW Says Profit Won’t Grow as BMW Sees Global Economy Woes
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-03-14T14:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/vw-targets-60-jump-in-chinese-vehicle-production-by-2018.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  predicted a “difficult” 2013 as the European
auto market contracts, vehicle prices in the region drop and
growth in China slows.  VW fell to almost a four-month low after Chief Executive
Officer Martin Winterkorn said the automaker,  Europe ’s biggest,
is confronting “tougher competition and difficult economic
conditions.” BMW, the world’s largest luxury-vehicle
manufacturer, sees conditions as “likely to remain challenging
in many markets,” CEO Norbert Reithofer said.  Industrywide car sales in Europe, already at a 17-year low
in 2012, fell in January to the least for that month since
records began in 1990, according to the ACEA trade group. BMW
and VW have both been counting on Chinese and U.S. growth to
offset the contraction in their home region. Munich-based BMW
said today profitability at its automaking unit narrowed last
year, and analysts  estimate  earnings will drop in 2013.  “Europe is not the only market where conditions are
deteriorating,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
Bergisch Gladbach,  Germany . “Growth in China declined to a one-
digit percentage rate last year, and the U.S. market will
probably level off in 2013. At the same time, costs to expand
sales and services organizations are rising.”  2014 Forecast  Volkswagen, whose Audi brand ranks second to BMW in global
luxury-vehicle sales, will post an increase in earnings before
interest and taxes in 2014 after profit this year matches the
2012 figure, Winterkorn said today at a press conference at VW
headquarters in Wolfsburg. Daimler AG, which owns the Mercedes-
Benz luxury-car marque, also forecast last month that operating
profit in 2013 will remain unchanged from last year.  BMW, which said it expects to release more forecasts for
2013 on March 19, reiterated today that it’s planning on a third
consecutive record this year in annual deliveries.  Vehicle prices in Europe have been declining amid
carmakers’ unsuccessful attempts to stem the market decline, a
strategy that has led to losses at Paris-based  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  and the regional divisions of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  Discounts in Germany widened to an average 11.8
percent of the list price in January from 11 percent a year
earlier, according to  Autohaus PulsSchlag  industry magazine.  “Pricing will remain tough, because the market in Europe
is going down,” and there are discounting pressures in other
regions, Christian Klingler, VW’s head of sales, said today at
an analysts’ conference in Wolfsburg.  Stock Falls  VW  fell  as much as 3.8 percent to 160.10 euros, the lowest
intraday price since Nov. 23, and was trading down 1.2 percent
at 3:41 p.m. in Frankfurt. BMW fell 0.3 percent to 71.05 euros.  “Investors seem to be questioning if VW is really as price
disciplined as claimed,” David Arnold, a sales specialist at
Credit Suisse in  London , said today in a report to clients.  BMW reported a 3.5 percent increase in full-year earnings
before interest and taxes to 8.3 billion euros ($10.7 billion).
Ebit at the carmaking division increased 2 percent, while
earnings as a proportion of sales declined to 10.9 percent from
11.8 percent in 2011, the company said today in a  statement .
That compares with an 11 percent margin posted by Audi in 2012.  China’s Role  Audi and Mercedes-Benz both have targets of taking the top
luxury-car delivery spot from BMW in coming years.  China  is key
to their growth plans, and the country is also part of VW and
GM’s strategies for world car-market dominance. Volkswagen plans
to add as many as seven factories in China by 2018, the German
company’s target year for becoming the world’s No. 1 carmaker,
Winterkorn said today.  China’s passenger-car market expanded 7.1 percent last year
to 15.5 million vehicles, and growth may accelerate in 2013 to
8.5 percent, according to the country’s vehicle-manufacturers’
association. That compares with jumps of 33 percent in 2010 and
53 percent in 2009.  “There’s still enormous potential in China, but the market
has slowed from double-digit growth to single digits, and that
will remain so in the future,” the Center of Automotive
Management’s Bratzel said. “The risk of over-dependence and
overcapacity naturally rises with such a plan. It’s up to VW to
manage that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Wolfsburg at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in  Frankfurt  at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  