-- Wells Fargo Raises Dividend 20 Percent as Fed Gives Approval
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-14T21:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/wells-fargo-raises-dividend-20-percent-as-fed-gives-approval.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, will raise its dividend 20 percent after winning
approval from the  Federal Reserve  for a plan to return more
capital to shareholders.  The quarterly dividend will increase to 30 cents a share in
the second three-month period from 25 cents, the San Francisco-
based lender said today in a statement. The bank also said it
plans to repurchase more shares this year than last, without
providing a figure. Wells Fargo raised its payout 83 percent
last year and bought back about $4 billion of shares.  “Our ability to do this is a testament to our diversified
business model, which has allowed us to serve more customers and
continue to grow capital,” Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf ,
59, said in the statement. The actions provide “shareholders
with more return on their investment.”  The central bank told the 18 largest U.S.  lenders  today
whether their capital plans were approved. Last week, the Fed
released results of its annual stress tests, saying that 17 of
the biggest banks could withstand a deep recession and maintain
capital above a regulatory minimum.  Wells Fargo’s dividend
boost is subject to board approval, the lender said.  Regulators are allowing payouts to climb to pre-crisis
levels after U.S. lenders wrapped up the second-most-profitable
year on record. Investors in the six largest lenders had
anticipated dividend and buyback increases to total $41 billion.  The Fed began  annual stress tests  in 2009 to evaluate the
health of the U.S. banking system. In 2011, the central bank
adopted an approach known as Comprehensive Capital Analysis &
Review, or CCAR, which focused on lenders’ capital plans,
assessing how dividend increases or share buybacks would affect
them. Those results were announced today.  Regulators subject bank portfolios, capital levels and
profit-making potential to conditions that simulate an economic
recession or financial shock. This year’s stress tests involved
three scenarios, including two stressed situations. In one, the
economy contracts for six quarters and inflation and interest
rates rise sharply. In the other,  unemployment  climbs above 12
percent and stocks fall 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  