-- When Chinese Immigrants Came From Mexico
-- B y   P e t e r   A n d r e a s
-- 2013-03-14T16:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/when-chinese-immigrants-came-from-mexico.html
The U.S.- Mexico  border has long
been a conduit for undocumented workers. Less appreciated is
that the first migrants weren’t Mexican; they were Chinese.  Starting in the 1850s, tens of thousands of Chinese
laborers (many of whom left in violation of their country’s
emigration laws) were initially sought after in the American
West as a source of cheap labor, especially to build the
transcontinental railroad. They were never welcomed, however,
and couldn’t become citizens. When the demand for labor dried
up, an anti-Chinese backlash quickly followed.  As political pressure to “do something” about the
“yellow peril” intensified, Congress first passed the Page Act
of 1875 (with enforcement mostly aimed at keeping out Chinese
prostitutes), followed by the far more sweeping Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882. These laws -- the federal government’s
first attempts to keep out “undesirables” -- were renewed,
revised, strengthened and extended to other Asian groups in
subsequent years and decades (and weren’t repealed until 1943).  As front-door entry through  San Francisco  and other U.S.
seaports became more difficult in the late 19th century,
increasing numbers of Chinese immigrants turned to the back
entrance: the vast and minimally policed northern and southern
U.S. land borders.  Canada Border  In the late 1880s and ’90s, Canada was a favored base for
smuggling immigrants into the U.S. But as Canadians began
cooperating with American authorities, Chinese migrants and
their smugglers increasingly turned to Mexico. That country was
far less inclined to cooperate with the U.S. because of the
still-festering wounds of the Mexican-American War about half a
century earlier.  State Department efforts to negotiate agreements with the
government of President Porfirio Diaz to curb Chinese entries
went nowhere.  As was the case with  Canada , new steamship, railway and
road networks aided migrant smuggling through Mexico. But unlike
in Canada, Mexican transport companies showed little willingness
to cooperate with the U.S.  The Treaty of Amity and Commerce signed by China and Mexico
in 1899, and the establishment of direct steamship travel
between  Hong Kong  and Mexico in 1902, opened the door for a
surge in Chinese migration. And this, in turn, provided a
steppingstone for clandestine migration to the U.S. In 1900,
there were just a few thousand Chinese in Mexico; less than a
decade later, almost 60,000 Chinese migrants had departed for
Mexico. Some stayed, but the U.S. was a far more attractive
destination. In 1907, a U.S. government investigator observed
that as many as 50 Chinese arrived daily by train in the border
town of Juarez, yet the Chinese community in the town never
grew.  Foreshadowing future debates, a January 1904 editorial in
the El Paso Herald-Post warned that “if this Chinese
immigration to Mexico continues it will be necessary to run a
barb wire fence along our side of the  Rio Grande .”  A 1906 law-enforcement report on Chinese smuggling noted
that, “All through northern Mexico, along the lines of the
railroad, are located so-called boarding houses and restaurants,
which are the rendezvous of the Chinese and their smugglers, and
the small towns and villages throughout this section are filled
with Chinese coolies, whose only occupation seems to be lying in
wait until arrangement can be perfected for carrying them across
the border.”  Corruption Scandal  As U.S. authorities tightened enforcement at urban entry
points along the Mexico-California border, smugglers shifted to
more remote areas further east in  Arizona ,  New Mexico  and  Texas .
They also tried to buy off, rather than bypass, U.S. authorities
as they moved their human cargo across the line. This was the
case in Nogales, Arizona, where border inspectors, including the
collector of customs, reportedly charged smugglers between $50
and $200 a head. These officials were arrested by special agents
of the Treasury Department and Secret Service operatives in
August 1901. The Washington Post reported that, “with two or
three exceptions, the whole customs and immigration
administration at Nogales are involved” in the smuggling
scheme.  Chinese weren’t the only ones coming in through the back
door. They were simply at the top of a growing list of
“undesirables,” including Lebanese, Greeks, Italians, Slavs
from the Balkans and Jews. Immigration officials turned away
members of these groups in disproportionate numbers, and they
found Mexico to be a convenient back-door alternative.  The Mexican Revolution, from 1910 to 1917, and World War I
disrupted the use of Mexico as a steppingstone for illegal
entry. Migrant smuggling strongly rebounded when international
steamship service was resumed. However, this mostly now involved
Europeans rather than Chinese, who by this time were the main
targets of a growing anti-immigrant backlash that peaked with
the national-origins quotas of 1921 and 1924.  These days, Chinese immigration is no longer the main
policy concern, yet some of the border enforcement and evasion
dynamics are the same. Indeed, if the past is any
guide, today’s determined Mexican immigrants -- like the many
who preceded them -- are unlikely to be deterred by fences and
border patrols. They will find alternate routes. As the Chinese
migrants of a century ago showed, where there’s a will, there’s
often a clandestine way.  (Peter Andreas is a professor of political science and the
interim director of the Watson Institute for International
Studies at  Brown University . This essay is adapted from his new
book, “Smuggler Nation: How Illicit Trade Made America.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Peter Andreas at  peter_andreas@brown.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  