-- Will Obama Finally Crack the Israeli Code?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-03-14T14:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/will-obama-finally-crack-the-israeli-code-.html
In 2009, President  Barack Obama 
traveled to Cairo in order to reset his country’s relationship
with the world’s Muslims.  In the speech he gave there, which the White House titled,
“ A New Beginning ,” Obama made a powerful statement in support of
the Palestinian cause: “The situation for the Palestinian people
is intolerable,” he said. “America will not turn our backs on
the legitimate Palestinian aspiration for dignity, opportunity
and a state of their own.”  Notably, he didn’t avoid the touchy subject of the U.S.
bond with Israel, which he called “unbreakable.” He said this
knowing that such a statement would not fill his Muslim audience
with joy. “Around the world, the Jewish people were persecuted
for centuries, and anti-Semitism in Europe culminated in an
unprecedented Holocaust,” Obama said, by way of explaining U.S.
support for the Jewish state. “Six million Jews were killed --
more than the entire Jewish population of Israel today. Denying
that fact is baseless, it is ignorant and it is hateful.”  Obama’s statement came at a moment when many Israelis
believed he was preparing to dismantle the special relationship
between his country and theirs. His aides hoped his words would
serve to allay Jewish fears of a new president whose middle name
is Hussein.  It didn’t work as planned. Why, you ask? Why would a moving
declaration of sympathy for the victims of the Holocaust -- and
a robust denunciation of Holocaust denial -- alienate Israelis,
and many of their friends in the U.S.? Well, welcome to the
Middle East, where every tribe and creed has its own code, and
mastery of these codes doesn’t come easy.  Israeli Cause  One of the reasons Obama is traveling to Israel next week -
- the first overseas trip of his second term -- is to correct
the impression, partly created in Cairo, that he doesn’t
understand Israel’s history, and has no feeling for the
underlying justice of its cause. This isn’t only the impression
of many Israelis. According to a  recent poll  conducted by the
Hill newspaper, 39 percent of Americans said the president isn’t
supportive enough of Israel; only 13 percent said he’s too
supportive.  How did Obama leave this impression? At home, this view was
cultivated partly by cynical Republicans who have been eager to
turn support for Israel into a partisan issue.  With Israelis, it’s more complicated. The Cairo speech had
a chilling effect because, to Israelis, the Holocaust alone
doesn’t justify the existence of their state. “The Holocaust
doesn’t explain why we’re here,” said  Yossi Klein Halevi , a
research fellow at the Shalom Hartman Institute in Jerusalem.
“The Holocaust explains why we fight as fiercely as we do to
stay here, but it doesn’t explain our rootedness.”  In Cairo, Halevi said, Obama failed to acknowledge “Jewish
indigenousness in the region,” the idea that history -- the
uninterrupted Jewish presence in the lands of ancient Israel for
more than 3,000 years -- justifies the modern Jewish claim to a
state there. “In Cairo, Obama was asking the Arab world to feel
sorry for the Jews,” he said, “and by doing so, he inadvertently
played into the hands of those whose response is, ‘Well, if
there was a Holocaust, let the Germans pay for it, not the
Arabs.’ That’s a reasonable response if you don’t believe that
Jews are from here.”  The absence of Zionist thought in the speech was unhelpful,
though not thematically inexplicable (after all, it was a speech
meant to woo Muslims, not Jews). But Obama is clearly acquainted
with the ideas that energized Jewish nationalism. During his
first campaign for president, in 2008,  I spoke to him  at length
about the Middle East, and he told me of learning Israel’s story
early in life, from a Jewish camp counselor who explained to him
the “idea of preserving a culture when a people had been
uprooted with the view of eventually returning home.” Obama went
on, “There was something so powerful and compelling for me,
maybe because I was a kid who never entirely felt like he was
rooted.”  Building Trust  In his first term, the president thought that he shouldn’t
travel to Israel or the Palestinian territories until a
negotiating process was well under way. But his thinking shifted
last year, when he realized that reintroducing himself to
Israelis, and conveying to them that he understood their
situation, could serve to build trust and create more space for
an American-guided peace process. (The president, it is fair to
say, also grew tired of being asked why he hadn’t yet visited
Israel.)  The Palestinians are only getting a few hours of his time -
- a quick visit to Ramallah, the capital of their West Bank rump
state.  But on this trip, at least, Obama will have some highly
symbolic encounters with the pre-Holocaust Jewish past. He will
visit the grave of Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern
political Zionism, a trip meant to suggest to Israelis that he
recognizes not only the reality of the Jewish presence in
Israel, but the validity of that presence.  And he will visit the  Shrine of the Book  at the Israel
Museum, which is home to the Dead Sea Scrolls, evidence of a
Jewish connection to the land that predates Christianity and
Islam. (The Israeli government, never shy about trying to gild
the lily, wanted Obama to view a model of the Second Temple,
which once stood where the Dome of the Rock, a Muslim shrine,
now stands, but the Obama administration’s Middle East experts
thought it best to keep the president out of at least a couple
of minefields.)  Since Obama’s visit is focused on Israel’s future, and on
the deep past, will the Israeli government encourage him to skip
 Yad Vashem , the national Holocaust memorial? Of course not, I
was told by one Israeli official who asked not to be identified
so he could speak freely. There’s no way he could come to Israel
and not visit Yad Vashem. But wasn’t the complaint the last time
around that he talks too much about the Holocaust? The official
gave me a knowing smile and asked this question: If he didn’t
visit Yad Vashem, what would the Republicans say?  Everyone has a code, apparently. If Obama manages to crack
the Israeli code on this visit, he might finally be able to
convince them that he really does understand them. Then he may
have the space to speak to them bluntly -- over the head of
their prime minister, if necessary -- about the difficult
choices their country faces.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 