-- Twitter Said to Plan Mobile Music App Using SoundCloud Service
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-14T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/twitter-said-to-plan-mobile-music-app-using-soundcloud-service.html
Twitter Inc., the Web-based social
messaging service, is developing a mobile music application that
will let its users play and share songs on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The app will stream music from SoundCloud Ltd., a Berlin-
based audio-sharing service, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named because the plan hasn’t been announced. Twitter
last year acquired digital-media startup We Are Hunted as part
of its push into music, a person said.  Twitter is going beyond 140-character messages as it vies
with social-networking rivals to get users to spend more time on
its site. The company released a video app in January. Adding
music would give  record companies  a way to promote new tracks by
taking advantage of Twitter’s word-of-mouth network.  Internet users  increasingly rely on social networks to find
new music as streaming services such as Spotify Ltd. and Rdio
Inc. let subscribers share songs and playlists through Facebook.
The dominant social network last week updated its news feed to
make it easier to discover music.  SoundCloud lets artists and music labels make songs
available to users, who can then listen and make notations on
the tracks. The partnership would let Twitter users share those
songs using their mobile phones, said a person familiar with the
matter.  Executives at two major record labels first learned of
Twitter’s plans today, after CNET reported the development of a
music app, according to two people close to the companies. It
wasn’t clear whether Twitter would need separate agreements with
music labels for a service with SoundCloud.  Vine App  Twitter’s purchase of We Are Hunted, also reported by CNET,
hasn’t been announced, and terms of the deal couldn’t be
determined.  Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Twitter, declined to comment on the development of a music app.
Kristina Weise, a spokeswoman for SoundCloud, also declined to
comment.  Twitter looks to improve its case for an eventual initial
public offering, as it adds new products and bolsters its
management bench. Ali Rowghani was promoted to chief operating
officer in December, the same time Mike Gupta became chief
financial officer. Twitter hasn’t disclosed plans for an initial
public offering.  Adam Messinger, a veteran of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  who joined
Twitter in 2011, was recently promoted to the role of chief
technical officer, Penner said.  In January, Twitter introduced a new app for creating and
sharing six-second videos via mobile phones. The app was created
by another startup acquired by Twitter, called Vine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  