-- Two Taiwan Power Producers to Contest Record $213 Million Fine
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-03-14T14:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/two-taiwan-power-producers-to-contest-record-213-million-fine.html
Two of Taiwan’s independent power
producers said they plan to appeal a record fine by the
competition regulator against nine companies for violating
antitrust laws during negotiations with Taiwan Power Co.  Mai-Liao Power Corp., part of the  Formosa Plastics Group ,
and Ho Ping Power Co., a unit of  Taiwan Cement Corp (1101) , said they
didn’t coordinate their actions with other power companies
during pricing negotiations that started in 2007, according to
separate statements filed to the island’s stock exchange today.  The Fair Trade Commission  announced  yesterday it would fine
nine power producers, including Mai-liao and Ho Ping, a record
NT$6.32 billion ($213 million) for coordinating a refusal to
negotiate with Taiwan Power and affecting the supply of
electricity in the market. The state-owned utility has relied on
independent producers to meet demand since 2000 and posted a
NT$43.3 billion loss in the preceding year, according to its
2011  annual report .  “The commission duly punished a coordinated action against
market and economic order,” the Ministry of Economic Affairs
said in a  statement  yesterday. “It should prevent companies
from attaining an unfair advantage through mutual agreement.”  Six of the nine companies have agreed to new pricing for
Taiwan Power, which the economy ministry said would yield
NT$18.4 billion in savings.  Pricing Talks  Besides Mai-Liao and Ho Ping, Chahui Power Corp., part of
the Far Eastern Group, is the other holdout on price
negotiations, according to Sun Lih-Chyun, a spokesman for the
commission. Mai-Liao and Ho Ping were fined NT$1.85 billion and
NT$1.35 billion respectively, which they must pay within 15 days
of receiving formal notification.  Taiwan Power will continue its talks with the three
companies, Roger Lee, a spokesman for the utility, said by phone
today.  The commission ruling comes as Taiwan Power faces renewed
public criticism over the construction of the island’s fourth
nuclear power plant, after missing a deadline to begin
commercial operations at the end of last year.  More than 68,000 people demonstrated against nuclear power
and Taiwan Power’s $8.9 billion plant before the second
anniversary of the March 11 nuclear meltdown at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant.  President Ma Ying-jeou has said he supports a referendum to
decide whether to complete the nuclear plant. Premier Jiang Yi-
huah said the state utility faces bankruptcy if the plant isn’t
completed, the Taipei-based China Times reported on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  