-- Women From Latvia to Vietnam Among Emerging Leaders, Survey Says
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-03-14T18:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/women-latvia-to-vietnam-lead-emerging-leaders-ranks-survey-says.html
Women in emerging countries are
becoming business leaders in greater numbers than in the
developed world, and nowhere is that more evident than in China
and eastern Europe, according to a study by  Grant Thornton  LLP.  The survey of 6,627 executives across industries and around
the world shows the 10 countries with the most women in senior
positions are all emerging economies, led by China, Poland,
Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. At least 32 percent of chief
executive officers, chairmen, senior executives or managers in
these countries are women, according to the results.  The world’s fastest-growing nations are making an effort to
add women to leadership positions as new jobs are created,
according to Erica O’Malley, a partner at Grant Thornton in
 Chicago . In China, where women hold more than half of all senior
management positions -- more than double the portion in the U.S.
-- 72 percent of respondents said they favor gender quotas to
promote the number of women on directorial boards.  “The progress made in the  developing countries  is
enlightening because they’re obviously in a growth mode and
taking the gender difference into consideration,” O’Malley said
in a telephone interview on March 11. “They’re having more
success than some of the countries that aren’t growing as
significantly.”  The survey, conducted from November 2012 through last month
and published March 8, found that women in the so-called BRIC
countries of  Brazil , Russia,  India  and China hold 28 percent of
the top jobs. That compares with 21 percent in the Group of
Seven nations.  Reshaping Attitudes  Last year, growth in the BRIC countries and  South Africa 
was almost five times faster than that of the Group of 10
economies, which expanded 1.24 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While  Latin America  boasts female heads of state --
including Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  and President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of  Argentina  -- the region is
lagging behind the developing world in promoting women in
business, according to the survey.  Women account for 32 percent of total employees in Latin
America, where growth slowed to 2.2 percent last year from 4.3
percent, and hold 23 percent of senior positions, unchanged from
2011. Only 15 percent of survey respondents plan on hiring more
women in upper management in the region, the results show.  O’Malley said female leaders, such as Brazil’s Maria das Gracas Silva Foster, chief executive officer of Rio de Janeiro-
based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , are in a position to help reshape
the attitudes that keep women from joining her rank when job
growth is slow.  Board Positions  “If a woman leader believes gender diversity creates
better results, she has the duty to develop future woman leaders
and advocate for change,” O’Malley said. “You’re going to see
it having to be a replacement or a change in mindset, or a
change in how we evaluate people.”  While 27 percent of Chinese companies offer flexible
working options, the number of women in senior roles more than
doubled last year as the economy expanded 7.8 percent, the
world’s third-fastest, according to the survey. In  China , 81
percent of companies with a woman in upper management had a
female chief financial officer.  Women from the former Soviet Union are the most commonly
found on directorial boards, with the Baltic states leading the
world’s regions with 38 percent of board slots filled by women.
In Russia, women occupy 37 percent of board positions, the most
in the world and double the global weighted average of 19
percent, the data show.  In India, women make up 15 percent of the total, while 44
percent of survey respondents supported gender quotas for the
boardroom, and 42 percent said they plan on hiring or promoting
more women into senior management over the next year -- more
than for any other country after  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  