-- Xi Assumes China’s Presidency to Cement Transition of Power
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-14T13:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/xi-assumes-china-presidency-to-cement-rapid-transition-of-power.html
Xi Jinping was named China’s
president by the national legislature, replacing Hu Jintao in
the country’s most rapid formal transfer of power in more than a
generation.  Xi, 59, added the largely ceremonial title of president to
his portfolio today after taking over the top post in the ruling
Communist Party as well as chairmanship of the party’s military
commission in November. It took Hu almost two years to get all
top three positions.  Jiang Zemin , who ruled China before Hu, had
to wait almost four years to assume all the top posts.  The appointment of Xi cements a power transition that was
thrown into turmoil last year when Bo Xilai was expelled from
the ruling Politburo and his wife convicted of murdering a
British businessman. Having all the formal positions gives Xi a
leadership mandate in a system where retired leaders still hold
sway, said Kerry Brown, a former British diplomat in Beijing.  “The party secretary is the bones, this is the covering of
flesh,” said Brown, now a professor at the  University of
Sydney . “Granting Xi the full suite so quickly is a big deal --
it shows huge confidence in him by the party elders and across
factions.”  The National People’s Congress elected Xi by a vote of
2,952 to one, with three abstentions, for the first of what are
expected to be two five-year terms.  Li Yuanchao , 62, the former
head of the party’s organization department and who studied at
Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, was
appointed vice president.  Economy Team  Today’s voting kicks off three days of appointments for top
ministries, regulators and other government offices as the party
assembles its next generation of leaders. Li Keqiang, currently
vice premier, is forecast to replace  Wen Jiabao  tomorrow as
premier, taking stewardship over the economy.  As head of state, Xi will take the global stage later this
month when he visits Russia, Tanzania and South Africa, where he
is set to represent China at the meeting of the BRICS group of
emerging-market nations in Durban.  Xi inherits a country that is wealthier and militarily more
powerful than during the leadership change a decade ago. In
2002, China was dueling with Italy for seventh spot among the
world economies. Its 51.9 trillion  yuan  ($8.3 trillion) gross
domestic product last year is second in size only to the U.S.,
while its military budget is set to rise 10.7 percent this year
to 740.6 billion yuan.  Income Inequality  At the same time, income inequality has risen to 0.474 in
2012 as measured by the Gini coefficient, statistics bureau data
showed. That’s above the 0.4 level analysts use as a gauge for
social unrest.  In December, Xi visited a poor region of northern China’s
Hebei Province and pledged to spread the benefits of China’s
economic growth.  Li Keqiang  was in southeastern China’s Jiangxi
Province at the same time, vowing to cut the gap between rich
and poor.  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in 13 years
last year, as the government seeks to move away from an
investment-driven model focused on public-works spending toward
more consumption and increased productivity.  “The basic problem with the economy is that while growth
is sustainable, it is deeply unfair and the system needs to
shift to undergo the tricky transition from a mobilization to an
efficiency focus,” said Anthony Saich, a professor at Harvard’s
Kennedy School who oversees a program to train Chinese officials
and executives.  Other Officials  Finance Minister  Xie Xuren  was elected as a member of the
top legislature’s standing committee, according to an
announcement made today at the annual gathering of the National
People’s Congress.  Lou Jiwei , head of China’s  sovereign wealth fund , is the
leading contender to become the next finance minister, two
people with knowledge of the matter said today. His potential
appointment was reported at the end of last month by Caixin,
which didn’t say where it got the information.  Lou, 62, became the first head of China Investment Corp. in
2007 after a stint as vice finance minister. CIC was founded
that year with an initial $200 billion infusion from the
Ministry of Finance and a mandate to improve returns on the
nation’s  foreign reserves .  An e-mail sent to CIC’s Beijing-based media office seeking
comment wasn’t immediately answered today. The  Finance
Ministry ’s press office also didn’t return phone calls.  Shandong Governor  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, may be appointed as governor of eastern Shandong
province, the  South China Morning Post  reported yesterday. An
earlier Reuters report said Guo may become head of China
Investment Corp.  The party plans to keep  Zhou Xiaochuan  as head of the
People’s Bank of China, a person with direct knowledge of the
discussions told  Bloomberg News  last month.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ’s
Chairman Xiao Gang may become party secretary of the central
bank, Reuters reported Feb. 20.  Vice president since 2008, Xi belongs to the fifth
generation of leaders after Chairman  Mao Zedong  from 1949 to
1976,  Deng Xiaoping  in the late 1970s and 1980s, Jiang in the
1990s and Hu since 2002. His assumption of the top government,
military and party posts in such a short period of time has no
precedent in the three decades since Deng opened the country to
 foreign investment  and began to dismantle the command economy.  Student Crackdown  When Jiang took over the party in June 1989 following the
crackdown on student demonstrators on  Tiananmen Square , Deng
still held the top party post and a military leader, Yang Shangkun, held the presidency.  The last leader to take the formal reins so quickly was Hua Guofeng, who assumed the party’s chairmanship, the premiership
and the top post in the military in the months before and after
Chairman Mao’s death in 1976. By late 1978, Hua was being pushed
aside by Deng, and by 1981 he had lost all of his leadership
positions.  Li Yuanchao, the son of a former Shanghai vice mayor and a
fluent English speaker, was party secretary of Jiangsu Province,
one of China’s richest regions, before moving to the Politburo
in 2007. His age means he may step down after one five-year term
like Xi’s predecessor as vice president, Zeng Qinghong, did in
2008.  Style Change  Xi may bring a change of style to the presidency from Hu,
who rarely showed emotions in public appearances. During a visit
to Iowa in February, 2012, Xi spent time with people who hosted
him there in 1985, recalling how surprised they were that he
watched movies such as “The Godfather.” He also told former
U.S. Ambassador Clark T. Randt Jr. that he liked the movie
“Saving Private Ryan,” according to a 2007 cable disclosed by
Wikileaks.  Xi can also be blunt on trips abroad. Talking to members of
Mexico City’s Chinese community in 2009, Xi said there were
“foreigners with full bellies who have nothing better to do
than pointing fingers at us,”  according to  the official Xinhua
News Agency.  “First, China does not export revolution, second, it
doesn’t export hunger or poverty, third, it doesn’t cause you
any headaches,” he said. “Just what else do you want?”  Xi’s wife, Peng Liyuan, a former People’s Liberation Army
folk singer, lends Xi some star power. Until his 2007
appointment to the elite Politburo Standing Committee marked him
as a future leader, many Chinese were more familiar with Peng,
who was a regular on China’s televised Lunar New Year
festivities.  Mao’s Revolution  Born in Beijing in 1953, Xi is the son of Xi Zhongxun, a
fighter in Mao’s revolution who was purged in 1962 and went on
to become a vice premier after his rehabilitation in 1978. Xi
Zhongxun helped shepherd China’s  economic emergence  in the late
1970s and early 1980s as party secretary of  Guangdong province .  The younger Xi was sent to rural Shaanxi province during
the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution. He then attended Beijing’s
Tsinghua University, also  Hu Jintao ’s alma mater, and served as
a military aide in Beijing before taking party and government
posts in northern China’s Hebei province and southeastern
China’s Fujian, where he rose to the post of governor, according
to his official  biography .  He became Communist Party secretary in 2002 of eastern
China’s Zhejiang province, where he championed the growth of
private enterprise. He served there until 2007, when he moved to
Beijing to join the party’s Politburo Standing Committee after a
brief tenure as Shanghai party chief. He was named vice
president in 2008 and also served as head of the party’s top
training school.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  