-- Zimbabwe Referendum Paves Way for Mugabe-Tsvangirai Fight
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m ,   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-03-15T07:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/zimbabwe-referendum-paves-way-for-new-mugabe-tsvangirai-contest.html
Zimbabweans vote in a referendum on
a new constitution tomorrow that sets the stage for Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  to renew his bid to end President
Robert Mugabe’s 33-year rule in elections later this year.  The constitution will probably win approval since both
Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party
and Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change back a yes vote.
The two rivals have shared power in a coalition government since
2009 following disputed elections in the southern African nation
that international observers said were marred by violence that
killed as many as 200 people.  “It’s the first step and potentially a crucial moment
leading to the elections which follow,” Yvette Babb, an analyst
with Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg
on March 12.  Mugabe, 89, has ruled  Zimbabwe  following independence from
the U.K. in 1980 and is accused by western nations and
international human-rights groups of rigging elections since
2000 and brutalizing his opponents to cling to power. Victory in
the next vote will allow him another decade in power because the
new constitutional limit of two presidential five-year terms
isn’t retroactive.  Tsvangirai, 61, has competed in a series of elections
against Mugabe since 2000.  The MDC failed to win major concessions during negotiations
on the constitution, and its adoption is unlikely to mark a
significant change in the balance of power, Susan Booysen, a
politics professor at the University of Johannesburg, said by
phone yesterday.  Election Result  “The election result is probably a foregone conclusion,
with ZANU-PF probably stepping out as the winner,” she said.
“We see a continued term for  Robert Mugabe .”  The referendum was a requirement of the agreement mediated
by the 15-nation  Southern African Development Community  that
ended the post-election crisis and led to the establishment of
the coalition government.  The government is seeking donor support to pay for the
elections, which may cost $132 million and may be held as early
as July, Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  told reporters in Harare,
the capital, on March 11.  Constitutional Guarantees  Under the new  constitution , parliament can remove the
president if he or she is found guilty of serious misconduct,
violates the constitution, fails to uphold it, or is physically
or mentally incapacitated, by a two-thirds vote of its
membership. If the president dies, the first vice president will
take the position for the remainder of the term.  While the president has the power to declare a state of
emergency, parliament must approve or revoke it after 14 days.  The constitution also guarantees Zimbabweans freedom from
torture or degrading treatment and bans detention without trial.
The security forces are barred from being members of a political
party or group.  Constitutional provisions on land ownership mean white-run
commercial farms, seized since 2000 by militants with Mugabe’s
backing and given to mainly black subsistence farmers, will not
be returned to their former owners.  “The government of Zimbabwe has no obligation to pay
compensation for agricultural land compulsorily acquired for
resettlement,” according to the constitution, which says the
former colonial power has the responsibility to make payment.  Land Seizures  The seizures slashed exports of tobacco, once Zimbabwe’s
biggest export, and roses, and turned the country into an
importer of its staple food, corn.  The unity deal helped to boost the economy, which
contracted 40 percent between 2000 and 2007, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Biti, who’s the secretary-general
of the MDC, expects growth of 5 percent this year from about 4.5
percent in 2012.  Zimbabwe abandoned its currency in Feb. 2009 after
inflation accelerated to an estimated 500 billion percent in
2008, according to the IMF. The country uses a range of
currencies including U.S. dollars, the British pound, the South
African rand, the euro and the Botswana pula.  The economic turnaround has helped ZANU-PF, according to
David Monyae, a Johannesburg-based independent analyst.  “They’ve used the period of the inclusive government to
re-invent themselves, while at the same time the economy is
improving and agriculture has rebounded,” he said in a
telephone interview. “ZANU is in a strong position.”  Platinum Mines  Following the state-backed confiscation of land, Mugabe has
targeted mining companies in Zimbabwe, which has the world’s
second-biggest platinum and chrome deposits after  South Africa 
and also has reserves of coal, diamonds and gold.  The government is forcing Johannesburg-based  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to cede 51 percent of its unit,  Zimplats
Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , to the state and black Zimbabweans under an
indigenization law passed in 2007.  While Mugabe promised peaceful elections during
celebrations of his birthday held this month in the mining town
of Bindura, rights groups have complained of a crackdown on
dissent in the days before the referendum.  An alliance of 70 Zimbabwean rights groups wrote a letter
to Mugabe saying that some of their members were barred from
observing the referendum.  London-Based  Amnesty International  said today that the
authorities have harassed rights organizations and banned the
use of short-wave radios on Feb. 19.  “This referendum is a litmus paper for the elections that
will be held later this year,” Noel Kututwa, Amnesty’s southern
Africa director, said in the statement. “Rather than using it
as a practice run for suppression and intimidation, the
government must embrace it as an opportunity to reinforce
respect for human rights and the rule of law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  