-- Zloty Weakens, Yields Fall Ahead of Polish Inflation Data
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-14T12:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-14/zloty-weakens-yields-fall-ahead-of-polish-inflation-data.html
The zloty weakened and yields on
 Poland ’s two-year government bonds fell for a third day before
the release of inflation data at 2 p.m. in Warsaw.  Consumer prices  are expected to rise 1.5 percent in
February, matching the lowest level since August 2007 and
compared with a 1.7 percent advance in January, according to the
 median estimate  of 36 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Weaker
inflation is increasing pressure on the central bank to continue
lowering  interest rates  after this month’s 50 basis-point
reduction to a record low of 3.25 percent.  “A further significant decline in inflation will be
supportive for market participants who believe the current rate-
cutting cycle has not come to an end yet,” Bank Pekao SA
economists, led by  Marcin Mrowiec , wrote in a note today.  The zloty declined 0.3 percent to 4.1493 against the euro
at 1:15 p.m. in Warsaw, the steepest depreciation among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
the South Korean won. Yields on two-year bonds fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.32 percent, the lowest
since Jan. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka and fellow policy
maker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said yesterday that further interest-
rate cuts are still possible if economic growth and inflation
weaken more than expected by the Narodowy Bank Polski.  Nine-month  forward rate agreements , derivatives used to
speculate on borrowing costs, fell to 27 basis points below the
Warsaw interbank offered rate today, showing trader expectations
for a quarter-point rate reduction by the end of the year.  “You can see that the market still expects another rate
cut after some time,” deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk told reporters in Warsaw late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  