-- 
‘Gift’ of $96,000 Can’t Buy Silence for Sin: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/-gift-of-96-000-can-t-buy-silence-on-sin-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
In politicians, the spontaneity gene
is recessive. Vestigial traces are squelched by high-priced
consultants. Watch “Meet the Press” any Sunday morning and
promise to drink at every unscripted comment. You’ll never touch
your Bloody Mary.  This might be a good thing. Just imagine how many more  Washington  sex scandals there would be if members of Congress,
away from their families for nights at a time, surrounded by
admirers fascinated by how a bill becomes a law, felt free to
let loose.  In the annals of Washington scandals, Senator  John Ensign ,
who acknowledged an affair with his campaign treasurer in 2009
and announced Monday he won’t seek re-election in 2012, will
barely merit a mention.  The Nevada Republican didn’t measure up to the made-for-TV-
movie assignations of  New York ’s former governor, Democrat  Eliot Spitzer  -- “Client 9,” in his black socks -- traveling to
Washington to meet “Kristen” at the Mayflower Hotel. Or to
Republican Senator Larry Craig of  Idaho , he of the wide stance,
who never could quite explain why an innocent person would plead
guilty to responding to the overtures of an undercover cop in an
airport bathroom.  L’affaire Ensign also lacked for visuals, unlike the case
of New York Representative Christopher Lee, who was caught
flexing shirtless in his Craigslist ad. Using his real name, Lee
boasted to his would-be paramour that he wouldn’t disappoint.
She had only to switch screens and do a search to find out he
was a married congressman -- and then switch screens again to
share it with Gawker. Lee, a Republican, quit and left town
before tears could come to  John Boehner ’s eyes.  Mom and Dad  The most risible part of Ensign’s affair was that his mom
and dad came up with the $96,000 given to the cuckolded husband.
If an attempt to keep Junior’s affair quiet, it failed.  Otherwise, the story was pure tragedy: Ensign’s wife
temporarily left him, a lifelong friendship ended, and a
promising political career stalled. A conservative Christian,
jut-jawed, with a mane of white hair, Ensign looked like a
president and rose quickly to a position in Republican
leadership after his election in 2000.  In 2007, Ensign took up with a female member of his
campaign staff, Cynthia Hampton, who was married to a member of
his Senate staff, Doug Hampton. Both were close friends of the
Ensigns. When the husband found out, he was livid, and both
Hamptons left their jobs. In 2009, after Hampton reportedly
reached out to Fox News to share his story, Ensign got out ahead
of him with a public confession.  Vitter’s Example  Until Monday, Ensign was hanging tough politically. Lee’s
hasty exit aside, sex scandals these days don’t always end with
a sudden need to spend more time with the family. For
inspiration Ensign could just look over at  Louisiana , which last
year voted to give a second term to Senator David Vitter, who in
2007 admitted to “a very serious sin” after being identified
as a client of the so-called D.C. Madam and her escort service.  If the Big Easy could give Vitter a second chance, surely
Sin City would be just as forgiving.  But Ensign forgot a cardinal rule of scandals: it’s not the
crime, it’s the cover-up.  Just look to  Italy , where Prime Minister (and onetime
 cruise ship crooner )  Silvio Berlusconi  is about to go on trial
after 17 years of getting away with his notorious “ bunga-
bunga ” parties, with his harem dressed up as nasty nurses and
gendarmes. Three (female) judges will evaluate why he used the
power of his office to get an underage prostitute -- whom he
claims not to have been intimate with -- out of jail when she
was charged with theft. Ludicrously, he said he did so believing
she was the niece of  Hosni Mubarak  and wanting to avoid a
diplomatic row.  Bad Judgment  Vitter didn’t pay to silence anyone -- as far as we know --
and he owned up quickly and publicly. Ensign’s bad judgment in
his personal life was compounded by his parents’ “gift” and by
his efforts to help Doug Hampton get a lobbying job after
leaving Ensign’s payroll.  Ensign survived investigations by the  Federal Election
Commission  and the  Justice Department . But last month the Senate
Select Committee on Ethics appointed a special counsel to
oversee a probe into his conduct, a signal it would neither be
quick nor easy.  Back when the spotlight was on Craig, not him, Ensign said
a senator who admits guilt to wrongdoing should resign.  “I wouldn’t put myself hopefully in that kind of position,
but if I was in a position like that, that’s what I would do,”
he said in 2007.  ‘Ugly Campaign’  Oh, the things we say from our moral high horses. It took
Ensign, riding low, much longer than Craig to remove himself,
finally citing concern for the “pain” of an expected “ugly
campaign” for inspiring him to drop out.  His colleagues are relieved. Republicans stand a better
chance of retaining the seat with him out of the picture. Most
feel about Ensign what Ensign felt about Craig: a hope that the
miscreant would disappear before  Jay Leno  could make a running
joke out of another Washington official.  This way, they can all return to script.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  