-- 
Deutsche Telekom Losing $28 Billion Bet With T-Mobile: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-09T13:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/t-mobile-sale-shows-deutsche-telekom-losing-28-billion-u-s-bet-real-m-a.html
A decade after staking $28.5 billion
to gain a foothold in the U.S. mobile-phone market,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  is now mulling a sale of T-Mobile USA that may value
its original investment at less than 60 cents on the dollar.  Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s biggest phone company, has held
talks to sell its U.S. wireless unit to  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
people with knowledge of the matter said. Based on the median
value of 12.4 times earnings for mobile-phone companies around
the world, T-Mobile USA would have a market capitalization of
$16.8 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
41 percent less than it spent to acquire VoiceStream Wireless
Corp. and Powertel Inc. in May 2001.  Deutsche Telekom, which has lost 59 percent of its value
since closing the deals to create T-Mobile USA, is now looking
for buyers for a company that reported profit declines in four
of the past five years and lost subscribers to its competitors.
A tie-up with Sprint, which analysts estimate will lose money
for a fifth consecutive year in 2011, will join two incompatible
wireless networks that would still have fewer mobile-phone
customers than  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  or  AT&T Inc. (T)   T-Mobile USA was “not a good investment,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati. “Deutsche Telekom had been a tepid
player at best and their dedication to the market was never all
that strong.”  Combining T-Mobile and Sprint “would require one or the
other to completely re-equip their subscriber base,” he said.
“The two are not compatible.”  Combined Entity  Deutsche Telekom of Bonn would get a major stake in the
combined entity, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. The companies haven’t been able
to agree on the valuation of T-Mobile USA, which reported a drop
in profit in the fourth quarter, the people said.  “In general, all options are open in the U.S. -- the sale
of the whole business or of parts,” Deutsche Telekom Chief
Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said in an e-mail
yesterday. He said the company could also find a partner, sell
shares in the market or form a network agreement.    Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, declined to comment.    Morgan Stanley (MS)  of New York is advising Deutsche Telekom and
New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is working with Sprint,
the people familiar said.  Shares of Deutsche Telekom and  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint advanced on the report yesterday, leaving them with
market values of 43.3 billion euros ($60.1 billion) and $14.2
billion, respectively, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Horrendously Complicated’  “Putting the two businesses together, while it would be an
absolutely horrendously complicated event, they do solve each
other’s problems,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who has an “outperform”
rating on Deutsche Telekom. “And you take capacity out of the
market, which is always good for pricing.”    T-Mobile USA ’s net income fell 7.9 percent to $1.35 billion
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Using the median
price-earnings ratio of 12.4 for 38 mobile-phone companies
globally with more than $1 billion in market value would give T-
Mobile USA a capitalization of $16.8 billion, the data show.  AT&T of  Dallas , the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
is valued at 13.1 times reported earnings.  T-Mobile USA’s three main U.S. competitors also have an
average enterprise value, or equity and net debt, of 5.8 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By that measure, T-
Mobile USA would be worth $15.9 billion excluding net debt,
based on its reported Ebitda of $5.48 billion last year.  VoiceStream, Powertel    Michael Nelson , a telecommunications analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in  New York , values the company at about $14
billion, assuming Deutsche Telekom keeps a majority stake.
Michael Kovacocy, an analyst at Evolution Securities in  London ,
estimates T-Mobile USA may be worth $15 billion to $20 billion.  Deutsche Telekom started T-Mobile USA after buying
VoiceStream and Powertel. Deutsche Telekom issued 1.02 billion
shares and paid $4.23 billion in cash to VoiceStream’s owners,
while Powertel holders got 148 million Deutsche Telekom shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and T-Mobile USA.  The deals were completed on May 31, 2001, when Deutsche
Telekom closed at 24.60 euros a share. That put the price tag
for the two companies at $28.5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Telekom initially agreed to pay $50.7 billion,
excluding assumed debt, when it announced the VoiceStream deal
in July 2000, just as the technology bubble started to burst. It
lowered the offer after both companies’ shares declined.  Deutsche Telekom Stakes  The shares VoiceStream and Powertel holders received from
Deutsche Telekom were valued at about 28.7 billion euros when
the transactions closed, data compiled by Bloomberg show. With
Deutsche Telekom’s shares ending yesterday at 10.01 euros a
share, those stakes are worth about 17 billion euros less.  Sprint, which acquired Nextel Communications Inc. in August
2005 for $45.9 billion including assumed debt, has lost money
every year except one since the takeover, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Customers abandoned the third-largest U.S.
mobile phone carrier after complaints about call quality as
Sprint struggled to integrate the Nextel network into its
operations. The company wrote down most of the acquisition.  “Sprint didn’t do too well with its last merger,” said
Joseph Bonner, an equity analyst at Argus Research in New York.
“Now they want to add another incompatible network. That’d be
very interesting.”  Relative Performance  Shares of Sprint, which analysts project will not post a
profit until 2014, have retreated 80 percent since the Nextel
deal was completed in August 2005. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Telecommunication Services Index has climbed 33 percent,
including dividends, in the same period. AT&T, which started
selling the iPhone in 2007, has returned 55 percent since the
Sprint-Nextel merger, while New York-based Verizon
Communications gained 65 percent, including payouts.  “Most M&A pros do not care about past deals and are always
touting synergies, cost savings, and scale,” said  Matt McCormick , a money manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., which oversees about $3.2 billion. “M&A activity is about
putting a buyer and a seller together. Whether it is a good
investment is a secondary, if at all, concern.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions, Johannesburg-based  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of motor fuels made from coal
and gas, said in a statement yesterday it had agreed to pay  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  of Calgary C$1.05 billion ($1.08 billion)
for a stake in the Cypress A project in  Canada .  Daimler AG and Rolls-Royce Group Plc made a takeover bid
for Tognum AG valuing the German manufacturer at 3.2 billion
euros as they target growing demand for heavy engines in
emerging economies.  There have been 4,253 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $417.3 billion, a 14 percent increase from the $365.8
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 