-- 
‘Oil Major’ Is Dead, Long Live the ‘Natgas Major’: Chart of Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T16:23:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/-oil-major-is-dead-long-live-the-natgas-major-chart-of-the-day.html
The largest U.S. and European oil
companies are pursuing a strategy that no longer appeals to
shareholders, according to Paul Sankey, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG.  Energy producers that combine exploration, production,
shipping, refining and petrochemicals have become targets for
investor cynicism, Sankey wrote yesterday in a report entitled
“Death of the Oil Major.” Companies having “aggressive growth
plans” or breakup potential are in vogue, he wrote.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, an index of what he
called the “big six” integrated oil companies trailed the MSCI
World Energy Index during the past two years as stocks climbed.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP)  compose the big six, and each was
equally weighted in the index as of Dec. 31, 2010.  “The companies can no longer undertake their original
business model,” Sankey wrote. Only ExxonMobil has increased
returns through integration and only Chevron has done so with
“large-scale exploration success,” the report said. The latter
was tied to deepwater exploration in the Gulf of Mexico, which
will be less lucrative in the aftermath of BP’s Macondo well
disaster last year, he wrote.  During the past decade, the big six were left behind in
three of the biggest energy discoveries, Sankey wrote. He cited
finds off the coasts of  Brazil  and West Africa, along with U.S.
fields tapped with so-called unconventional drilling methods.  Natural-gas development has become a focus for these
companies, according to Sankey, as many of the most promising
sites for energy exploration are controlled by members of  OPEC 
and government-owned producers. “We are entering the era of the
Natgas Major,” he wrote.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  