-- 
Madoff Trustee’s Subpoena of Banker Returned by Austria

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-03-09T22:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/madoff-trustee-s-subpoena-of-banker-gropper-returned-by-austrian-ministry.html
  Austria ’s Ministry of Justice
returned a subpoena sent to a former Bank Austria executive by
the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, saying he was
residing in  Germany , according to a copy of the ministry’s
letter filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  New York .  The banker, Helmut Gropper, served on Bank Austria’s
management board, said Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Madoff
trustee  Irving Picard . He held the post from April to December
of 2003, after heading the Bavarian State Ministry of Finance’s
budget department, according to the bank’s website.  Bank Austria, now known as UniCredit Bank Austria AG, was
named in Picard’s $19.6 billion lawsuit filed in December
against 20.20 Medici AG, formerly Bank Medici, Sonja Kohn, the
bank’s founder, and other defendants. Bank Austria’s parent,
Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said last month that it wanted to
move the case from bankruptcy court to U.S. District Court in
Manhattan.  Gropper now is one of two managing directors of the
Bavarian state-owned builder of homes for state employees,
according to the website of Stadibau - Gesellschaft fuer den
Staatsbediensteten in Munich. A call to Stadibau outside of
office hours went unanswered and messages left on the company’s
voice mail and e-mail weren’t returned immediately.  Picard has filed more than 1,000 lawsuits in an effort to
recover $100 billion for investors in the Madoff Ponzi scheme.
Yesterday, he asked a judge to give him until June 14 to finish
serving summonses in about 250 cases, according to a court
filing.  The Austrian ministry’s letter, addressed to the clerk of
the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan, was filed yesterday.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-05411, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 