-- 
Maersk Megaship Order Coincides With Capacity Sweet Spot: Freight Markets

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-10T13:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/maersk-megaship-order-coincides-with-capacity-sweet-spot-freight-markets.html
  Maersk Line , the world’s largest
container shipper, may extend its market share and lift earnings
by taking delivery of the 10 biggest cargo vessels ever built
just as a global shortfall in capacity increases carriage rates.  The price of transporting manufactured goods by sea is
likely to jump 10 percent in 2013 as demand outpaces new vessel
supply by the third-widest margin in a decade, according to
Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. Maersk will begin receiving a
fleet of the world’s largest and most cost-effective  container
ships  the same year following a $1.8 billion order last month.  “The timing was optimal,” Eivind Kolding, chief executive
officer of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s container unit, said in an
interview at his Copenhagen headquarters. “Many other container
lines have difficulties placing new orders at present as they’re
still under some financial pressure after the crisis.”  The contract with Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering
Co. includes vessels able to carry 18,000 containers, enough for
18 million flat-panel televisions. They’ll have a 26 percent
per-box cost advantage over the largest ships currently used on
Asia  Europe  routes because of improved fuel efficiency and the
higher number of customers sharing expenses such as port fees.  Demand for container transport will increase 9 percent in
2013 as vessel capacity grows 6.4 percent, according to Drewry.
In the previous decade a 2.6 percentage-point margin would rank
after only 2010, when shipping rebounded from the recession, and
2004, when Chinese exports surged.  ‘Great Year’  “The gap between supply and demand will be big enough for
rates to go up at least 10 percent, even with Maersk’s big ships
coming into the market,” Philip Damas, a London-based director
at Drewry, said in a March 4 interview. “It should be a great
year for container lines.”  Maersk Line has 14.5 percent of the global container market
when measured in capacity, followed by Mediterranean Shipping
Co., or MSC, which has its headquarters in Geneva, at 12.9
percent and Marseille, France-based CMA CGM SA with 8.2 percent,
according to data from  Alphaliner . Both rivals are closely held.  Kolding, whose Feb. 21 Daewoo deal is worth $5.4 billion
including options for 20 more megaships, said Drewry’s capacity
estimate for 2013 is “fair,” while declining to comment on
price developments. Maersk predicts that the container market
will grow by 6 percent to 8 percent annually and possibly more
if demand from emerging markets counters more sluggish expansion
in the U.S. and Europe.  Oil, Supermarkets  “We need orders of this size,” Kolding said on March 7.
“Our target is first of all to maintain our market share. But
our ambition over time is also to grow it. We have the advantage
of the group’s strong balance sheet and our good funding options
which enable us to act now.”  Parent A.P. Moeller-Maersk is  Denmark ’s biggest company and
owns the Nordic region’s second-biggest oil explorer, a
supermarket chain, a ports business and a rig operator. The
group reported the second-highest annual profit in its 106-year
history on Feb. 23. It also sold bonds for the first time in
2009 and has said it will continue to do so.  ‘Long-Term Winner’  “It’s Maersk’s ability to make huge investments that makes
it a long-term earnings winner compared to peers,” said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Aabenraa, Denmark-based Sydbank A/S,
whose recommendation to buy the stock has yielded investors a 22
percent return in the past year, according to Bloomberg data.  Maersk shares were trading little changed today, valuing
the company at 223 billion kroner ($41 billion).  Kolding predicts that freight rates will fall this year
compared with 2010 as new tonnage enters the market and takes a
few months to absorb.  “We’ll have reasonable rate levels throughout the year,
but with a difficult start and a pickup in mid-2011,” he said.  Container capacity will advance 8.2 percent this year, the
same as in 2010, before growth slows to 6.5 percent in 2012,
Drewry predicts. Ship orders have dropped for the past three
years and currently stand at 452, down from a peak of 1,245 in
January 2008, according to Lloyds Register-Fairplay data.  Maersk Line has orders for 61 ships able to carry almost
500,000 20-foot containers -- the industry standard, known as
20-foot equivalent units or TEUs -- according to Alphaliner data
as of March 8, with the 20 megaship options taking the total to
860,000. MSC has orders for 51 ships with a capacity of 550,000
TEUs and CMA for 25 vessels able to carry 260,000 TEUs.  Bjorn Vang Jensen, vice president for global logistics at
Stockholm-based  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , said he’s not convinced that
buying larger vessels will have the predicted effect.  ‘Gutsy’  “I think it’s a very gutsy decision,” said the Singapore-
based executive, who oversees about 150,000 box shipments a
year. “These megaships make container lines less flexible as
they tie vessels to specific routes. In the end that almost
inevitably leads to lower rates.”  Li Shaode, chairman of China Shipping Container Lines Co.,
the world’s 10th-biggest container line, according to
Alphaliner, said in an interview that Maersk’s choice of 18,000
TEU vessels isn’t the only way to boost competitiveness.  “It’s not necessarily the bigger the better,” Li said March
4. “Bigger ships do help cut costs, but their usage depends on
the market situation. We have our own strategies to compete,
such as cost control, sailing speed control, increasing
cooperation with clients and sharing routes.”  China Ocean Shipping Group Co., the world No. 8 in boxes,
has no 18,000 TEU ships on order and is investing in 13,000 TEU
vessels, Zhang Fusheng, the company’s vice president, said in an
interview March 8, adding that overcapacity will persist this
year, though he’s ultimately “cautiously optimistic” on rates.  Critical Mass  Kolding said that very large freight levels are needed to
make megaships viable, but that Maersk does have those volumes.  “We have the flexibility and size in our network to be able
to operate such ships and not very many have,” he said. “There’s
no risk for us because we can always move the smaller ships to
other trade routes while the big ships stay on  Asia  to Europe.”  Maersk last year earned $395 per 40-foot container, before
interest and tax, according to the Feb. 23 statement. That’s
$100 more than its largest peers and amounts to an Ebit margin
about 5 percentage points higher, Kolding said.  “We’re the biggest and should be the most efficient
container line and have some balance sheet options that others
don’t, so it’s clear that we have to be more profitable,” the
executive said.  CMA and MSC declined to comment when e-mailed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  