-- 
Ageas Second-Half Insurance Profit Misses Estimates on U.K.

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-03-09T08:57:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ageas-second-half-insurance-profit-misses-estimates-on-u-k-1-.html
  Ageas (AGS) , the insurer formerly known as
Fortis, reported second-half earnings that missed analyst
estimates because of a surge in weather-related claims in the
U.K. and an addition to reserves in Hong Kong.  Profit from insurance operations fell 14 percent to 210.8
million euros ($292.9 million), the company, based in Brussels
and the Dutch city of Utrecht, said today in a statement. That
missed the 250 million-euro median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Ageas maintained its dividend at 8
cents a share.  Ageas’s holdings of sovereign bonds, which account for 54
percent of its investments totaling almost 60 billion euros,
faced a loss in value of 1.25 billion euros in the final six
months because of widening spreads. The insurer sold half of its
southern European  government bonds  last year and said it started
buying more corporate debt to offset the “significant” yield
loss resulting from the disposals.  “The shortfall is fully by the U.K., explained by bad
weather claims,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, wrote in a note. “Shareholders’ equity did come in
lower than forecast, explained by higher impact from unrealized
bond losses from sovereign spread widening.”  Improved Performance  The embedded value of Ageas’s life insurance operations, a
measure of future profits from existing policyholders, fell 7.9
percent to 4.82 billion euros last year. The figure doesn’t
include the embedded value of Ageas’s minority stakes in  China ,  Malaysia ,  Thailand  and  India .  Ageas declined as much as 1.4 percent on Euronext Brussels
and was unchanged at 2.19 euros at 9:54 a.m. local time. The
shares have gained 28 percent so far this year, following the
worst performance among the 33 companies included in Stoxx 600
Insurance Index last year.  Chief Executive Officer Bart De Smet forecast Ageas’s
financial performance will improve this year, “barring
significant events outside our control,” according to the
statement.  Its U.K. unit widened its second-half loss to 25.1 million
euros from 7.1 million euros. Weather-related costs amounted to
39.5 million euros and its smaller life-insurance business lost
5 million euros from an unpaid receivable.  The Asian operations contributed 26.4 million euros to
insurance earnings, a decrease from 61.4 million euros a year
earlier. Profit in 2009 was inflated by a 32 million-euro
release of reserves in Malaysia, while Ageas had to provision
9.5 million euros for higher reserves in  Hong Kong  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  