-- 
Air Pollution Levels Cut on Power Station Cleanup, CLP Says

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-03-09T09:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/air-pollution-levels-cut-on-power-station-cleanup-clp-says-1-.html
  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) ,  Hong Kong ’s
biggest electricity producer, said it reduced levels of air
pollutants last year after introducing emission-cleaning
equipment at its Castle Peak power station.  Sulfur dioxide emissions fell 58 percent from 2009 levels,
while nitrogen oxides and respirable suspended particulates in
the atmosphere both declined 32 percent, according to a CLP
statement released at a media briefing in Hong Kong today.  The city recorded the highest levels of roadside smog last
year since records began in 1999, according to calculations made
by Bloomberg based on government data. Hong Kong has set power
companies targets to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas
emissions and allows them a higher rate of return to invest in
cleaner energy sources.  The government is proposing that half the city’s
electricity be generated by nuclear power by 2020 to reduce the
amount produced by coal-fired generators.  About 30 percent of CLP’s electricity is now generated by
nuclear power, 30 percent from gas turbines and 40 percent from
coal generators, according to the company’s earnings statement
on Feb. 24. The government’s targets are feasible if a
reasonable lead time is given to make the transition, CLP’s
Chairman Michael Kadoorie said in the statement.  CLP needs to further reduce sulfur dioxide levels by 64
percent and nitrogen oxides by 34 percent by 2015 to meet future
government targets, the company said in today’s statement.  Lo Pak Cheong, commercial director at CLP Power Hong Kong,
declined to comment on the cost of the emissions reduction
measures in the city.  About 67 percent of greenhouse-gas emissions in Hong Kong
in 2008 were produced by electricity generation, according to a
government  consultation document  on  climate change  published in
September last year.  CLP is developing an offshore wind farm, with capacity of
up to 200 megawatts, near Sai Kung in the New Territories to
increase its use of renewable energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 