-- 
Air France, BA Risk Derailing Recovery as Seat Discipline Slides

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-09T18:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/air-france-ba-risk-derailing-recovery-as-seat-discipline-slides.html
  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and British
Airways are among major carriers risking a decline in fares as
they add seats faster than demand for flights expands.  Global capacity rose more sharply than  traffic  in December
and January for the first time since August 2008, a month before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers heralded a slump in travel,
according to International Air Transport Association data.  Airlines returned to profit last year by slashing routes,
cutting frequencies and raising fares on remaining flights. A
glut of seats may prompt a reversal in prices and also make it
tougher for carriers to pass on the spiraling cost of jet fuel.
Crude oil rose to a 29-month high in  New York  on March 7 amid
concern that the turmoil in  Libya  might crimp supplies.  “We’ve seen a strong rebound in travel and airlines have
added capacity because they’re worried about losing market
share,” said  Chris Tarry , an independent analyst in London who
has followed the industry for almost 30 years. “But the reality
is that the recovery is still pretty fragile in some markets.”  With capacity increases accelerating, the industry-wide  load factor , a measure of seat occupancy, shrank to a seasonally
adjusted 77.7 percent in January. While that’s “still high,”
according to IATA, it is 1.1 percentage points below October’s
peak, prompting carriers to squabble over their growth plans.  ‘Pointing the Finger’  Air France-KLM said Feb. 21 it would add flights to
Orlando, Lima and  Phnom Penh  this summer as it boosts seating by
5.7 percent, less than two weeks after Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Gourgeon warned that “significant overcapacity” on
lucrative North Atlantic routes was starting to crimp earnings.  Willy Walsh, CEO of International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, formed from a merger of British Airways and  Spain ’s
Iberia in January, said Gourgeon’s comments were unhelpful.  “He started pointing the finger at everybody and tried to
present Air France as being disciplined,” Walsh said in an
interview in Geneva on Feb. 22. “Next you see the announcement
he made. Everybody is looking at it and is confused.”  IAG’s capacity jumped 9.5 percent in January, with traffic
up 6.1 percent, cutting the load factor by 2.3 percentage points
overall and by 5 points in the North American market. Air
France-KLM boosted seating 5.1 percent last month as traffic
rose 4.9 percent. Loads fell most to the Americas and  Asia .  SkyTeam, Lufthansa  Capacity between Europe and  North America  rose 10 percent
in the month, with the SkyTeam alliance, led by Air France and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , accounting for 14 percent of the gain, the
most among the three main airline groupings, according to
Geoffrey Weston, an analyst at Seabury Group in London.    Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline
behind Air France-KLM, plans to increase summer capacity 11
percent at its main brand, Thierry Antinori, the German
company’s sales chief, said today at a press conference in
Berlin, adding that he’s “convinced” the seats will be sold.  “When airlines start talking about overcapacity they
rarely see themselves as part of the problem,” Weston said.
“If you combine a marginally recessionary environment with
increasing jet fuel costs then the outlook is hardly rosy,
independent of capacity increases.”  IATA last week cut its forecast for industry earnings to
$8.6 billion from the $9.1 billion projected three months ago --
barely 50 percent of the $16 billion accrued in 2010.  Airlines that aren’t sufficiently hedged against fuel costs
must swallow the increase or raise fares, a more difficult feat
to accomplish as seat supply gains. Even where surcharges are
applied they typically recover only about half the increase.    Europe  Weaker  European carriers may have the most trouble in recouping
oil costs because economic growth is weaker in that region,
Brian Pearce, IATA’s chief economist, said on March 2.  The seven-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index has fallen
6.6 percent this year, with discount carrier EasyJet Plc down
almost 18 percent and Air France-KLM declining 11 percent.  Shares of IAG, which said Feb. 25 that capacity will
increase by a “low to mid-single digit” percentage this year,
have dropped 18 percent since the company’s Jan. 24 trading
debut. Walsh says seat concerns are overblown and that analysts
should compare seat numbers with 2008, not the “deep
recession” of the past two years.  Airlines will increase capacity 5 percent this month,
according to flight-planning specialist OAG, which doesn’t have
projections for traffic. For the full year, IATA predicts that
demand will increase 5.7 percent, outweighed by 6 percent growth
in capacity as 1,400 new aircraft are delivered and existing
ones are flown more.  Adding to the dilemma facing carriers is the need to order
new planes many years before actually receiving them.  “Forecasting passenger demand on a five- to seven-year
horizon is not for the faint hearted,” Weston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  