-- 
Airbus Says U.S. Pressure Helped Boeing in China, FT Reports

-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 
2011-03-09T05:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/airbus-says-u-s-pressure-helped-boeing-in-china-ft-reports.html
Airbus SAS lost a Chinese aircraft
order to  Boeing Co. (BA)  after the U.S. government used its influence
with the Chinese government, the Financial Times reported,
citing John Leahy, Airbus chief operating officer for customers.  Leahy said that President  Barack Obama  discussed the deal
with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  during the Chinese leader’s
visit to the U.S. in January and that there was a lot of
political pressure on the transaction, the report said.  Air China, based in Beijing, yesterday agreed to order five
Boeing 747-8 planes. The FT cited an unnamed White House
official saying the deal hadn’t been raised during Hu’s visit
and that the administration had no knowledge of the order.  Airbus had been trying to sell its A380 superjumbo to the
carrier, Leahy said, according to the FT report. It wasn’t clear
how the U.S. would be able to press  China  on the deal, the
newspaper said, without elaboration.  Boeing worked with Air China on an analysis of the 747-8
Intercontinental’s performance and how it would meet the
carrier’s needs, Miles Kotay, a spokesman for the Chicago-based
planemaker, said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions today.  “Air China decided the 747-8 is the right airplane at this
time for its long-haul needs,” he said. He didn’t comment about
Leahy’s remarks reported in the FT.  The airline will continue to observe the A380, Air China
Chairman Kong Dong said today in Beijing. The carrier opted for
the 747-8 because it already has a large fleet of Boeing 747-
400s, he said.  --Tian Ying. Editors: Neil Denslow, Dave McCombs  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  