-- 
Taiwan’s Perng Says Tax More Effective Than Rates in Cooling Home Prices

-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-03-10T05:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/taiwan-signals-rate-rises-won-t-quicken-economists-say-1-.html
  Taiwan ’s proposed housing tax will
be more effective in curbing property speculation than raising
borrowing costs, Taiwan’s central bank governor said.  “Countries with high  interest rates  also see their  home
prices  rising,’ Perng Fai-nan, governor of the  Central Bank of
the Republic of China (Taiwan) , said in parliament in Taipei
today. “The proposed tax will be helpful to ensure a healthy
housing market.”  The Cabinet approved a proposal today by the  finance
ministry  to impose a 15 percent tax on residential properties
sold within a year of purchase, and 10 percent on homes sold
within two years, said Chang Sheng-ford, deputy finance minister.
The plan will be sent to parliament for approval before it can
be implemented.  Taiwan joins Asian governments including those of  Hong Kong ,  China  and  Singapore  in imposing curbs on property speculation
that has driven prices higher. Home prices in Taipei rose 12.2
percent last year to a record, according to Dave Chiou, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc.  “The tax would have a direct impact on near-term
transactions and prices,” said Lucas Lee, economist at Mega
International Investment Services Corp. “The central bank is
unlikely to raise interest rates significantly in a short period
as drastic rises would hurt homeowners as well, not only
investors.”  Perng said tighter lending rules have slowed housing loans
in certain areas and driven mortgage interest rates higher.  Capping Mortgages  The monetary authority in December capped second-home
mortgages in Taipei at 60 percent of the purchase price, from 70
percent in June, and restricted loans using land as collateral
to 65 percent of the real estate value.  The island’s central bank raised the benchmark rate on Dec.
30 by 0.125 percentage point to 1.625 percent, citing a falling
jobless rate and rising salaries as reasons for the increase.
Perng and the policy board will meet March 31 to decide on
borrowing costs.  “The economy would be undermined should there be a burst
of the property bubble,” Fai Hrong-tai, who heads the
parliament’s Finance Committee, said by phone today. “My target
is for the Finance Committee to consent to the new taxation by
the middle of next month in hopes of final approval from the
parliament by the middle of June.” The new law, which also
imposes taxes on  luxury goods , may take effect from July 1, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  