-- 
Lakers Pass LeBron James's Slumping Heat as NBA Favorite in Las Vegas Odds

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-09T18:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/lakers-pass-lebron-james-s-slumping-heat-as-nba-favorite-in-las-vegas-odds.html
The  Miami Heat , mired in a five-game
losing streak and struggling against the  National Basketball
Association ’s top teams, are no longer favored by Las Vegas
oddsmakers to win the league championship.  Miami’s odds of taking the title moved to 5-2 from 2-1
following last night’s home loss to the Portland Trail Blazers,
according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which advises Nevada
sports books on betting lines. The two-time defending champion  Los Angeles Lakers , 8-0 since the All-Star break, are now the
favorites at 9-5.  Miami hosts  Kobe Bryant  and the Lakers tomorrow.  The Heat entered the season with 4-5 championship odds
after adding  LeBron James  and Chris Bosh to a team with fellow
All-Star  Dwyane Wade . While 43-21 overall, Miami has a 1-9
record against teams with a .700 winning percentage or better
and is 2-8 in games decided by three points or less.  “They probably deserve to be higher, 3-1 or 4-1, but
people will still take a chance on them,” Mike Seba, a senior
oddsmaker for Las Vegas Sports Consultants, said in a telephone
interview. “They can right the ship.”  Miami has a 2-6 record since last month’s All-Star break
and its losing streak is tied for the longest currently in the
league.  “Frankly, we don’t have a lot of answers to how to get
over this hump,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said last night at a
news conference. “The only thing we can do is to keep grinding
and not let go of the rope.”  Sixth-Best Record  Miami’s record is tied for sixth-best in the NBA and third
in the Eastern Conference behind the  Boston Celtics  and  Chicago
Bulls . The Heat are 0-6 this season against those two clubs.  Boston, with a 46-15 record, is now tied with Miami with 5-
2 championship odds. The San Antonio Spurs -- with an NBA-best
51-12 record -- are at 3-1, followed by the  Dallas Mavericks 
(46-17) at 10-1. The Bulls (44-18) are at 12-1, according to Las
Vegas Sports Consultants.  While Miami’s play might warrant longer odds of winning the
championship, Seba said offering too much of a return could put
sports books in jeopardy since so much has already been wagered
on the Heat. At 5-2, a winning $100 bet on the Heat would return
$250.  “They’re going to be in the playoffs and they’re probably
going to have to play on the road if they make the conference
finals, but it’s been done before,” Seba said. “You don’t want
to give anything away on them.”  The only team with a winning percentage over .700 that the
Heat beat this season was the Lakers. Miami won 96-80 in  Los
Angeles  on Christmas Day.  “Right now, we’re all being measured,” Spoelstra said.
“We will reveal a lot of ourselves as we move forward. We will
reveal what our makeup is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  