-- 
Algeria Oil Minister Says No Need for OPEC Emergency Meeting

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-03-09T19:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/algeria-oil-minister-says-no-need-for-opec-emergency-meeting-1-.html
There is no need for OPEC to hold an
emergency meeting right now because there is no shortage of
crude supplies in the market, said Youcef Yousfi,  Algeria ’s
Minister of Energy and Mines.  Oil fell from the highest level since September 2008
yesterday after Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah said that OPEC members are discussing whether to hold
an “urgent meeting.” Oil slipped 0.6 percent today after
supplies surged at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the
New York contract.  “We don’t see any physical shortage of oil in the market,
and we don’t see any need for OPEC to meet today unless there is
a change,” Yousfi said at CERAWeek, an  IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates  conference in Houston. If the supply
situation changes, “I am sure OPEC will meet and take action,”
he said. OPEC’s next scheduled meeting is in June.  Algeria is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ third-smallest oil producer, leading Ecuador and  Qatar . It pumped 1.25 million barrels a day of oil in February,
according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Anti-government demonstrations have spread through the
Middle East, fueling concern that crude supplies will be
disrupted and causing  oil prices  in New York to jump 15 percent
this year through yesterday. Violence in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-
largest producer, has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels
a day, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said
yesterday that OPEC should wait to see how Libyan events unfold
before scheduling an extraordinary meeting.  Prices Rise  Crude oil for April delivery fell 64 cents to settle at
$104.38 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
contract closed at $105.44 on March 7, the highest settlement
since Sept. 26, 2008. Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  The price increase has been “psychological,” and the
market isn’t taking its cues from the realities of the supply
and demand situation, Yousfi said. Prices will return to levels
seen before the Middle East unrest began when the crisis ends,
he said.  The U.S. boosted its oil-price forecast for the year to
$101.77 a barrel from February’s projection of $93.26 because of
the unrest in the Middle East, according to the monthly  Short-
Term Energy Outlook  published yesterday by the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department.  Crude Demand  There is no demand for increased exports or production of
Algerian light crude oil after the curtailment of Libyan supply,
Yousfi said.  “There is no demand for extra export or extra production
of crude from our country,” he said.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s
largest producer, has boosted exports to make up for any Libyan
shortage.  The minister also said he was “confident” of stability in
Saudi Arabia and in the kingdom’s oil production and exports.
Websites in Saudi Arabia have called for nationwide
demonstrations on March 11 and March 20, according to  Human
Rights Watch .  OPEC ministers decided at the group’s last meeting on Dec.
11 to maintain production limits. OPEC hasn’t altered quotas
since December 2008, when the group announced record supply cuts
that have left the 12-member organization with about 6 million
barrels a day of spare capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 