-- 
Alwaleed Invests $133 Million in `Attractive' Saudi Stocks

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-09T16:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/alwaleed-invests-133-million-in-attractive-saudi-stocks.html
Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal embarked on a plan to invest more than 500 million
riyals ($133 million) in Saudi stocks after political unrest in
the Middle East pushed down equity prices.  “The Saudi economy is solid,” Prince Alwaleed said in an
e-mailed statement today. “Saudi companies are strong and Saudi
share prices are now very attractive.” Alwaleed said he may
invest a further 500 million riyals on Saudi shares.  Concerns that popular revolts sweeping the Middle East may
spread to the kingdom have sent the  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  down
7.7 percent this year.  Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s biggest
economy, has seen this month small protests in the Eastern
Province demanding the release of prisoners.  Saudi Arabian authorities have listened to the demands of
Shiite Muslims in the Eastern Province and see dialogue as the
best way to solve problems, Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said
today in a televised news conference.  Saudi shares advanced for the fifth day, climbing 0.6
percent to 6,108.67 at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Riyadh .  The decision for the new investment “was made in light of
Prince Alwaleed’s confidence in the local market” under the
leadership of King Abdullah, Alwaleed said. His investments in
the last two weeks were in banking, petrochemicals,
telecommunications, industrial companies and consumer firms,
according to the statement.    King Abdullah  met with tribal leaders, government and
military officials after demonstrations in the east of the
country. Postings on websites have called for a nationwide Saudi
“Day of Rage” on March 11 and March 20,  Human Rights Watch 
said on Feb. 28.  Shiite Muslim cleric Sheikh Mansour al-Salman, who was
among those at the talks, told the king that Shiites in the city
of al-Qatif in the Eastern Province support his rule and have no
demands except “security and stability,” the official Saudi
Press Agency reported late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 