-- 
Americans Oppose Republican Attack on Unions in Poll Divided Over Benefits

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-03-09T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/americans-oppose-republican-attack-on-unions-in-poll-divided-over-benefits.html
Americans reject Republican efforts
to curb bargaining rights of unions whose power they say is
dwarfed by corporations, a Bloomberg National Poll finds.  As battles rage between state workers and Republican
governors in Wisconsin and  Ohio , 63 percent don’t think states
should be able to break their promises to retirees, and
respondents split over whether governors aim to balance their
budgets or weaken unions that back Democratic foes, according to
the poll conducted March 4-7.  The poll shows that political challenges to government
workers are failing to draw broad support from a public more
concerned about unemployment than government deficits.
Respondents are divided over whether public employees should
sacrifice to help states ease their fiscal crises: About half
say governors are unfairly targeting unions and 46 percent say
public employees should be willing to accept benefit cuts. The
fracture largely reflects party lines.  “The  Republican Party  sees an opportunity to attack and
possibly destroy the base of their opponents’ political power,”
says poll respondent Dale Palmer, 59, a Democrat and retired
teacher from Zephyrhills,  Florida .  Palmer says budget deficits are a result of the economy and
years of tax cuts, not the actions of public employees.
“They’re putting it now on the backs of their enemies even when
these particular unions are willing to bargain,” he says.  Deficit Woes  With states facing budget deficits of  $175 billion  over the
next two years,  tax revenue  yet to rebound from the recession,
and pensions strained by investment losses, even government
workers in Democratic-led states including  New York  and  California  are facing job losses, pay cuts or challenges to
retirement benefits.  States have cut 82,000 jobs, or 1.6 percent of their jobs,
since their payrolls peaked in August 2008, a month before the
collapse of investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
accelerated the financial crisis, according to Labor Department
data.  Rising tensions between Republican politicians and state
workers sparked protests in the Midwest.  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker  and Ohio Governor John Kasich, first elected in the
November races that also put their party in charge of a majority
of states and the U.S. House, are seeking to roll back the
collective bargaining rights of government workers. New Jersey
Governor Chris Christie also has challenged worker benefits he
says threaten to hobble his state.  Private Sector Comparison  Poll respondents differ over whether government workers do
better than their private-sector counterparts: 43 percent say
government workers are better compensated, 21 percent say they
are compensated less, and 27 percent say about the same.  Sixty-three percent of those surveyed -- including a
majority of Democrats and independents -- say corporations wield
more  political clout  than unions. Public employees, meanwhile,
are viewed favorably by a large majority: 72 percent, compared
with 17 percent who have an unfavorable view.  Government employees account for the majority of union
members in the U.S. as a result of the long decline in
manufacturing industries. In 2010, 7.6 million of the 14.7
million U.S. union members worked in the public sector,
according to the  U.S. Labor Department .  Sixty-four percent of respondents, including a plurality of
Republicans, say public employees should have the right to
bargain collectively for their wages. Sixty-three percent,
including 55 percent of Republicans, say states without enough
money to pay for all the pension benefits they have promised to
current retirees shouldn’t be able to break those obligations.  Pension Promises  Poll respondent Anthony DeMarco, an industrial engineer
from Havertown,  Pennsylvania , says he supports curbing public
unions’ bargaining rights. Still, he says politicians shouldn’t
be able to roll back their pension promises.  “If it had been something that agreed upon in the past --
and everybody at the time agreed to it -- you shouldn’t be able
to change it retroactively,” says DeMarco, 40, an independent.
“A deal is a deal.”  The bids to curb the collective bargaining rights of
unions galvanized protesters who are rallying against what they
say is a Republican assault on middle-class workers on behalf of
business backers seeking to keep taxes at bay. Wisconsin’s
Democratic senators remain out of the state to deprive the
legislature of the votes needed to proceed.  Corrective Force  Randy Turner, a 32-year old construction worker from
Springfield, Missouri, who participated in the poll, says he
sees unions as a corrective force against a government that
exerts enough power.  “Trying to make us not have a right for unions for
anything is wrong,” says Turner, an independent voter who isn’t
a union member. “They help our economy, they help the job
market -- all kinds of things our government doesn’t help.”  The skirmishes have intensified support for unions among
their members and Democrats, a potential challenge to
Republicans in the 2012 elections, says Scott Keeter, a pollster
with Pew Research Center in  Washington .  “That fact might not change the outcome of the current
battles, but could have implications for voter turnout among
these groups next year,” he says.  While the Bloomberg poll found Democrats and Republicans
largely in agreement on the question of bargaining rights and
pension promises, other questions about public employees reflect
a partisan split over the motivations of politicians and the
sacrifices government employees should be called upon to make.  Making Sacrifices  Seventy percent of Democrats say Republican governors are
unfairly targeting public employee unions, while a majority of
Republicans and independents say public employees should be
willing to make sacrifices because of the state budget
shortfalls.  When asked whether governors are trying to reduce their
budget deficits or the power of unions, the same split prevails:
Sixty-two percent of Democrats see a gambit to weaken unions,
while 71 percent of Republicans say  deficits  are the target.
Independents are divided 51 percent to 41 percent, with the
majority saying budgets are the cause.  Overall, poll respondents with a favorable view of unions
outnumber those with an unfavorable view 49-to-40 percent. Even
with the attention received by both Wisconsin Governor Walker
and  New Jersey ’s Christie, at least half weren’t sure how they
viewed either politician.  A majority says unions are appropriate for firefighters,
nurses, teachers, prison guards and police officers. Respondents
were divided only over whether custodians and office workers
also should be unionized.  Poll respondent Margaret Coakley, 72, a retired psychiatric
social worker from New York who lives in New Harbor,  Maine , says
politicians are wrong if they blame public employees for the
financial ills of their state.  “It’s outrageous they’re pointing to public employees
now,” she says. “That’s not where the problems are.”  The poll of 1,001 adults was conducted by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  San Francisco  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  