-- 
American Airlines' $1 Billion of Debt to Tap `Hot' Market: New Issue Alert

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-09T09:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/american-airlines-plans-debt-in-hot-high-yield-market-new-issue-alert.html
American Airlines Inc., the third-
largest U.S. carrier, is planning debt to take advantage of
close to record-low yields even as returns on airline bonds
trail the overall market.  The airline plans to sell $1 billion of debt secured by
routes, takeoff and landing slots and rights to use space in
airport terminals,  Fort Worth , Texas-based parent company  AMR
Corp. (AMR)  said in a March 7 statement. The five-year notes may be
issued today, said a person familiar with the transaction.  Airline debt has returned 2.1 percent this year, compared
with the 3.7 percent gain on overall high-yield debt, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. AMR is tapping
junk-bond borrowing costs that are 8 basis points above their
record low as jet-fuel prices have jumped 25 percent since the
start of the year to $3.20 a gallon. The carrier is also in
contract talks with its pilots, flight attendants, baggage
handlers and ramp workers, who are seeking pay increases.  American is taking advantage of a “hot high-yield
market,” said  Vicki Bryan , senior bond analyst for Gimme Credit
LLC. That will allow the company to get a cheaper coupon than it
should based on risk, she said.  The extra yield investors demand to own  junk bonds  instead
of Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points to 464 basis points
yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Index. Absolute yields fell 0.7 basis point to 7.366
percent, the data show. That compares with the record low of
7.285 percent reached on Feb. 22.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Yesterday’s Sales  Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, and BP Plc led bond sales of $12.7 billion yesterday,
bringing the week’s total to $17.4 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $11.3 billion in the
first two days of last week, the data show.  The sale of the American Airlines notes will be managed by
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said the person familiar with the offering, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The notes may yield 7
percent to 7.25 percent, said the person.  “A big, billion dollar deal is very liquid, easy to buy
into with size,” Bryan said. “Fund managers are paid to invest
cash, not sit on cash. American is going to be able to get this
deal done.”  Biggest Airline  AMR had been the world’s biggest carrier until 2008 when
the merger of Delta Air Lines Inc. and Northwest Airlines
leapfrogged it. Last year’s tie-up of United Airlines and
Continental Airlines formed a new global leader, United
Continental Holdings Inc.  Spreads on investment-grade debt narrowed 1 basis point to
148 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master index. Absolute yields on the securities
rose 3 basis points to 4.12 percent.  The following is a description of at least $6.04 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  KREDITANSTALT FUER WIEDERAUFBAU,  Germany ’s state-owned
development bank, may sell 3-year global floating-rate notes
that yield the 3-month  London  interbank offered rate, according
to a person familiar with the offering, who declined to be
identified because the terms aren’t set.  DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JAPAN, a state-owned financial
institution, may sell $500 million of 5-year debt, according to
a person familiar with the offering. The notes may yield 43 to
45 basis points more than the midswaps rate, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  THE EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK may sell 5-year notes that
yield 7 basis points more than the mid-swaps rate, according to
a person familiar with the offering, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  High Yield    PARK-OHIO HOLDINGS CORP. (PKOH) , the Cleveland, Ohio-based
provider of supply chain logistics, plans to sell $250 million
of senior subordinated notes due in 2021, according to a March 8
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will be used to
purchase or retire 8.375 percent senior subordinated notes due
in 2014 and repay term loans.  AMERICAN AIRLINES INC. plans to sell $1 billion of debt
secured by routes, takeoff and landing slots and rights to use
space in airport terminals, Fort Worth, Texas based parent
company AMR Corp. said in a statement distributed by PR
Newswire. The senior secured notes will mature in five years and
may yield 7 percent to 7.25 percent, said a person familiar with
the transaction, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  CKE HOLDINGS INC., owner of the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s
fast-food chains operator, plans to sell $175 million of senior
pay-in-kind toggle notes due in 2016, according to a March 7
statement distributed by  Business Wire . Proceeds will fund a
distribution to its parent company, according to the statement.
CKE was acquired by a unit of Apollo Global Management LLC last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  LBI MEDIA INC., a Burbank, California-based Spanish-
language entertainment company, may sell $240 million of senior
secured notes due in 2019 to repay credit borrowings and redeem
11 percent senior discount notes due in 2013, according to a
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  ROTECH HEALTHCARE INC., a provider of home respiratory
systems, plans to sell $290 million of senior second-lien debt
due 2018, the Orlando, Florida-based company said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may be used to repay
senior subordinated debt due 2012 and to fund “strategic
priorities,” according to the statement.  CLAYTON WILLIAMS ENERGY INC., a Midland, Texas-based oil
and natural gas producer, plans to market $300 million of senior
notes due in 2019, according to a statement distributed by
Business Wire. The company may use the proceeds to repurchase
its outstanding 7.75 percent notes due in 2013 and repay
borrowings under a revolving credit facility.  STERIGENICS INTERNATIONAL INC., the Oak Brook, Illinois-
based provider of sterilization and irradiation services, plans
to issue $475 million of senior secured second-lien seven-year
notes through STHI Holdings Corp., according to a person
familiar with the offering. Proceeds from the notes, which are
non-callable for three years, will be used to fund the purchase
of the company by GTCR, a Chicago-based private-equity firm,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  GRIFFON CORP., the New York-based maker of radar systems
and garage doors, plans to sell $500 million of senior notes due
2018 to pay back and terminate its senior secured term loan
facility, to pay down outstanding borrowings under senior
secured revolving credit facilities and for general corporate
purposes, according to a statement distributed by Business Wire.  EURAMAX INTERNATIONAL INC., the Norcross, Georgia-based
building-materials maker, plans to sell $375 million of senior
notes due 2016 to refinance its existing credit facility, S&P
said in a March 7 note. The ratings company assigned the debt a
B- grade. Moody’s grades it Caa1.    MEG ENERGY CORP. (MEG) , a Canadian oil-sands developer, plans to
sell $500 million of senior unsecured notes due in 2021,
according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds
may be used for general corporate purposes, including capital
expenditures and repaying outstanding debt, according to the
statement.  HYVA GLOBAL B.V. plans to sell $375 million of senior
secured bonds, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Standard Chartered Bank are managing the sale,
said the people who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  HOA RESTAURANT GROUP LLC, whose Hooters dining chain is
known for its tank-top-clad waitresses, plans to issue $165
million of debt, according to a person familiar with the
offering. Proceeds may be used to repay existing borrowings,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  KV PHARMACEUTICAL CO. plans to sell $200 million of senior
secured notes due 2015 through a private placement, according to
a March 1 statement. Proceeds will be used to pay back
outstanding borrowings under credit agreements with U.S.
Healthcare I LLC and U.S. Healthcare II LLC, affiliates of
Centerbridge Partners, to terminate related future loan
commitments, establish an escrow reserve for one year of
interest payments on the notes and for general corporate
purposes, according to the statement.  DELUXE CORP., a maker of personalized checks, business
cards and stationary, plans to offer $200 million of senior
notes due 2021, according to a March 8 statement distributed by
PR Newswire. The Shoreview, Minnesota-based company may use the
proceeds to repurchase outstanding 5 percent senior notes due in
2012.  BAKER & TAYLOR INC., the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
book distributor, may sell $240 million of senior secured five-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds may be used to pay back debt, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  KRATOS DEFENSE & SECURITY SOLUTIONS INC. plans to sell as
much as $325 million of senior secured notes due 2017, the
company said in a Feb. 7 regulatory filing. A majority of
bondholders that own the company’s existing 10 percent senior
secured notes due 2017 will permit Kratos to offer the new notes
in connection with its purchase of Herley Industries Inc.,
according to the filing.  MAXUM PETROLEUM OPERATING CO., a marketer and distributor
of fuel, plans to sell $250 million of eight-year bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
Greenwich, Connecticut-based company is selling corporate bonds
for the first time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Proceeds may be used to repay Maxum’s bank loan and for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the former Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
once known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. The
proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370
million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  SUNAC CHINA HOLDINGS LTD., a developer based in Tianjin,
postponed a series of investor credit meetings after it hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it with a sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering. The five-year notes may
be rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.    DELONG HOLDINGS LTD. (DLNG) , a Singapore-listed Chinese
steelmaker, may attempt to sell dollar bonds in the “second
half” if it gets lower  interest rates , Chairman Ding Liguo said
in an interview in Beijing while attending the National People’s
Congress. The company canceled a planned sale of the debt on
Feb. 15 after meeting investors. “We aim to cut the bond’s
coupon rate to 10 percent from 14 percent,” he said. The sale
is “subject to our need for capital in a planned acquisition,”
he said, without saying how much the company wanted to raise.    ASTON RESOURCES LTD. (AZT) , the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to $500
million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and  Russia  raise funds from credit markets. The sale will
“probably” take place in 2011, pending parliament’s approval,
Vice Minister of Finance Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 3 in
an interview in Ulan Bator.  BAA LTD., the owner of London’s Heathrow airport, said it
plans to sell bonds in dollars for the first time this year as
it seeks to fund the renovation of  Europe ’s biggest hub. The
company is owned by  Spain ’s Ferrovial SA.  THE PHILLIPINES plans to sell dollar bonds this year as
part of its 2011 borrowing program, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said Feb. 9 in Manila. The country is sticking to a
plan to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product, Purisima said in an interview.  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions, said Siobhan MacDermott, AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, in an interview Feb.
10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes with
McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300 million
of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD.,  India ’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/  )  GAIL LTD., a government-run gas distributor in India, may
sell $200 million of dollar-denominated bonds, Finance Director
Raj Kumar Goel said in  New Delhi .  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company which makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  INKIA ENERGY, a unit of Israel Corp., may sell bonds in the
U.S. to finance expansion of its electricity generation
business, according to a spokesman for the holding company. The
company plans to raise $250 million from the sale and is in
discussions with several foreign banks, Calcalist reported Jan.
9, without saying where it obtained the information.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  (Added Sept. 30. See  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 