-- 
Bank of America-Led Lender Group Bilked of $130 Million, U.S. Charges

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-03-11T05:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/man-accused-of-trying-to-use-explosive-device-at-king-parade.html
A  California  couple was charged by
the U.S. with defrauding an eight-bank lending group led by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  of about $130 million by exaggerating the
financial status of their decorating business.  Thomas Chia Fu, 61, and his wife, Cheri L. Shyu, 48, were
arrested at their Newport Coast home by federal authorities,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday by U.S. Attorney
Andre Birotte Jr. in  Los Angeles . They were indicted on nine
counts of bank fraud and face as long as 30 years in prison if
convicted, prosecutors said in the statement.  The couple imported home-decorating items from  China  and
obtained a $130 million revolving line of credit from the banks,
according to the indictment. They borrowed against the  credit
line  by exaggerating the in-transit inventory and accounts
receivable for their company, Anaheim, California-based Galleria
USA Inc., according to the filing.  “Had Bank of America and other banks known the true facts,
they would not have continued the revolving line of credit and
loaned additional funds,” according to the filing.  Dave Wiechert, a lawyer for Shyu, and Steve Katzman, a
lawyer for Fu, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  The Fus submitted their allegedly false reports from June
2008 through March 2009, prosecutors said. Bank of America
became the lead bank in the lending group around May 2008, and
the fraud continued through August 2009, the U.S. said.  Credit Crisis  That spans the height of the credit crisis, when banks were
increasing their scrutiny of loans amid a surge in mortgage
defaults. Bank of America took $45 billion in U.S. rescue funds.
The bank agreed to purchase Merrill Lynch in September 2008 for
$50 billion in stock, months after buying Countrywide Financial
Corp.  “This is an ongoing investigation so we can’t provide any
further details,”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have been cooperating with authorities on this
matter and continue to do so. In fact the bank is a victim of
this fraud.”  The case is U.S. v. Fu, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  