-- 
Manulife to ‘Overinvest’ in Canadian Bank, Fund Businesses

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-09T15:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/manulife-financial-to-overinvest-in-canada-bank-mutual-fund-businesses.html
  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ’s Canadian
division will increase spending on its bank and mutual fund
operations at a faster pace than its insurance business, the
unit’s president and chief executive officer said.  Manulife has enough scale in businesses such as individual  life insurance , where it has about 20 percent of the market,
Paul Rooney said yesterday in a telephone interview. Canada’s
largest insurer will instead “overinvest” in areas where it
doesn’t have significant share, he said.  “I’m less focused on expense management in those high-
growth businesses,” said Rooney, who is scheduled to present
today at a conference in  New York  sponsored by Citigroup Inc.
“I want them to advertise more; I want them to market more; I
want them to be innovative and unique in the marketplace.”  Rooney cited  Manulife Bank  -- which offers checking
accounts, loans and lines of credit through independent
financial advisers instead of a bank branch -- as an example of
a business that has room to expand in  Canada . The lender,
 established  in 1993, had C$16.7 billion ($17.1 billion) in
assets at the end of 2010.  Spending on individual insurance, group benefits and other
businesses will increase in the “low single-digits,” Rooney
said, declining to give specific amounts.  “Conversely, in some of our faster-growing businesses,
where we have significant opportunity like mutual funds and the
bank and affinity markets, we’ve got solid double-digit expense
growth planned,” said Rooney.  General expenses at Manulife’s Canadian division were C$297
million in the fourth quarter, a 15 percent increase from the
year-earlier period. The Canadian unit accounted for 35 percent
of Manulife’s C$1.79 billion in net income in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 