-- 
Mapletree Commercial Starts Marketing IPO, Plans April 8 Singapore Listing

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-03-09T03:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/mapletree-commercial-starts-marketing-ipo-plans-april-8-singapore-listing.html
Mapletree Commercial Trust is
expected to start trading in  Singapore  on April 8 after
marketing of its initial public offering began this week, a
document obtained by Bloomberg News shows.  A series of investor meetings involving Mapletree
Commercial Trust management will also run from March 22 until
March 30 to market the IPO, the e-mailed pre-sale document
shows. The IPO is expected to raise S$1 billion ($788 million),
a person familiar with the matter said today. The trust is a
unit of Mapletree Investments Pte, the real estate arm of
Singapore state investment company  Temasek Holdings Pte .  Mapletree Commercial Trust, which owns properties including
Singapore’s  VivoCity  shopping mall, hired Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as global
coordinators for the IPO, said the person, who asked not to be
identified as the details are private. CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
and DBS Group Holdings Ltd. will also help manage the share
sale, the person said.  Funds raised from the IPO will be used for the acquisition
and development of properties including Merrill Lynch
HarbourFront, a new office project on Singapore’s shores, to
repay debt and for working capital, the document shows.  Sonny Phua, a Mapletree Investments spokesman, was not
immediately able to respond to an e-mailed request for more
information.  Mapletree Industrial IPO  Mapletree Commercial Trust’s listing would follow a similar
sale by Mapletree’s industrial property unit,  Mapletree
Industrial Trust (MINT)  Ltd., which raised S$938.5 million in October.
Mapletree Industrial units, sold to investors at 93 Singapore
cents, were trading 1 Singapore cent higher at S$1.06 as of
10:34 a.m. in the city-state.  Mapletree Commercial Trust is expected to lodge IPO
documents with the Monetary Authority of Singapore within two
weeks, the person familiar with the plans said. The offering may
represent about 60 percent of the trust’s units, according to
the pre-sale document. The investor education meetings that
began in Singapore on March 7 will run until March 16 in Hong
Kong, the Netherlands and  London , the document shows.  The Wall Street Journal reported details of the investor
marketing plan and expected listing date earlier today, citing
people it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  