-- 
Apotheker Seeks to Save HP's `Lost Soul' With Software Growth

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/apotheker-seeks-to-save-hp-s-lost-soul-with-software-growth.html
  Leo Apotheker  stood before 4,000  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  colleagues Jan. 31, shielded from the
afternoon Bangalore sun by a vast white tent.  Speaking with the accent that betrays his German roots,
Apotheker vowed that as chief executive officer of Hewlett-
Packard he would treat India more as a market than a source of
low-cost labor for product development, as it did under his
predecessor Mark Hurd.  CEO since Nov. 1, Apotheker is breaking with Hurd’s legacy
in other ways. He’s overhauling HP’s $41 billion personal-
computer division and says he will use acquisitions to expand in
the software market, dominated by rivals such as  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Apotheker is reversing
Hurd’s emphasis on cost-cutting in a bid to improve product
quality and spur home-grown technology, and he’s touring HP’s
offices to find ways to get products to market more quickly.  “HP has lost its soul,” he said in an interview at
Hewlett-Packard’s headquarters in Palo Alto, California,
offering a glimpse of the vision he will outline in greater
detail at an event on March 14 in  San Francisco . “The first
thing I wanted to do when I joined HP was listen to the people.
The rank and file usually know about all the shortcomings.”  Apotheker, 57, resigned as CEO of German software maker  SAP
AG (SAP)  in February 2010 amid falling sales, clashes with unions over
job cuts and a price increase that vexed customers. He takes the
helm of a company facing slowing revenue growth and accelerating
competition in cloud computing, a fast-growing area of
technology that delivers software and storage via the Internet.  HP’s Cloud ‘Gap’  “There seems to be a gap between what kind of services HP
offers and what kind of services people actually need,” said
Jane Snorek, who helps oversee about $75 billion at Nuveen Asset
Management, which sold Hewlett-Packard shares after Hurd’s Aug.
6 departure. “People in IT today want their service
organizations or consultants to tell them, ‘What does the cloud
mean to me?’”  Hurd resigned after the company said inaccurate expense
reports filed by him or on his behalf concealed a personal
relationship with a contractor, in violation of HP’s standards
of business conduct.  The new CEO says he’s likely to buy more companies with
software expertise, following HP’s Feb. 14 acquisition of data-
analysis company Vertica for an undisclosed price. He said he’s
on the lookout for targets that will help HP beef up security
and equip customers to analyze large amounts of data.  “I happen to know something about software,” said
Apotheker, who spent more than 20 years at SAP, the world’s
largest maker of business-application software.  Possible Software Targets    Informatica Corp. (INFA) ,  BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , SAS Institute Inc.,  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  and  CommVault Systems Inc. (CVLT)  are among potential
targets, said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at  Robert W. Baird  in
San Francisco, who has an “outperform” rating on HP shares.  Even after the $13.2 billion acquisition of Electronic Data
Systems Corp. -- a deal designed to help it expand in computer
services -- HP’s services revenue rose less than 1 percent to
$34.9 billion in the year that ended Oct. 31. IBM’s services
sales increased 2.6 percent to $56.4 billion in 2010. HP’s
software sales were $3.59 billion last fiscal year, compared
with $22.5 billion for IBM in 2010.  Two companies not on HP’s radar, Apotheker says, are SAP
and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , which specialize in applications that
help businesses handle such tasks as payroll, financial
reporting and customer-relationship management. HP has “no
interest” in the kinds of business programs those companies
sell, he said in the Feb. 28 interview.  WebOS on Every PC  Apotheker says he also wants to make better use of WebOS,
the computer-operating system acquired last year when Hewlett-
Packard purchased smartphone maker Palm Inc. for $1.2 billion.
Starting next year, every one of the PCs shipped by HP will
include the ability to run WebOS in addition to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows, Apotheker said.  The move is aimed at enticing software developers to create
a wider range of applications that would differentiate HP PCs,
printers, tablets and phones from those sold by rivals.  “You create a massive platform,” Apotheker said.  Programmers have built more than 350,000 apps for devices
made by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and more than 250,000 for Google Inc.’s
 Android Market . WebOS has 6,000 apps, according to HP.  “Their Achilles’ heel is software,” said Brian Marshall,
an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco, who has a “buy”
rating on HP shares. Hewlett-Packard gets 70 percent of sales
from computers, storage, networking and printers, 27 percent
from providing information-technology services, and 2.2 percent
from software.  Slowing Sales Growth  Hewlett-Packard’s sales may rise 4 percent in fiscal 2011
and 2012, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict, compared with
an average 8 percent increase annually under Hurd. HP forecast
quarterly and annual sales on Feb. 22 that missed analysts’
projections amid lackluster consumer demand and sinking services
revenue.  Hurd boosted sales and shareholder returns through more
than $24.3 billion in acquisitions. His cost reductions included
a 5 percent pay cut for most employees in 2009, lower research
spending and plans to eliminate at least 48,000 jobs. Costs that
include research and development as well as selling, general and
administrative expenses fell to 13.5 percent of sales by the end
of last year from 17.6 percent of sales in 2005, when Hurd
started, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline in research and development and Hurd’s aversion
to software mean HP has been slow to capitalize on some key tech
trends. It lacks not only cloud-computing expertise, but also
tools that help companies analyze information, Apotheker says.  Innovation ‘Spiral’  “The minute you stop investing in innovation, you start
spiraling toward your death,” said John Schwarz, who joined SAP
in 2008 with its purchase of Business Objects, where he was CEO,
and departed last year. “That’s what Leo is trying to make sure
doesn’t happen at HP.”  Apotheker also aims to revive HP’s emphasis on product
quality, saying that when hardware performs better right out of
the gate, the company incurs lower service and warranty costs --
and customers are happier. He’s rehiring quality-assurance
experts fired under Hurd and giving new responsibilities to
those he says got “sidelined” by the former CEO.  “We have cut enough costs,” Apotheker said.  The new CEO has toured HP offices in Paris, Tokyo and
Seoul. Fluent in French, German, Dutch, Hebrew and English, he’s
also been to the company’s operations in Boblingen, Germany;
London and  Bracknell  in the U.K.; and the  New York , Boston,
Washington and San Diego areas, addressing 100,000 employees, or
about a third of the  total .  California CEO  “If you’re the CEO of a global company, you have to act
globally,” he said. “You can’t stay in your office.” After
the recent India trip, he told staff HP risks falling behind
there by treating it as a low-cost resource.  The peripatetic polyglot is also putting down roots in
Silicon Valley. Apotheker and his wife bought a $7 million
mansion in  Atherton , California, six miles from HP’s main
offices, and have begun to renovate it. The family is keeping
its house in Paris, where Apotheker has long resided.  “I consider myself a Californian now,” says Apotheker.
“I bought a house in California -- I can even say ‘awesome’ and
’cool.’”  Apotheker is giving engineers freer rein to pursue their own
ideas, boosting the research and development budget, which was
at $2.96 billion last year, and pushing HP’s product groups to
share more technology among themselves.  Empowering Engineers  While he toured HP printing  operations  in San Diego in
December, he watched as two employees demonstrated a printing
technology they developed on their own. He’s pushing them to
turn the idea into a product.  Apotheker is trying to break down walls among HP’s product
groups that have prevented the company from creating more
compelling products and shipping them to market faster.  Last year, HP adapted technology used in its inkjet
printers to create seismic sensors that  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
can use to detect oil deposits. Apotheker says more of HP’s
product groups should similarly share technology and ideas.  “You don’t mandate innovation,” he said. “People need to
be a little more empowered in this place.”  A German-born Jew whose Polish parents fled the Nazis,
Apotheker went on to run SAP, one of Germany’s largest
companies. At HP, he inherits an icon of American business,
 begun  in a garage in Palo Alto, California, by William Hewlett
and David Packard, who used $538 in working capital, including a
used drill press from Sears-Roebuck.  Shares Slump  Morale also flagged under Hurd’s cost-cutting, while the
pace of competition accelerated. HP expanded into networking
equipment -- and onto  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s turf -- through its
$2.7 billion acquisition of 3Com Inc. last year. It’s vying
against Apple in smartphones after its 2010 purchase of Palm. HP
must also contend with Oracle, which entered the hardware arena
through its Sun Microsystems purchase last year and hired Hurd
as a president a month after he left HP.  Wall Street has yet to ratify HP’s choice. HP has declined
8.4 percent since Hurd’s Aug. 6 departure. What gives investors
pause is Apotheker’s nine-month tenure at the top of SAP, which
was marred by a drop in sales and profit.  “Is he going to be able to maintain the complete operating
efficiencies that Mark Hurd put in place, while continuing to
grow the top line in a variety of businesses?” said  Michael Cuggino , president and portfolio manager at the San Francisco-
based Permanent Portfolio Funds, which has about $11.5 billion
under management, including shares of HP. “That is a big
challenge. HP has formidable competition in all their business
segments.”  Mixed Record  At SAP, Apotheker rankled customers with an attempted price
increase during the recession, antagonized developers while
trying to improve productivity and angered German unions with
plans to cut 3,000 jobs, the company’s first widespread
workforce reduction, former SAP executives say. He also clashed
with SAP’s co-founder, Hasso Plattner, over strategy.  Apotheker unleashed his temper at peers and underlings and
had a tendency to isolate himself, said Pascal Brosset, SAP’s
former chief strategy officer and now senior vice president of
innovation at Schneider Electric SA.  “Being most of the time the smartest person in the room,
Leo could get visibly frustrated with the other people not
getting it,” Brosset said.  ‘Polar Bear’  Managers at SAP’s French unit called Apotheker “The Polar
Bear” -- solitary, approachable-looking, but deadly if crossed.
HP’s new CEO will also need to keep peace among the executives
who head the company’s broad PC, printer and data-center product
groups, some of whom, including PC division head Todd Bradley,
wanted and were considered for the top job.  “I’m not perfect,” Apotheker said. “Temper comes with
temperament; it comes with passion.” He said he realized at SAP
that a CEO can’t sway “cynics” to his agenda by arguing.  “The one thing I’ve learned is to try to manage my temper
better and get rid of cynics sooner,” Apotheker said.  Some of Apotheker’s biggest skeptics these days may be
investors. Sellers in the fourth quarter included Vanguard
Group, BlackRock Inc., Fidelity Management & Research LLC and
Northern Trust Corp. Winning them over will be tied to his
efforts to ramp up HP’s innovation power and re-energize its
staff.  “There are reasons to invest,” Cuggino said. “And it’s
attractive to a long-term investor. But there are significant
questions to be answered over the next few quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 