-- 
Arsenal’s Arsene Wenger, Sami Nasri Face Charge Over Comments on Referee

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-09T14:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/arsenal-s-arsene-wenger-sami-nasri-face-charge-over-comments-on-referee.html
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  and
midfielder Samir Nasri must answer an improper conduct charge
over comments made to the referee following yesterday’s
Champions League loss to Barcelona.  Wenger was seen complaining to Swiss referee Massimo
Busacca moments after his team was eliminated following a 3-1
loss at the Camp Nou. Busacca sent off  Robin van Persie  early in
the second half for a second yellow card when the striker shot
at goal after being called for offside. Van Persie said he
didn’t hear the whistle.  Wenger and Nasri will face a hearing on March 17, UEFA
said.  It’s the second year in a row Arsenal has been ousted from
the Champions League by Barcelona. The Spanish champion
rebounded from a 2-1 first-leg loss to win the two-game Round of
16 contest on a goal from Xavi Hernandez and two from Lionel Messi. The Spanish league leader outshot Arsenal, which scored
on Sergio Busquets’s own goal, 19 to 0 in a game played for the
most part in the visitors’ half.  The match was tied 1-1, giving Arsenal a 3-2 aggregate lead
at the time, when  Van Persie  was dismissed.  “The second half would have been very interesting if we
had stayed 11 against 11, unfortunately it was not the case,”
Wenger told Sky Sports after the match. “There are regrets when
you see how we went out. It is very difficult to accept.”  The charges come a week after the Football Association
opened a case against Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson
over criticism of referee  Martin Atkinson  after a 2-1 Premier
League defeat at Chelsea. Last weekend FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  called for greater respect for officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 