-- 
Arsenal May Try to Bring in Everton’s Rodwell and Distin: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-09T11:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/arsenal-may-try-to-bring-in-everton-s-rodwell-and-distin-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Double Swoop?  Arsenal  is considering a double bid for Everton’s Jack
Rodwell and Sylvain Distin during the summer transfer window,
 Metro  reported.  The 19-year-old Rodwell, who can play in midfield or
defense, may cost as much as 15 million pounds ($24 million),
the newspaper said. Distin could give Arsenal another option at
center-back.  Wright-Phillips May Join PSG  Paris Saint-Germain  may offer 4 million pounds for
Manchester City winger Shaun Wright-Phillips, the  Daily Mail 
reported. Wright-Phillips, 29, will be out of contract in 2012.  He was wanted on loan by Fulham and Bolton but City blocked
any deal when  Adam Johnson  suffered an ankle injury, the Mail
added.  Tottenham Stadium  Tottenham Hotspur has stepped up the search for a new
stadium in its home borough of Haringey after the club lost out
to West Ham on taking over the Olympic Stadium following the
London 2012 Games, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Spurs, who are considering legal action against the Olympic
Park Legacy Co. or the U.K. government over the West Ham
decision, may still proceed with their original redevelopment
plan at Northumberland Park, which is adjacent to the current
White Hart Lane stadium.  Valencia Return?  Antonio Valencia may be poised to return from injury to
boost Manchester United’s title hopes,  the Sun  reported.  It comes at a good time for the Premier League leader,
which is likely to be without Nani for up to a month after he
was hurt in a challenge by Liverpool’s  Jamie Carragher  at the
weekend, the Sun added.  Valencia hasn’t played since breaking his left ankle in a
Champions League match with Rangers in September. He took part
in a training game two days ago and joined the first-team squad
yesterday.  West Ham Goalie for Napoli?  West Ham  may receive a 2 million-pound bid from Italian
Serie A side  Napoli  for its rookie goalkeeper Marek Stech, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  The 21-year-old Czech has yet to make his Premier League
debut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 