-- 
Asia’s Rise Reshapes Global Economy, Prices, RBA’s Stevens Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-09T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/asia-s-rise-reshapes-global-economy-prices-rba-s-stevens-says.html
  Asia ’s emergence as the global
economy’s engine of growth is boosting prices of food, energy
and minerals and inhibiting recoveries from the U.S. to Europe,  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens said.  “Prices are under upward pressure because of rising demand,
but it is the demand coming from a couple of billion people in
Asia seeking, and in many cases rapidly converging on, the way
of life that the advanced countries have enjoyed for decades,”
Stevens said in the text of a  speech  in  London  today. He didn’t
directly address Australian monetary policy in the remarks.  Since the start of 2008, Asia excluding Japan accounted for
about 70 percent of growth in global demand, compared with 30
percent from 2000 to 2007, Stevens said in remarks that
contrasted growth in the Asia-Pacific region with slower gains
in  Canada , the U.S., the U.K. and euro area. He said demand from
Asia is largely driving up global commodities.  “These price rises, not to mention those occurring most
recently as a result of pressure on oil supplies, are quite
unhelpful for the advanced countries, particularly those whose
recoveries have been hesitant to date,” Stevens said.  The governor has raised Australia’s benchmark interest rate
to the highest level in the developed world to contain inflation
as a resource investment boom spurs employment growth and drives
up the local currency.  “A very large increase in investment in the resources
sector is under way and has a good deal further to run yet,”
Stevens told the Australian Business in Europe forum today. A
projected capacity expansion will see  iron ore  shipments double
to about 2 million tons in four to five years, he said.  Coal Mining  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($30.3 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland
state port of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest
oil producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects later this year.  Australia is undergoing its biggest mining investment boom
since the 19th century to meet rising demand for iron ore and
coal from China and  India . The RBA has boosted its benchmark
interest rate seven times from October 2009 to November last
year to 4.75 percent.  In his prepared remarks, Stevens noted that the recovery
in  Europe  and the U.K. is “proving to be difficult and
protracted,” in contrast to a “quite rapid” rebound in Asia.  Higher Commodities  “It is not at all clear that more demand growth in Asia is
desirable at present,” Stevens said. “Global GDP growth has
been strong, and prices for most commodities have been rising.”  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases have driven
Australia’s currency to parity with the  U.S. dollar . In contrast,
the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main interest rate near
zero since December 2008.  Australian employers probably added 20,000 jobs last month,
a March 10 report to be released in Sydney will show, according
to a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The nation’s
unemployment rate held at 5 percent, according to the poll.  “Just recently, we have been experiencing growth close to
trend, relatively low unemployment -- about 5 percent -- and
moderate inflation, about 2.25 percent in underlying terms. In
comparison with the experience of the past generation, that is a
pretty good combination,” Stevens said.  For Australia, an exporter of iron ore and coal mined
mostly from states in the country’s north and west, trade is
propelling growth. Caution among the nation’s consumers and the
highest savings in about two decades combined with a stronger
currency are helping balance the economy, Stevens said.  Currency’s Rise  “The  exchange rate  is playing a role of helping the
economy to adjust to the change in the terms of trade,” Stevens
said, referring to a measure of income from exports. He said
unlike other countries, Australia has the “good fortune” of
higher savings along with rising incomes.  The RBA last month raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent, when
measured from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the final three
months of this year.  Stevens last week held the benchmark rate for a third
straight meeting. In testimony to a parliamentary panel last
month, Stevens signaled little urgency about raising rates in
the near term.  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” he told lawmakers in Canberra on Feb. 11.
“Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy periods.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  