-- 
Japan Stocks Rise on Machinery Orders, Lower Oil; Won Advances

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-09T07:40:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/asia-stocks-rise-first-time-in-three-days-as-oil-declines-won-strengthens.html
Japanese stocks rose and emerging-
market currencies gained as the country’s machinery orders
climbed more than expected and lower  oil prices  eased concern
energy prices will drag on the global economy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 0.2 percent to 138.26
as of 4:38 p.m. in Tokyo while Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
closed 0.6 percent higher. Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index
and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little changed. The U.S.
index climbed 0.9 percent in New York yesterday. South Korea’s
won rose to a two-week high versus the dollar. Japan’s yen and
the Australian dollar retreated. Oil dropped 0.6 percent to
$104.40 a barrel.  Japanese machinery orders climbed in January by the most in
five months, signaling companies will boost spending as economic
recoveries abroad strengthen. Oil declined for a second straight
day as members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries considered talks about increasing output as violence
disrupts supplies from  Libya .  “The Middle East situation has been like a dark cloud
hanging over markets,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about
$98 billion. “If oil had continued to rise on the back of this
fear, it would clearly have hurt global growth. Any relief from
that is going to be seen as an encouraging development.”  About five stocks rose for every three that fell in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, with seven of 10 industry groups
advancing. The Markit iTraxx Japan index, which measures the
cost of protecting Japanese corporate and sovereign bonds from
default, fell 1.5 basis points to 95.5 basis points, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Recovery Mode’  Financial companies led advances in U.S. stocks yesterday
after Bank of America Corp. said its home-loan business is in
“recovery mode.” The S&P 500 Index and  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index have
both rallied 95 percent since March 9, 2009, when the gauges
bottomed from the slump caused by the credit crisis. Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. rose 1.4 percent, pacing gains by Asian
banks today.  Fanuc Corp., Japan’s largest maker of industrial robots,
climbed 0.6 percent in Tokyo after the Cabinet Office said
factory orders increased 4.2 percent from December, when they
rose 1.7 percent. Orders were projected to climb 3 percent,
according to the median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.    Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA)  advanced 1.4 percent in Sydney
and Korean Air Lines Co. gained 1 percent in  Seoul  on the
prospect of lower fuel costs. EVA Airways Corp. climbed 5.9
percent in Taipei.  Oil, Gold  A gauge of materials companies posted the biggest decline
of the MSCI Asia Pacific’s 10 industry groups today as oil and
gold prices fell. BHP Billiton Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest oil
company, lost 1.3 percent in Sydney and PetroChina Co.,  China ’s
largest producer, lost 1. percent in  Hong Kong .  Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest gold company,
sank 2.6 percent in Sydney, and Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s
top producer, lost 0.9 percent in Hong Kong. Gold for immediate
delivery dropped 0.2 percent, the second straight decline.  Oil futures fell 0.4 percent yesterday from a 29-month high
after Kuwait’s oil minister said OPEC members are weighing an
“urgent” meeting to determine whether more production is
needed. Rebel fighters in Libya came under fire from rocket
barrages and air strikes as they battled Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces east of the oil town of Bin Jawad.  “Prices were pressured after Kuwait’s oil minister said
OPEC is talking about boosting oil supplies for the first time
in two years,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
an e-mailed note today.  Risk Sentiment    South Korea ’s won rose 0.2 percent to 1,115.65 per dollar,
the Taiwan dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NT$29.367 and the Thai
baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.34, earlier touching an eight-week
high of 30.31, as concern eased that fuel costs will damp growth
in the global economy.  “There’s a bit of reprieve from the crisis in the Middle
East and this has driven down the dollar as risk sentiment
rises,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  The won also strengthened on speculation the Bank of Korea
will lift its key interest rate tomorrow by 0.25 percentage
point, according to all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, after February inflation breached the central bank’s 4
percent target ceiling for a second month. The Bank of  Thailand 
raised the one-day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a
percentage point today, a decision predicted by 17 of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yen Weakens  The yen weakened versus 15 of its 16 major counterparts as
demand for safe-haven assets declined after the machinery-orders
report and ahead of data today that may show German industrial
production rebounded.  Germany ’s industrial output expanded 1.7
percent in January from December, when it declined 1.5 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The yen weakened to 115.16 per euro in Tokyo from 114.94 in  New York  yesterday. It touched 116.00 on March 4, the weakest
since May 14. Japan’s currency fell to 82.83 per dollar from
82.67. The euro bought $1.3902 from $1.3905.  “Economies in  Europe , Japan and the U.S. appear to be
recovering steadily” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director
in Tokyo at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin company.
“Equities are climbing, which is a plus for risk-taking
appetite. There are a lot of reasons to sell the yen.”  The Australian dollar weakened toward a two-week low on
data showing home-loan approvals declined and  consumer
confidence  sank to a nine-month low. Australia’s currency
dropped to $1.0091 in Sydney from $1.0099 in New York yesterday,
when it reached $1.0054, the lowest since Feb. 24.  Wheat futures in New York rose 0.3 percent after losing 6.3
percent in two days as snow and rain relieved drought in  Kansas ,
the biggest U.S. producer of the winter variety. The grain has
soared 59 percent in the past year as drought in  Russia  and
flooding in  Canada  destroyed crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 