-- 
Matsumoto Named Japan's Foreign Minister to Replace Maehara

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-03-09T04:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/matsumoto-named-japan-s-foreign-minister-to-replace-maehara.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
appointed Takeaki Matsumoto foreign minister, aiming to restore
confidence in his government after Seiji Maehara resigned for
receiving illegal campaign contributions.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano made the announcement
today in Tokyo, making the 52-year-old Matsumoto the third
foreign minister since the  Democratic Party  of Japan came to
power 18 months ago. He takes office as support for Kan is
plunging due to finance scandals, persistent deflation and a
parliamentary stalemate over financing the budget.  “The decision was made in a hurry to ensure continuity in
foreign policy,” said Minoru Morita, an independent political
analyst. “But in terms of government stability, Maehara leaves
a big hole that this personnel change doesn’t fill.”  While the lower house of parliament passed his record 92.4
trillion yen budget on March 1, Kan has failed to reach a deal
with opposition lawmakers to authorize 44.3 trillion yen in  government bonds  to fund it. The stalemate has increased the
possibility he will have to dissolve the Diet or step down,
becoming the fifth straight premier to last no more than a year.  Maehara quit on March 6 after admitting he had received
250,000 yen ($3,020) from a foreign resident of Japan in
violation of political donation laws. Matsumoto, a four-term
lawmaker in the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  who was a
deputy foreign minister, is taking up his first Cabinet post.  He will be tasked with maintaining relations with the U.S.
and improving ties with Russia and  China  that have frayed over
territorial disputes.  Matsumoto headed the DPJ’s policy research committee while
the party was in opposition and he is “well versed in policy,
particularly in diplomacy and security affairs,” Edano said.  Stalemate  The financing bills require approval of either the
opposition-controlled Upper House or a two-thirds majority in
the Lower House, which the DPJ lacks.  Kan also faces dissent within the DPJ over a push to raise
the  sales tax  to cope with soaring debt costs. A poll this week
showed fewer than one voter in four supports Kan.  Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22 lowered Japan’s debt
rating outlook on concern over political gridlock.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the debt rating in January, citing the stalemate and
the possibility the financing bills won’t be passed.  Failure to pass the legislation could cause bond yields to
rise, damaging an economy already hampered by social security
costs that have increased by more than 60 percent since 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  