-- 
Latvia’s Rating Outlook Raised at S&P on Lower Dependence

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-03-09T14:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/latvia-s-rating-outlook-raised-at-s-p-on-lower-dependence.html
Latvia’s  credit-rating  outlook was
raised to positive from stable at  Standard & Poor’s  on the
Baltic nation’s growing competitiveness and lower dependence on
external financing.  S&P affirmed Latvia’s long-term rating at BB+, one level
below investment grade, analyst  Frank Gill  said in a statement
from  London  today. A positive outlook means the credit evaluator
is more likely to raise the grade than to cut it or keep it
unchanged.  “The Latvian economy is rebalancing rapidly toward being
considerably less dependent on external financing,” S&P said.
“The current account has moved into surplus over the last two
years, with the trade deficit, which excludes services, falling
by two-thirds and net income turning positive as foreign banks
have written off some investments.”    Latvia ’s gross domestic product grew an annual 3.7 percent
in the last three months of 2010, the quickest pace of expansion
in three years as exports and industrial production picked up.
The country has passed austerity measures equal to about 16
percent of GDP since the crisis began in 2008 and plans more in
a supplementary budget this year to comply with its 7.5 billion-
euro ($10.4 billion) international bailout from a group led by
the European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Very Meaningful’  Latvian unit-labor costs have declined an estimated 25
percent during the recent crisis as evidence of improving
competitiveness, S&P said. The budget deficit this year is
expected to shrink to 5.1 percent compared with an 8.2 percent
deficit last year, S&P said.  “This evaluation is very meaningful for the potential
development of Latvia’s economy,” Finance Minister Andris Vilks said in an e-mailed statement. The government needs
to pass a quality supplementary budget so that the credit rating
may be raised in the “near future,” Vilks said.  Latvia may sell as much as 1.5 billion euros of bonds this
year should the credit rating be raised to investment, Vilks
said in an interview on Jan. 18.  “It is our view that the government likely will meet its
goal of reducing the  budget deficit  to below 3 percent by
2012,” S&P said in the e-mailed statement. Euro adoption may be
delayed until at least 2015 due to rising consumer prices in the
country, the ratings company said.  Gross government general debt is expected to stabilize at
47 percent of GDP,  Moody’s Investors Service rates the country Baa3, its
lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook.  Fitch Ratings 
has a BB+ rating for Latvia, one level below investment grade,
with a stable outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  