-- 
Australia's Home-Loan Approvals Drop on Floods, Consumer Sentiment Weakens

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-09T03:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/australian-home-loan-approvals-decline-in-january-on-floods-1-.html
Australian home-loan approvals fell
in January by the most in a year as floods inundated the
nation’s east coast and consumer confidence slid on expectations
a government-proposed carbon tax will lower  household income .  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments dropped 4.5 percent from December, the first fall in
seven months, with Queensland state approvals plunging 16.4
percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney. The sentiment
index fell 2.4 percent to 104.1 in March from a month ago, a
Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey showed.  Today’s housing “result was distorted by disruptions from
the January floods, which devastated Queensland and impacted
parts of New South Wales and Victoria,” Westpac economists led
by  Bill Evans  said in a report after the release.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
benchmark interest rate at 4.75 percent for a third meeting this
month, citing weaker  consumer spending  and higher savings. The
governor has said the bank will look through the economic impact
of torrential rains in Queensland that affected about 30,000
properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and damaged crops.  The Australian dollar fell after the data, trading at
$1.0081 at 12:51 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0099 in  New York 
yesterday, and was set for its fifth daily decline.  The total value of loans declined 5.3 percent to A$20.3
billion ($20.5 billion) in January, today’s report showed.  Value of Lending  The value of lending to owner-occupiers dropped 4.6 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes declined 6.8 percent.  First-time home buyers accounted for 15.2 percent of
dwellings that were financed in January, down from 15.8 percent
in December and lower than 21 percent a year earlier, the report
showed today.  Australian  consumer confidence  fell to a nine-month low in
March, the survey of 1,200 consumers taken Feb. 28-March 6 and
released in Sydney today showed, with the largest drop of 6.8
percent coming in a gauge reflecting family finances over the
next 12 months.  “We expect that the key negative for households, which is
highlighted by the prominence of budget/taxation in their
assessments, relates to the government’s commitment to
introducing a price on carbon by July next year,” Evans said in
a statement.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Feb. 24 the government
intends to set a price on  carbon emissions  from July next year
before moving to an emissions trading plan. Her support fell to
a record low in a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper
yesterday as voters rejected the plans.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  