-- 
Australia Will Begin Talks to Sell Uranium to U.A.E.

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T07:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/australia-will-begin-negotiations-to-sell-uranium-to-united-arab-emirates.html
  Australia  will enter talks to sell
uranium to the United Arab Emirates as the second-biggest Arab
economy aims to start a nuclear power program in 2017, Foreign
Minister  Kevin Rudd  said.  “Australia welcomes the U.A.E.’s efforts to establish a
responsible approach to nuclear power generation and hopes that
it will serve as a model for other countries in the Middle
East,” Rudd said in a statement from Abu Dhabi today.  An agreement would open a new market for Australian
uranium, according to Rudd, the former prime minister. Australia
is the third-largest producer of the nuclear fuel behind
Kazakhstan and Canada and has the world’s largest known
reserves. Producers include  Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. (ERA) ,
controlled by Rio Tinto Group, and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   Some Persian Gulf governments have begun building nuclear
plants to meet rising demand for power. The U.A.E. estimates
that annual peak demand for electricity will climb to more than
40,000 megawatts by 2020 and is negotiating supply agreements
with a range of countries, the Australian government said.  Uranium prices, which rose to a record $136 a pound in 2007
before falling to about $40, have gained since mid-2010 as
countries plan increased use of nuclear power. More than 150 new
reactors are planned worldwide by 2030, with  China  expected to
add 110 units, according to data compiled by the World Nuclear
Association.  Kalahari Minerals Bid  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group yesterday made a 756
million-pound ($1.2 billion) bid for UK-listed uranium developer
Kalahari Minerals Plc. Kalahari chairman Mark Hohnen said the
company also talked to a “number of people” from other
countries.  Australia has 22 nuclear safeguard agreements with 39
nations and the island of  Taiwan , Rudd said today. The
government doesn’t allow uranium to be sent to India because the
South Asian country hasn’t signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty.  The U.A.E. and Australia had bilateral trade valued at more
than A$4.2 billion ($4.2 billion) in 2009 and 2010, Rudd’s
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 