-- 
Havas Shares Tumble in Paris as Growth Lags Behind Competitors; CEO Quitso

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-09T13:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/havas-shares-tumble-in-paris-as-growth-lags-behind-competitors.html
  Havas SA (HAV)  slumped in Paris trading
after the French advertising company reported 2010 profit that
missed estimates and organic growth in the fourth quarter
trailed that of peers such as  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  and  WPP Plc. (WPP)   The stock fell as much as 9.4 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since May 2009, and was trading 4.1 percent lower at 3.97
euros as of 2:34 p.m. in Paris.  “Havas has the lowest organic growth in the fourth quarter
with 4.9 percent compared to peers,” Jean Baptiste Sergeant, an
analyst at Gilbert Dupon SNC, said by phone. “That’s in line
with consensus but lower compared to Publicis, Interpublic,
Omnicom and WPP.”  Havas, which owns the Euro RSCG advertising agency,
yesterday said 2010 net income advanced to 110 million euros
($153 million) from 92 million euros a year earlier. Profit had
been seen at 120.6 million euros, the average of 14 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer
Fernando Rodes resigned, citing personal reasons, and will be
replaced by  David Jones , the current CEO of Euro RSCG.  Jones can help the company grow in English markets and an
“important part” of revenue growth will come from
acquisitions, French billionaire  Vincent Bollore , who controls
Havas, said at a presentation last night. The company is
entering a “phase of external growth” and can cut costs by 2
percent to 3 percent, he said.  “I don’t think the share drop today is justified because
prospects are quite good and January and February organic growth
is 7.7 percent, in line with peers,” Sergeant said. “The fact
the group also wants to have an external growth policy that’s
very aggressive is also good thing. They have lots of cash and
haven’t done anything with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 