-- 
Asia Central Banks Step Up Inflation Fight With Thai, Vietnam Rate Rises

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-03-09T09:48:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bank-of-thailand-raises-benchmark-bond-repurchase-rate-to-2-50-from-2-25-.html
Asian central banks stepped up their
battle against inflation as Thailand and  Vietnam  raised  interest
rates , seeking to defuse price pressures before the global jump
in oil costs reverberates through the region.  The Bank of Thailand increased the one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.50 percent, it said
in Bangkok today. Vietnam lifted borrowing costs yesterday,
South  Korea  is forecast to do so tomorrow and Malaysia may ask
lenders to set aside more money as reserves on March 11.  A jump in crude oil costs in excess of 20 percent in the
past three weeks is escalating the danger of inflation in the
region that’s led the global economic rebound.  China ’s Premier
Wen Jiabao on March 5 set tackling inflation as his top priority,
as Asian policy makers grapple with consumer price pressures
fueled by job and spending gains.  “There is a debate in the region over what the oil price
rise would do to growth and inflation,” Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said after
the Thai decision.  Thailand  and Vietnam “exemplify that and we
see trends in other countries also” of policy makers focusing on
fighting inflation, he said.  Thailand’s baht extended its gain to a two-month high after
the rate decision, which boosted the Southeast Asian nation’s
yield advantage over the U.S. where the benchmark rate has been
kept near zero. The currency rose 0.1 percent to 30.33 a dollar
as of 4:20 p.m. in Bangkok.  Need to Continue  “We still see the need to continue rate normalization,”
Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said
today, pointing out that deposit rates are still below inflation
levels.  Some policy members believed that the central bank should
raise the key rate by more than 0.25 percentage point to anchor
inflation expectations because the government may introduce
stimulus policies ahead of an election, he said. The board
finally agreed to raise the rate “gradually,” and voted
unanimously to increase the benchmark, he said.  “The BOT continues to emphasize that a gradual rise in
policy rate is a suitable policy direction,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl. “We
do not think that the BOT is behind the curve but risks from a
supply shock in oil would change the scenario. Thailand’s growth
is susceptible to rapid increases in  oil prices .”  The Bank of Thailand’s rate increase was predicted by 17
out of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with three
seeing no change. Vietnam’s central bank raised the refinancing
rate, one of the main policy tools identified by the  State Bank 
of Vietnam last week, to 12 percent yesterday, boosting
borrowing costs for the third time in as many weeks. The bank
also lifted the discount rate to 12 percent from 7 percent.  Korea’s Decision  The  Bank of Korea  will increase its benchmark rate to 3
percent on March 10, according to all 15 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said this
week the government is currently putting more focus on  price
stability  than growth.    Malaysia  may ask lenders to set aside more funds as
reserves this week rather than raise interest rates, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. Bank Negara
Malaysia may increase the statutory reserve requirement ratio by
1 percentage point to 2 percent, and keep the benchmark
overnight policy rate at 2.75 percent in its March 11 policy
decision, Kun Lung Wu, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
report dated March 7.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in
January that inflation is a key risk to the economy and that the
central bank will need to raise the benchmark rate further this
year. Today’s move is the central bank’s fifth increase since
mid-July last year.  Inflation Slows  The nation’s inflation slowed in February to an annual rate
of 2.87 percent. The core consumer price index, which excludes
fresh food and fuel, rose 1.45 percent, accelerating from the
1.32 percent pace the previous month, a government report showed
on March 1. The central bank uses the core index to guide policy,
and aims to keep the rate below 3 percent.  “There is a possibility the  core inflation  will exceed our
target, but it’s still under control,” Paiboon said today.
“Inflation is expected to rise significantly in the third and
fourth quarter. We think inflation pressure will accelerate as
the economy continues to grow close to its potential level.”  The central bank increased its inflation forecast for 2011
to a range of 3 percent to 5 percent, while saying the gain in
oil and commodity costs won’t weigh on the nation’s economic
growth outlook. It kept the core inflation forecast at between 2
percent and 3 percent, saying there is “upward pressure” of 0.1
to 0.2 percentage point.  Subsidy Effect  A surge in crude oil past $100 a barrel following unrest in
the Middle East and  Libya  has clouded the global economic
outlook, threatening to both boost inflation and undermine
business and  consumer spending .  Asia ’s expansion is strong
enough to withstand faster inflation, Asian Development Bank
Managing Director Rajat Nag said last week.  Besides raising rates,  South Korea  and Thailand have
imposed price controls on goods and services including
electricity and gas, and China has released reserves of
agricultural goods.  Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s government has
subsidized fuel and electricity, and controlled prices for
consumer products including cooking oil and pledged to increase
the minimum wage by 25 percent over two years to cushion the
impact of rising prices.  Thailand’s economy last year weathered political
demonstrations that led to violence killing 91 people and
sparked arson attacks. Abhisit plans an election by June as his
party seeks to win the most seats in an election for the first
time since 1992.  Developers Complain    Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy, after  Indonesia ,
strengthened in the fourth quarter on increased exports and
consumer spending, capping the fastest annual expansion in 15
years. The state planning agency said Feb. 21 that growth “will
continue this year,” supported by the global recovery, rising
incomes and agricultural prices. The agency predicted economic
growth this year at 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent.  Even so, companies including  LPN Development Pcl (LPN)  have
complained about further rate increases as higher costs have
already hurt their operations. Meantime, the commerce ministry
said March 1 that policy makers shouldn’t increase borrowing
costs, saying that inflation is under control.  “It will be a tough year for all property developers,”
said Opas Sripayak, managing director of LPN Development, which
develops condominium projects in Bangkok. “Accelerating
inflation and higher interest rates have significantly affected
consumer confidence and spending. We have seen a slowdown in
visitors to our condominium projects.”  Exports have shown resilience, with gains accelerating to
an annual pace of 22 percent in January, from 19 percent in
December.  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , which produces parts for
mobile devices including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Research in
Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry, said Feb. 9 it may post record revenue
this year as demand for its electronics products remains strong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  