-- 
Buffett Takes $2.25 Billion in Burlington Dividends Since Biggest Takeover

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-09T14:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/berkshire-takes-2-25-billion-in-dividends-from-burlington.html
  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  took $2.25 billion in dividends from Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  in less than 13 months of ownership, almost triple the
railroad’s payout rate prior to the February 2010 acquisition.  Burlington Northern paid a $1 billion dividend last month,
it said Feb. 28 in a filing. The railroad held by Berkshire’s
National Indemnity Co. insurance unit paid $1.25 billion last
year under Buffett. The $2.25 billion total compares with $772
million that Burlington Northern handed to stockholders in the
13 months prior to being acquired by Buffett’s firm.  Buffett is withdrawing cash from Burlington Northern after
taking on $8 billion of debt to help finance the acquisition.
Burlington Northern’s publicly traded rivals have raised their
dividends and restarted share repurchases as earnings advanced
across the railroad industry. The dividends may reassure rival
stockholders that Berkshire’s entrance into the market won’t put
their railroads at a disadvantage, said  Walter Spracklin , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “I did indeed get questions as to whether Burlington
Northern would be at a capital advantage as a privately owned
entity,” said Spracklin, who covers railroads from Toronto.
“This would suggest that it’s certainly not the case.”    Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest railroad by revenue, paid
dividends of $602 million and repurchased $1.25 billion of
shares in 2010 as it posted $2.78 billion of profit. In 2009,
dividends were $544 million, and the company reported no
buybacks on its repurchase plan. Burlington Northern, the No. 2
railroad, didn’t buy shares on its repurchase program in 2009.  Berkshire’s Cash, Debt  Buffett is adding to a cash position at Berkshire that
ended December at $38.2 billion, its highest since year-end
2007. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company, which doesn’t pay a
dividend to shareholders or buy back stock, is seeking
acquisitions and facing payments on debt it issued last year in
connection with the $26.5 billion railroad buyout. Burlington
Northern’s profit gained 43 percent to $2.46 billion last year.  “We expected BNSF to dividend the free  cash flow  to
Berkshire to repay some of the acquisition-related debt,” Anita Ogbara, a credit analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said in an
interview. “The level of shareholder rewards, and by that I
mean dividends and share repurchases, is still in line” with
publicly traded railroads, Ogbara said.  Steve Forsberg, a spokesman for Burlington Northern,
declined to comment. Buffett didn’t reply to a request for
comment e-mailed to an assistant.  Capital Spending  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
called the Burlington Northern takeover the  “highlight of
2010”  in his annual letter to shareholders last month. The 80-
year-old billionaire said Berkshire spent $6 billion last year
on property and equipment and predicted the company’s  capital
spending  will swell to a record  $8 billion  in 2011.  Burlington Northern used a net $3.1 billion of cash last
year for investments including equipment, up from $2.64 billion
in 2009. The unit said last month it plans $3.5 billion in
capital spending this year. Omaha-based Union Pacific forecast
spending of $3.2 billion this year, which includes buying 100
new locomotives. The company reported capital investments of
$2.5 billion for 2010.  Buffett called the Burlington Northern purchase an “all-in
wager” on the  U.S. economy . Buffett, who built Berkshire
through four decades of stock picks and acquisitions, increased
his focus on capital-intensive businesses as his firm has grown.  “We are today quite willing to enter businesses that
regularly require large  capital expenditures ,” Buffett said in
his 2009 shareholder letter, published in February of last year.
“We expect only that these businesses have reasonable
expectations of earning decent returns on the incremental sums
they invest.”  Berkshire slipped $694.01, or 0.5 percent, to $128,844 at
9:40 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
company has advanced about 6.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  