-- 
Biden Urges Medvedev to Expand Economic Ties After Arms Pact

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-09T17:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/biden-urges-medvedev-to-expand-economic-ties-after-arms-pact.html
U.S. Vice President  Joseph Biden 
told Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  that both countries
should expand ties on the “economic front” after clinching a
new arms reduction pact.  The U.S. would like to help develop a high-technology
center outside Moscow, a project championed by Medvedev, Biden
said today during a meeting with the Russian leader at his
residence outside Moscow.  President  Barack Obama  sent his deputy to Moscow to show he
wants “to continue the progress we made, this time on the
economic front,” Biden said. The vice president said earlier
today during a visit to the Skolkovo innovation hub that the
U.S. “strongly supports” Russia’s 17-year bid to join the  World Trade Organization .  “Your vision of  Russia , of innovation and change and
modernization -- we’d very much like to be a part of that,”
Biden said. “We have made great progress in the last two
years.”  Biden’s visit to meet with Medvedev and Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin follows advances in the U.S. administration’s
plan to “reset” ties with Russia, which Biden announced at the
Munich Security Conference in February 2009.  Obama and Medvedev last year brokered the new Strategic
Arms Reduction Treaty. The accord, which came into force last
month, was approved in the U.S. over skepticism from some
Republican lawmakers after lobbying by the White House.  Medvedev said Russia’s absence from the WTO was impeding
economic progress between the two countries.  “Our economic ties are significantly lagging behind our
political ones,” he said. “In that sense, Russia’s absence
from the WTO is interfering, and I hope that this year this
process will be completed with the active support of the U.S.”  Washington’s high expectations for Russia, compared with
China or  India , are not a result of lingering Cold War
sentiments, Biden said.  “Maybe sometimes we do expect too much progress too
quickly,” Biden said. “But the expectation is born out of
admiration and respect, not out of disrespect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net . 