-- 
Birinyi Is Buyer as Biggest Bull Market Since Eisenhower Enters Third Year

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-09T21:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/birinyi-is-buyer-as-biggest-bull-market-since-eisenhower-enters-third-year.html
The money managers who picked the
global stock market bottom say now is no time to sell as the
biggest equity rally since 1955 starts its third year.  Laszlo Birinyi, who told clients to buy as the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index fell to a 12-year low of 676.53 on March 9,
2009, says gains that added about $28 trillion to global share
values will outlast previous increases as investors who missed
the first phase play catch-up. Valuations are still below
historical averages, said  Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund manager
who purchased stocks before the  S&P 500 ’s 95 percent advance.  Rallies in equities, corporate debt and commodities
illustrate how the more than $12 trillion pumped into the
financial system by governments and central banks is spurring a
recovery from the worst global recession since the 1930s. While
bears say prices will fall once stimulus ends, billionaire  Kenneth Fisher  and  Byron Wien  of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are betting
on stocks whose profits are most tied to economic growth.  “These kinds of strong beginnings lead to long and durable
bull markets,” Birinyi, who founded Westport, Connecticut-based
research and money management firm Birinyi Associates Inc. in
1989 after a decade on the trading desk at Salomon Brothers,
said in a March 7 phone interview. “While there will be
corrections and while there will be pauses, we’re still of the
view that this is a bull market that we expect to go on for
several years.”  Previous Bull Markets  Even after almost doubling in 24 months, the S&P 500’s two-
year return is about 36 percentage points below the average
bull-market gain of 131 percent since 1962, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Birinyi Associates. The 730-day rally
without a decline of 20 percent or more compares with an average
duration of 1,407 days, the data show.  The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,320.02 today.    Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the Richmond, Virginia-based
mortgage guarantor and life insurer, increased the most in the
S&P 500 since the market’s bottom, climbing more than 14-fold.  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the Chicago-based mall owner,
led the MSCI All-Country World Index of 45 developed and
emerging markets, rising 5,066 percent.  The two-year advance is the biggest for the S&P 500 since
the rally following the end of the Korean War and the election
of President  Dwight D. Eisenhower , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and S&P. The index has risen in 18 of 24 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Profit Growth  Five straight quarters of U.S. profit growth and the
biggest yearly increase since 1988 have held down valuations,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The U.S. benchmark index is
trading at 15.5 times reported earnings, compared with the
average ratio of 19.7 at bull-market peaks. The S&P 500’s
earnings yield, or annual income divided by the index price, is
2.96 percentage points higher than the payout on 10-year
Treasuries, the widest gap at the two-year point of any bull
market since 1962, the data show.  “I don’t think valuations are stretched,” Biggs, who
oversees $1.4 billion as managing partner of New York-based
Traxis Partners LP, said in a March 7 phone interview. “The
next move in the S&P 500 is more likely to be up than down, and
that move could be 10 percent to 15 percent.”  Fed Rates  When Biggs bought shares in March 2009, the purchases were
a contrarian bet driven by what he said was the highest level of
bearish sentiment ever. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. had
collapsed six months earlier, Warren Buffett, the chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said the economy was in “shambles”
and  New York  University’s Nouriel Roubini, who foresaw the
crisis, said the S&P 500 may fall to 600.  Stocks surged as record-low Federal Reserve  interest rates ,
along with a $787 billion stimulus bill signed into law by U.S.
President Barack Obama and his administration’s plan to rid
banks of toxic assets, boosted investor confidence. Buying
shares is a “potentially good deal” for long-term investors,
Obama said six days before the slump ended.  Now Biggs is counting on economic and profit growth to spur
gains. Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., a
gauge of how much reports are exceeding the median economist
estimates in Bloomberg News surveys, surged to a record last
week as manufacturing growth topped forecasts and the jobless
rate unexpectedly fell to an almost two-year low.  ‘Major Expansion’  S&P 500 companies will boost earnings by 17 percent during
the next 12 months to a record $99.82 a share, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profits in the MSCI
All-Country Index may climb 20 percent, analyst forecasts show.  “We’re in a major expansion globally,” according to
Fisher, who oversees $44 billion at Woodside, California-based
Fisher Investments Inc. and said in September 2009 that the
rally in equities was too big to reverse. “Corporate earnings
are great.”  The S&P 500’s annualized appreciation since the 2009 low is
43 percent, compared with predictions for a “new normal” of
below-average returns by Mohamed El-Erian and Bill Gross, the
co-chief investment officers at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which oversees the world’s largest bond fund in Newport
Beach, California. Pimco said in May 2009 that financial assets
would trail historical averages because of government deficits
and increased regulation.  Sell Warnings  “Today, markets are reacting to a tug of war,” El-Erian
said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News yesterday. “On the one
hand, improving endogenous growth dynamics in the U.S. and core  Europe , and particularly Germany. And, on the other hand,
headwinds including high and volatile oil prices, complex policy
challenges, budget uncertainties and Europe’s peripheral debt
crisis.”  For analysts who warned investors to sell before the credit
crisis that sent the S&P 500 down as much as 57 percent starting
in 2007, the rally proved harder to anticipate.  David Rosenberg 
of Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc., ranked the No. 2 economist
by Institutional Investor magazine in 2008, and Roubini stuck to
bearish forecasts. Now, they say the end of stimulus spending
and rising oil may threaten returns.  Rosenberg, based in Toronto, said in March 2009 that the
S&P 500 was at risk of falling to 600 by October of that year.
Instead, it climbed 53 percent to 1,036.19 on Oct. 30. Three
days before the index reached its 2010 low, Rosenberg saw a
pattern that he said would bring more stock losses and cited the
outlook for earnings and “heightened uncertainty” about the
economy. The U.S. expanded at 2.6 percent and 2.8 percent annual
rates in the third and fourth quarters, respectively, while S&P
500 earnings exceeded estimates in both periods.  No Straight Line  “Nothing moves in a straight line,” Rosenberg said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg
News. The economic expansion is already reflected in stock
prices, and the market will probably fall once the Fed stops
buying assets, he said. It’s “time to take risk off the
table,” he said.  Declines in bearish bets and data showing more hedge funds
are speculating stocks will rise than at any time since 2007 may
be signs that the pool of buyers for equities is being depleted.  A gauge compiled by TrimTabs Investment Research and
BarclayHedge Ltd. measuring how heavily hedge funds are invested
in stocks rose to 33 percent in January, the last month data are
available, compared with an average of 29 percent since 2000.
Shares borrowed and sold to profit from declines dropped four
straight months to 3.3 percent of all stock at the end of
January, according to data compiled by NYSE Euronext.  Keep Falling  Roubini said on March 9, 2009, that it was “highly
likely” the S&P 500 would fall to 600 in 2009 and that the
recession would last into 2010, even if the U.S. did
“everything right with fiscal and monetary policy.” The
world’s largest economy  stopped contracting  in June 2009,
according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. The
economist called for slower growth in October 2010, when he said
GDP growth could slow to 1 percent by the end of last year as
stimulus becomes a “fiscal drag.” The expansion was almost
three times that rate during the final three months of 2010.  Some developed economies may slide back into recession if
oil surges to $140 a barrel, Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York, told reporters in Dubai yesterday.
The 52-year-old economist also said the  European Central Bank 
may raise interest rates “too soon,” curbing growth and
hurting indebted nations including Greece that face record
borrowing costs.  Corporate Bonds  The recovery turned a $1,000 investment in the MSCI All-
Country World Index into about $2,097 including dividends
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with $1,593 for commodities, $1,277 for global corporate bonds
and $1,044 for Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by
Standard & Poor’s,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  U.S. investment-grade debt performed better than bonds from
other nations, returning 35 percent over the same period, while
speculative-grade credit almost matched the S&P 500, rising 93
percent since March 9, 2009.  “Over the past few years anything associated with risk has
done phenomenally well,” said William Cunningham, co-head of
global active portfolio management and head of global fixed
income research at Boston-based State Street Global Advisors,
which oversees almost $2 trillion. With interest rates likely to
rise, “fixed income will deliver less than equities going
forward,” he said.  ‘Passing the Baton’  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has remained committed to the
central bank’s plan of purchasing $600 billion of assets through
June and said March 2 that he hasn’t ruled out an expansion of
the program. There’s a 90 percent chance the Fed will keep its
target for the overnight lending rate between banks in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent at its June meeting, compared with an 87
percent chance a month ago, according to  CME Group Inc. (CME)  futures.  “The government is slowly passing the baton to the real
economy, and we’re moving from government stimulus to a self-
sustaining growth,” said  Robert Doll , chief equity strategist
for fundamental equities at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s biggest money manager with $3.6 trillion.  The leaders of the equity bull market are shifting as the
U.S. economic expansion accelerates and investors become more
willing to risk money on companies where weaker economic growth
or earnings increases have pushed down valuations.  Equity Funds  The MSCI All-Country World Index’s 100 worst-performing
stocks of 2010 rose 5.7 percent as a group this year through
yesterday, while last year’s best performers fell 0.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. stocks are beating
developing-nation shares after the S&P 500 climbed 5 percent in
2011, compared with a 1.3 percent drop in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.  Investors have added about $24 billion to U.S. equity funds
this year, while pulling more than $16 billion from emerging
markets, according to data and estimates compiled by the
Investment Company Institute and EPFR Global.  Biggs is placing his biggest bet on American companies,
with about 55 percent of his holdings in the country, and Doll
said U.S. shares are likely to beat equities in other nations.
Both favor stocks that rally most during economic expansions,
including commodity producers and technology companies.    Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable technology company,
is Birinyi’s biggest holding. The Cupertino, California-based
maker of iPads and iPhones will boost net income 53 percent this
year, according to the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares have advanced 9.3 percent since Dec. 31,
rebounding from a 2.3 percent drop on Jan. 18 after Chief
Executive Officer Steve Jobs said he would take a medical leave
of absence.  “This is going to be a good year for the stock market,”
said Wien, the vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners.
“The real growth in the  U.S. economy  is going to be favorable.
I don’t think valuations are excessive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  