-- 
Blackstone Goes to Kansas as Turnaround Experts Pitch Plans to U.S. States

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-03-09T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/blackstone-s-coleman-goes-to-kansas-as-restructuring-experts-pitch-states.html
  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s Timothy Coleman helped  Ford Motor Co. (F)  avoid bankruptcy and a taxpayer
bailout as the automaker eliminated $9.9 billion of debt and
negotiated with unions to modify collective-bargaining
agreements. Now he’s trying to turn around  Kansas .  Coleman, who heads restructuring at Blackstone, has met
with Republican Governor  Sam Brownback  to discuss being hired as
the state’s adviser, according to three people familiar with the
discussions. Talks centered on how Kansas, where next fiscal
year’s $492 million deficit is 3.5 percent of the total budget,
could sell assets, streamline operations and downsize its
government, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the discussions are private.  Brownback, 54, took office in January seeking to revamp
Medicaid, public-school financing and state regulations. The
November elections brought to office 28 new governors who, like
Brownback, may look to corporate-restructuring experts as they
move away from piecemeal changes such as job cuts to a more
sweeping approach to retooling their states.  “These governors are talking about restructuring on an
unprecedented scale,” said Jonathan Henes, an attorney at
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, which advised on the bankruptcies of
Visteon Corp. and Solutia Inc. “States will need to pay market
rates for expert restructuring advisers, but the potential for
fixing the fiscal issues is huge and with restructuring advice
you get what you pay for.”  United Autoworkers  A Blackstone spokesman,  Peter Rose , declined to comment on
talks with Brownback’s office.  The firm, hired in January 2009, advised Ford as it
negotiated with the United Autoworkers to modify a 2007
collective-bargaining agreement and reduce borrowings through a
debt exchange and tender offers, according to Blackstone’s
 website . Ford was the only major U.S. automaker to avoid Chapter
11 and a taxpayer bailout.  “Everyone recognizes that states need to balance their
budgets and that they have extreme issues they’re looking at,”
Coleman said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Carol Massar  on March 7, adding that Blackstone has advised in
municipal situations.  Brownback had a two-hour meeting with Blackstone in the
governor’s office on Jan. 25, according to a copy of his
schedule obtained by Bloomberg News through a public-records
request. Blackstone has said it won’t work on issues related to
state employee pensions, one of the people familiar with the
discussions said.  Recession’s Impact  U.S. states project combined budget deficits of $125
billion in the coming fiscal year because revenue hasn’t bounced
back from the recession and spending on unemployment and
Medicaid swelled. States and local pensions have an unfunded
liability gap of as much as $3.6 trillion, according to an
October study by economists from Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Management and the University of Rochester.  “The days of ever-expanding government are over,”
Brownback said in his State of the State address in January.
“The future demands of us a commitment to deliver core services
in innovative and more efficient ways.”  In addition to helping states cut costs, turnaround firms
are getting involved with municipalities to restructure debt of
public projects that borrowed too much and didn’t meet revenue
projections.    Alabama ’s Jefferson County, weighed down by more than
$3 billion in sewer debt and a junk credit rating, hired  West
Palm Beach , Florida-based  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) , which advised
creditors in the Washington Mutual Inc. bankruptcy, to prepare a
turnaround plan.  Fees From Lehman  Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which runs bankrupt investment bank  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , joined a team last month working
on restructuring options for Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , the state
capital that guaranteed debt payments for a failed incinerator.
Officials from Philadelphia, which could run out of pension
assets to pay benefits in 2015, according to the October study,
met with advisers including Alvarez & Marsal, people with
knowledge of the matter said on Nov. 19.  Such confidential meetings have resulted in few assignments
because officials want to avoid the stigma of hiring experts
associated with bankrupt corporations and restructuring firms
charge relatively high fees, one of the people said.  Alvarez & Marsal received $403.5 million in fees for
“interim management” of Lehman Brothers over 28 1/2 months,
including $10.1 million in January, according to a court filing
in February.  ‘Political Considerations’  “Discussions between turnaround experts and state or local
governments have picked up significantly over the past few
months,” said Mo Meghji, principal at New York-based advisory
firm Loughlin Meghji & Co. and chief restructuring officer of
Capmark Financial Group Inc.  “Any successful restructuring will take a careful melding
of political considerations with corporate expertise for which
no clear precedents have been established,” he said.  In Kansas, Brownback has proposed eliminating or moving
eight agencies, such as the state parole board and the
department that runs Medicaid. The moves would save $9.2
million. Among the state’s assets is the 236-mile Kansas
Turnpike, which  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in 2006 could be
sold for as much as $3.15 billion.  At the request of the legislature, Kansas’s Department of
Administration compiled a  195-page list  of all land and building
assets owned by the state. The list, which was released in
November, includes armories, ballparks, and university research
facilities.  Reorganization Orders  “The governor has met with lots of folks about
restructuring during the transition and he has presented a
number of reorganization orders on how to restructure state
government in Kansas,” said Sherriene Jones-Sontag, the
governor’s press secretary, without commenting specifically on
any meetings with Blackstone.  State and local governments may focus on firing workers, as
opposed to restructuring, as a quick way to cut costs, said
Kevin Bacon, an adjunct professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson
School of Public Affairs at the  University of Texas  in Austin
and former vice president in the public-sector consulting
practice at  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   “Some of these structural solutions take time,” Bacon
said. “When you need the cash right now, you may gravitate
toward decisions that give you savings immediately.”  State and municipal payrolls declined by 249,000 jobs last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, more than the
entire workforce of  General Motors Co. (GM)  States also are cutting
reimbursements to Medicaid providers or reducing eligibility for
the health-care program for the poor.  ‘Terrible Cash Squeezes’  Widespread municipal-bond defaults are unlikely, said Bill Brandt, president of Development Specialists Inc. in  Chicago , as
state and local governments will do everything they can to
maintain access to capital markets.  “Those folks who believe the market is going to transport
their Chapter 11 practice into a Chapter 9 practice are crazy,”
Brandt said. “Having said that, there’s going to be terrible
cash squeezes and a need to negotiate and design a plan around
things that many of these smaller municipalities don’t have any
experience in doing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  