-- 
BlackRock Funds Wrongly Changed Bylaws, Karpus Claims

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T19:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/blackrock-funds-wrongly-changed-bylaws-karpus-claims-1-.html
Karpus Management Inc. sued 11  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  closed-end funds and their trustees, claiming
that their revised bylaws prevent investors in auction-market
preferred securities from nominating and electing directors.  The funds’ trustees amended and restated the bylaws on Oct.
25 without putting the changes up for a shareholder vote,
according to the complaint made public today in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The amended bylaws “were intended solely to prevent Karpus
or any other beneficial owner of the auction market preferred
securities from nominating or electing trustees other than
BlackRock nominees or individuals approved by the board of
trustees,” lawyers for Karpus said in the complaint.  The auction-rate market collapsed in February 2008 during
the credit crisis, leaving preferred shareholders frozen.
Trustees of the BlackRock funds formed a committee in August
2008 to seek solutions for investors affected by the lack of
liquidity, according to the complaint. As of Aug. 20, 2008,
BlackRock had redeemed about $2.5 billion of the $9.8 billion in
auction-market preferred securities issued by the funds, the
complaint said.  Bobbie Collins, a BlackRock spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  30-Day Delay  The amended bylaws increased by 30 days the time required
to give notice of director nominations and added “more
burdensome, unnecessary and unreasonable” requirements that a
shareholder must meet in the notice, according to the complaint.  The new rules disqualified individuals who own or have the
power to vote more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of a
fund, preventing Karpus and other large holders from
participating on a board or nominating its members, according to
the complaint. Also disqualified were individuals affiliated
with any  investment adviser  other than BlackRock or those
approved by a fund’s board, Karpus said.  Two BlackRock funds sued Karpus in Maryland state court in
June after it tried to nominate two directors to boards of the
funds. Karpus withdrew the nominations and the case was deemed
moot, according to the complaint.  Karpus is seeking a court order declaring that the new
bylaws are unreasonable and serve no valid purpose and barring
the trustees from interfering with the election of nominees.  The case is Opportunity Partners LP v. BlackRock New York
Municipal Bond Trust, CA6255, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  