-- 
BofA May Need `More Time' to Recover From Soured Home Loans, Barclays Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   A p r i l   L e e
-- 
2011-03-09T21:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bofa-may-need-more-time-to-recover-from-soured-home-loans-barclays-says.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, may struggle with lower revenue and
additional costs from soured home loans before rebounding,
Barclays Plc said.  “More time and additional initiatives may be required”
before the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank reaches its full
potential,  Jason Goldberg  of Barclays wrote in a note today.
“Revenue, net interest margin and expense progress will take
time, and concerns around mortgages may persist.” Goldberg
rates the shares “equal weight/positive.”  Bank of America’s deposits division won’t return to
normalized earnings until 2013 at the earliest and the home-
mortgage business will need until at least 2014, the firm said
yesterday at its first investor day since 2007. Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  last month appointed Terry Laughlin to
focus on resolving disputes with mortgage investors and probes
by regulators reviewing possible irregularities in foreclosures.  Bank of America slipped 10 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $14.59
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
lender has dropped 13 percent in the past year.  The bank has struck deals to sell assets including the
Balboa insurance unit, and is scaling back in commercial real
estate after expanding through acquisitions under Moynihan’s
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis . The company posted a net loss of
$2.2 billion last year on writedowns of credit-card and home-
loan businesses purchased by Lewis.  Mortgage ‘Headaches’  Assets accumulated through acquisitions will “continue to
produce headaches on the mortgage side,” said  Glenn Schorr , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., in a note today.  Schorr recommends investors buy shares of Citigroup Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. rather than Bank of America, which he
rates as “neutral.” While results may be “choppy” for
Moynihan this year, Bank of America is a “good long-term
story,” Schorr said.  Bank of America is rated a “buy” by 20 analysts tracked
by Bloomberg and a “hold” by 15. That compares with 27 buys
versus five holds for New York-based JPMorgan, the second-
largest U.S. bank by assets. JPMorgan climbed 16 cents to
$46.56.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 Dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
April Lee in  New York  at 
 Alee355@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  