-- 
Treasuries Advance After Note Auction as U.S. Stocks, Crude Oil Retreat

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-09T22:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bond-yields-soar-in-portugal-as-euro-drops-stocks-u-s-futures-fluctuate.html
Treasuries rose after an auction of
$21 billion in 10-year notes drew higher-than-forecast demand,
while oil and U.S. stocks fell as investors weighed an increase
in crude supplies and escalating violence in Libya.  Ten-year Treasury yields lost eight basis points to 3.47
percent as of 4 p.m. in New York. Oil slipped 0.6 percent to
$104.38 a barrel. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent to 1,320.02, with technology shares the biggest drag as
networking-gear maker  Finisar Corp. (FNSR) ’s forecast missed estimates.
Gold rose 0.2 percent to $1,429.60 an ounce and the Swiss franc
gained as investors pursued haven assets. New Zealand’s dollar
slid after the nation’s central bank cut interest rates.  Oil’s retreat followed government data showing supplies at
a major U.S. hub surged, erasing an earlier gain spurred as
Muammar Qaddafi stepped up attacks on towns in western Libya.
The S&P 500’s rebound from its bear-market low exactly two years
ago peaked on Feb. 18, with the gauge down 1.7 percent since
then amid speculation higher energy costs will stifle growth.
Geopolitical uncertainty helped send demand at today’s Treasury
auction to the highest in almost a year.  “The market was surprised by the strength of the
auction,” said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar
derivatives trading in  New York  at Jefferies & Co., one of the
20 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The
real concern is, will  oil prices  provide legitimate headwinds to
the economy and is the market beginning to price in further
unrest by bidding the auction so aggressively?”  Treasury Auction  At today’s 10-year note auction, the securities drew a
yield of 3.499 percent, compared with the average forecast of
3.535 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 8 of the Federal
Reserve’s 20 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.32, compared with an average of 3.08
for the previous 10 sales.  Investors snapped up Treasuries as credit-default swaps for
indebted European nations rose, indicating more concern about
their creditworthiness. Contracts on Portugal and  Greece  climbed
to the highest in two months, according to data provider CMA.    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., eliminated government-related
debt from his flagship fund. Pimco’s $237 billion Total Return
Fund last held zero government-related debt in January 2009.
Gross had cut the holdings to 12 percent of assets in January,
according to the company’s  website . The fund’s net cash-and-
equivalent position surged from 5 percent to 23 percent, the
highest since May 2008.  Treasury Yields  Yields on Treasuries may be too low to sustain demand for
U.S. government debt as the Federal Reserve approaches the end
of its second round of quantitative easing, Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted on Pimco’s website on March 2.
Gross mentioned that Pimco may be a buyer of Treasuries if
yields rise to attractive levels.  Brent oil for April delivery jumped 2.4 percent to $115.78
a barrel in  London . Violence in  Libya  has cut the nation’s oil
exports by 1 million barrels a day, or about two-thirds,
according to the International Energy Agency. Gasoline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  surged 2.7 percent to $3.0272 a
gallon after falling 3.2 percent in the previous two days.  Oil futures rose as much as 0.9 percent in New York before
erasing gains as supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery
point for West Texas Intermediate, climbed 1.69 million barrels
to 40.3 million last week, the highest level since the Energy
Department began gathering data at the hub.  ‘Trying to Digest’  “The markets are trying to digest all the news, from
questions about stability in the Middle East to renewed concerns
about global growth,” said James Gaul, a money manager at  Boston  Advisors LLC in Boston, which oversees $1.7 billion. “We
know that Libya is not going to be the cause of a big disruption
in oil supplies, it’s the uncertainty about future oil prices
that has the market at an edge.”  Technology shares in the  S&P 500  lost 0.6 percent as a
group. Finisar, a maker of fiber-optic transmission gear that is
not in the index, slid 39 percent for its biggest decline since
going public in 1999. Other makers of networking equipment also
slumped, with JDS Uniphase Corp. tumbling 17 percent for the
biggest drop in the S&P 500 and Ciena Corp. losing 5.3 percent.  The money managers who picked the global stock market
bottom say now is no time to sell as the biggest equity rally
since 1955 starts its third year. Governments and central banks
pumped more than $12 trillion into the financial system to boost
growth after the worst global recession since the 1930s. U.S.
mortgage applications rose 16 percent last week, the most since
June and a signal housing may be stabilizing, an index from the  Mortgage Bankers Association  showed today.  Less Than Average  Even after almost doubling in 24 months, the S&P 500’s two-
year return is 36 percentage points below the average bull-
market gain of 131 percent since 1962, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Birinyi Associates Inc. The 730-day
rally without a decline of 20 percent or more compares with an
average duration of 1,407 days, the data show.  Alcatel-Lucent SA lost 2.6 percent to pace falling shares
in  Europe  after Finisar’s forecast. Tullow Oil Plc dropped 3.2
percent in London after the Africa-focused explorer reported
profit that lagged forecasts. Iberdrola Renovables jumped 11
percent after parent company Iberdrola SA bid 2.5 billion euros
($3.5 billion) to buy out minority investors. Tognum rallied 7.3
percent in  Germany  as Daimler AG and Rolls-Royce Group Plc
offered to buy the company.  Kiwi Falls  The  New Zealand  dollar fell against all 16 major peers and
weakened to a five-month low versus the dollar, dropping as much
as 0.8 percent to 73.36 U.S. cents, after the  Reserve Bank  cut
the benchmark interest rate by 0.5 percentage point to match a
record low 2.5 percent to help the economy recover from its
deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  While oil rises and Europe struggles to contain its debt
crisis, evidence that the global economy is picking up pace is
prompting other policy makers to tighten monetary policy.  Thailand  boosted borrowing costs today for the fifth time since
June, a day after Vietnam raised its main policy interest rate
to 12 percent. U.K. policy makers tomorrow will probably hold
the key rate at 0.5 percent as they debate the risks of
inflation that’s double their 2 percent target.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.3 percent and Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.6 percent as the nation’s
machinery orders increased more than forecast in January. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.1 percent.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks rose 1.3
percent, its fifth straight gain, on speculation OPEC will
consider boosting oil output to compensate for disruptions in
Libya and as the region’s states weigh an aid plan for Bahrain
and Oman. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  jumped 2 percent and Dubai’s  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  rose 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 