-- 
Bowles Says He Kept Morgan Stanley Job Separate From U.S. Plan to Cut Debt

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T12:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bowles-says-he-kept-morgan-stanley-job-u-s-debt-plan-separate.html
Erskine Bowles, co-chairman of
President Barack Obama’s debt-reduction commission, said his job
as a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  director didn’t influence his work on the
panel’s recommendations for balancing U.S. spending, which said
taxes are sapping the competitiveness of companies.  He and the commission’s co-chief,  Alan Simpson , told an
audience of bankers, investors and executives at an  Economic
Club of New York  lunch meeting March 7 that the country may face
a crisis if it doesn’t rein in the debt. Bowles, 65, has been a
member of the bank’s board since the end of 2005.  “It didn’t have any effect on me at all,” he said in an
interview after the lunch, when asked if his work for  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley influenced the commission’s December
proposals. “We tried to gore every ox we could.”  The panel’s $3.8 trillion budget-cutting plan would trim
Social Security, overhaul the  tax code  and cut defense spending.
The Washington-based Center for Economic and Policy Research’s
co-director,  Dean Baker , wrote in November about his concerns
that Bowles was leading a panel whose recommendations could
affect Morgan Stanley.  The commission’s plan won backing from 11 of 18 members in
December, falling short of the 14 votes needed to forward it to
Congress.  Tax Considered  Bowles yesterday testified to the Senate Budget Committee
about his report. He echoed the message he delivered to the
Economic Club, where he had said, “this debt is like a cancer
that will truly, over time, destroy this country from within.”  Asked afterward if the commission discussed raising taxes
on Wall Street firms, Bowles said, “yeah,” without elaborating
on a specific proposal. “Every topic like that, where we looked
at sources of revenue, was discussed and discussed fairly,” he
said. “Where we could find the support, we went with it. And
where we couldn’t, we didn’t.”  Morgan Stanley has paid Bowles $335,000 a year for his work
on the board, the bank said in regulatory filings. On March 7,
he took a moment during the speech to poke fun at Morgan Stanley
Chairman  John Mack , an alumnus of  Duke University , who sat at a
nearby table. Bowles, the president of the University of North
Carolina system until last year, said “some cuts” to research
spending are necessary.  “And we did beat Duke,” he said. “I’m looking right at
John Mack.” The 66-year-old banker, who sits on Duke’s board of
trustees, smiled from his table by the stage.  Koch, Paulson  Bowles, a former chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton ,
and Simpson, 79, a former Republican senator from  Wyoming , spoke
on a stage whose dais included club trustee David H. Koch of
Koch Industries Inc., which funneled campaign funds to
Republican governors who are trying to curb state workers’
bargaining rights and cut spending. Also at the dais was  John Paulson , whose firm, Paulson & Co., made $15 billion betting
against subprime mortgages in 2007.  Simpson called the U.S. fiscal position “unconscionable.”  “People just sit out there and blink like a frog in a
hailstorm,” he said. “They don’t have any idea what the hell’s
going on.”  Bowles said in the interview that he didn’t discuss the
panel’s deliberations with Morgan Stanley colleagues.  “They have said nice things about it since it came out,”
he said, as guests finished what the program called an “East
Coast Cranberry Brown Betty” dessert with yuzu and whipped
cream. “But I had zero input going into it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in  New York  at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 