-- 
Brazil's Bovespa Stock Index Falls on Inflation Forecasts, Libya Concern

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-03-09T21:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-falls-on-inflation-forecasts-libya-concern.html
  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index fell,
retreating from last week’s advance, as Vale SA slid the most
since August and continuing violence in  Libya  dimmed the outlook
for global growth.  Vale tumbled, contributing most to the index’s decline,
after metals prices dropped and Folha de S.Paulo reported that
the Brazilian government is seeking 4 billion reais ($2.4
billion) of overdue royalty payments from the miner. Bradespar
SA, part of the group that controls Vale, declined 3.7 percent.
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA dropped after a report said the
steelmaker plans to boost spending in the state of Minas Gerais
by 67 percent to 15 billion reais.  The Bovespa lost 1.1 percent to 67,263.75 at the 4:15 p.m.  New York  time close. Thirty-four stocks fell on the index while
35 climbed. The real was little changed at 1.6540 per dollar.  “The market has very little liquidity” after the Carnaval
holidays March 7 and 8, said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps
oversee 60 million reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
Brazil. “The main news is the Folha report on the fine the
government is charging Vale. If that turns out to be true, it
could have a negative impact in the short term.”  Vale fell 2.9 percent to 47.63 reais, the steepest drop on
a closing basis since Aug. 30. Bradespar declined to 41.70
reais. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index
lost 2.5 percent.  The government is charging Vale overdue royalty payments on
iron-ore exploration, Folha reported, citing an unidentified
government official. The company’s Chief Executive Officer Roger Agnelli may meet Mines and Energy Minister Edison Lobao this
week to discuss an agreement, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper
said. Vale declined to comment, according to Folha.  Copper, Oil  Copper, a bellwether for global growth, fell to the lowest
in more than two months on concern that demand may wane as
higher energy costs slow the global economy. Crude oil rose as
much as 0.9 percent in New York today, before erasing its
advance, as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  stepped up attacks on
rebel forces, fueling speculation that the conflict will
persist.  CSN, Brazil’s third-biggest steelmaker, lost 1.6 percent to
26.45 reais. The company plans to boost its investment in the
Brazilian state of  Minas Gerais  to 15 billion reais over the
next few years,  Valor Economico  said, citing the state
government and the company. CSN in 2009 announced a plan to
invest 9 billion reais in the state, the Sao Paulo-based
newspaper reported.  Inflation  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy raised their
forecast for 2012 inflation, while reducing their prediction for
this year’s. Consumer prices will rise 4.80 percent next year,
up from a forecast of 4.78 percent the previous week, according
to the median estimate in a March 4 weekly central bank survey
of about 100 economists published today. The forecast for 2011
inflation fell to 5.78 percent from 5.80 percent previously.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge fell March 4 as surging  oil
prices  raised the prospect of slower global economic growth,
while real-estate shares fell on concern higher borrowing costs
will hurt housing demand, and phone companies dropped after Tele
Norte Leste Participacoes SA reported lower-than-forecast
profit.  The Bovespa is down 3 percent this year after homebuilders
and banks fell on concern rising inflation will spur additional
measures to restrict credit growth, outweighing gains in oil and
raw-material producers.  The index trades for 10.7 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 14.1 for the Shanghai Composite Index,
7.4 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 17.4 for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  