-- 
Brazil National Team's Cafu, Romario Battle Chechen Leader in Caucasus

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-03-09T06:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/brazil-national-team-s-cafu-romario-battle-chechen-leader-in-caucasus.html
Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov took
his drive to promote the region where  Russia  fought two wars in
the past 20 years to a new arena: Sultan Bilimkhanov Stadium.  At the venue where his father Akhmad was killed in a 2004
bombing, Kadyrov yesterday captained a Chechen team in an
exhibition game against a squad of former Brazilian stars
including Romario, the 1994 world player of the year, and Cafu,
who represented his country more times than anyone else.  Kadyrov has been using sports to promote himself and the
North Caucasus region, directing attention away from attacks by
Islamic militants. The Chechen leader also lured Ruud Gullit,
another former world player of the year, to coach Terek Grozny,
the club based in the region’s capital that finished 12th of 16
in Russia’s top division last year. Kadyrov is Terek’s chairman.  “They write everywhere about the killings and the
explosions in the Chechen Republic,” Kadyrov said at the
stadium after the game. “Now we showed that Chechnya is
developing and we are building a decent future.”  Gullit and former German star Lothar Matthaeus joined
Kadyrov’s side. The guests said they played for free.  The Brazilian team won 6-4 in the two 25 minute periods.
Kadyrov scored twice, though he missed two penalties. Bebeto and
Savio had two goals each for  Brazil , with Cafu and Romario also
finding the net.  ‘Great Joy’  “It is great joy for us to get together with all those
with whom we played big football,” Dunga, the captain of
Brazil’s 1994 World Cup winning team, said after the final
whistle. Bebeto said “it was understood” that the only
financial component of the match was some fundraising for
victims of recent flooding in Rio De Janeiro.  About 10,000 people attended the match, including
plainclothes security officials.  Kadyrov, 34, was groomed by then-President  Vladimir Putin 
to lead Chechnya after his father’s death. His family fought
against Russia during the first war and changed sides in 1999.  Human Rights Watch , which tracks government abuse, has accused
Kadyrov of ordering abductions and torture, which he has denied.  The Chechen leader, who was named for a second term by
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on Feb. 28, greeted the crowd
with cries of “Allahu Akbar,” Arabic for “God is great.”  ‘Safest Place’  “Chechnya is the safest place in Russia”, said Kadyrov,
who lives in a fortified residence and travels in a motorcade of
a dozen armored cars on streets sealed by security officers
armed with assault rifles.  There were 27 kidnappings in Chechnya last year, according
to Memorial, a Russian human rights group. The number is down
from 93 the previous year, said a Memorial activist who declined
to be identified, citing personal safety concerns.  Similar groups have operated covertly since the 2009 murder
of Natalia Estemirova, an activist. More than 3,000 people have
disappeared since 1999, without any legal repercussions,
according to Memorial.  The Brazilian players, including Romario’s 1994 World Cup
attacking partner Bebeto, were greeted by hundreds at the Grozny
airport, many of them wearing black “Patriotic Putin Club” and
red “Ramzan’s Club” jackets.  “This football game means to me that Chechnya is heading
toward being a normal place to live in,” said Ramzan Altemirov,
44, a dentist who took his son and nephew to meet the players.  Rebuilding Grozny  Grozny has been rebuilt since the two wars, with cranes
erecting skyscrapers obscuring the view of a mosque that the
government claims is  Europe ’s biggest. Kadyrov is building a new
presidential residence nearby.  Putin Avenue, the city’s main street, is lined with cafes,
a hookah bar and a pizzeria. Kadyrov and his father appear on
billboards flanking major thoroughfares, while Ramzan’s image is
plastered on the wall of a car dealership that adjoins a new
shopping mall.  “They are coming with their wives,” Kadyrov said of the
Brazilian stars in an interview before the contenst. “If it was
dangerous, I wouldn’t play. Everything is safe.”  Not everyone feels that way. Raisa Turluyeva, 41, said law
enforcement officials kidnapped her son in 2009 and burned down
two houses her family owns in a village, claiming insurgents had
used them for shelter.  “I have nothing to fear,” Turluyeva said. “I can’t
rejoice at these changes you see in Grozny. I want my son back.
I just want to know if he’s still alive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  