-- 
Crude Oil Falls in New York After Stockpiles Surge at Cushing Delivery Hub

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-09T21:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/brent-crude-for-april-rises-on-libya-concern-merrill-lifts-price-forecast.html
Oil fell for a second day in  New
York  after supplies surged at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade.  Futures slipped 0.6 percent as Cushing stockpiles rose 1.69
million barrels to 40.3 million last week, the highest level
since the Energy Department began gathering data at the hub in
2004. Brent oil traded in  London  climbed as Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi stepped up attacks on insurgents.  “Supplies have risen to a record at Cushing, which makes
me want to stay away from crude,” said Kyle Cooper, director of
research for IAF Advisors in Houston. “WTI has become its own
little market, unrelated to what’s happening elsewhere.”  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 64 cents to settle at
$104.38 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract touched $106.95 on March 7, the highest intraday price
since Sept. 26, 2008. Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for April settlement increased $2.88, or
2.5 percent, to end the session at $115.94 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The European benchmark traded at an $11.56 a barrel premium
over New York. Brent exceeded WTI by a record $19.54 on Feb. 21
as Cushing supplies advanced and unrest spread in the Middle
East and North  Africa . The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  Nationwide crude-oil stockpiles rose 2.52 million barrels
to 348.9 million, the Energy Department report showed. A 1
million-barrel increase was projected, according to the median
of 15 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fuel Stockpiles  Gasoline inventories tumbled 5.94 million barrels to 229.2
million, the biggest decline since September 2008, according to
the department. Stockpiles were forecast to drop 1.5 million
barrels. Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 3.98 million barrels to 155.2
million, the lowest level since June.  Gasoline for April delivery surged 8.05 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $3.0272 a gallon in New York. Heating oil for April
delivery climbed 5.96 cents, or 2 percent, to end the session at
$3.0707 a gallon.  Troops were within 20 kilometers (12 miles) of Ras Lanuf,
the western-most town in opposition hands, the  Associated Press 
said. Warplanes sent from Qaddafi’s home region of Sirte struck
the Ras Lanuf refinery, the country’s largest, Al Jazeera
television said. Libya’s state broadcaster blamed damage in the
town on retreating rebels.  Worsening violence in Libya, Africa’s third-largest crude
producer after Nigeria and Angola, has cut output by as much as
1 million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy
Agency . The North African country pumped 1.39 million barrels a
day in February, down from 1.59 million the previous month,
according to Bloomberg News estimates.  ‘Fierce Fighting’  “The fear that unrest may spread to other countries hasn’t
gone,”  Carsten Fritsch , an oil analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by phone today. “Fierce fighting in  Libya  shows
no sign of ending, and so there’s little confidence that oil
production will return to normal levels in the near future.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
and protests have erupted in energy-exporting countries
including  Iran ,  Iraq , Yemen and Oman.  “Investors will remain alert for any news out of Libya and
any sign that unrest is spreading elsewhere in the Middle
East,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures in New York.  In Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest producer, websites have
called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and March
20, according to  Human Rights Watch . Saudi authorities released
25 people arrested during protests earlier this month in the
oil-rich Eastern Province, home to the country’s minority Shiite
Muslims, Ibrahim Al-Mugaiteeb, president of the country’s Human
Rights First Society, said today.  ‘Held Hostage’  “The market is being held hostage by the Middle East,”
said Philip Silverman, a principal at Kingsview Management LLC,
a commodity trading adviser in New York. “All eyes are on  Saudi
Arabia  and what will happen there later this week.”  Saudi Arabia is capable of providing additional oil output
if needed to counter supply disruptions caused by the unrest in
the region, James Smith, U.S. ambassador to the kingdom, said in
an interview on InBusiness with Margaret Brennan. The kingdom
has increased oil production by 1 million barrels a day and has
the capacity to pump an additional 3.5 million, Smith said  “We do not see, either with a combination of Libya and
Algeria, that there’ll be a break in the market such that the
Saudis would not be able to offset that loss with their spare
capacity,” Smith said.  There’s no need for the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries to hold an emergency meeting because there is no
shortage of supply, Youcef Yousfi,  Algeria ’s minister of energy
and mines, said at CERAWeek, an IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates conference in Houston.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 721,281
contracts as of 3:40 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 959,285
contracts yesterday, 21 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.57 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  