-- 
Brent Crude for April Rises on Libya Concern; Merrill Lifts Price Forecast

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-03-09T13:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/brent-crude-oil-for-april-rises-0-3-to-113-42-a-barrel-reversing-loss.html
  Brent crude  snapped a two-day
decline on speculation that the conflict in Libya may persist
and disrupt oil supplies to  Europe .  The European benchmark grade rose as much as 1.3 percent in
London as Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi stepped up attacks on
rebels to the west and east of the country’s capital, Tripoli.
U.S. oil gained 0.5 percent in New York, ahead of an Energy
Department report about crude stockpiles. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch raised its price forecast for Brent.  “The fear that unrest may spread to other countries hasn’t
gone,”  Carsten Fritsch , an oil analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by phone today. “Fierce fighting in Libya shows
no sign of ending, and so there’s little confidence that oil
production will return to normal levels in the near future.”  Brent for April delivery jumped to $114.48 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange and traded at $114.33 at
1:51 p.m. local time. Earlier it fell 0.8 percent to $112.16.  Merrill increased its  forecast  for Brent by $36 a barrel
and said prices could “briefly” surge above $140 a barrel in
the second quarter.  “To reflect a tighter market, we upgrade our average
second-quarter 2011 Brent crude oil forecast to $122 a barrel
from $86 a barrel,” the bank said today in a note. For U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate, the bank forecasts an average
of $101 a barrel for this year, up from $87.  Lost Libyan Barrels  Worsening violence in Libya, Africa’s third-largest crude
producer after Nigeria and  Angola , has cut output by as much as
1 million barrels a day, according to the International Energy
Agency. The North African country pumped 1.39 million barrels a
day in February, down from 1.59 million the previous month,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  WTI traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  reversed
losses, rising 0.5 percent to $105.51 as of 1:49 p.m. London
time. The contract earlier fell as much as 0.8 percent to
$104.21 a barrel.  U.S. crude inventories climbed 3.8 million barrels last
week to 348.5 million, the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday. The rise signals declining demand in
the world’s biggest oil consumer. An Energy Department report
today may show stockpiles increased by 1 million barrels,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “I find the current price not secured by fundamentals, but
more through market psychology,” Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, chief
executive officer of Vienna-based energy company OMV AG, said in
the Austrian capital today. “Therefore, I believe that it
should be possible for the market to relax.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt,
and protests have erupted in energy-producing countries
including Iran, Iraq, Yemen and Oman.  Saudi ‘Rage’  In  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, websites have
called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and March
20, according to Human Rights Watch. Saudi authorities released
25 people arrested during protests in the oil-rich Eastern
Province, home to the country’s minority Shiite Muslims, Ibrahim
Al-Mugaiteeb, president of the country’s Human Rights First
Society, said by phone today.  The premium of front-month Brent futures to WTI, the grade
traded in  New York , surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as
unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles
climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the WTI delivery point. The
premium was at $8.82 today.  The spread has narrowed even as supplies at Cushing
continue to rise. Stockpiles there have climbed to a record 40.3
million barrels, API data showed yesterday. Brent’s premium has
narrowed as  hedge funds  and other financial investors buy New
York futures, said  Anthony Nunan , the assistant general manager
for risk management at Mitsubishi Corp. in Tokyo.  Angola’s Caution  Angola’s oil minister said the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries should wait to see how events in Libya
unfold before calling an emergency meeting about prices and
production. “The information that we have is that the market is
supplied,” Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters at
a conference in Houston.  Prices have risen because of geopolitical problems in North  Africa , and “we need to wait a little bit” to act “because,
for example in Egypt and Tunisia, they took about 15 or 20
days” to resolve their internal unrest, he said.  Kuwait’s oil minister said yesterday that OPEC members are
considering an “urgent” meeting to determine whether more
output is needed.  Saudi Arabia’s spare capacity is 3 million barrels a day,
said Fritsch of Commerzbank. Should unrest spread to other oil
producers in the region, this spare capacity may drop to 2
million barrels and “that’s the critical level,” he said.  The kingdom has both the capacity and willingness to
prevent a surge in  oil prices , French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told reporters in Paris today. The Saudis won’t let the
market “deteriorate,” she said.  Nigeria is willing to increase production if requested and
is not aware of any plan for an OPEC extraordinary meeting.
Africa’s biggest oil producer has spare capacity and is willing
to increase output to compensate for declining production in  Libya ,  Levi Ajuonuma , an Abuja-based spokesman for the state-run
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  