-- 
Bridger Shuts Commercial Mortgage Lending as Banks Increase Market Share

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-03-09T17:55:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bridger-shuts-down-commercial-mortgage-lending-in-beginning-of-shakeout-.html
Bridger Commercial Funding, the  finance company  specializing in making property loans for Wall
Street to sell as bonds, shut down last week as large banks
crowd out smaller players.  The number of competitors ballooned in the past six months,
Steven Mumma, co-Chief Executive Officer of Bridger and
president and CEO of real estate investment trust  New York
Mortgage Trust Inc. (NYMT) , said in an interview. The New York-based
REIT, which said in November it would partner with Bridger to
provide mezzanine financing, will continue funding those loans
directly, he said.  Bridger, which announced in December 2009 that it would be
originating mortgages for sale as bonds, is closing down as Wall
Street banks ramp up lending to feed new sales of commercial-
mortgage backed debt. Between 20 and 25 institutions are seeking
to originate loans they plan to package into bonds, up from
about five competitors a year earlier,  Standard & Poor’s  said in
a December report.  “This is the beginning of a shakeout among commercial
real estate lenders,” Richard Parkus, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley, said in an e-mail. “There are too many lenders, too
few loans to make. It’s inevitable.”  Banks have arranged about $6.5 billion in commercial-
mortgage backed bonds this year, compared with $11.5 billion in
all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Volume
plummeted to $3.4 billion in 2009 as credit markets seized. The
market peaked with $234 billion in issuance in 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  Increasing Competition  Investment banks hobbled by writedowns on soured loans in
2008 and 2009 have returned to the market for commercial-
mortgage-backed securities, increasing competition for lending
assignments. Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG partnered to sell $2.2
billion of the debt last month in the largest offering of its
kind since 2007.  Bridger was founded in 1998 to provide smaller property
owners access to  Wall Street , according to a November statement.
It has funded and securitized more than $4.9 billion in loans,
according to the company’s  website . Bridger’s most recent
securitization listed on its website was 53 loans pooled in an
offering by Bank of America Corp. in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  