-- 
Bristol, Sanofi’s Avapro Doesn’t Benefit Heart Rhythm Patients

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-03-09T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bristol-sanofi-s-avapro-doesn-t-benefit-heart-rhythm-patients.html
  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Sanofi-
Aventis SA’s hypertension drug Avapro failed to prevent
complications such as heart attacks or lower death rates when
given to people with erratic heart rhythms in a trial.  The results, published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine , show reducing  blood pressure  levels in people with
atrial fibrillation doesn’t lead to fewer cardiovascular
complications. Heart attacks, strokes and related deaths
occurred in 5.4 percent of patients given Avapro or placebo in
addition to standard care, the company-funded study found.  High blood pressure is the most-common risk factor for
 atrial fibrillation . Researchers hypothesized that they could
lower the risk by giving a drug like Avapro to bolster the
electrical and mechanical properties of the heart.  “There had been a lot of hope that these medicines might
have specific benefits in atrial fibrillation,” said researcher
Jeff Healey, a cardiologist at the  Population Health Research
Institute  at  McMaster University  in Hamilton, Ontario. “There
was no overall benefit. For that reason we don’t recommend
routine treatment with this for atrial fibrillation.”  The study did yield some intriguing findings, he said in a
telephone interview. Analysis showed Avapro reduced
hospitalization rates for heart failure and some types of
stroke. Future studies of patients with erratic heart rates
should closely monitor heart failures, he said.  “Given that these are common outcomes, we are encouraged
that further blood pressure lowering may be helpful in patients
with atrial fibrillation,” he said.  The study included 9,016 patients with atrial fibrillation,
where the upper chambers of the heart quiver rather than
contract. The condition enables blood to pool and form into
clots, which can cause strokes and other complications. More
than 2.2 million Americans suffer from it and 11,000 die every
year, according to the  American Heart Association .  Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , posted sales of $1.2
billion in 2010 for Avapro and a related drug, Avalide, which
combines the active ingredient of Avapro with a generic
hypertension drug called hydrochlorothiazide. Paris-based Sanofi
generated 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion) from sales of the
drug, which it markets as Aprovel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  