-- 
Bullish China Options Exceed Bears for First Time Since 2009

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/bullish-china-options-exceed-bears-for-first-time-since-2009.html
Options traders are more bullish
than bearish on Chinese stocks for the first time since 2009,
signaling confidence that the government will tame inflation
without slowing the economy, according to AlphaShares Inc.  The put/call ratio for the iShares FTSE  China  25 Index was
0.73 in February, the first time more calls traded than puts for
a month since December 2009. Call volume on the gauge, which
tracks the nation’s 25 largest companies by market value, surged
to 52,255 on March 7, exceeding puts of 46,903 and the daily
call average of 47,677.5 in February. Calls give the right to
buy a security for a certain amount, the strike price, by a set
date. Puts are the right to sell.  “It seems as if options investors are more confident that
China can successfully navigate a soft landing,” Jonathan Masse, who helps oversee about $600 million in Chinese stocks at
Walnut Creek, California-based AlphaShares, said in an e-mail
response to questions. “They are more comfortable in the face
of another potential crisis that the People’s Bank of China will
be able to ‘fire more bullets’ at it,” he said, citing the
nation’s foreign-exchange reserves and “room to move” on
interest rates.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index has rallied 8.2 percent in the
past month on speculation the government would announce measures
to boost domestic consumption and invest in underdeveloped
industries during this year’s annual meeting of the National
People’s Congress.  The government will target 8 percent economic growth this
year and “decisively” curb increases in prices that may
threaten social stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a state-
of-the-nation report on March 5, the first day of the NPC. His
comments spurred a 1.8 percent rally for China’s Shanghai
Composite Index on March 7, the most in three weeks.  ‘More Optimistic’  The Shanghai Composite is the best performer among  Asia ’s
major bourses this year after rebounding 12 percent from its
2011 low on Jan. 25. The gauge has gained 6.9 percent in 2011,
after slumping 14 percent in 2010 for the steepest drop among
the 10 biggest global markets. Stocks fell after the central
bank introduced measures to curb soaring property prices and
inflation that reached two-year highs in November. The PBOC has
raised  interest rates  three times since October.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a March 8 report Chinese
stock gains may be limited because of “low geopolitical
visibility” as Middle East tensions stoke  oil prices  and add to
investors concerns about tightening policies.  Options are derivatives that give the right though not the
obligation to buy or sell a security at a set price and date.
Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the price
of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or bet
that volatility, or stock swings, will increase or decrease.  Investors may get a “positive surprise” as China’s
inflation cools by more than economists had forecast, Ting Lu,
an economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, wrote yesterday
in a report. He said market speculation of a 4.4 percent
inflation rate in February was “more believable” than that for
3.9 percent. In January, inflation was 4.9 percent.  “Investors are growing optimistic about China,” Masse
said.  --Allen Wan. Editors: Darren Boey, Reinie Booysen  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 