-- 
HCA Holdings Rises in First Day of Trading After Largest U.S. Hospital IPO

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-03-10T18:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hca-holdings-raises-3-79-billion-at-30-a-share-in-u-s-public-offering.html
HCA Holdings Inc., the largest
publicly traded hospital chain in the U.S., rose 3.9 percent on
its first day of trading after completing a record $3.79
billion, private equity-backed initial public offering.  Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA increased $1.15 to $31.15 at
1:16 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, even as
rising U.S. jobless claims drove the Dow Jones Industrial Index
down 137 points. HCA’s offering sold more than 126 million
shares at $30 each, the top of the proposed price range, the
company said yesterday in a statement.  The IPO’s performance on a day when the market is falling
reflects both the strength of HCA’s balance sheet and the
momentum in favor of private equity-backed deals being brought
to market, said Josef Schuster, founder of IPOX Schuster LLC in  Chicago . There’s “plenty of liquidity available” for large
U.S. deals like this one, he said.  “The deal underlines the level of confidence among large-
cap managers about these type of private equity deals and the
for-profit hospital space,” Schuster said in a telephone
interview today. “Even with no dividend, investors like the
level of cash with this company.”  For-profit hospitals will benefit as last year’s U.S.
health overhaul forces consolidation and cost cutting that may
leave non-profit competitors at a disadvantage, said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
Investors are also expecting HCA to be added to stock-trading
indexes and buying ahead of that, he said.  Blue-Chip Name  “People look at HCA as a blue-chip name in a space they
want to get involved in,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage
$25 billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington, New York,
in a telephone interview today. “There just aren’t a lot of
names to choose from there.”  For-profit hospital chains such as HCA depend more on
commercial payers and less on government beneficiaries than do
nonprofits, which have already seen their revenue reduced by
government cutbacks, particularly in Medicaid.  HCA competitors among for-profit hospitals include  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  in Franklin,  Tennessee , and  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  in  Dallas .  HCA’s offering exceeded the Feb. 10 initial stock sale by
Houston-based energy-pipeline company Kinder Morgan Inc., which
raised $3.3 billion. Private equity-backed IPOs in the U.S. have
gotten a boost this year as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rallied to the highest level since June 2008, raising investors’
interest in companies acquired through debt-fueled takeovers.  ‘Warmer Climate’  “We have a market that’s more willing to take on risk,”
said  Alan Gayle , senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth
Capital Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees $52.5
billion. “This is a much better, much warmer climate for this
type of offering.”  The underwriters may exercise an overallotment option to
buy as many as 18.9 million additional shares within 30 days,
the company said. HCA sold 87.7 million shares, while existing
investors sold 38.5 million.  Companies owned by private equity investors have accounted
for 80 percent of the funds raised in U.S. IPOs since the
beginning of the year, and the shares have gained 10 percent on
average through yesterday, compared with 4.8 percent for
companies not owned by leveraged buyout firms, Bloomberg data
show.  KKR and Bain  KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
other owners invested about $5 billion in equity in the $33
billion takeover of HCA. Including debt, it was the largest
leveraged buyout at the time.  In acquiring HCA, KKR and Bain chose a company with steady  cash flow  and a business that’s protected to a large extent from
swings in the economy. Cash flow from operations was $3.16
billion in the year before the 2006 buyout, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. As of Dec. 31, 2010, that number was
little changed at $3.09 billion.  The company offered as many as 124 million shares at $27 to
$30 apiece, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America and Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. of New York
led HCA’s sale. HCA said it will use the proceeds to repay debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net  