-- 
HCA's Initial Share Sale May Price Above Proposed Range

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-03-09T18:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hca-is-said-likely-to-price-hospital-operator-s-ipo-at-30-to-31-a-share.html
HCA Holdings Inc.’s initial public
offering may price above its proposed range on investor demand
for the biggest private equity-backed U.S. IPO, said a person
with knowledge of the matter.  The offering, from the hospital chain taken private in a
$33 billion leveraged buyout five years ago, is likely to price
at $30 to $31 a share, compared with a range of $27 to $30,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the details are private.  HCA, based in Nashville,  Tennessee , is offering as many as
124 million shares and an additional 18.6 million may be sold in
an “over-allotment,” according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The deal is expected to
price today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At $31 a share, the IPO would raise about $4.42 billion,
surpassing the Feb. 10 share sale of Houston-based energy-
pipeline company Kinder Morgan Inc., which raised $3.3 billion,
and becoming the largest private equity-backed U.S. IPO on
record.  Share sales led by leveraged buyout firms in the U.S. have
gotten a boost this year as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rallied to the highest level since June 2008, increasing
investors’ interest in companies acquired through debt-fueled
acquisitions as credit markets started to freeze four years ago.  The hospital operator was taken private in 2006 by  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and private equity firms including KKR & Co. and
Bain Capital LLC, which together invested about $5 billion in
equity.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , and
Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., both of  New York , are
the lead underwriters for the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net . 