-- 
California February Receipts $139 Million Below Forecast, Chiang Reports

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-09T21:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/california-february-receipts-139-million-below-forecast-chiang-reports.html
  California ’s tax and fee collections
for February fell 2.4 percent short of projections in Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed budget, the controller said.  Receipts totaled $5.66 billion, or $139.4 million less than
the amount forecast, though still $1.3 billion ahead for the
year that ends in June, Controller John Chiang said today.  California faces the biggest deficit of all U.S. states,
and has the lowest  credit rating . Brown proposes $12.5 billion
of spending reductions and wants lawmakers to call a special
election in June on extending more than $9.3 billion in higher
vehicle fees, sales taxes and income-tax rates to avoid even
deeper cuts.  State collections for the month were 5.4 percent lower than
a year earlier, led by a 7.1 percent decrease in sales taxes and
an almost 50 percent drop in corporate taxes, Chiang said.  “After the first eight months into the fiscal year, we are
$1.3 billion ahead of projections,” Chiang said in a written
statement. “But with 40 percent of all revenues expected in the
final quarter, our cash outlook can shift quickly.”  January’s receipts  exceeded estimates  by 8.1 percent,
Chiang said last month. The controller’s office attributed part
of that to lower-than-expected refund payments to taxpayers, who
were filing returns at an unexpectedly slow pace.  In a  report  March 8, the state Legislative Analyst’s Office
said personal income-tax refunds in February were “far” ahead
of projections for that month, making it less likely that the
state would reach revenue targets for the fiscal year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  