-- 
Canada Speaker Rules Against Harper Government on Spending Documents, Oda

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-09T23:35:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/canada-speaker-rules-against-harper-government-on-spending-documents-oda.html
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s
government was reprimanded by the Speaker of  Canada ’s  House of
Commons  for not complying with lawmakers’ demands for more
budget information, fueling speculation opposition parties may
seek to bring down the government.  Peter Milliken, the speaker, ruled today lawmakers’
privileges were violated when the government withheld documents
detailing the expected cost of new crime legislation and planned
corporate tax cuts. The matter was referred to the legislature’s
procedures committee, which will decide by March 21 whether to
impose sanctions on the government.    Michael Ignatieff , leader of the main opposition  Liberal
Party , said the incident is part of a pattern of “abuse” of
power by Harper. When asked by reporters today whether his party
will introduce a motion seeking to bring down the government,
Ignatieff said his party will keep “all options open.”  “The Harper government better understand how seriously
everybody in Canada takes this,” Ignatieff told reporters.
“This is a basic issue of respect for democracy.”  Separately, Milliken today also ruled that International
Cooperation Minister Bev Oda may have misled lawmakers on a
separate issue regarding comments over cuts in funding to a non-
governmental organization.  Fiscal Plan  The Liberals say Harper is withholding information on the
costs of its policies that is needed to assess the government’s
 fiscal plan , which will be released by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  on March 22.  Canada’s government will either give more information on
the costs demanded by lawmakers or explain why they can’t be
provided, Conservative House Leader  John Baird  told reporters
following the ruling.  The governing Conservatives  lack a majority  of seats in the
House of Commons and need the support of at least one opposition
party to pass the budget and avoid elections.  Opposition parties can also bring down the government by
passing a motion of “non-confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 