-- 
Canada’s Clement Says Access-to-Medicines Bill Wouldn’t Work

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-09T20:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/canada-s-clement-says-access-to-medicines-bill-wouldn-t-work.html
Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said he is opposed to a bill that aims to streamline the
process that lets generic drug manufacturers produce patented
medicines for export to poor nations at cheaper prices.  Clement, speaking to reporters today in Ottawa, said he’s
concerned the bill will serve “commercial,” not humanitarian
interests. Clement also said he doesn’t think Canadian companies
can produce generic drugs cheaply enough for the legislation to
be effective.  Rx&D , the association representing the pharmaceutical
industry in  Canada  and counts Pfizer Inc. and Novartis AG among
its members, claims the legislation -- which is scheduled for a
vote later today -- would gut intellectual property rights and
may potentially undermine research in the country.  “I don’t think this bill is helpful,” Clement said,
adding there is a “lot to go” before the legislation would be
signed into law.  Even if the bill is passed today by the House of Commons,
which contains a majority of opposition lawmakers, it will need
to win approval by the Conservative Party-controlled Senate.  “Without the proper intellectual property regime, we can’t
continue to do the research we want to do,” Russell Williams,
president of Rx&D, said in a Bloomberg interview last year. He
said the changes could impose “serious” costs on the industry.  Apotex Inc., a Canadian generic pharmaceutical company that
is the only manufacturer to have sought a license to export
drugs to poor countries under the current law, released a March
8  statement  backing the proposed changes.  “Apotex is the only company to have attempted to work
through this complex legislation and it took four long years to
send the first shipment of medicines via this cumbersome
process,” the company said in the statement.  Canada’s so-called “access-to-medicines” law was enacted
in 2004. Bill C-393, a bill sponsored by a lawmaker from the
opposition  New Democratic Party , would amend that legislation to
make it easier for generic drug producers to obtain licenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 