-- 
Canadian Banks Lead Growing Opposition to Sale of Toronto Exchange to LSE

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-09T19:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/canadian-banks-lead-growing-opposition-to-sale-of-toronto-stock-exchange.html
Opposition from some of Canada’s
biggest financial firms shows that concerns are mounting to the
proposed sale of the Toronto Stock Exchange to the  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , a banking lobby group said.  “There’s no question this is a proposal that has provoked
considerable discussion and debate from the financial services
community,” Janet Ecker, president of the  Toronto Financial
Services Alliance , said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
been clear for some time that there’s not unanimity within the
community about the value of the deal.”  The Globe and Mail reported today that four Canadian banks
including  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  plan to
release a letter as early as this week outlining their concerns
with the C$3.2 billion ($3.2 billion) sale of TMX Group Inc.  “Toronto’s hopes to be a global financial services hub
could suffer a severe and potentially irreversible setback,”
the draft letter said, according to the Globe report.
“Proponents of the proposed LSE takeover of the TMX believe
this transaction represents  Canada ’s only choice to create a
globally sustainable exchange. They are wrong. The TMX is
already a viable global entity.”  Toronto-Dominion spokesman Wojtek Dabrowski declined to
comment on the report. Scotiabank spokesman Joe Konecny said
“there are lots of discussions going around right now.”  ‘Serious Obstacle’  “We see this as the most serious obstacle to date for the
LSE/TMX merger, and it comes at a time when politicians in
Canada are treating the merits of the deal for Canada with a
measure of skepticism,” Macquarie Capital Markets analyst  Ed Ditmire  said today in a note.  London Stock Exchange fell 11.5 pence, or 1.3 percent, to
869 pence in London trading today. TMX Group fell C$1.26, or 3.2
percent, to C$38.62 at 2:07 p.m. trading in Toronto.  Shares of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner are trading
about 5 percent below the offer from the LSE, according to
Bloomberg data. When the deal was announced Feb. 9, TMX
shareholders were offered a premium of more than 8 percent. The
discount to the offer price indicates investors are betting the
sale may not be approved.  The Canadian banks own Alpha Group, which operates an
alternative trading platform that competes with TMX. Alpha has
taken about 19 percent of the share of equity trading in Canada
since it launched in November 2008.  Alpha Competitor  “Of course they’re against it because it provides real
competition for Alpha,” said Brendan Caldwell, Chief Executive
Officer of Caldwell Investment Management Ltd., a money manager
that owns shares in TMX. “They banks don’t like real
competition, they like the little oligopoly where they divvy up
the financial pie of Canada amongst themselves. It’s quite
incestuous.”  Toronto-Dominion CEO Edmund Clark has proposed that Alpha
combine with TMX Group, the Financial Times reported today on
its website.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Vice Chairman Jim Prentice said yesterday in a speech that  TMX Group Inc. (X) , owner
of the Toronto Stock Exchange, is “far more than a strategic
asset” to Canada.  The transaction requires approval from the federal
government and five Canadian provincial regulators including
Ontario and  Quebec , as well as the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement told reporters
today in Ottawa that the 45-day review period for the takeover
hasn’t yet started.  Committee Hearings  An Ontario parliamentary committee is continuing hearings
into the transaction today, with Ecker one of the scheduled
speakers. Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan has also
expressed concern about the sale, calling the Toronto bourse a
“strategic asset.”  The other banks signing the letter include CIBC and  National Bank of Canada (NA) , the Globe said.  Royal Bank of Canada and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  didn’t sign it.
Royal Bank, the country’s biggest lender, is advising the London
exchange, while Bank of Montreal, the No. 4 bank, is working
with TMX.  “It’s difficult to comment on a letter that we have not
seen,” TMX spokeswoman Carolyn Quick said. “However we do note
CIBC’s comments from yesterday and we believe that our merger
agreement more than addresses their concerns. In fact, we think
that our proposed merger will deliver significant opportunities
for growth for the Canadian capital markets.”  Members of the Canadian Council of Chief Executives haven’t
reached any consensus on whether the transaction should happen,
group President and CEO  John Manley  said today at the hearings.  Barbara Stymiest, a former CEO of the Toronto Stock
Exchange that is retiring as an executive from  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY)  in June, told the committee she is in favor of the
transaction, calling it an “opportunity not to be squandered.”  More Competition  Caldwell said he’s not surprised that the other banks
aren’t supporting the transaction, given their investment in
Alpha.  “What TSX will now offer is a global listings platform
that Alpha can’t match,” Caldwell said. “It means there’ll be
real competition in the exchange area and, worse still, there
may be real competition for listings.  “Is that necessarily bad for Canada? No, not at all,”
Caldwell said. “If Canadian companies can find themselves
internationally listed, and get global exposure and global
capital to a greater degree than they do now, it’s not a bad
thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 