-- 
CFTC Deadline for Swap-Execution Rules Called ‘Too Ambitious’

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-09T00:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/cftc-deadline-for-swap-execution-rules-called-too-ambitious-.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ’s deadline for rules governing swap execution
facilities to take effect is “too ambitious” and should be
delayed at least until January, said the  National Futures
Association , the industry-funded overseer of futures trading.  Under the CFTC’s proposal, the facilities may contract with
the NFA to oversee trading and market practices and investigate
potential violations of government regulations. The rule is
required by the Dodd-Frank Act by mid-July, and the CFTC
proposed that it take effect three months after it is finalized
by commissioners.  The NFA will need six months after the rule is adopted to
design ways to oversee trading practices, increase the size of
its staff and test its surveillance methods, Thomas Sexton,
NFA’s senior vice president and general counsel, said in a
 letter  to the CFTC dated today.  Scott Schneider , CFTC spokesman,
declined to comment.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
efforts to write new rules for the  derivatives market  after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Dodd-Frank, enacted in July, gives the two agencies authority to
define swap-execution facilities as an alternative to exchanges
for trading in interest rate, credit and other swaps.  NFA’s letter is one of more than 30 comments from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and
others urging changes to the CFTC’s swap-execution facilities
proposal.  In December, the CFTC proposed allowing participants in the
swap-execution facilities to request price quotes from a minimum
of five possible sellers. The SEC on Feb. 2 proposed a rule that
would allow buyers to request a quote from a single seller.  The CFTC’s requirement on quote-pricing systems is
“unnecessarily detailed and unduly limits execution
flexibility,” the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc.  and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association  said in a  letter  to the CFTC dated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  