-- 
Chilean Traders See Inflation Exceeding Central Bank Target, Rates Rising

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-09T12:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/chilean-traders-see-inflation-exceeding-central-bank-target-rates-rising.html
Chilean investors and traders
estimate annual inflation will exceed the central bank’s target
range in the next year, according to a bi-weekly survey
published on the bank’s website today.  Annual inflation will reach 4.48 percent in 12 months,
according to the median estimate of 42 investors and traders in
the survey, the highest rate since the bank started publishing
the survey in 2009. Policy makers target inflation of 3 percent,
plus or minus 1 percentage point over two years.  International prices, especially fuel and food, are
creating inflationary pressure in  Chile , Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters yesterday.  “We have contained inflation of 0.2 percent in the month,
which is what the market estimated,” he told reporters in
reference to monthly inflation data for February, which the
government published yesterday. “We won’t let our guard down.
We’re aware that there are price pressures that come from
international markets.”  Bloomberg’s global commodity index has increased 8.2
percent this year. Chile, the world’s biggest exporter of
copper, imports 99 percent of its oil needs.  Consumer prices will climb 0.7 percent in March from
February, which would be the fastest pace of monthly inflation
since 2009, according to today’s survey.  Rate Estimated to Rise  Chile’s central bank will raise its benchmark interest rate
to 3.75 percent in March and 6 percent by March next year,
according to today’s survey. Policy makers increased the rate to
3.5 percent last month after pausing at 3.25 percent in January.  The median estimate of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the central bank to raise the overnight rate by
a quarter-point to 3.75 percent on March 17.  Policy makers may raise the rate by 50 basis points next
week as breakeven inflation rates remain high, Santiago-based
Larrain Vial SA said in a note to clients yesterday.  “After last month’s monetary policy meeting, having raised
by 25 basis points, long-term breakeven inflation rates remain
very high,” Larrain Vial wrote. “This points to persistence
and not just misalignment due to one-time factors.”  Five-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’
expectations of average price rises, rose to 3.86 percent today
from 3.83 percent on the day of the central bank’s last monetary
policy meeting. Ten-year breakeven inflation increased to 3.59
percent from 3.48 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  