-- 
China Swaps Fall on Speculation Tightening Measures May Ease

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T03:46:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/china-swaps-fall-on-speculation-tightening-measures-may-ease.html
China’s interest-rate swaps fell to
the lowest level in almost two months on speculation the central
bank will pause in tightening monetary policy as economists
predict inflation eased last month.  The government may report on March 11 that the  consumer
price index  rose 4.8 percent from a year earlier, after a 4.9
percent gain the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 22 analysts. The People’s Bank of China drained 110
billion yuan ($16.7 billion) from the financial system yesterday
through  repurchase agreements , the most since 145 billion yuan
in October, according to  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB.  “There may be less market expectation of a policy rate
hike near term given the consensus is looking for 4.8 percent in
the CPI,” said Hong Kong-based Cheung. “Moreover, the central
bank drained a huge amount from the market through a repo
yesterday, leading to expectations it may not need to raise the
required reserve ratio in the near-term.”  The one-year swap contract tied to the seven-day repo rate
fell for a fifth day, slipping eight basis points to 3.44
percent as of 11:21 a.m., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since Jan. 17. The five-year
swap, in which the floating seven-day repo rate is exchanged for
a fixed payment, declined five basis points to 3.99 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bond Sale  The seven-day repo rate, a gauge measuring the availability
of funds, lost six basis points to 2.16 percent, according to a
daily fixing published by the National Interbank Funding Center
in Shanghai at 11 a.m.  The  finance ministry  sold 28 billion yuan of three-year
bonds today at an average yield of 3.2 percent, according to
traders at the underwriters. The highest winning bid was 3.25
percent.  The yield on the 3.9 percent government debt due August
2014 dropped four basis points to 3.16 percent, according to
Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt-clearing house.  The finance ministry published in January a list of 59
underwriters required to bid at its debt sales, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Postal Savings Bank of China, Industrial
Bank Co., Guotai Junan Securities Co. and BOC International
  China ) Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  