-- 
China's Property Boom Driven by `Unreasonable' Speculative Demand, Qi Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T08:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/china-says-housing-market-driven-by-unreasonable-demand-from-speculators.html
China’s rising  property market  in
the past few years was driven in part by “unreasonable” demand
from speculators, according to Qi Ji, Vice Minister of Housing
and Urban-Rural Development.  “The government’s property curbs are targeted principally
at those who don’t have an immediate need for housing as
accommodation,” Qi said in a press briefing in Beijing today.
“Our basic aim is to direct the limited supply of housing to
those who need it the most.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend that China will
“resolutely” press ahead with controls on the property market
to curb speculation, reiterating a pledge to keep housing
affordable. The government will “severely punish”
irregularities in the real-estate market, implement
differentiated credit and tax policies, and hold local officials
accountable for maintaining stable home prices, he said.    China  is seeking to contain gains in housing prices after
they climbed for a 19th month in December. The government
extended curbs in January, including raising the minimum down-
payment for second-home purchases, telling local governments to
set price targets on new properties, and introducing taxes for
homes in Shanghai and Chongqing. The central bank also raised  interest rates  for the first time in three years.  “China’s problem with home prices will be gradually solved
with the implementation of government policies and the
strengthened responsibilities of local governments,” Qi said.
The government is closely monitoring the property tax trials and
has no intention to extend it further now, he said.  Curb Excessive Gains  China’s restrictions will curb excessive price increases in
the big cities, China Banking Regulatory Commission Assistant
Chairman Yan Qingmin said in Beijing today.  “The property prices rise faster and are higher in big
cities,” he said. “There is more population inflow to the
first-tier cities. As we carry out purchase restrictions, it can
at least curb the excessive price growth in these cities.”  China also may introduce a new round of control measures if
property prices don’t stabilize, China Securities Journal
reported today, citing Housing Minister Jiang Weixin.  January new  home prices  increased in all but two of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The national
statistics bureau is scheduled to report February’s housing data
on March 18. China’s home prices rose 0.5 percent in February,
the slowest monthly gain since August, as the government
expanded residential curbs, SouFun Holdings Ltd. said.  Sharp Price Decline  Vincent Lo, chairman of Shanghai-based Shui On Land Ltd.,
said on March 6 that he expects home sales in China will fall
“sharply” this year because of curbs, while China Vanke Co.,
the nation’s largest publicly traded developer, said this week
the outlook for demand for its homes will withstand government
measures. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second-biggest, said
last week the measures didn’t change its bullish outlook in the
medium to long term.  The gauge tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.6 percent at the 3:00 p.m. close, the
most among five industry groups. The benchmark measure gained
0.1 percent.  China will also build 36 million units of social housing or
affordable homes in the next five years, aiming 20 percent
coverage of the market. That includes 10 million units each in
this year and next, the country’s top planning agency National
Development and Reform Committee said on March 6.  Affordable Housing Costs  The nation needs 1.3 trillion yuan ($198 billion) for the
affordable homes this year, excluding land costs, Qi said. The
central and local governments will provide about 500 billion
yuan in funding for the construction, Qi said. Local governments
should channel at least 10 percent of land income to these
homes, he said.  China will use some funds raised from 200 billion yuan of
debt sold on behalf of local governments, with affordable
housing as a priority, Qi said.  The nation’s target for affordable housing will have a
major impact on the residential market because these units will
account for half of the market share, Pan Shiyi, chairman of
Soho China Ltd., the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, said on a conference call last week.  China will build at least 2.2 million public rental homes
next year, increasing the supply of low-cost housing to curb
gains in rents, according to Shen Jianzhong is director of Real
Estate Market Supervision Department at the Housing Ministry.  “Rents have room to climb given inflation is still
accelerating,” he said. “The rental market isn’t transparent
so we will monitor it.”  --Bonnie Cao in Beijing. Editors: Linus Chua, Chua Kong Ho  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  