-- 
China Car Sales Growth at Slowest Pace in More Than Two Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T07:46:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/china-car-sales-growth-at-slowest-pace-in-more-than-two-years-as-perks-end.html
  China ’s passenger-car sales growth
in February fell to the slowest in more than two years after the
government ended vehicle-buying incentives and a week-long
national holiday stymied demand.  Wholesales of passenger cars including multipurpose and
sport-utility vehicles increased 2.6 percent from a year earlier
to 967,200 units last month, the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers  said today in a statement. This is the slowest
pace of growth since January 2009, when car purchases fell 7.8
percent.  Automakers including  General Motors Co. (GM) , Toyota Motor
Corp., and Honda Motor Co. have seen their deliveries slow this
month after China reinstated a 10 percent sales-tax rate on
small cars this year and phased out subsidies for vehicle trade-
ins in rural areas. Last year, overall auto sales surged 32
percent to a record 18.06 million, helping China stay the
world’s largest vehicle market for the second year running.  The reduced incentives and timing of China’s Lunar New Year
holidays contributed to the slowdown, according to industry
analysts at Booz & Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  “‘Car buying peaks just before the holiday, as Chinese
consumers like to show off their shiny new autos to their
families over the holiday,’’ said  Bill Russo , a Beijing-based
senior adviser at Booz. The holidays began on Feb. 3 this year,
primarily boosting January sales, compared with Feb. 14 in 2010,
which aided that month’s sales, he said.  Total vehicle sales gained 4.6 percent in February to 1.27
million, the auto association said.  Government Incentives  The removal of government buying incentives in January has
weakened demand in 2011 as customers brought forward purchases
to the end of last year, said Yankun Hou, an analyst at Nomura
in  Hong Kong . Hou has forecast passenger vehicle sales growth of
about 13 percent this year.  GM, China’s largest foreign automaker, reported slower
sales growth last month in the country as deliveries by its
local minivan venture declined, the company said March 2. The
Detroit-based automaker sold 184,498 vehicles in February, an
increase of 6 percent, it said in an e-mailed statement. That
was down from 22 percent in January.  Honda’s China vehicle sales fell 6.5 percent last month
from a year earlier to 41,348 units, the automaker, Japan’s
third largest, said this week.  Auto sales will expand between 10 percent and 15 percent
this year, the manufacturer’s association estimated in January.  China’s economy  grew 10.3 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in
three years, as industrial production and retail sales picked
up, the statistics bureau said Jan 20. The country has grown at
an average 11.4 percent pace over the past five years.  BYD Co., the Chinese automaker backed by  Warren Buffett ,
said March 4 that its sales slumped 22 percent during February
to 26,521 vehicles.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  