-- 
China G-20 Meeting on Monetary System to Draw Sarkozy, Stevens

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-03-09T09:13:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/china-g-20-meeting-on-monetary-system-to-draw-sarkozy-stevens.html
Finance chiefs from the Group of 20
are signing up for a March 31 meeting to address overhauling the
global monetary system as  China  seeks to expand the global role
of the yuan and the U.S. presses for the currency to appreciate.  The seminar is scheduled to be held in Nanjing, China, and
will be jointly hosted by France, the rotating chair of the G-20
this year, and China, Sohn Byung Doo, director-general of the G-
20 bureau at  South Korea ’s finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Finance Minister
Christine Lagarde will attend, according to an official at a G-
20 government who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
agenda for the gathering has yet to be formally announced.  Weeks before the session, most G-20 members haven’t yet
specified who they will send.  Australia ’s central bank said
Governor Glenn Stevens does plan to go. South Korea hasn’t
decided whether Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun will attend,
Sohn said.  South Korea was the G-20 chair in 2010, and led an effort
to agree on ways to avoid the trade and capital-flow imbalances
blamed in part for sparking the 2007-2009 global financial
crisis. Finance ministers and central bankers concluded talks in
Paris on Feb. 20 by listing the yardsticks they will monitor to
see whether imbalances are forming. Among them: budget-deficit
levels, the external imbalance and private savings rates.  The G-20 groups the largest emerging and developed
economies, from the U.S., Germany and Japan to China,  India  and
Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  