-- 
China Faces Five-Year European Union Tariffs on Glass Fibers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-09T14:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/china-faces-five-year-european-union-tariffs-on-glass-fibers.html
The European Union imposed five-year
tariffs on glass fibers from  China  to help EU manufacturers
including a French unit of  Owens Corning (OC)  Inc. and a Dutch
subsidiary of  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  counter cheaper imports.  The duties as high as 13.8 percent punish Chinese exporters
of chopped glass-fiber strands, glass-fiber rovings and mats
made of glass-fiber filaments for selling them in the 27-nation
EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping . These goods result
in glass-fiber reinforced plastics that are used in the
automotive, electronics, construction and aerospace industries.  EU producers such as Owens Corning France and PPG
Industries BV in the Netherlands suffered “material injury” as
a result of dumped imports from China, the EU said in a decision
today in Brussels. The five-year levies follow  provisional
measures  introduced in September and will take effect after
being published in the EU Official Journal by March 17.  Chinese exporters including Jushi Group and New Changhai
Group increased their combined share of the EU market for the
glass fibers covered by the duties to 14.2 percent in the 12
months through September 2009 from 7.9 percent in 2006,
according to the bloc.  The provisional anti-dumping duties are as high as 43.6
percent, and the EU will refund importers the difference with
the “definitive” five-year rates. The provisional measures are
also wider because they extend to yarns of glass-fiber filaments
that are being excluded under the five-year levies.  The definitive duties will be 13.8 percent against all
Chinese exporters except New Changhai Group, which will face a
7.3 percent rate. The provisional levy against the company --
made up of Changzhou New Changhai Fiberglass Co. and Jiangsu
Changhai Composite Materials Holding Co. -- is 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  