-- 
Chiquita Sued in U.S. by Family of U.S. Geologist Slain by Colombia's FARC

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-09T22:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/chiquita-sued-in-washington-by-family-of-slain-victim-of-terrorism.html
  Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) ,
owner of the namesake banana label, is facing a second lawsuit
accusing the company of helping Marxist rebels in Colombia who
kidnapped and murdered an American geologist.  Jane Pescatore Sparrow’s estate, in a complaint filed today
in federal court in  Washington , alleges the company aided and
abetted in the murder of her brother and provided material
support and resources to terrorists. Chiquita paid the FARC
guerilla group for protection and supplied it with weapons from
1989 to 1997, according to the complaint. FARC is the Spanish
acronym for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.  “This material support included funds, weapons, and other
critical support that enabled and facilitated FARC’s ability to
maintain an ongoing terror campaign against American and
Colombian interests and which resulted in the kidnapping and
murder of Frank Thomas Pescatore Jr.,” according to the
complaint.  Chiquita is also being sued in  Florida  by the family of
five American missionaries who were murdered in Colombia. The
Florida case was the first under a 1992 law allowing Americans
to sue U.S. firms over terrorism-related deaths abroad. The
missionaries were kidnapped in 1993 and 1994 and later killed by
the FARC, which the U.S. government designated a terrorist
organization, the families said in their complaint.  Ed Loyd, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Chiquita, said in
an e-mail that the company hasn’t been served with the lawsuit
by Sparrow’s estate.  ‘Makes No Sense’  The company and its employees were targets of FARC and
holding Chiquita responsible for the group’s crimes “makes no
sense,” Loyd said. “Chiquita is confident that these malicious
lawsuits will be proven baseless” once the court looks at the
evidence, he said.  Chiquita was fined $25 million after pleading guilty in
March 2007 to engaging in transactions with a terrorist group
for paying Colombian paramilitary militias $1.7 million from
1997 to 2004. Chiquita made payments to both leftist and
rightist groups while operating in  Colombia , according to
charging documents in that case.  At least 10 other related lawsuits have been filed against
Chiquita, Loyd said.  Those cases included one filed in 2009 by other family
members of Pescatore. Today’s complaint was filed on behalf of
Sparrow’s estate by her husband. Jane Sparrow died in 2005.  Four were filed on behalf of about 600 Colombian FARC
victims seeking at least $11.8 billion in damages. Those cases
were consolidated in Miami. A related suit by shareholders was
settled in January.  “The truth is that Chiquita was extorted by left- and
right-wing armed groups in Colombia, including the FARC, and
Chiquita paid out of a well-grounded fear of retaliation against
its employees if the company refused,” Loyd said.  The case is Sparrow v. Chiquita Brands International Inc.,
11-cv-00502, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 