-- 
Cisco Adds to Technology Issuance With $4 Billion Debt Sale

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-09T21:58:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/cisco-adds-to-technology-issuance-with-its-fourth-bond-offering.html
  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking gear, sold $4 billion of bonds in
its fourth offering since going public in 1990, joining other
technology companies tapping the  debt market  this year.    Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, also issued $1.1 billion of bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Microsoft Corp. and Juniper Networks Inc. previously sold
debt in 2011. Cisco plans to use proceeds from its three-part
issue for general corporate purposes, according to a statement
from the  San Jose , California-based company today distributed by
Marketwire.  “Their balance sheet is saying $35 billion of short-term
investments and almost $5 billion in cash at the end of January,
so it’s not as if they need this money for anything in
particular,” said Lon Erickson, a money manager who helps
oversee $9 billion of fixed-income assets for Thornburg
Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico . “My guess
is they’re going to borrow it and take marginally more leverage
on the balance sheet and buy back stock.”  Cisco’s board authorized as much as $10 billion for a stock
buyback program on Nov. 18, according to a statement. The
company said it had $12.7 billion in remaining repurchase
authorizations on Feb. 9, when it reported second-quarter
results.  3-Part Sale  The company sold $2 billion of three-year fixed-rate notes
that yield 50 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, $750 million of six-year securities that pay a
spread of 105 basis points and $1.25 billion of three-year
floating-rate debt at 25 basis points more than the three-month
London interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.  Cisco last sold bonds in November 2009, issuing $5 billion
of securities, including $500 million of 5-year notes, $2.5
billion of 10-year securities and $2 billion of 30-year debt,
the data show. Cisco is graded A1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the fifth-highest level, and a comparable A+ by  Standard &
Poor’s .  “It’s just a big company, strong financially, great market
position,” Erickson said. “They’ll print, on a spread basis
and all-in-yield basis, some pretty cheap debt.”  Vodafone Issue  Vodafone sold $600 million of 5-year notes that yield 85
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $500
million of 10-year securities at a spread of 100 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. The company earlier marketed $1 billion of
debt, according to the person with knowledge of that sale, who
declined to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly about the transaction.  Eastman Kodak Co., the business founded in 1880 that
popularized film photography, and Dresser-Rand Group Inc. are
among other companies marketing debt, according to people
familiar with their offerings, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Company bond sales in the U.S. so far this week of at least
$26.1 billion are the highest since the $39.3 billion in the
first three days of the week beginning Jan. 3.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo &
Co. are managing Cisco’s sale, according to the statement.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, sold $2.25
billion of debt last month in three parts, including $1 billion
of 30-year 5.3 percent bonds. Juniper, a supplier of security
systems and routing equipment to  Internet service providers ,
sold $1 billion of debt in its debut offering on Feb. 28.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  