-- 
Citic Pacific Directors Sought Loans Without Disclosing Losses, Court Told

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-03-09T08:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/citic-pacific-directors-sought-loans-without-disclosing-losses-court-told.html
Citic Pacific Ltd., the steelmaker
and property developer that posted the biggest currency loss by
a Chinese company, asked for credit facilities from banks
without disclosing it had lost money, a lawyer for  Hong Kong ’s  Justice Department  said today.  “There is clear evidence of fraud,” between Sept. 7 and
Oct. 20, 2008, Charlotte Draycott told Hong Kong’s High Court on
the first day of a trial in which Citic Pacific is seeking to
prevent the use of documents seized in a probe into its currency
derivatives loss.  “The directors knew full well they had lost half their
capitalization and asked for loans from banks, without telling
them,” Draycott said. “This is a matter that needs to be
brought before the criminal court expeditiously.”  Police raided the Hong Kong-listed company’s head office in
2009 for their investigations into whether it had made false
statements or conspired to defraud in relation to unauthorized
bets on the Australian dollar. Citic Pacific was forced to seek
aid from parent Citic Group, which is backed by  China ’s cabinet,
and Larry Yung resigned as chairman.  Citic Pacific directors acted properly, Paul Shie, a lawyer
for the company told the court.  “The company was investigating the matter and looking for
solutions. Simply being able to articulate a conspiracy theory
is not enough to satisfy a prima facie case,” he said.  Shares Fall  Shares of Citic Pacific slumped 55 percent on Oct. 21, 2008,
after HK$14.7 billion ($1.9 billion) of potential losses from
the foreign exchange trades were disclosed. The shares fell 1.4
percent to HK$21.70 in Hong Kong today.  Draycott said that documents provided by Citic Pacific to
the Securities and Futures Commission shouldn’t be protected by
legal privilege.  Shie cited letters showing the company provided the
documents for the sole purpose of the SFC’s investigation and
not for any other law enforcement authorities. The hearing is
scheduled for three days before Judge Alan Wright.  Citic Pacific’s board learned of the company’s bets the
Australian dollar would gain against the  U.S. dollar  on Sept. 7,
2008. On Sept. 12, 2008, it said “directors are not aware of
any material adverse change in the financial or trading position
of the group since 31 December 2007,” when announcing another
transaction.  ‘Misleading Information’  Three shareholders in 2009 claimed at Hong Kong’s Small
Claims Tribunal that the September statement was “false and
misleading information.” They claimed to have lost money when
they sold shares after Citic Pacific disclosed its currency
trades.  Yung, the son of late Chinese Vice President Rong Yiren,
said in his filing to the tribunal that he signed the statement
on Sept. 5, before he was aware of the potential losses.  “It was the decision of the board with the benefit of
legal advice that Citic shouldn’t make an announcement
immediately,” Yung wrote.  Yung resigned as Citic Pacific’s chairman after the April
2009 police raid, leaving the company he had led since founding
it in 1990. His father set up Citic Group in 1979 as China’s
first state-owned investment corporation.  Marjorie Law, who represents Citic Pacific at Brunswick
Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, didn’t return two calls to her office
and mobile phones and an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  and Secretary of Justice,
Commissioner of Police, HCMP 767/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of
First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  