-- 
Civil Rights, Muslim Groups Say King's Hearing Is Unfair Attack on Islam

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-03-09T17:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/civil-rights-muslim-groups-say-king-s-hearing-is-unfair-attack.html
U.S. House Homeland Security
Committee Chairman  Peter King  is unfairly branding all of Islam
with his plans to hold a hearing on Muslim radicalization, a
coalition of religious and civil rights groups said.  Muslims “are natural enemies of those who promote violent
extremism,” said Nihad Awad, national executive director of the
Council on American-Islamic Relations, at a press conference
today in Washington on the eve of King’s hearing.  Since he announced the hearing in December, King, a New
York Republican, has been accused by civil liberties and Islamic
groups of vilifying the U.S. Muslim community. On March 6,
Muslims and their supporters gathered in Times Square to protest
the hearing.  King, 66, also has been criticized over his past support of
the  Irish Republican Army , which used terrorist tactics in
opposing British rule in  Northern Ireland . In response, King
said that, unlike al-Qaeda, “The fact is, the IRA never
attacked the  United States . And my loyalty is to the United
States,” the New York Times reported today.  King also has said that groups such as the Washington-based
Council on American-Islamic Relations aren’t providing the
leadership to encourage Muslims to be more cooperative in
terrorist investigations.  Not Cooperating  “There are people in the community who are not fully
cooperating,” King said today on CNN. “The victims of that are
not just the American community at large, but also Muslim-
Americans in particular.”  Awad said that accusation is false. “CAIR has always
maintained that it is both a civic and religious duty to
immediately report criminal activity,” he said.  King said that most Muslim-Americans are loyal to the U.S.  “The overwhelming majority of Muslims are outstanding
patriots,” he said on CNN. “There’s a very small percentage
who have allied themselves with al-Qaeda.”  Shane Wolfe, a King spokesman, didn’t respond immediately
to an e-mail and phone call requesting further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  