-- 
Clinton Pushes Asia-Pacific Leaders on Transparency, Lower Trade Barriers

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-09T17:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/clinton-pushes-asia-pacific-leaders-on-transparency-lower-trade-barriers.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  prodded leaders of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum to embrace greater market transparency and fewer trade
barriers.  The U.S., leader of the regional forum this year, is
determined to push “an ambitious agenda for delivering
significant benefits to our people and our partners and we are
steadily carrying it out,” Clinton said in a speech to the
group today in  Washington .  In the coming months, Clinton said the Obama administration
will take “concrete steps” toward long-standing goals,
including gaining congressional approval for the Korea-U.S. Free
Trade Agreement and reaching accord on a regional free trade
measure called the  Trans-Pacific Partnership .  APEC  can lead the way toward making markets and trade more
open efficient, she said. Creating a “level playing field” for
all 21 members of the APEC forum would boost prosperity, she
said  “In 2011, we want APEC to help define, shape, and address
next-generation trade and investment issues, and take steps to
reduce the time, cost, and uncertainty of moving goods through
regional supply chains," Clinton said.  ‘‘We must decide how we will work together -- what rules we
will adopt, what principles we will abide by, what behavior we
will encourage and discourage in ourselves and in each other,’’
she said.  Clinton reminded  Asia  of the corrosive effects of
corruption. Referring to a speech she made earlier this year
warning Arab leaders about corruption, she said the Internet has
made it possible for people to track the behavior of their
leaders as never before.  Corruption Exposed  ‘‘Corruption is now a concern of citizens that see with
their own eyes that the people leading them are living much
better than they are,’’ Clinton said.  Clinton underscored the need to create skilled jobs for the
young.  ‘‘We all face world wide growing problems with under-
employment," Clinton said. ‘‘Even in  China , where the economy is
roaring ahead, there are not yet enough high-caliber
professional jobs to absorb the six million college students
graduating every year.’’  Youth under-employment in  Egypt  was a factor in the
uprising that toppled former President  Hosni Mubarak .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  