-- 
German Stocks Retreat After Spain's Rating Downgrade; Munich Re Declines

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-10T17:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/commerzbank-deutsche-post-volkswagen-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated the most in
two weeks as Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Spain’s credit
rating, violence in  Libya  continued and a report showed German
exports unexpectedly declined in January.    Munich Re  fell as the world’s biggest reinsurer said
natural catastrophes in the first quarter including an
earthquake in New Zealand cost it about A$1.5 billion ($1.5
billion).  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  slid for a second day after a report
it’s planning a capital increase.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter
AG (SZG) ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmakers, declined with metal prices.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 1 percent to 7,063.09 at the
5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . The gauge has declined 4.9 percent
since peaking at a 2 1/2-year high on Feb. 18 amid escalating
unrest in North Africa and the Middle East. The broader HDAX
Index also slid 1 percent today.  “Spain is still susceptible to bring a great amount of
disruptions to financial markets,” said Ansgar Krekeler,
Dusseldorf-based sales analyst at WGZ Bank AG. “The key
resistance level for the DAX is 7,093 and closing below that
level is critical.”    Spain ’s rating was downgraded to Aa2 by Moody’s, which said
the cost of shoring up the banking industry will eclipse
government estimates.  German Exports  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, dropped 1 percent from December, when they rose 0.5
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.7 percent increase, according to the
median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports
gained 2.3 percent from December, when they fell 2.6 percent.  China reported an unexpected $7.3 billion trade deficit,
the biggest in seven years. The nation’s outbound shipments rose
at the slowest pace since November 2009.  In the U.S., first-time claims for jobless benefits rose
more than forecast last week from an almost three-year low,
highlighting the uneven nature of the improvement in the labor
market.  Munich Re slumped 1.4 percent to 116.75 euros. The quake
that struck  New Zealand ’s South Island city of Christchurch last
month caused the reinsurer about A$1 billion in claims, the
company said. Munich Re reiterated its full-year profit target
of about 2.4 billion euros ($3.3 billion) “if random losses in
the further course of the year remain below expectations.”  Commerzbank Slides  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender, slid 2.6
percent to 5.98 euros, the largest retreat since January. The
bank is testing the market’s appetite for a possible capital
increase of as much as 7 billion euros in May or June to help
repay  government aid , Financial Times Deutschland reported.
Separately, the lender said it sold 1.25 billion euros of
subordinated notes as it prepares for new capital rules.  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter retreated 1.5 percent to 28.16
euros and 2.4 percent to 54.20 euros, respectively. European
basic-resource shares posted the worst performance among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index today as copper,
lead and nickel all retreated on the London Metal Exchange.    Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker, dropped 3.6 percent to 7.21 euros, the lowest price
since January. ARM Holdings Plc, the designer of semiconductors
used in most smartphones including Apple Inc.’s iPhone, fell the
most in almost five months in London trading as analysts said
the stock may be too expensive and sales of some tablet
computers may fail to meet expectations.  Tognum AG climbed 2.4 percent to 25.50 euros, the highest
price since July 2007. The engine maker that Daimler AG and
Rolls-Royce Group Plc are trying to buy said 2010 profit climbed
31 percent on increased demand and forecast earnings this year
will rise.  Separately, Daimler and Rolls-Royce plan to resist calls to
raise their joint takeover offer for  Tognum AG (TGM) , even as the
stock trades above the 24 euro-per-share bid, two people close
to the companies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  