-- 
St. John's Beats Rutgers With `Officiating Errors' at Big East Tournament

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/connecticut-beats-georgetown-in-big-east-tournament-plays-pittsburgh-next.html
St. John’s University  advanced to a
quarterfinal game today against  Syracuse University  in the Big
East men’s basketball tournament after what the conference
commissioner called “two separate officiating errors.”  The Red Storm defeated Rutgers University 65-63 yesterday
in a game that ended in controversy. Justin Brownlee of St.
John’s appeared to travel and then step out of bounds with 1.7
seconds remaining. Neither infraction was called, preventing
Rutgers from getting a final chance to tie or win the game.    Connecticut , Cincinnati and Marquette also won second-round
games yesterday and moved on to today’s  quarterfinals  at New
York’s Madison Square Garden.  “Two separate officiating errors occurred at the
conclusion of the St. John’s vs. Rutgers game,” Big East
Commissioner John Marinatto said in a statement released by the
conference. “Both missed violations should have caused the game
clock to stop and a change of possession to occur prior to the
end of the game. Neither error is reviewable or correctable
under NCAA playing rules.”  Brownlee stole an inbounds pass by Rutgers (15-17) with
less than 5 seconds left. He raced toward the sideline, picking
up the ball and then stepping out of bounds while tossing the
ball in the air in celebration.  “It’s unfortunate, there’s going to be blood coming
through my tongue right now, but it is what it is,” Rutgers
coach Mike Rice told reporters. “I’m sure they’re going to
admit there was a mistake because it’s right there on (video).”  Senior guard Dwight Hardy scored 17 points for the Red
Storm, who blew a 10-point second-half lead before pulling out
the win to improve to 21-10.  St. John’s  won for the eighth time
in nine games.  Connecticut Wins  “I don’t know if he threw it in the air and then stepped
out of bounds or stepped out as he threw it in the air,” said
St. John’s coach Steve Lavin. “It was kind of chaotic.”  Junior guard Kemba Walker had 28 points and seven rebounds
to lead Connecticut to a 79-62 defeat of Georgetown. The Huskies
advanced to a matchup with top-seeded Pittsburgh.  Cincinnati won 87-61 against South Florida and will face  Notre Dame  in the quarterfinals. Marquette won 67-61 against
defending Big East tournament champion  West Virginia  and moved
on to face Louisville.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Michele Steele in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  