-- 
Crude Oil Trades Below $105 in New York After Stockpiles Surge at Cushing

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-09T23:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/crude-oil-trades-below-105-in-new-york-after-stockpiles-surge-at-cushing.html
Oil traded below $105 a barrel in  New York  after stockpiles rose to the highest level since 2004
at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade.  Futures fell 0.6 percent yesterday after the Energy
Information Administration said Cushing supplies increased by
1.69 million barrels to 40.3 million last week, the highest
since it began gathering data at the hub. U.S. crude inventories
climbed more than forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey. Brent in  London  rose as forces loyal to Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi carried out strikes on oil facilities.  “Perceptions of prolonged trouble in Libya drove the rally
in Brent,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in an e-
mailed note today. “On the flipside, U.S. WTI crude declined
after the EIA showed crude inventories rose 2.5 million barrels
last week against expectations of a 1 million barrel rise. Even
more bearish was Cushing crude stocks.”  Crude for April delivery traded at $104.39 a barrel, up 1
cent, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 10:44 a.m. Sydney time. Yesterday, it dropped 64 cents to
$104.38, declining for the second day. Prices are 27 percent
higher from a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement increased $2.88, or 2.6
percent, to end the session at $115.94 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange yesterday.  U.S. Inventories  The European benchmark traded at an $11.56 a barrel premium
over New York. Brent exceeded WTI by a record $19.54 on Feb. 21
as Cushing supplies advanced and unrest spread in the Middle
East and North Africa. The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  U.S. crude-oil stockpiles rose 2.52 million barrels to
348.9 million, the Energy Department report showed. A 1 million-
barrel increase was projected, according to the median of 15
analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories fell by 5.49 million barrels to 229.2
million, the biggest decline since September 2008, according to
the department. Stockpiles were forecast to drop 1.5 million
barrels. Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 3.98 million barrels to 155.2
million, the lowest level since June.  Oil rose to a record $147.27 a barrel on July 11, 2008,
before plunging 78 percent in the next five months to a low of
$32.40 as the financial crisis unfolded.  Libyan Unrest  Unrest in Libya has also inflated the cost of refined oil
products. Gasoline for April delivery advanced 8.05 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $3.0272 a gallon yesterday.  The violence in  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer after
Nigeria and Angola has cut output by as much as 1 million
barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . The
North African country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in
February, down from 1.59 million the previous month, according
to Bloomberg News estimates.    Saudi Arabia  is capable of providing additional oil output
if needed to counter supply disruptions caused by the unrest in
the region, James Smith, U.S. ambassador to the kingdom, said in
an interview on InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.  The kingdom has increased oil production by 1 million
barrels a day and has the capacity to pump an additional 3.5
million, Smith said  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt ,
and protests have erupted in energy-exporting countries
including Iran, Yemen and Oman. In Saudi Arabia, the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries biggest producer,
websites have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March
11 and March 20, according to  Human Rights Watch .  OPEC Meeting  Oil in New York slid yesterday as speculation increased
that OPEC will consider boosting output to compensate for
disruptions in  Libya . There’s no need for an emergency meeting
because there is no shortage of supplies, Youcef Yousfi,
Algeria’s minister of energy and mines, said at CERAWeek, an IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates conference in Houston.  Saudi Arabian authorities released 25 people arrested
during protests earlier this month in the oil-rich Eastern
Province, home to the country’s minority Shiite Muslims, Ibrahim
Al-Mugaiteeb, president of the country’s Human Rights First
Society, said yesterday.  A pipeline carrying oil to  Turkey  from  Iraq  has been
damaged by an explosion, according to an official, knocking out
as much as a quarter of crude exports.  The explosion was an act of sabotage and cut shipments by
up to 590,000 barrels a day, Emad al-Baqer, North Oil Co. head
of production, said in an interview from Kirkuk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  