-- 
CVS Accused in Suit of Selling Customer Data to Drugmakers

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T22:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/cvs-accused-in-suit-of-using-customers-pharmacy-data-for-drug-companies.html
CVS Caremark Corp., the largest U.S.
provider of  prescription drugs , was sued over claims it used
confidential prescription information to push products on behalf
of pharmaceutical makers.  CVS violated the privacy and rights of consumers by sending
letters to customers’ physicians that promoted specific
medications, according to a complaint filed March 7 in state
court in Philadelphia. CVS allegedly identified consumers by
name, date of birth and medications taken, drawing on
information obtained through CVS pharmacy services.  CVS was paid for the promotion of competing drugs by Merck
& Co.,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) , according to the complaint
filed by Richboro,  Pennsylvania , resident Arthur Steinberg and
the Philadelphia Federation of Teachers Health and Welfare Fund.  “While touted as an ‘RxReview Program’ by defendant CVS
Caremark, in reality the physician communications were nothing
more than a profit-making opportunity,” Steinberg said in the
complaint.  CVS has been plagued by privacy concerns since its purchase
of Caremark Rx Inc., a pharmacy-benefits manager, for about $22
billion in 2007. Steinberg’s suit follows a similar complaint
filed in September by a group of Texas pharmacies accusing the
company of violating privacy and racketeering laws.  Civil Charges  In February 2009, the company agreed to pay $2.25 million
to settle federal charges its employees compromised customer
privacy by throwing prescription records and drug bottles into
open trash dumpsters. The payment to the government settled
civil charges CVS violated the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, the medical privacy law known as HIPAA.  Steinberg and the fund accuse CVS of unjust enrichment and
violating unfair trade practices and  consumer protection laws .
They’re seeking unspecified damages and class action status for
the case.  CVS hasn’t been served with the complaint and can’t comment
on the claims, Christine Cramer, a spokeswoman for the
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company said in an e-mailed
statement.  “CVS Caremark places a high priority on protecting the
privacy of our customers and members,” Cramer said.  Rosemarie Yancosek, a spokeswoman for Bayer Healthcare,
declined to comment. AstraZeneca spokesman  Tony Jewell  and Ron Rogers, a Merck spokesman, had no immediate comment.  CVS, which fills about 1 billion prescriptions a year, was
sued last month by IMS Health Inc. in Delaware Chancery Court
for allegedly violating contracts to supply drug-sales data.
IMS, which didn’t disclose contract terms, collects data from
pharmacies for use by drug companies, marketers, and government
agencies for research, sales and compliance.  The case is Arthur Steinberg v.  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,
1103012286, Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  