-- 
Czech Inflation Stays Below Target as Policy Makers Mull Rates

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-03-09T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/czech-inflation-stays-below-target-as-policy-makers-mull-rates.html
The Czech inflation rate rose less
than forecast and stayed below the central bank’s target in
February as policy makers debate when to start raising interest
rates.  Inflation accelerated to 1.8 percent from a seven-month low
of 1.7 percent in January, the  statistics office  in  Prague  said
on its website today. Consumer prices advanced 0.1 percent on
the month. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight
economists was for an annual rate of 2 percent, while the
central bank’s forecast was 2.1 percent.  The Ceska Narodni Banka is weighing inflation risks against
an economic recovery. Policy makers left the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at 0.75 percent on Feb. 3 as three of seven
board members voted for a quarter-point increase. One of the
advocates of higher rates,  Robert Holman , has since left the
board because his term ended and was replaced by Lubomir Lizal.  The bank has kept rates stable since May after cutting them
by 3 percentage points in less than two years as the global
crisis pushed the country into the worst recession since the end
of communism in 1989. Gross domestic product grew 2.9 percent in
the three months through December, the most in 10 quarters.  The central bank  estimates  inflation will match its 2
percent target in the first quarter of 2012 and accelerate to
2.1 percent in the following three months.  The bank signaled in its latest forecast in February that  interest rates  may increase near the end of 2011. Investors
boosted bets that Czech rates will start rising earlier than
suggested in the forecast after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 3 the ECB may lift rates next
month to counter accelerating inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  