-- 
Daimler, Rolls-Royce Offer $4.4 Billion to Acquire Tognum in Joint Venture

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-03-09T17:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/daimler-roll-royce-make-4-4-billion-bid-to-purchase-engine-maker-tognum.html
  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) 
made a takeover bid for  Tognum AG (TGM)  valuing the German
manufacturer at 3.2 billion euros ($4.4 billion) as they target
growing demand for heavy engines in emerging economies.  The stock closed 3.8 percent above the offer price of 24
euros per share after Friedrichshafen-based Tognum said the
companies haven’t reached agreement on price. The offer is 30
percent above the March 4 close, the last trading day before the
companies publicly expressed their interest.  Gaining control of Tognum, which Daimler used to own, would
give the two companies the world’s second-largest maker of high-
speed diesel engines for the marine, energy and defense
industries after Caterpillar Inc. The deal would represent
Daimler’s biggest purchase since buying a 34 percent stake in
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. in 2000, according to Bloomberg data.  “We are looking for a higher price,” said  Delta Lloyd 
Asset Management fund manager Edwin Slaghekke. “Tognum has a
huge strategic value. It invested a lot in research and
development, and in two-to-three years will have a larger
competitive advantage.” Delta Lloyd owns 1.4 percent of Tognum.  The bid is conditional on more than 50 percent of the
shares being tendered. Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said he was “optimistic” of reaching that target, even
as investors lobbied for more money. German bank WestLB AG said
it expected the bid to be raised to about 27.50 euros.  Shares Advance  Tognum closed up 1.69 euros, or 7.3 percent, to 24.90
euros, valuing the company at 3.27 billion euros. Daimler added
1.2 percent to 49.82 euros, while Rolls-Royce shares gained 3.2
percent to 619.5 pence in  London .  Tognum welcomed the potential cooperation with Daimler and
Rolls-Royce, even with a deal on price outstanding. The
companies agreed not to cut jobs, maintain investment levels and
retain existing facilities, including the headquarters in
Friedrichshafen, Tognum said.  The offer is “highly attractive,” Daimler spokesman
Florian Martens said by telephone when asked if the company
would raise its bid. A Rolls-Royce spokesman declined to comment
beyond today’s statement.  Daimler and Rolls-Royce are offering 16.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes for Tognum. Acquirers paid a median of
13.25 times Ebit for assets in the auto- and truck-parts
industry in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  “The offer represents a reasonable premium,” said Marc- Rene Tonn, an analyst with M.M. Warburg in Hamburg. “Given
Daimler’s large cash reserve, it needed to pose the question
about what to do with it. It’s an interesting expansion.”  Joint Venture  The two companies plan to form a joint venture to buy
Tognum. Daimler will tender its 28.4 percent Tognum holding as
part of the deal. Rolls-Royce will contribute its Bergen
operation, which makes engines for ships and energy generation.  “By joining with Rolls-Royce, we can secure a distinctly
larger piece of this expanding cake,” Zetsche said today on a
conference call. Driven by developing economies’ need for energy
generation and shipping, demand for off-highway  diesel engines 
is likely to grow twice as fast as the global economy, he said.  Daimler, the world’s second-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , has been piling up cash as demand for Mercedes-Benz
cars soars. Cash from industrial units grew in 2010 by 4.7
billion euros to 11.9 billion euros. Daimler plans to use some
of that cash to pay for the offer, which would cost the
Stuttgart-based manufacturer at most 700 million euros, Chief
Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said today.    Fitch Ratings  said the acquisition would have no impact on
Daimler and Rolls-Royce’s credit ratings.  Daimler Investments  Daimler has made a series of investments since exiting
Chrysler in May 2007. The company bought stakes in Russian
truckmaker OAO Kamaz and electric-car maker  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  It
also swapped shares with  Renault SA (RNO)  and Nissan Motor Co. to
secure a small-car partnership, expanded its holding in fuel
cell venture Automotive Fuel Cell Corp. and bought a Formula One
racing team.  Tognum supplies heavy-duty diesel engines to power coast
guard ships, tanks and generate electricity for offshore oil
platforms. Combined with Rolls-Royce’s medium-speed gas and
diesel engines, the company will target a market with sales
potential of 30 billion euros, Daimler said.  The engine maker, which employs more than 8,700 people and
will report 2010 results tomorrow, projects Ebit this year to be
nearly 9 percent of revenue, which is forecast to be about 2.55
billion euros. Tognum projects sales growth in 2011 of about 10
percent, according to a presentation on its website.  Stake Purchase  Daimler, also the world’s biggest truckmaker, sold Tognum,
then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for 1.6 billion euros to
Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners in March 2006
to help pay for job cuts, as it restructured Chrysler. After an
initial public offering in July 2007, Daimler bought a 22
percent stake for 585 million euros in April 2008, increasing
the holding to more than 25 percent three months later. Daimler
in 2010 sold about 250 million euros in engines through Tognum.  Rolls-Royce sells Bergen engines through its marine unit to
power ships and via its energy division to generate electricity.
Rolls-Royce’s marine unit had 2010 sales of 2.59 billion pounds
($4.21 billion), or 25 percent of the company’s total. The unit
earned 332 million pounds in operating profit last year. Rolls-
Royce acquired Bergen when it bought Vickers Plc in 1999 for 576
million pounds.  Largest Acquisition  The acquisition may be Rolls-Royce’s largest, according to  Sandy Morris , an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland . The company
has made only 15 purchases since 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest in that time was its Vickers
purchase, which made Rolls-Royce the world’s biggest maker of
marine propulsion equipment. It bought U.S. turboprop engine
company Allison Engine Co. in 1995 for $525 million.  “This is a significant opportunity,” Rolls-Royce Chief
Executive Officer John Rose said in a statement. “The
complementary capabilities we are bringing together will provide
us with a world leading proposition.”  Rose, who turned the company into the world’s second-
biggest aircraft engine maker, retires at the end of the month.
He will be succeeded by Royal Ahold NV CEO John Rishton. Rose
has led the company for 14 years. Rishton is a former British
Airways Plc chief financial officer.  Daimler was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Rolls-
Royce by  Banque Privee Edmond de Rothschild SA (RLD)  and Tognum by
Berenberg Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  