-- 
Davos Man Qaddafi Jr. Fights for Future in Libya After Civil Rights U-Turn

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-03-09T11:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/davos-man-qaddafi-jr-fights-for-future-in-civil-rights-u-turn.html
When Muammar Qaddafi’s 41-year grip
on power in Libya began to loosen, his son Saif al-Islam may
have glimpsed his own future slipping away.  The second-eldest of seven sons, Saif al-Islam had been
groomed for leadership of a different sort from his father’s. He
studied at the  London School of Economics  and attended the World
Economic Forum in Davos,  Switzerland , to forge his reputation as
a champion of civil liberties. He came back promising Libyans a
freer, more democratic future, yet when his people dared to
demand it, he promised them “rivers of blood” instead.  The about-face is turning into a gamble on the elder
Qaddafi, 68, keeping power long enough to bequeath it to him. As
Libya deteriorates into civil war, the stakes are increasing.  “The prospect of him surviving this in any normal way --
either coming out alive or escaping war crimes prosecution --has
basically vanished,” said Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow
at the Royal United Services  Institute  in London. “We should
accept his promise to fight to the last bullet.”  Saif al-Islam, 38, made that pledge as the unrest was
beginning, in a speech on Feb. 20, when he warned of what was to
come. Much of it has proven prophetic.  Regime’s Face  He said that  Libya  would be split in a bloody civil war and
international businesses would abandon the country while foreign
armies prepared to invade.  Libyan rebels had a choice to negotiate with him for
greater civil rights or “weep over hundreds of thousands of
deaths,” he said. More than 1,000 people had died as of Feb.
26, according to the  United Nations , while opposition forces put
the figure at 6,000 on March 5.  “People had hoped that Saif al-Islam would be the softer,
more modern face of the regime, and he wasn’t,” said Bruce Jentleson, professor of political science at  Duke University  and
a senior adviser at the U.S. State Department from 2009 to 2011.
“It’s entirely possible that the Qaddafis could hold onto
power. If we are genuinely committed to stopping  war crimes  and
mass atrocities, this is on the way to being a real test case.”  In an interview with the Arab daily  Asharq Al-Awsat  on
March 3, Saif al-Islam said the Qaddafi regime was fighting
against terrorists and denied changing his view on improving
civil rights in Libya.  Davos Man  “When things were going well I was a reformer, however
when people cross the red line I hit them with my shoe, and I
also hit their fathers with my shoe,” Saif al-Islam told the
London-based newspaper. “There are no problems, this is a
passing cloud. This is an historic opportunity for Libya to
become a first-class democratic state.”  An English speaker who has rubbed shoulders with executives
and leaders at the  World Economic Forum , Saif al-Islam was
viewed by many as the best hope for a peaceful transition.  A trained architect with a master’s degree in business
administration from Vienna’s  IMADEC University  and a degree in
global government from the LSE, Saif stood out from his
brothers. His 2008 thesis at the LSE, where he had arrived six
years earlier, was on “The Role of  Civil Society  in the
Democratisation of Global Governance Institutions.”  The LSE’s director,  Howard Davies , resigned last week to
protect the university’s  reputation  amid questions over its
links to the Qaddafi regime and a 1.5 million-pound ($2.4
million) donation from the family’s charity.  Critical Voice  Saif al-Islam rose to prominence by advocating a vision for
his country that often contrasted with his father’s policies,
sometimes publicly clashing with him. He started newspapers that
he claimed would offer more independent and critical voices, and
repeatedly told Libyans he was working on a constitution, which
the elder Qaddafi had suspended in 1969, ushering in four
decades of rule by edict.  In 2008, Saif al-Islam said he was quitting politics in an
apparent acceptance that his reforms had failed. In his speech,
he called for Libya to become a democracy and lamented that
Arabs were “living in a forest of dictatorships.”  Now, with his back against the wall, Saif al-Islam has
become a main spokesman for defense of the regime as the Qaddafi
family unleashes violence unmatched by other autocrats during a
season of Arab uprisings that started in Tunisia and spread to  Egypt . Libyan forces loyal to the Qaddafis have fired on crowds
and targeted anti-government positions from the air.  Reform ‘Charade’  According to Mansour El-Kikhia, who testified as an expert
on Libya in Saif al-Islam’s libel case in 2000 against The
Sunday Telegraph newspaper, Saif al-Islam’s behaviour shows the
democracy act was a “charade” orchestrated by the elder
Qaddafi. Saif al-Islam won the legal action.  “He will do nothing without his father’s blessing,” El-
Kikhia said in an interview last month. “He’s the one who’s
holding the mantle of the father.”  Libyan rebels yesterday prepared to regain a town lost to
Qaddafi’s forces, while the U.S. and its allies continued talks
on imposing a no-fly zone that might help the insurgents. Oil
rose to a 29-month high on March 7 in  New York  as escalating
violence in Libya bolstered concern that supply disruptions may
spread through the Middle East.  Since the beginning of the unrest, Saif al-Islam has hosted
media tours, held televised addresses and rallied troops.  “He’s gone berserk,” said Faraj Najem, a Libyan writer
and historian based in  London . “He says Libya is calm and that
there are only little spots of trouble, and yet he’s saying this
from the back of a truck holding a Kalashnikov and urging his
supporters to fight. That means you’re in trouble.”  Libya’s Negotiator  It’s also a far cry from the Qaddafi who was known as the
man the West could deal with. Saif al-Islam played a key role in
soothing relations with the U.S., helped to negotiate Libya’s
position during economic sanctions and helped mediate the
release of Western hostages abducted by the Abu-Sayyaf Islamic
militant group in the  Philippines .  Sanctions against the country were lifted starting in 2003
after the Qaddafis allowed the extradition of two suspects in
the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over the town of Lockerbie
in  Scotland  and stopped Libya’s nuclear weapons program.  Qaddafi’s third son, al-Saadi, told Al-Arabiya in a March 7
interview that Saif al-Islam has been leading the country for
the past four years.  Reform Regrets  Saif al-Islam agreed to sit-down interviews with
organizations including al-Jazeera,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN and
Sky News. He used the interviews to deny that there was a mass
uprising and vowed a freer Libya after the “terrorists”
abandoned their armed struggle. His father wasn’t alone in
deciding policies, he said.  Speaking in an interview with ABC’s “This Week” program
broadcast on Feb. 27, Saif said he regretted that his father’s
regime didn’t move faster on reforms.  “It was a big mistake not to move fast,” he said. “I was
shouting every day. I worked very hard to implement many ideas,
but things went wrong.”  At Davos in 2005, Saif talked of modernizing the Libyan
economy and his work as head of the Qaddafi Human Rights Charity
Foundation. He was suspended as a young global leader by the
World Economic Forum on Feb. 21.  “His legitimacy as a reformer has now collapsed,” Julien Barnes-Dacey, head of the Middle East and North Africa desk at
the  Control Risks  group in London, said by telephone. “He
clearly aligned himself with more reactionary regime forces.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 