-- 
Disney’s Shanghai Park to Occupy 2.7 Square-Mile Tourist Zone

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T07:13:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/disney-s-shanghai-park-to-occupy-2-7-square-mile-tourist-zone.html
  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s theme park in
Shanghai will be built in a 7 square-kilometer (2.7 square-mile)
area that the city has designated as a tourist destination,
according to a draft  blueprint  of the project.  The first phase of the government project covers 3.9 square
kilometers which includes a theme park, hotels, car parks, a
lake and commuter stations, according to the plan, on which the
government is seeking public opinion. The municipality will
extend two subway lines connecting to the site, according to the
 blueprint  posted on the city government’s website yesterday.  The project’s first phase will cost 24.5 billion yuan ($3.7
billion), Mayor Han Zheng said on March 6. The Disneyland theme
park in  Shanghai , the first in mainland  China  for the Burbank,
California-based company, is expected to attract 7.3 million
visitors a year when it opens in 2015 in the Pudong area, the
city government said in a statement on March 3.  Disney won’t comment “until the regulatory approval
process is complete,” Alannah Hall-Smith, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for the world’s biggest theme-park company, said in
an e-mailed statement. A person who answered the phone at the
media department of Shanghai’s Urban Planning, Land and
Resources Administration Bureau, who would only give his surname
as Xu, declined to comment.  Water will be a prominent feature of Shanghai Disneyland,
which will feature three theme parks -- “Magic Kingdom,”
“Epcot” and “Animal Kingdom” -- according to the March 3
government  statement . “Large-scale” construction could start
as early as May, it said.  Disney, which won government approval for a theme park in
2009, signed a contract in November with state-owned Shanghai
Shendi Group Co. to build the facility.  Shanghai started building infrastructure for Disney’s first
park on the Chinese mainland last year, Jiang Shujie, deputy
director of the city’s construction and transport commission
said on Jan.7.  -  Helen Sun , Stephanie Wong, and Jing Jin. Editors: Frank
Longid, Suresh Seshadri.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  