-- 
Dog Torture Gets Second Chance as Missouri Mulls Puppy-Mill Law

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/dog-torturers-get-second-chance-as-missouri-rethinks-bill-on-puppy-mills.html
A bug-eyed, tan-and-white Chihuahua
named Axel Rose was rescued from a  Missouri  puppy mill recently
thanks to a law passed last November.  Yet the measure, aimed at improving conditions at these
notorious commercial breeders, has stirred up opponents with
enough clout to stymie it. They’ve accomplished the strange
trick of turning cruelty to puppies into a political issue.  Proposition B, a Missouri ballot initiative passed in
November, will force many commercial breeders to improve
conditions in their facilities. Two Missouri mills recently
closed down, apparently in anticipation of new restrictions
imposed by the initiative.  Axel Rose was among dozens of the mills’ dogs that ended up
in Washington animal shelters. They were unusual in one way.  “We were expecting the worst, but these animals that came
in from Missouri were in surprisingly good shape,” says Gary
Weitzman, executive director of the  Washington Animal Rescue
League  shelter. “They came in tails wagging.”  Many dogs out of puppy mills are in terrible condition.
Weitzman, a veterinarian, has witnessed the horrors of these
places, where gum and tooth disease, eye problems and physical
ailments too sickening to recount are commonplace.  Some of the Missouri dogs had been imprisoned in wire
cages, not much bigger than the animal’s body, with the
enclosures stacked on top of one another.  “The real tragedy is that a lot of these dogs never leave
the cage,” Weitzman says. “And it’s not a nice cage.”  The Missouri initiative, backed heavily by the national and
Missouri Humane Societies, will force breeders to provide their
dogs with adequate living space, outside exercise areas,
reasonable breaks between litters and annual medical checkups.  Looking to Repeal  Proposition B was expected to mend the problems in
Missouri, which accounts for about a third of the 10,000 U.S.
puppy mills. Unfortunately state lawmakers are now looking at
ways to change or repeal it.  The Missouri Farm Bureau, the Missouri Veterinary Medical
Association and Tea Party enthusiasts are among those seeking to
change the legislation. The gist of their beef: They don’t like
it when Washington interlopers tell them what to do.  Last fall, an angry harangue emerged from Samuel “Joe the
Plumber” Wurzelbacher, a fixture of the John McCain election
campaign who has morphed into a conservative Everyman.  Writing for  biggovernment.com , he warned that puppy
regulation would lead to more restrictions on raising livestock.
He said the  Humane Society ’s real goal is to bring about “the
extinction of our  food industry .”  Family Farm  Dave Miller has a medium-sized operation in Neosho,
Missouri, where he breeds Newfoundlands and other dogs. His
family-run farm (which also includes 70 head of beef cattle) has
40 breeding female dogs whose puppies sell for $400 to $2,500.  “This proposition was authored by the U.S. Humane Society
and the  Humane Society of Missouri  and they had an agenda,”
Miller tells me by telephone. “As written, it was designed to
put the breeders out of business.”  The new regulations would accomplish that, he says, by
pricing even the responsible breeders out of the industry.  “We’d have to put in 12 new buildings, with five times the
indoor space of what we have now,” Miller says. The expanded
living quarters would also need heat and air conditioning to
comply with the new regulations.  If Proposition B isn’t repealed or modified, Miller says he
would reduce his operation to 10 breeding females -- a move that
would cost two people now working for him their jobs.  These days, Miller is making frequent trips to Jefferson
City, the Missouri state capital, to push for changes in the new
law, and his chances look good, unfortunately.  This week, the Missouri Senate began debating changes to
Proposition B. State Senate Majority Leader Tom Dempsey is
quoted on the legislature’s website saying to reporters, “I want
to see the heart of the bill left intact and that we have a
strong bill that cracks down on the bad actors in the breeding
industry.”  ‘Will of the People’  The fight to gut the bill is a dispiriting development for
those who campaigned for it.  “It’s an outrageous attempt to subvert the will of the
people and to turn back the clock on dog welfare in Missouri,”
says Wayne Pacelle, president and chief executive officer of the  Humane Society  of the U.S.  Pacelle has seen firsthand the brutal conditions in puppy
mills, much of it in the name of turning a profit.  “If they take their responsibilities seriously, they can
comply with Prop B,” he says. “But many of them have made a
career out of cutting corners.”  I sympathize with the Millers but Pacelle is right. If a
responsible breeder cannot meet these basic standards because of
cost, perhaps it is an indication that profit-driven facilities
shouldn’t traffic in living beings in the first place.  If the Missouri law survives, as it should, many more
refugees like Axel Rose will be looking for homes.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 