-- 
Persian Gulf Shares Advance, Led by Dubai, on OPEC Oil Supply Speculation

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-09T13:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/dubai-stocks-advance-most-in-world-on-opec-supply-speculation-emaar-gains.html
Persian Gulf benchmark stock
indexes, led by Dubai, were among the world’s biggest gainers on
speculation OPEC will consider boosting oil output to compensate
for disruptions in Libya and as the Gulf weighs an aid plan for
Bahrain and Oman.  Arabtec Holding PJSC, the biggest publicly traded
construction company in the United Arab Emirates, surged 7.9
percent after it delayed the sale of convertible bonds and a
rights offering.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  increased a second day.
The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 2.2 percent to 1,443.28, the
highest level since Feb. 27, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The
gauge has lost 11 percent since  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted in January. The BGCC 200 Index gained
1.3 percent and Saudi Arabia’s benchmark rose 0.6 percent.  “There is a perfect constellation of short-term positive
factors at play in the markets, which given how badly shares
were beaten down, investors have taken to with gusto,” said
Shehzad Janab, the head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC, which oversees more than 5.5 billion dirhams
($1.5 billion). “The  Saudi Arabia  rally is lifting the region’s
bourses with it. Given that most worries are focused on how
events will play out there, the government buying has acted as a
catalyst to spur buying in Saudi and other regional bourses.”  Violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut crude oil output by as much as 1 million barrels a day,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The North African
country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from
1.59 million the previous month, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  ‘Urgent Meeting’  Crude dropped as much as 0.8 percent to $104.21 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after
Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al Sabah,  Kuwait ’s oil minister,
yesterday said members of the group are weighing an “urgent”
meeting to determine whether more output is needed.  Prices are up 28 percent from a year ago. The six nations
of the GCC, including the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Foreign Ministers of the GCC will discuss an aid program at
a March 10 meeting in Riyadh, Bahraini Foreign Minister Sheikh Khaled bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said yesterday. Thousands of
protesters in Oman and Bahrain, inspired by uprisings that have
toppled the rulers of Tunisia and Egypt, have been demonstrating
since last month for free elections, more housing and job
opportunities.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 15 percent this
week, trimming its loss for the year to 8 percent. King Abdullah
met with tribal leaders and top government and military
officials after demonstrations in the country’s east and calls
for a nationwide protest on March 11.  ‘Attractive Valuations’  Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal said he had
invested more than 500 million riyals ($133 million) in the
Saudi stock market over the past two weeks and is ready to spend
a similar amount in the future, Reuters reported today, citing
the prince.  Growing unrest in the Middle East sent Dubai stocks to the
cheapest level in the world relative to company assets. The
DFM’s 11 percent drop this year left it valued at 0.6 times net
assets, or book value, a 67 percent discount to the global
average and the least since Bloomberg began compiling the data
four years ago.  “The sharp decline in stock prices have resulted in very
attractive valuations in Dubai,” Yong Wei Lee, who helps
oversee about $1.2 billion as a senior  fund manager  at Emirates
NBD Asset Management in Dubai, said March 3.  Tunisia Rises  Arabtec jumped the most since Dec. 6 to 1.36 dirhams. The
bond sale and rights plan were delayed until “market conditions
become more favorable,” Arabtec said today. Emaar, builder of
the world’s tallest skyscraper, rose 4.7 percent to 2.68
dirhams, the highest since Feb. 27.  Kuwait’s SE Price Index and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI) 
advanced 1.3 percent. Qatar’s gauge gained 2 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  increased 0.2 percent. Bahrain’s BB All Share Index
jumped 1.2 percent. In Tunisia, the benchmark Tunindex climbed
0.1 percent, while Morocco’s  MADEX Free Float Index (MOSEMDX)  rose 0.1
percent at 12:52 p.m. in Casablanca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  