-- 
Dymon, Run by Ex-Citadel Manager, to Grow Asian Macro Fund to $700 Million

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-03-09T00:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/dymon-run-by-ex-citadel-manager-to-grow-asian-macro-fund-to-700-million.html
Dymon  Asia  Capital, which started a
hedge fund in 2008 with capital from Tudor Investment Corp.,
plans to grow its Asian macro fund by 40 percent to $700 million
by the middle of the year before closing it to new cash again.  The Singapore-based firm has increased assets to about $500
million since January, when it re-opened its Dymon Asia Macro
Fund to investors after it outperformed the industry, said Chief
Executive Officer Danny Yong. The hedge fund had stopped taking
in money from outside investors a year ago to cap assets at $320
million, said Yong, who previously set up and ran Citadel LLC’s
Asia macro trading business.  “We will take in more capital if we produce the returns
that investors expect of us,” said Yong, 39, who is also the
fund’s chief investment officer. “$500 million tends to be the
crossover point where pension funds and some of the larger
global asset managers start looking at your funds.”  Investors favored macro hedge funds in the fourth quarter,
allocating $6.6 billion of new capital to the strategy as they
“focused on the dynamics of inflation protection,” Chicago-
based  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  said in a report in January.
Macro funds seek to profit from broad economic trends by trading
currencies, bonds, stocks and commodities.  Outperformer  The Dymon Asia Macro Fund gained about 4 percent this year,
after returning 15.2 percent in 2010 and 16.3 percent in 2009,
Yong said in an interview. Asia-focused macro funds lost 1.1
percent in the first two months of the year, after returning 1.9
percent in 2010, according to Singapore-based  Eurekahedge Pte .  Dymon Asia, which spun off from Hong Kong-based Abax Global
Capital Ltd. in 2009, will grow its fund further only if it
returns 15 percent a year, Yong said.  Fund of funds account for more than 50 percent of Dymon
Asia’s investors, and the rest comprise of sovereign wealth
funds and other asset managers, Yong said. About 50 percent of
its investors are from  Europe , he said.  The fund has a “clawback” arrangement under which as much
as half of the 20 percent performance fee earned is repaid to
investors if the fund loses money in the next year, he said.  Dymon Asia started an office in Hong Kong this month to be
close to the offshore yuan market and regulators there, hiring
Li Chee Chung as senior portfolio manager, Yong said. Li was the
former head of foreign exchange, non-deliverable forward and
interest-rate trading at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.’s Hong Kong
unit and previously ran Asian non-deliverable forward trading at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Singapore .  Convertible Yuan  The start of the offshore yuan market in  Hong Kong  last
year is “the precursor” to  China  making its currency fully
convertible in the next two to three years, Yong said. The daily
turnover of the offshore yuan market in Hong Kong is set to grow
to $3 billion to $5 billion by the end of this year, from around
$750 million currently, he said.  “There will be a lot of trading opportunities as the
Chinese and Hong Kong authorities fine-tune regulations for this
market,” said Yong.  The fund focuses mainly on Asian currencies, futures and  interest rates , said Yong, the former head of Southeast Asia
foreign exchange and interest-rate derivatives trading at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The Asian macro fund started trading in August 2008 with
$113 million in initial capital from Tudor, the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund company founded by  Paul Tudor Jones , as well as partners and employees, Yong said. It started
taking money from outside investors in August 2009, after it
separated from Abax, an asset manager part-owned by Morgan
Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  