-- 
eAccess to Refinance 165 Billion Yen Mobile Unit Debt With Loans and Bonds

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 
2011-03-09T03:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/eaccess-to-refinance-165-billion-yen-mobile-unit-debt-with-loans-and-bonds.html
  eAccess Ltd. (9427) , the Japanese  Internet
service provider , plans to refinance 165 billion yen ($2 billion)
of a mobile communications unit’s debt with a combination of new
loans and bonds.  The Tokyo-based company will borrow as much as 165 billion
yen for its eMobile Ltd. unit depending on how much it raises
from bonds, it said in a stock exchange filing today. The five-
year facility will pay interest of 3.75 percentage points more
than the Tokyo interbank offered rate, the filing shows.  Mizuho Bank Ltd., Credit Agricole SA, ING Groep N.V. and
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. are arranging the loans, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not
to be identified as the information is private. UBS AG,  Credit
Agricole  and ING will arrange bond investor meetings from
tomorrow ahead of an offer of seven-year senior notes in dollars
and euros, another person said.  eAccess aims to “strengthen its mid- and long-term
financial base” by repaying eMobile debt, the statement said.
It plans to refinance 220 billion yen of eMobile’s loans, two
people familiar with the matter said in January.  eMobile agreed to a loan for working capital in 2006 that’s
due to mature in April 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 179 billion yen of the facility was outstanding
as of Dec. 31, the data show.  Moody’s Japan K.K. assigned a provisional Ba3 rating to the
unsecured bonds, its third-highest non-investment grade, the
risk assessor said in a statement today.  Standard & Poor’s 
assigned the notes its second-highest junk rating of BB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 