-- 
Eagles’ China Ticket Prices Ask Fans to Take It to the Limit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T03:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/eagles-china-tickets-at-three-weeks-pay-ask-fans-to-take-it-to-the-limit.html
Wang Jianhua, who serenades
passengers with "Hotel California" and "Desperado" as he drives
his taxi through Beijing, proclaims himself one of  China ’s
biggest Eagles fans. That’s the closest he’ll get to the band
when they play their first gigs in the country this week.  “I’d love to go to the concert, but I don’t have enough
money,” said the 42-year-old taxi driver, who counts “Take it
to the Limit” as one of his favorite hits.  As Western acts add China to their itineraries, companies
such as Eagles promoter  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)  are
finding it a challenge to fill seats and still charge U.S.-style
ticket prices. Even with adjustments to reflect local spending
power, a mid-range ticket for the Eagles’ two shows in China
is priced at 1,080 yuan ($164), the equivalent of about three
weeks' pay for the average city dweller.  “This is a high-end artist, with high ticket prices
globally for a high-end show for high-end clientele,” said Luke Hede, vice president of international booking in  Asia  for Live
Nation. “We try to make it as accessible as we can, but
realistically in China, the average person is not yet
interested.”  The Eagles, whose best hits collection ranks as the top-
selling U.S. album, arrive 25 years after Wham! became the first
Western pop group to perform in China in 1986. Composer Jean-
Michel Jarre in 1981 was the first western musician to play in
China since the Mao Zedong-led Communist revolution in 1949.  Since then, a growing number of pop-and-rock acts have
played China, the world’s second-biggest economy, including the  Rolling Stones  in 2006,  Eric Clapton  and Roger Waters in 2007, 
and Avril Lavigne in 2008. Three days after the Eagles play 
their opening night at  Shanghai ’s Mercedes-Benz Arena tonight, 
Usher will perform there. The band plays in Beijing March 12.  Ticket Prices  Eagles tickets in China range from 350 yuan to 2,580
yuan. Seats were still available for both shows as of today,
according to the website of Live Nation, the world’s largest
concert promoter.  Tickets are selling well and were “tracking where we had
hoped to be a week out from the show,” Hede said in a March 6
phone interview from  Melbourne , where he’s based. More than a
quarter of the tickets were offered at the two lowest prices,
350 yuan and 580 yuan, to reflect local spending power, he said.  Average annual per-capita urban incomes in China have risen
25-fold to 19,109 yuan last year, from about 739 yuan when Wham!
played, according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  Local Talent  Some Chinese artists, including Faye Wong, charge prices
comparable with the Eagles, Hede said. Tickets for Wong’s
Shanghai concerts in November cost as much as 2,500 yuan, while
the cheapest seats were 300 yuan and 500 yuan, according to the
Shanghai Cultural Information website.  That some consumers can pay such prices is partly a
reflection of China’s wealth gap. China’s Gini coefficient, an
income-distribution gauge used by economists, has climbed to
almost 0.5 from less than 0.3 a quarter century ago, according
to Li Shi, a School of Economics and Business professor at
Beijing Normal University. The measure ranges from 0 to 1, with
0 meaning total equality.  Reversing the widening income gap is one of China’s top
economic priorities, China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a state-
of-the-nation speech this week.  ‘Crap Shoot’  Whether a China show makes money for a Western act is a
“crap shoot,” because prices make it hard to fill venues, said
Archie Hamilton, managing director of Split Works, a Beijing-and
Shanghai-based concert promotion company.  “It’s almost impossible to graft a Western model onto the
Chinese economy,” Hamilton said. “The figures don’t add up for
big artists because most want more money than the market can
bear.”  Performances in China by top Western acts are still rare.
For some acts, the motivation is “wrenching open the Bamboo
Curtain,” said Jon Campbell. His Toronto-based company YGTwo
Productions promotes concerts in China.  “Trips to China are often more about the story of having
been to China, or, in the case of someone like the Stones, who
were trying to get to China since the ‘70s, or Eagles, planting
the flag in the rare spot where none has been planted before,’’
said Campbell, who lived in China for 10 years.  Worth the Money  Larry Solters, a spokesman for the Eagles, declined to
comment. Hede at Live Nation said the first tour is a ‘‘stepping
stone’’ for the band to build its China audience.  In addition to ticket-price economics, there are cultural
issues in China, where more than 90 percent of adults haven’t
been to a live performance of popular music, Hamilton said. Even
those who can afford tickets need to be convinced it’s worth the
money, he said.  ‘‘Getting kids into live venues is the first step, because
that’s not part of the cultural marketplace,” Hamilton said.  That may explain why Wang’s inability to afford tickets
doesn’t diminish his love for the band.  “I never thought they’d come to China, so I never really
hoped I’d have a chance to see them in person,” Wang said.
“Anyway, I can watch them at home on DVD.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  