-- 
Hearst Magazines ‘Optimistic’ About Resolving Dispute With Apple

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T23:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hearst-magazines-optimistic-about-resolving-dispute-with-apple.html
  David Carey , president of Hearst
Magazines, said he’s “optimistic” that major publishers will
be able reach an agreement with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  about selling
subscriptions for the computer maker’s iPad tablet.  Hearst Magazines, a unit of New York-based  Hearst Corp .
with more than 200 titles around the world, is among the big
publishers trying to reach an agreement with Apple. Carey said
he is concerned about getting access to information about people
who subscribe to his company’s magazines on the iPad.  “I don’t think the publishing industry and Apple are on
the same page relative to the data discussion,” said Carey at
the Bloomberg Media Summit in  New York . “We do not want to be
disconnected from who the subscribers are. I’m going to be
optimistic that the big publishers and Apple will find a way to
work together.”  Hearst’s  14 U.S. titles  include Cosmopolitan, Esquire, and
O: The Oprah Magazine.  Apple last month started a subscription service for
publishers of newspapers, magazines and other content
applications.  News Corp. (NWSA)  is offering subscriptions to the Daily,
its new digital-only news publication, through Apple.  Apple has refused to release some consumer information to
publishers for customers who buy subscriptions directly through
its App Store, which has been a sticking point for some
publishers, including the closely held Hearst and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s magazine group, Time Inc.  Data Questions  “The big questions revolve around data,” Carey said.
“This is true of all the new platforms that are coming out. Who
owns the customer?”  One possible solution, Carey said, will be for publishers
to create “bespoke,” or custom-created publications for Apple
instead of making their existing products available on the iPad.
With that approach, similar to News Corp.’s the Daily,
publishers can avoid losing access to data about consumers of
their existing products, he said.  “I think our company and other companies are looking at
exactly that,” Carey said.  “Our subscription service is available to publishers of
content-based apps on the App Store, including magazines and
newspapers,” Apple spokesman  Tom Neumayr  said. “We believe
this is a great opportunity for publishers to expand digital
access to the content.”  Carey said there’s a promising future for tablet computers
and electronic readers, such as  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s Nook.  He said he could “imagine the day that 20 to 25 percent of
circulation” would come from selling magazines on tablet
formats.  “It’s going to take a few years to get there,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 