-- 
Heavy Rain to Cause Floods in Parts of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-09T21:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/heavy-rain-to-cause-floods-in-parts-of-new-york-new-jersey-pennsylvania.html
Heavy rain in  New York  and the
Middle Atlantic states is threatening to drive the Passaic,
Susquehanna and Delaware rivers over their banks by this
weekend, according to the  National Weather Service .  As much as 3.5 inches (9 centimeters) of rain may fall in
parts of New York, Pennsylvania and  New Jersey  from a system
that’s expected to enter the area late today, said Bob Fenner,
senior hydrologist at the  Middle Atlantic River Forecast Center 
in State College, Pennsylvania.  “We expect to have moderate flooding at most locations in
the Passaic basin over the week and into the weekend,” Fenner
said by telephone. “It should be a fairly widespread event for
the Middle Atlantic states.”  Flood warnings and watches extend from  New Hampshire  to  Louisiana  because of a low pressure system that’s moving across
the Midwest, pushing heavy rain and thunderstorms ahead of it. A
year ago, heavy rains drove rivers across New Jersey out of
their banks, causing widespread flooding throughout the region.  Flooding damaged 7,337 homes in New Jersey and prompted
President Obama to declare a disaster in the state, according to
the  Federal Emergency Management Agency .  The Passaic River at Pine Brook, New Jersey, reached its
third-highest crest of 22.32 feet (7 meters) in March 2010 and
the current forecast calls for a crest higher than that by this
weekend.  In Little Falls, where flooding is also expected by this
weekend, officials have readied a shelter for resident who may
have to evacuate and two more for pets, according to the
township website.  Susquehanna River  The Susquehanna River in Wilkes-Barre,  Pennsylvania , is
expected to crest at 31 feet, or 9 feet above flood stage, by
this weekend, according to the weather service.  “We are looking at pretty significant flooding on the main
stem of the Susquehanna from the Pennsylvania-New York border
all the way down to the Pennsylvania-Maryland border,” Fenner
said.  The Delaware River at New Hope, Pennsylvania, is expected
to rise more than a foot above flood stage by this weekend,
according to the weather service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 