-- 
EFG Reports Improved Margins, Assets of Billionaire Client Nationalized

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-03-09T13:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/efg-reports-loss-on-asset-manager-write-offs-second-half-margins-improve.html
  EFG International AG (EFGN) , the Swiss bank
managing money for 300 to 400 billionaires, said asset margins
increased in the second half of last year even as the wealth of
one Latin American client was nationalized.  EFG shares rose as much as 6.3 percent in Zurich after the
bank’s core revenue margin climbed to 95 basis points from 92
basis points in the first half. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point. Margins have improved further this year, Chief Executive
Officer Lawrence Howell said today on a conference call.  EFG, controlled by Greek billionaire Spiro Latsis and his
family, said assets under management fell 1.7 percent to 84.8
billion Swiss francs ($91 billion) in 2010 as a stronger franc
offset client inflows. The bank is targeting double-digit
private client asset growth over the next two to three years.  “The outlook comment is quite upbeat and the margins have
picked up, so all in all it is an OK set of results,” said  Peter Thorne , a London-based analyst with Helvea. “We’ve had so
many disappointments from the company over the last couple of
years, there is a bit of relief there’s nothing awful in the
woodwork.”  EFG posted the biggest intraday gain in more than a month
and was trading 5.2 percent higher at 14.20 francs as of 1:15
p.m. in Zurich. The stock has dropped 14 percent over the past
12 months, making it the third-worst performer on the 24-company
Swiss Exchange Market Sector Bank Price Return Index.  About 1.9 billion francs of one client’s assets were taken
“by the dictator running this Latin American country,” said
Howell, who declined to be more specific. “It’s not every day
that really large nationalizations happen.”  Franc Hurts  EFG doesn’t hold any assets from Mohammed  Hosni Mubarak ,
the former president of  Egypt ,  Libya ’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi ,
or  Tunisia ’s ousted president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Net inflows of 9.7 billion francs last year were offset by
a 10.1 billion-franc “negative impact” from the strong Swiss
currency, Zurich-based EFG said today in a  statement .  EFG swung to a full-year net loss of 721.8 million francs,
compared with a profit of 101.1 million francs a year earlier
after posting write-offs on three asset managers.  The bank in July cut the value of its stakes in C.M.
Advisors Ltd., a fund of  hedge funds , Derivatives Structured
Asset Management, a Swedish money manager, and hedge fund firm
Marble Bar Asset Management LLP, after earnings at the three
businesses tumbled. EFG spent more than 1.5 billion francs on
acquiring 14 money managers between 2005 and 2008 as part of a
strategy to build client assets.  EFG hired 25 private bankers during the year, the bottom
end of its current target range. That brought the total to 675.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  