-- 
EFG Eurobank to Boost Serbian Loan Portfolio 10% This Year

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-09T15:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/efg-eurobank-to-boost-serbian-loan-portfolio-10-this-year.html
  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EFG) ,  Greece ’s
second-biggest lender, plans to boost loans in Serbia by 10
percent for the second-straight year as investments grow in the
former Yugoslav republic.  Eurobank is one of four Greek banks operating in Serbia,
along with Vojvodjanska Banka, a unit of National Bank of
Greece, Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank SA, and the sixth-biggest
lender in the nearby Balkan nation.  Serbia is working to attract foreign investment and tighten
ties with the European Union, which it wants to eventually join,
to secure a recovery from its worst economic recession since the
1990s breakup of  Yugoslavia . Though the investment inflow is
still at a trickle, Eurobank is boosting its portfolio by self-
funding local means, said Chief Executive Officer Philippos
Karamanolis.  “We want to further grow our presence in  Serbia ,”
Karamanolis said in an interview. While “non-performing loans
are a concern, the challenge we have as bankers at the moment is
to manage a lot of different targets at the same time --
liquidity, growth, NPLs -- all this is a much more complex job
than in the past.”  Non-performing loans fell to 17.2 percent at the end of
2010, according to the National Bank of Serbia figures.  Karamanolis said he expects no changes in the makeup of the
banking industry in 2011 because foreign banks will be wary to
step into the Serbian market because they still struggle with
recovery at home.  ‘Slow, Fragile’ Recovery  “If we see anything, it will be on a very small level,”
he said.  Serbia’s expected growth of 3 percent this year is still
“slow and fragile,” he said.  “It’s a slow recovery, people still do not feel a big
difference in their pockets, but it’s definitely a step in the
right direction,” Karamanolis said.  Inflation, which the central bank wants to bring close to 6
percent in the second half of the year, is expected to
decelerate through the year, Karamanolis said. The dinar will
start depreciating “mildly” this year as the two-week
repurchase rate is trimmed, he said.  “We do not expect any significant volatility this year,
nothing like last year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  