-- 
Egypt May Keep Deposit Rate Unchanged at 8.25% as Crisis Batters Economy

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-09T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/egypt-may-keep-deposit-rate-unchanged-as-crisis-batters-economy.html
  Egypt ’s  central bank  will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at a four-year low as the
economy reels from the effects of a revolt that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , outweighing concerns about faster inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Farouk El-Okdah, will
keep the overnight deposit rate at 8.25 percent, according to
four of five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. One analyst
forecast an increase of a quarter point. The Cairo-based bank
typically meets at 3 p.m. Cairo time and announces the decision
two hours later.  The turmoil that accompanied the uprising caused tourists
to flee, companies and banks to close and foreign investors to
dump Egyptian treasury bills. Borrowing costs have also climbed
and the currency dropped to a six-year low against the  U.S.
dollar  last month, prompting the central bank to use its
official reserves to buy pounds.  “Interest rates won’t move in this climate,” John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief economist of Banque Saudi
Fransi, said by e-mail. “If they do then they’ll be in the
business of stifling growth at a time of acute growth challenges
and a fall in economic activity.”  Economic growth may slow this year to about 4 percent from
5.1 percent in the fiscal year that ended in June, Finance
Minister Samir Radwan said on Feb. 12. Inflation probably
climbed to 11.5 percent in February from 10.8 percent in the
previous month, according to the median estimate of three
economists in the survey.    Exchange Rate   The central bank’s reserves have fallen by about $1.7
billion in the last two months to reach $33.3 billion in
February, according to central bank data.  The pound has depreciated 1.6 percent to 5.91 against the
dollar since anti-government protesters took to the streets on
Jan. 25. It weakened to 5.95 on Feb. 7 before the central bank
intervened in the market to avoid a disorderly drop.  Still, the central bank may eventually allow the exchange
rate to weaken even more in a bid to attract tourists and spur
export growth, said Turker Hamzaoglu, a London-based economist
at Bank of America Corp.-Merrill Lynch & Co.  “The Egyptian pound has to weaken rather than have a rate
cut,” Hamzaoglu said in a telephone interview. “Eventually it
will happen once the stock market is back with capital
outflow.”  The Egyptian bourse closed after the Jan. 27 session amid
the anti-Mubarak protests, with the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
plunging 16 percent in the previous two days of trading. The
exchange hasn’t set a date for opening.  The unrest may reduce economic growth in the most populous
Arab country down to zero or 1.5 percent “at best,” Kai Stukenbrock, Dubai-based director for the company’s  Europe ,
Middle East and Africa sovereign-ratings group, said on March 7.  Alternative Plan  What the central bank may instead do in an attempt to
support growth and curb inflation is to raise the overnight
deposit rate by a quarter of a percentage point and keep its
overnight lending rate unchanged at 9.75 percent,  Alia Mamdouh ,
Cairo-based economist at investment bank CI Capital, said by e-
mail.  The central bank said in a March 7 statement that it has
extended an exemption on a cash cover for meat, poultry and
sugar imports until the end of 2011, stressing “its role to
support the national economy.”  Food and non-alcoholic beverages make up the biggest
component of the  consumer price index , according to government
data.  Juhayna Food Industries (JUFO) , the country’s biggest publicly
traded producer of packaged milk, said on Feb. 13 that it met
only 75 percent of demand from customers during the unrest.  Juhayna shares fell 0.9 percent to 5.47 Egyptian pounds on
Jan. 27, paring the company’s gain since its initial public
offering last June to 26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 