-- 
Egypt GDRs Slide, Pound Falls to Month-Low on Sectarian Clashes

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-09T16:51:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/egypt-gdrs-slide-pound-falls-to-month-low-on-sectarian-clashes.html
All Egyptian shares trading in  London  retreated and the Egyptian pound fell to the lowest level
in a month after 13 people were killed in clashes between
Muslims and Christians in Cairo.  Global depository receipts of Orascom Construction
Industries, the country’s biggest publicly traded builder,
dropped the most in a week.  Commercial International Bank Egypt
SAE (CBKD) , the country’s biggest publicly traded lender, lost 0.7
percent. The pound slipped 0.1 percent to 5.9125 per dollar, the
lowest close since Feb. 7.  “Tensions between Muslims and Christians are adding to an
already unstable situation,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh, senior
equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial International
Brokerage Co. “GDRs are part of the Egyptian market and their
performance reflects local instability.”  Trading on  Egypt ’s stock exchange has been suspended since
Jan. 27 amid a popular revolt that toppled the 30-year-old
regime of Hosni Mubarak. The revolt brought the North African
country’s economy to a standstill as tourists fled and
government borrowing costs rose to their highest since 2009.  Violence between Muslims and Christians erupted this week
in Cairo as Christians protested the destruction of a church in
a village south of the capital. Christians make up an estimated
10 percent of Egypt’s population.  Commercial International Bank traded at $5.37 at the 3:40
p.m. close in London, its fourth decline in five days. Orascom
Construction lost 0.8 percent to $36.05.    Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (OTLD) , North Africa’s biggest mobile
network operator, dropped 0.8 percent to $3.065.  Algeria ’s
government said yesterday it will negotiate with the company to
buy its local unit, Djezzy, after its valuation is completed in
June to avoid arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  