-- 
Melrose Seeks $800 Million Acquisition While Selling Dynacast

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-03-09T11:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/melrose-seeks-800-million-acquisition-while-selling-dynacast.html
  Melrose Plc (MRO)  aims to acquire a
manufacturer or engineering company worth more than $800 million
as it begins a sale process for its Dynacast business, Chief
Financial Officer Geoff Martin said.  The company said today it is trying to sell Dynacast, which
makes razor handles and mobile-phone parts. Martin wouldn’t say
who possible suitors were, but the business “has potential
buyers,” he said.  Melrose’s full-year net income rose 77 percent to 141.1
million pounds ($228 million) as sales climbed and financing
costs and taxes fell, the company said today in a statement.  “We’re in a process and we’ll see where that leads us,”
Martin said in a telephone interview. “If a buyer gives us the
price we want, we’ll sell it, but if not, we’ll hold on to it;
it’s a well-performing asset.”  The company is also looking for acquisitions, he said,
whether or not Dynacast is sold. The target will be a
manufacturer or engineer, and will be “underperforming in some
way,” he said. It will be worth 500 million pounds or more, and
could be based anywhere, he said.  Melrose looks at the percentage of profit a target makes on
revenue compared with competitors as a measure of whether it’s
underperforming, he said. Companies with poor management,
businesses failing to recover the costs of raw materials from
customers as commodity prices rise and those underinvesting in
factories and equipment make good targets, he said. Melrose can
then improve margins, he said.  “We don’t get that by magic dust, we get it by investing
money in the businesses or changing management,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  