-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for a Second Day as Oil Extends Its Decline

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-09T22:48:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-second-day-as-oil-extends-decline.html
Most emerging-market stocks gained
as prospects for faster economic growth in emerging markets from  China  to South Korea and reports OPEC may boost output offset
concerns oil supplies will be disrupted.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
1,135.67 as 425 shares of the 812 tracked by the benchmark rose.
Chinese stocks gained 0.1 percent,  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, increased 0.2 percent and South
Korea’s  Kospi index (KOSPI)  climbed 0.3 percent. Dubai shares rallied
after Bahrain’s foreign minister said the Gulf Cooperation
Council will discuss an aid package. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  jumped 2
percent.  Kuwait’s oil minister, Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah,
said members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries considered talks about increasing production to
compensate for disruptions in Libya, where rebel fighters came
under fire from rocket barrages and air strikes. Oil fell for a
second day in  New York  after supplies surged at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for West Texas Intermediate, the
U.S. benchmark grade.  “The market will gradually shift away from concern about
oil prices to the strong recovery in emerging economies,” said
Danny Yan, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Haitong
International Asset Management, which oversees $600 million.
“Oil prices getting too high adds pressure on the market.”  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks rose 1.3
percent, its fifth straight gain, on the possible OPEC move and
as the region’s states weighed the aid plan. Dubai’s  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  surged 2.2 percent.  ‘Perfect Constellation’  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul Index rose 0.6 percent. Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, the chairman of Kingdom Holding Co., was due
to announce today investments the company is making in the Saudi
stock market, Asharq al-Awsat reported, citing a company
statement.  “There is a perfect constellation of short-term positive
factors at play in the markets, which given how badly shares
were beaten down, investors have taken to with gusto,” said
Shehzad Janab, the head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC, which oversees more than 5.5 billion dirhams
($1.5 billion).  Violence in  Libya , Africa’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut oil output by as much as 1 million barrels a day,
according to the International Energy Agency. The North African
country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from
1.59 million the previous month, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  Turkey, Korea  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  jumped 1.9 percent on an
earlier decline in the price of oil, which accounts for a fifth
of Turkey’s imports, and as banks advanced after the anti-trust
regulator fined lenders less than analysts expected. The lira
strengthened 0.6 percent against the dollar.  Woori Finance Holdings Co. advanced 3.5 percent in Seoul
and Shinhan Financial Group Co. climbed 1.2 percent.  South Korea 
central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo may raise  interest rates  by
a quarter percentage point to 3 percent tomorrow, according to
all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Banks seem to be rallying as investors bet on a Bank of
Korea rate increase at tomorrow’s meeting, which will help
improve their lending margins,” said Sung Byung Soo, a banking
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc.  The year-on-year change in South Korea’s index of leading
economic indicators, which forecasts business activity, rose 0.2
percentage point in January from a month earlier, the first
increase in 13 months, Statistics Korea said last week.  Vietnam, Mexico  Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index dropped 1
percent, the most among Asian indexes after  Sri Lanka , as the
central bank raised borrowing costs for a third time in as many
weeks.  The State Bank of  Vietnam  raised the refinancing rate to 12
percent from 11 percent effective yesterday, according to a
statement on the central bank’s website.  Mexico’s IPC Index fell 0.7 percent, helped by a 1.7
percent drop by Mexico’s largest fixed-line telephone provider,
Telefonos de Mexico SAB. The company, known as Telmex, approved
a split into two companies to separate its phone business in
rural and low-income areas, according to a filing. Telmex may
use the split to create a new share listing.  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell 1.1 percent, led by a 2.9
percent drop of Vale SA after metals prices dropped and Folha de
S.Paulo reported that the Brazilian government is seeking 4
billion reais ($2.4 billion) of overdue royalty payments from
the miner.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and  Africa  credit-default swaps rose 75 basis points
to 196.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and  U.S. Treasuries  widened 6 basis points
to 254, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  