-- 
Eni's 41-Year Qaddafi Link Means Lowest Oil Industry Valuation as CDS Jump

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-09T12:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/eni-s-41-year-qaddafi-link-means-lowest-oil-industry-valuation-as-cds-jump.html
  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s four-decade relationship
with Muammar Qaddafi’s regime in Libya has exacerbated its
position as the cheapest stock with the highest credit risk
among the world’s largest oil companies.  The company’s reserves are valued at about $8.20 a barrel,
the lowest in  Europe  based on enterprise value, a measure of
equity and debt minus cash, according to analysts at Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch. Since the uprising against Qaddafi
started on Feb. 16, Eni’s share price has fallen relative to its
peers and the cost of insuring Eni’s debt has risen 28 percent.  Eni, whose success negotiating oil deals in  Africa  helped
make it Libya’s largest producer, has shut about 9 percent of
its total global output because of the conflict. As the biggest
foreign investor in Libya, Eni is at the center of Italy’s
relationship with its former colony. In turn, Libya owns stakes
in Italian companies, ranging from Milan-based bank  Unicredit
SpA (UCG)  to defense contractor  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in Rome.  “It’s natural that the markets are jittery about Eni,”
said Patrizio Pazzaglia, the Rome-based head of financial
investments at Bank Insinger de Beaufort NV, who owns Eni
shares. “Until very recently, North Africa wasn’t a risky
choice. These were the moderate states, compared with places
like Iran and Iraq, so it was unforeseeable.”  Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni , 64, will make his
annual strategy presentation to investors in  London  tomorrow. He
will need to draw on the company’s diplomatic heritage to
navigate Libya’s slide into civil war and protect its
investments, said Ettore Greco, head of the IAI Institute for
International Affairs in Rome.  Roots in Libya  “I’m sure Eni has its men talking to everyone,” Greco
said. “They are perfectly placed to do that because they’ve
been in the country a very long time, but there’s a limit until
we know how things will work out. Eni is particularly exposed
and will likely suffer damage from the Libyan situation.”  Eni’s Milan-traded shares are trading 4 percent below this
year’s high of 18.66 euros on Feb. 16, before armed protests
against Qaddafi’s regime in eastern Libya. Shares of  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , BP Plc and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  rose in the past month
as  oil prices  climbed to two-year highs above $100 a barrel.  The dividend yield investors demand to hold Eni shares
stands at 5.6 percent, the highest of the world’s biggest energy
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eni’s Greenstream natural gas pipeline linking Libya and
Sicily is shut and production in the North African country is
reduced about two-thirds, Scaroni said in an interview with the
Financial Times published today. The company is now producing
about 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, compared with
270,000 barrels before the uprising, the newspaper said.  Rebels’ Regime  An Eni spokesman declined to comment on current production
in Libya and whether contact had been made with rebel groups.  “The risk is they have to renegotiate with a new regime
and may lose their contracts and the acreage,” said  Andrea Williams , a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management in
London, who hasn’t sold her Eni shares because she expects the
company to weather the conflict.  The cost of insuring Eni’s debt is the highest among the 10
largest  oil companies  in Europe and the U.S. The price of a
five-year credit default swap for Eni exceeded 100 basis points
this week, compared with 58 for Shell, Europe’s largest oil
company. A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Eni has a lower valuation than peers because it owns power
and oil engineering businesses that other producers don’t have,
according to Bank of America-Merrill Lynch analyst Alejandro Demichelis, who raised his rating on Eni to “buy” yesterday
because the stock is relatively inexpensive.  State Stakeholders  Italy’s Economic Ministry holds 3.9 percent of Eni and
state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti owns 26 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eni’s reputation for politically controversial partnerships
evolved in the 1950s under the company’s first chairman, Enrico
Mattei. His initiatives included forming a production agreement
with Iran’s Shah. He also negotiated with the Soviet Union and
anti-French rebels in  Algeria , according to The Prize by  Daniel Yergin , a history of the oil industry.  Mattei took Eni to Libya in 1959, 10 years before Muammar Qaddafi’s military coup.  “Eni was known as  Italy ’s real foreign ministry in the
days of Enrico Mattei because it had a huge impact in certain
parts of the world where there was oil and gas,” IAI’s Greco
said. “More recently, Eni and the government have also worked
together.”  Berlusconi’s Role  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  helped set up a natural-
gas supply venture between Moscow-based OAO Gazprom and Eni with
Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. Berlusconi also
negotiated a treaty with Libya after the government apologized
for crimes committed under colonial rule from 1911 to 1943.  On March 5, Italy imposed a freeze on Libyan assets under a
wider ban by the  United Nations . Libya has investments in
Juventus Football Club, Italy’s most successful soccer team, in
addition to Unicredit and Finmeccanica.  “Libyan sovereign funds complicate matters further,”
said Giuseppe Di Taranto, an economics professor at Luiss
University. “The situation is so difficult, the best thing to
do is avoid making any decisions and keep all options open.”  Close to Tripoli  Eni’s  most important field  in  Libya  is the Bahr Esslam
deposit off the coast near Libya’s capital Tripoli. Started six
years ago, it produced about 122,000 barrels a day of gas and
associated liquids for Eni in 2009, according to a report on the
company’s website.  The company’s other major fields in the west of the country
include Wafa, south of Tripoli, which pumped 88,000 barrels a
day in 2009. The company produced a total of 1.95 million
barrels day of oil and gas globally in the fourth quarter of
last year.  “Eni is losing volumes, but they would think that a
possible new regime would have every interest in keeping the oil
and gas pumping,” said  Jason Kenney , an oil industry analyst at
ING Wholesale Banking in Edinburgh, who rates Eni a hold.
“Libya and Italy have their history, and there are many in
Libya in a possible new regime that may still appreciate support
from Italy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  