-- 
Merck KGaA Woos Investors Irked by `Bunker' Culture, Dearth of New Drugs

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-03-10T17:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/merck-kgaa-seeks-fix-for-bunker-culture-to-woo-drug-investors.html
Merck KGaA Chief Financial Officer-
designate Matthias Zachert may make his first task repairing the
German company’s relationship with investors and analysts as he
seeks to revive one of  Europe ’s worst-performing drug stocks.  Morgan Stanley’s Andrew Baum last month questioned Merck’s
ability to develop new drugs and wondered why it didn’t give up
on the business. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s  Jack Scannell  in
October said the company’s American  investor-relations 
representatives left more frequently than at other drugmakers.
Executives haven’t been as open and available as investors would
like, Ulrich Huwald of MM Warburg Investment Research said.  “Merck’s investor relations were strange,” Scannell, who
has covered the company since 2006 and rates the shares “market
perform,” said in a telephone interview. “The individuals in
IR tried to be helpful, but it was as if they were locked in a
bunker away from the rest of the business. So, for example, if
you had a question that they had not answered before, it could
take a very, very long time to get an answer.”  Turning around that perception may help Merck’s stock
recover some of the ground it’s lost in the past five years.
Shares of the drug and chemical company have fallen 11 percent
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 2.1 percent drop
in the Bloomberg European Pharmaceutical Index. Chief Executive
Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley promised analysts last month he would
personally work to improve the company’s communication.  Rebuilding Credibility  Kley surprised analysts in January by calling them
individually. The company on Jan. 1 brought in a new head of
pharmaceuticals and on Jan. 25 said Chief Financial Officer
Michael Becker, 62, would retire after 11 years and be replaced
by Zachert, the 43-year-old finance chief at  Lanxess AG (LXS) , a
German chemical company. Zachert will join Merck by June 1.  “Clearly we are in a position of trying to rebuild
credibility,” Joshua Young, head of investor relations at the
Darmstadt, Germany-based company since November, said in a
telephone interview. “In the course of 2011, we hope to take
steps to do that.”  The stock rose 37 cents, or 0.6 percent, to close at 66.34
euros in Frankfurt trading today. Merck sells for 9.2 times
estimated profit, compared with an average of 16.7 for global
competitors of similar size.  Merck traces its  roots  to 1668, when Friedrich Jacob Merck
acquired a pharmacy in Darmstadt. Its New York subsidiary became
independent in the confiscation of German properties after World
War I, and now  Merck KGaA (MRK)  and Merck & Co. of the U.S. have no
connection other than sharing a similar name.  Merck Family  Merck & Co. has grown to a market value of $102.6 billion,
dwarfing Merck KGaA’s 14.4 billion euros ($19.9 billion). The
German company is 70 percent owned by the Merck family through
the parent company  E. Merck KG . The roughly 130 family members
choose representatives who hire, fire and set compensation for
company executives, according to the company’s website.  Family ownership doesn’t insulate the company from the
effect of poor communication, said Cornelia Thomas, a London-
based analyst for WestLB AG, who rates Merck’s shares
“reduce.” “People do get ticked off if the company doesn’t
properly communicate,” she said in a telephone interview.  The most pronounced example was Feb. 23, 2010, the day
Merck released its 2009 earnings, Thomas said. The stock opened
down 6.2 percent after the company surprised investors with
disappointing earnings and a reduced dividend.  “During the analysts’ meeting that day the share dropped
another 3 percent to 4 percent, at least partly because they
weren’t answering questions,” she said. The stock finished the
day with a drop of 10 percent.  Erbitux Rejected  Merck began to lose credibility in July 2009, when European
regulators rejected its cancer drug Erbitux for use in lung
tumors, said Odile Rundquist, a Geneva-based analyst for Helvea
SA, who rates Merck’s shares “neutral.”  In November 2009, U.S. regulators said the company’s
application for the multiple sclerosis pill cladribine, at the
time its most promising experimental medicine, wasn’t complete.
In September, the European Medicines Agency rejected the drug.
This month, the treatment failed again to win FDA backing.  Before the setbacks, the company’s former head of
pharmaceuticals, Elmar Schnee, told analysts he was confident
the company would be able to bring the products to market.  “Schnee would make persistently optimistic noises but not
explain the reason for his optimism,” Bernstein’s Scannell
said. “And then lo and behold, the FDA or EMA would turn the
product down.” Merck replaced Schnee with Stefan Oschmann,
formerly head of emerging markets at Merck & Co. Efforts to
reach Schnee were unsuccessful.  Buying and Selling  The family has run Merck like a combination of a drug and
chemical maker and a private-equity firm that makes money buying
and selling businesses, Scannell wrote in a report last year.
Merck acquired Swiss drugmaker Serono SA in 2007 for 16.6
billion francs ($17.9 billion) and bought Millipore Corp., a
U.S. supplier of materials and equipment to biotechnology
companies, for $6 billion last year. Merck sold its generic-drug
unit to Mylan Inc. for 4.9 billion euros in 2007.  Beyond communicating better, the company needs to revive
its drug business, Scannell said. Merck doesn’t have an
experimental medicine close to market with significant sales
potential, so the company may need to invest, possibly through
another acquisition, he said.  Morgan Stanley’s Baum suggested last month the company
should consider quitting the pharmaceutical business. It’s
unlikely the Serono drug unit will earn a return on its
investment in research that exceeds the cost of capital, Baum,
who rates the shares “underweight,” wrote in a note last
month.  Merck Pipeline  He told executives at a conference he was “perplexed” by
the decision to invest $65 million in a drug-research site near  Boston , “given the lack of anything really coming out of Merck
research labs for decades.”  Kley conceded that “little has come out of the Merck
pipeline over the last years,” and said a research network in
the U.S. may help the company’s output.  Zachert help restructure Lanxess during seven years as CFO
and did a “good job” at communicating with investors, Deutsche
Bank AG analysts said in a Jan. 25 report. Lanxess shares have
more than tripled since the company was spun off from  Bayer AG (BAYN) 
in 2005. He’s likely to influence Merck’s strategy as well as
the way it communicates with markets, said MM Warburg’s Huwald,
who rates Merck’s shares “buy,” in a telephone interview.  “Clearly Merck has to do something, not only in
communication,” Huwald said. “It’s a good sign that Zachert is
joining.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  