-- 
Merkel Demands Fiscal Rule Obedience as Competitiveness Pact Resurfaces

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-03-10T11:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/merkel-demands-rule-obedience-as-competitiveness-pact-resurfaces.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said that European Union governments must all adhere to fiscal
rules to spur growth, as the EU neared agreement on the text of
a plan to raise competitiveness across the region.  Merkel, speaking on the eve of the first of two EU summits
that aim to snuff out the euro-area debt crisis, said that
German competitiveness is under assault from countries such as
China, Brazil and  India . Only “if everyone keeps to the rules”
will  Europe  as a whole be able to compete on the global stage.  “It’s important that if we jointly represent Europe, we
ensure that this Europe is strong,” Merkel said in a speech
late yesterday in Demmin, northern  Germany . “We can’t give
ourselves rules and then have some repeatedly flouting these
rules.”  Merkel’s comments offer no let up in the pressure on debt-
wracked states to do more to control runaway deficits even as
bond yields in  Portugal  and  Greece  touched euro-era records and
Spain suffered a credit rating downgrade. Her stance risks
deepening rifts with so-called peripheral states as she insists
that EU leaders agree to do more to bolster competitiveness at a
summit tomorrow rather than step up crisis-fighting efforts.  ‘More Blood-Shedding’  “It is clear that the haves envision more blood-shedding
ahead than the have nots,” Nick Firoozye, head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura International Plc in London, said in a note.    Spain  brought a reminder today that the crisis that forced
Greece and Ireland to seek bailouts last year has not gone away.
Spanish bond yields rose and the euro fell as Moody’s Investors
Service cut Spain’s rating a notch with a negative outlook.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield touched a euro-era record of
7.7 percent yesterday, one day after Greek 10-year yields jumped
50 basis points to a record 12.83 percent.  The  European Central Bank  also issued a warning today that
euro-area governments’ commitment “to fully adhere to the
letter and the spirit” of the region’s fiscal rule book “may
be weakening.”  “In these times of high uncertainty, governments have yet
to demonstrate convincingly the seriousness of their
consolidation promises,” the ECB said in its monthly report.  Competitiveness Plans  The EU is close to agreeing on the final wording of a
reworked plan to be put to tomorrow’s summit to raise the
region’s competitiveness and tighten economic cooperation, two
French government officials said in Paris yesterday.  The pact, which includes chapters on competitiveness,
labor, sustainability of public finances and the stability of
financial systems, sets objectives rather than binding targets,
leaving countries free as to how they reach them, the officials
said on condition of anonymity because the negotiations are not
public.  The plan aims to attract more support than a so-called
competitiveness pact proposed by Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on Feb. 4 that quickly ran into opposition.
Luxembourg and  Belgium  rejected suggestions they might be forced
to scrap wage-indexation policies that automatically lift
workers’ salaries in line with inflation.  A draft of the reworked document dated Feb. 25 refers only
to an “improved” indexation mechanism. While governments
should be “more ambitious” in curbing fiscal deficits, a core
German demand, they are under no obligation to follow Germany’s
“debt brake” anchored in law, it said.  Corporate Tax Rates  The draft also shied away from harmonized tax rates, a
proposal already rejected by the new Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , in favor of moves to develop a “common consolidated
corporate tax base.” The EU will unveil its proposals on a
corporate tax base on March 16, the French officials said.  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said separately
yesterday that he expects euro-region countries to make fresh
financing pledges to allow the euro rescue fund to lend its full
440 billion euro ($612 billion) capacity while maintaining its
AAA credit rating.  De Jager told parliament in The Hague that he expects the
so-called second-line guarantees to be about 75 percent of the
commitments the Netherlands and other euro-area states provided
last year to create the aid facility, known as the European
Financial Stability Facility.  No decisions on the EFSF will be made until the second EU
crisis-fighting summit on March 24-25, according to the French
officials.  Hopes ‘Dashed’  As the clock ticks toward the EU’s end-of-March deadline,
the measures leaders are likely to take may be “not sufficient
to put a permanent stop to the euro-area debt crisis and we see
more market tension ahead,” said Michala Marcussen, head of
global economics at Societe Generale SA in  London .  Governments should consider allowing bond buybacks to ease
euro countries’ debt loads, the German Bankers’ Association said
in a statement today. The EFSF could buy sovereign bonds in the
secondary market or give loans to allow governments to buy them
back, the group said.  “It would be an illusion to believe that one can clean up
the situation in one fell swoop,” said Michael Kemmer, the
association’s acting head. A “long road” lies ahead that
requires commitments “not just by highly indebted countries,
but the EU and euro countries as a whole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  