-- 
Messi Goals Lift Barcelona Past Arsenal Into Champions League Quarterfinal

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-09T00:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/messi-goals-lift-barcelona-past-arsenal-into-champions-league-quarterfinal.html
  Lionel Messi  scored twice as
Barcelona dominated 10-man Arsenal 3-1 to reach the Champions
League soccer quarterfinals, where the title favorite will be
joined by Shakhtar Donetsk.    Xavi Hernandez  got the other goal at the Camp Nou last
night to give Barcelona a 4-3 victory over two matches. The
Spanish league leader outshot Arsenal by 19 to zero, with the
visiting team scoring from an own goal by Sergio Busquets.  Barcelona scored twice after Arsenal’s  Robin van Persie 
received a second yellow card for attempting a shot at goal
after being called for offside in the 56th minute. The Dutchman
said he didn’t hear the whistle from referee Massimo Busacca
above the crowd noise.  “We lost against a good team,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told Sky Sports. “The second half would have been very
interesting if we had stayed 11 against 11, unfortunately it was
not the case. There are regrets when you see how we went out. It
is very difficult to accept.”  In Ukraine, Shakhtar Donetsk beat 10-man Roma 3-0 to move
into the final eight of  Europe ’s elite club competition for the
first time. Shakhtar goalkeeper Andrei Pyatov saved a penalty,
while Philippe Mexes was sent off for Roma.  Leading 2-1 from the first match, Arsenal was boosted by
the return of captain Cesc Fabregas and Van Persie from injury.
It wasn’t enough to prevent a loss at Barcelona for the second
straight year. The Gunners were beaten 4-1 at the Camp Nou in
last season’s quarterfinals, with Messi scoring all the goals.  Barcelona recovered after going down 3-2 over the two games
last night to reach the quarterfinals for the fourth straight
year. The Catalan team won its third European Cup title in 2009.  ‘Complicated Game’  “It was a very complicated game,” Barcelona defender  Eric Abidal  told Television Espanola. “When they scored it was
difficult to come back, but we did it. It was 11 against 10, but
these things happen in football.”  The home team controlled early play though didn’t manage an
attempt at goal. Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny then
dislocated his finger saving Dani Alves’s free kick and was
replaced by  Manuel Almunia .    Pedro Rodriguez  curled a shot wide, Almunia saved  David Villa ’s attempt and Adriano hit the left post from a sharp angle.
Almunia then stopped a Messi shot before the World Player of the
Year put the home side in front just before the break.  Fabregas gave the ball away deep in his own half and  Andres Iniesta  lofted a pass into the area for Messi, who took two
touches before beating Almunia.  Own Goal  Arsenal tied the game, taking a 3-2 overall lead, after a
rare rush forward in the 53rd minute led to Busquets heading
Samir Nasri’s corner into his own goal. Villa got behind the
defense less than a minute later only to be denied by Almunia.    Van Persie  then received his second yellow card for
shooting at the goal after being ruled offside.  “It’s a total joke, how can I hear this whistle with
95,000 people jumping up?” he told Sky Sports. “He (Busacca)
has been bad all evening, whistling against us. I don’t know why
he’s here tonight.”  Almunia smothered another chance from Villa and Alves shot
over as Barcelona pressed forward.  Almunia denied Villa again before Barcelona broke through
as Iniesta and Villa set up Xavi in the 69th minute. Messi
scored with a penalty kick two minutes later after  Laurent
Koscielny  took down Pedro.  Nicklas Bendtner had a chance that may have sent Arsenal
through on the away goals rule in the 87th minute, though he was
unable to control Jack Wilshere’s pass.  Wenger’s Complaint  Wenger confronted Busacca after the final whistle and
followed the referee into the tunnel to complain about Van
Persie’s red card.  “He must absolutely have never played football to do
that,” Wenger told  Sky Sports , adding Busacca offered no
explanation.  In Donetsk, Tomas Hubschman, Willian and Eduardo da Silva
scored the goals as Shakhtar completed a 6-2 win over Roma.  Hubschman put the Ukrainian club in front in the 18th
minute and Pyatov stopped Marco Borriello’s penalty minutes
later. Mexes was then sent off four minutes before halftime for
a second yellow card.  Willian made it 2-0 in the 58th minute and Eduardo closed
the scoring with three minutes remaining to give Shahktar its
18th straight home win in all competitions and extend its
unbeaten home run to 54 matches.  In today’s return games in the round of 16, Tottenham hosts
AC Milan leading 1-0, while Valencia visits Schalke following a
1-1 draw in  Spain  in their opener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 