-- 
EU Said to Discuss Tough Capital Pass Rate for Stress Tests

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-09T11:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/eu-said-to-discuss-blocking-use-of-hybrid-capital-to-pass-bank-stress-test.html
European Union regulators are
discussing plans to prevent banks from using so-called hybrid
capital to determine the results of this year’s EU stress tests,
two people familiar with the negotiations said.  Regulators could hold banks to a  stress test  passing grade
of 5 percent of core Tier 1 capital excluding hybrid capital,
such as junior bonds and preference shares, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private.  “This would give you some slightly random answers,”  Simon Gleeson , a financial regulation lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP
said in an interview in London today. “What you are doing is
penalizing banks for some fund raising decisions they may have
made two to three years ago,” he said.  Last year’s European Union stress tests were criticized for
not being stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation
region were shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros
($4.8 billion) of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest
analyst estimate.  Ninety-one lenders were tested with a pass rate set at 6
percent of  Tier 1 capital . Anglo Irish Bank Corp., whose
collapse during the financial crisis contributed to Ireland
seeking an international bailout, wasn’t among the lenders
tested.  Hybrid Rules  Scenarios for this year’s test will include a 0.5 percent
economic contraction in the euro area in 2011 and a 15 percent
drop in European equity markets, Reuters reported earlier. Banks
will also have to simulate a loss of 3.5 percent on German 10-
year bonds and 7.6 percent on British debt on assets held in
their trading book.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  decided in
January to impose stricter rules on banks’ use of hybrid capital
because it didn’t provide a buffer for losses in the 2008
financial meltdown. The rules will come into effect in 2013.  The  European Banking Authority  will announce the
methodology for calculating the results of the stress tests in
April, the agency said last week.  EBA spokeswoman Franca Rosa Congiu declined to comment on
the stress test methodology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  