-- 
EU Stress Tests on Banks `Urgent,' IMF Economist Blanchard Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-03-09T21:32:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/eu-stress-tests-on-banks-urgent-imf-economist-blanchard-says-tom-keene.html
Stress tests on European banks are
“most definitely” needed, the International Monetary Fund’s
chief economist said.  “We need to understand exactly the interaction between
sovereign risks and financial risks,”  Olivier Blanchard  said in
a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  today. “We need to understand the balance sheets of
the banks,” he said, adding it was “very urgent.”  The European Union’s 2010 stress tests were criticized for
not being stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation
region were shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros
($4.9 billion) of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest
analyst estimate. This year’s exams will be managed by the
London-based  European Banking Authority , which was created on
Jan. 1 as part of an overhaul of financial supervision in the
EU. The results are due to be published in June.  Asked about rising yields on Greek bonds and bills,
Blanchard said ‘it’s very clear  Greece  has a long way to go.”  “We know they cannot afford to pay 16 percent,” he said
of the cost of Greece’s two-year debt. “That’s why we’re
providing financing.”  IMF officials have been saying the institution is ready to
give Greece more time to repay its loan to the fund if European
nations, which provided the bulk of a joint 110 million euro
package, agree to do it too.  Tough, Long  “Financing has to be there long enough that Greece can
actually get out of the hole,” Blanchard said. “It’s going to
be tough, it’s going to be long but we hope it’s going to
happen.”  Blanchard, who earlier this week hosted a two-day
conference in  Washington  on growth policies, said that
participants have realized they have to “revisit some of the
things that were very dear to our hearts before” the global
financial crisis.  Speakers ranging from Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  to Former European Central Bank Chief Economist Otmar Issing discussed the approach of central banks now that monetary
policy has new targets, such as output and financial stability,
on top of keeping inflation in check, Blanchard said.  “When you have one target, one instrument, it’s fairly
easy,” Blanchard said. “When you have many targets, many
instruments, many of them you’ve never used,” he said, citing
capital rations as an example, “then it becomes a very
complicated game.”  Emerging Markets  Blanchard said that “in a number of countries,”
especially in emerging markets, there are signs that inflation
is picking up.  “Once you’ve chosen an inflation target, it’s important
for you in terms of credibility to actually try to achieve it,”
Blanchard said when asked about central bankers’ recent concerns
about inflation. “Now, maybe later on you may want to revisit
the inflation target but as long as you have it, the job of a
central bank it to make sure you don’t go too far away from
it.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  took
investors by surprise last week when he announced policy makers
may raise the benchmark rate from a record low of 1 percent in
April to combat mounting inflation pressures.  Blanchard said that inflation targets chosen in the past
may have been too low and that policy makers should perhaps
revisit them for the next 20 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  