-- 
Euro Close to `Tipping Point' on Region's Debt Concerns, BNY Mellon Says

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-09T17:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/euro-close-to-tipping-point-on-region-s-debt-concerns-bny-mellon-says.html
The euro may reverse gains versus
the dollar as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis pushes the single
currency toward a “tipping point,” according to Bank of New
York Mellon Corp.  “We are very close to a tipping point for sentiment in
underlying peripheral euro-zone debt and, hence, the euro,”
wrote chief currency strategist  Simon Derrick  in an e-mailed
note today.  European leaders will meet on March 11 to begin talks to
tackle a crisis that has seen Greece and Ireland seek aid to
service their national debts. The Portuguese 10-year bond yields
today rose to the highest since Bloomberg began collecting the
data in 1997, after the country sold securities at borrowing
costs almost 50 percent higher than at a September auction. The
equivalent-maturity Italian yield breached 5 percent for the
first time since November 2008.    Portugal  is trying to convince investors that it can avoid
a Greek-style bailout by raising taxes and implementing the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades as it sells
debt to cover its fiscal deficit.  Rising yields on the bonds of Europe’s most-indebted
nations “means the risks of a sharp reversal in the euro are
growing,” said  Neil Mellor , a London-based strategist at Bank
of New York.  The EU leaders’ meetings this week and at a March 24-25
summit “look critical,” Derrick said.  The euro traded at $1.3908 at 4:58 p.m. in London after
dropping as much as 0.4 percent. It has gained about 4 percent
against the greenback this year as the investors bet the  European Central Bank  will raise interest rates to counter
accelerating inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 