-- 
European Stocks Decline; Tognum Climbs on Bid, Alcatel Slides

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-09T16:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-eads-may-advance-on-earnings.html
European stocks declined as concern
that continuing unrest in the Middle East and North Africa will
harm the economy overshadowed takeover bids for  Iberdrola
Renovables SA (IBR)  and  Tognum AG. (TGM)   Alcatel-Lucent SA paced falling shares after U.S. rival
Finisar Corp. forecast earnings that missed estimates.  Tullow
Oil Plc (TLW)  dropped 3.2 percent after the Africa-focused explorer
reported profit that lagged forecasts. Iberdrola Renovables
jumped 11 percent after parent company  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  bid 2.5
billion euros ($3.5 billion) to buy out minority investors.
Tognum rallied 7.3 percent as Daimler AG and Rolls-Royce Group
Plc offered to buy the company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 281.17 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, its third decline in four days.
The gauge has lost 3.4 percent since reaching a 2 1/2-year high
on Feb. 17 as crude oil surged amid violence in Libya,
increasing concern higher energy costs will choke off the
economic recovery.  “The market is switching from a risk-off theme to a risk-
on theme on a daily basis,” said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K.
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in  London . “Investors are
largely unwilling to take any long-term positions. When we see
any sort of strength in the market, investors are looking to
take some profits off the table.”  The Stoxx 600 has surged 78 percent since reaching a 12-
year low two years ago today as governments and central banks
pumped more than $12 trillion into the financial system to help
the recovery from the worst global recession since the 1930s.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and  France ’s CAC 40
retreated 0.6 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX fell 0.5 percent.  Rebel fighters in Libya, which has the largest oil reserves
in  Africa , came under fire from rocket barrages and air strikes
today as they battled Muammar Qaddafi’s forces east of the oil
town of Bin Jawad. The violence prompted U.S. President Barack Obama and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, in a telephone call
yesterday, to consider international actions to stop attacks on
citizens, including a no-fly zone.    Brent crude  climbed on concern that turmoil in Libya may
spread to other oil-producing nations in North Africa and the
Middle East, disrupting supplies to Europe. Reuters reported
that smoke plumes were seen in an area near Libya’s Es Sider oil
terminal. It was not immediately clear whether the oil terminal
itself has been hit, the newswire said.  Default ‘Possibility’  Gains in  Europe  were also limited after Moritz Kraemer,
managing director of European sovereign ratings at  Standard &
Poor’s , warned some countries may have their credit ratings cut
further while a Greek debt default is a “possibility.”  Asked if the worst was over for the region’s sovereign
credit-rating outlook, Kraemer said: “I wish I could say yes,
but the answer is no.” Kraemer was speaking in an interview at
a EuroMoney conference in London yesterday.    Portugal  today borrowed 1 billion euros in the first bond
auction for two months, opting to endure surging interest costs
as it tries to avoid following Greece and Ireland in seeking a
bailout. The nation sold 5.45 percent bonds due September 2013
at an average yield of 5.993 percent, compared with an average
yield of 4.086 percent at a sale of the same-maturity debt on
Sept. 8.  Misses Estimates  Alcatel, France’s largest telecommunications equipment
maker, dropped 2.6 percent to 3.87 euros. U.S. rival Finisar
yesterday forecast fourth-quarter earnings of 31 to 35 cents a
share. That missed analyst estimates of 48 cents.  Tullow Oil dropped 3.2 percent to 1,413 pence after the
explorer reported “slower progress” in resolving a tax dispute
in  Uganda  and full-year profit missed analyst estimates. The
company also quit exploration projects in  Angola , the Democratic
Republic of Congo and Portugal and gave up some licenses in
Gabon after reviewing its portfolio.    BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  led raw-material shares lower. BHP, the
world’s largest mining company, declined 1.3 percent to 2,383
pence. Rio Tinto Group lost 1.4 percent to 4,088 pence.    E.ON AG (EOAN)  declined 1.4 percent to 22.80 euros after the
world’s largest utility by sales said profit may fall as much as
32 percent this year after the German government imposed a new
tax on its nuclear plants and on reduced earnings from selling
power and gas.  Iberdrola Renovables jumped 11 percent to 3.04 euros, the
biggest gain since 2008, after Iberdrola agreed to buy out
minority investors in its renewable energy unit. Iberdrola’s
stock slipped 0.2 percent to 5.98 euros.  Joint Bid  Tognum climbed 7.3 percent to 24.90 euros as Daimler and
Rolls-Royce offered 24 euros a share to purchase the German
maker of heavy-duty engines. Tognum surged 23 percent on March 7
after Daimler and Rolls-Royce said they were considering a joint
bid for the company.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose 1.1 percent
to 20.06 euros after the company returned to profit in 2010 and
reinstated its dividend. The owner of Airbus SAS predicted
earnings will hold steady this year before climbing in 2012.    Prudential Plc (PRU)  gained 4.9 percent to 749 pence after the
U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value more than doubled full-
year net income to 1.43 billion pounds ($2.3 billion). Operating
profit for the period rose 24 percent to 1.94 billion pounds,
beating analyst estimates of 1.74 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  