-- 
Yen Falls Second Day Versus Euro on Global Recovery Signs; Aussie Weakens

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-09T05:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/euro-trades-near-nine-month-high-before-german-industrial-output-report.html
The yen weakened for a second day
against the euro before a report that economists said will show
German industrial production expanded in January, damping demand
for safer assets.  Japan’s currency declined versus 14 of its 16 major
counterparts after oil prices retreated and data showed South
Korean bank lending and Japanese machine orders increased. The
Dollar Index rose for a third day on speculation a Federal
Reserve official speaking this week will suggest there is less
need for additional purchases of Treasuries. The Australian
dollar fell for a fifth day after a government report showed
home-loan approvals dropped the most in a year.  “Economies in  Europe , Japan and the U.S. appear to be
recovering steadily” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director
in Tokyo at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin company.
“Equities are climbing, which is a plus for risk-taking
appetite. There are a lot of reasons to sell the yen.”  The yen fell to 115.09 per euro as of 2:23 p.m. in Tokyo
from 114.94 yesterday in  New York , after declining to 116 on
March 4, the weakest level since May 14. Japan’s currency
declined to 82.86 per dollar from 82.67. The euro traded at
$1.3889 from $1.3905.  Japan’s currency has declined 0.7 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track the foreign exchange of 10 developed nations. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.6 percent today after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.9 percent in New York.  Lower Oil Price  Crude oil for April delivery fell for a second day,
dropping 0.7 percent, as members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries considered talks about increasing
production as fighting disrupts supplies from  Libya .  “The yen has benefited over the last few weeks as the
Middle East tensions have been bubbling away,” said Khoon Goh,
head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd.
in Wellington. “We’ve reached a stage now where the yen is
starting to lose some of the shine.”  German industrial output expanded 1.7 percent in January
from December, when it declined 1.5 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before today’s report.  Japan’s machinery orders rose 4.2 percent in January, the
government said today, outpacing the forecast for a 3 percent
gain in a Bloomberg survey. Korean bank lending to households
increased by 1.5 trillion won ($1.34 billion) last month, the
central bank said. The 431.7 trillion won total is a record.  Fed’s Dudley  Fed President  William Dudley  will speak about the  U.S.
economy  in Flushing, New York, on March 11. Dallas Fed President
Richard W. Fisher said on March 7 he may vote to cut short the
bond buying before the scheduled end in June if he deems it to
be “counterproductive.”  Fed policy makers will meet on March 15 after economic data
over the past month has indicated their so-called quantitative
easing policies are helping to revive growth and cut the  unemployment rate .  “The most likely outcome is the Fed is going to stop QE2
in June and they will probably have to signal it at least one
meeting in advance,” said  Gareth Berry , a currency strategist
at UBS AG in  Singapore . “When we get a confirmation of that,
the dollar is going to get a real boost.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, gained 0.1
percent to 76.865 after advancing to 76.979 yesterday, the
highest since March 2.    Australia ’s Dollar  Australia’s dollar extended its losing streak to the
longest since August versus the U.S. currency after  consumer
confidence  declined in March and assistant central bank governor
Philip Lowe said household spending is “quite subdued.”  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments fell 4.5 percent from December, when they increased
2.1 percent, the statistics bureau said. A sentiment index fell
2.4 percent to 104.1 from a month ago, according to a  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey.  Australia’s currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0073, and
traded at 83.47 yen from 83.48 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 