-- 
Euro Outlook Boosted by RBC After Trichet Signals Higher Interest Rates

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-03-09T16:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/euro-outlook-boosted-by-rbc-after-trichet-signals-higher-interest-rates.html
Royal Bank of Canada increased its
second-quarter outlook for the euro against the dollar after
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  last week
signaled an increase in the region’s interest rates.  The shared currency may fall to $1.36 in the second
quarter, from a previous forecast of $1.30, as Trichet said the
ECB may raise its benchmark rate next month for the first time
in almost three years to curb inflation, Elsa Lignos, a currency
strategist in  London  at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote today in a
research note. Lignos could not be reached by telephone for
further comment.  The euro, which has risen 3.9 percent against the dollar
this year, was little changed at $1.3903 in  New York .  “We have revised up our euro forecasts on the change in
the rates view, but we keep the direction unchanged,” wrote
Lignos, who predicted a 25 basis point ECB interest-rate
increase in each of the next four quarters.  “Periphery issues,
though old news, have not gone away.”  The cost of insuring against a default of Greek debt soared
to a record yesterday as the 27-nation EU prepares to approve a
“comprehensive” package of measures at a March 24-25 summit in
a bid to calm bond markets. The ECB will raise its main
refinancing rate 25 basis points next month, to 1.25 percent,
according to the median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The euro will fall to $1.30 by the end of the year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis overshadows a tighter monetary
policy, Lignos said. That’s up from the previous forecast of
$1.22.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  