-- 
Hevesi Wants Judge to Recuse Himself for Ex-Comptroller's Sentencing

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-09T00:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hevesi-wants-judge-to-recuse-himself-for-ex-comptroller-s-sentencing.html
Former New York state comptroller  Alan Hevesi  asked the judge who accepted his guilty plea to
recuse himself, saying he hid a conflict of interest so he could
preside over a newsworthy corruption case.  State  Supreme Court  Justice Lewis Bart Stone’s conflict
stems from his longtime personal and fiduciary relationship with
the father of Hevesi’s lawyer, according to papers filed today
in Manhattan state Supreme Court.  Stone, who was scheduled to sentence Hevesi on March 10,
disclosed last week that he is a trustee and executor of the
attorney’s father’s estate. He told Hevesi’s lawyer, Bradley Simon, in court that he had been disinherited. Simon is
estranged from his father.  “Faced with a clear conflict of interest, Judge Stone
intentionally hid the conflict, rather than disclose it, in
order to preside over this high-profile matter,” according to
the papers, filed in support of the motion for recusal.  Stone today declined to comment on the motion, according to
his court clerk. Last week, Stone postponed Hevesi’s sentencing
hearing until March 28. He said if he decides to withdraw, the
sentencing will be assigned to another judge.  Guilty Plea  Hevesi pleaded guilty before Stone in October to approving
pension fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in
gifts. He is the highest-ranking official convicted in a three-
year investigation by former New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , who is now the state’s governor. Hevesi may be sentenced
to as little as no time in prison or to a range of one year and
four months to four years.  At the time of the plea, Stone said in court that he had
made a sealed record in which he determined he had no conflicts
in the case, according to a transcript. Simon said in today’s
papers he was surprised the judge didn’t disclose his close
personal relationship with the elder Simon. As Hevesi’s
sentencing approached, Simon said, he became increasingly
concerned about it.  “I knew that my father harbors extreme ill-will toward me
and I began to worry about what my father might be saying about
me to Judge Stone and how that animus might infect his decision
concerning my client,” Simon said in the filing.  ‘A Bombshell’  Simon requested the March 1 hearing. He described Stone’s
revelations as “a bombshell.”  “It was a very unsettling feeling hearing the judge blurt
out, while I was representing a client in court, that I had been
disinherited,” Simon said.  Simon collected statements supporting the bid for recusal
from three experts on judicial ethics. Fordham University School
of Law Professor Bruce A. Green is quoted saying the
circumstances call Stone’s impartiality into question.  “Having agreed professionally to take a role in the senior
Mr. Simon’s punishment of his son by disinheriting him, will the
court also punish the son’s client?” Green wrote.  Hevesi, who resigned in 2006, admitted as part of his plea
that he gave preferential treatment to Markstone Capital
Partners, approving $250 million in pension fund investments in
exchange for almost $1 million in gifts, including $75,000 in
travel expenses, $380,000 in sham consulting fees for a lobbyist
and more than $500,000 in campaign contributions.  At least six people and 21 firms settled with Cuomo, paying
about $170 million to the state and the pension fund, and about
eight have pleaded guilty in criminal cases.  In all, about $5 billion of the  New York  state pension
fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative investments made in the 2003-
2007 period were tainted by kickbacks, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which also investigated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 