-- 
Monster's James Treacy's Judge Erred on Forfeiture, Federal Court Rules

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-09T16:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ex-monster-ceo-treacy-s-2009-conviction-for-backdating-is-upheld-on-appeal.html
Former  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  Chief
Operating Officer James Treacy’s 2009 conviction for improperly
accounting for backdated  stock options  was upheld by an appeals
court that found his $6.3 million forfeiture was incorrect.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York today also ruled that
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over the case in  Manhattan , committed a “harmless” error by limiting Treacy’s
lawyer’s cross-examination of a Wall Street Journal reporter.
Rakoff restricted the defense’s questioning, citing the
journalist’s privilege.  Rakoff erred in calculating Treacy’s forfeiture and
restitution, the three-judge appeals court panel said. Rakoff
should recalculate the forfeiture based on a Dec. 9, 1998,
option grant, instead of the April 19, 1999, date he used, the
judges said. They agreed with Treacy that the change would
reduce the amount he must forfeit.  Treacy was sentenced in September 2009 to two years in
prison. He is expected to be released in August, according to
 Federal Bureau of Prisons  records.  “We’re studying the opinion and we’re weighting our next
step,” Bruce Bishop, a lawyer for Treacy, said in a telephone
interview.  Backdated Grants  Prosecutors said Treacy backdated options at New York-based
Monster, the world’s largest online-recruiting company, by
treating them as if they were granted on dates when Monster’s
stock price was at or near a periodic low. None of the grants
were recorded as compensation expenses, as the law requires,
prosecutors said.  Treacy earned at least $14.5 million from the scheme,
including profits from his exercise of backdated options and
bonus payments after he reached company financial targets,
according to prosecutors.  Monster reported in 2001 that net income was $69 million
when it was really $3.4 million after options expenses,
prosecutors said. The company said in December 2006 that it had
overstated earnings by $271.9 million in the previous nine years
because of improperly recorded option grants.  The case is U.S. v. Treacy, 08-cr-366, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  