-- 
Ex-Sony Pictures Executive Forms Indie Film Distributor Big Air

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-09T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ex-sony-pictures-executive-forms-indie-film-distributor-big-air.html
Former  Sony Corp. (SNE)  film executives
led by the studio’s ex-digital chief have formed Big Air Studios
to buy, make and distribute independent movies across
traditional and digital outlets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes.  The company, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , acquired
its first title and may add 11 more this year, Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Arrieta  said in an interview. “My Suicide,” a
comedy-drama about teen suicide, was purchased for an
undisclosed sum, he said.  For a fee and a cut of potential profits, Big Air will
offer distribution and marketing to independent filmmakers
without backing from a major studio, Arrieta said. The company
also will provide post-production, Web and social-media
campaigns, he said.  “Far too often filmmakers create a title, pour money and
passion into the project but ultimately can’t reach an
audience,” Arrieta said. “We want to cater to filmmakers who
want to self-publish but who don’t know how and wouldn’t
otherwise have the means.”  Big Air begins production on its first  movie , “American
Sumo,” mid-year, and is raising a film fund to make as many as
four of its own films a year, said Arrieta, 42, a former
executive vice president of digital at Sony Pictures.  The company plans to distribute hundreds of movies on
behalf of filmmakers and has agreements with outlets that also
include Sony’s PlayStation,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Arrieta said.  ‘My Suicide’  The fees for distribution start at $5,000 and rise to about
$25,000, Arrieta said. Big Air also takes a “modest” slice of
film profits, he said. The company targets movies that appeal to
tech-savvy males between the ages of 18 and 34, Arrieta said.  Big Air is working on adding online and traditional retail
outlets, and is seeking a pay-television agreement, Arrieta
said. He declined to identify its investors.  “My Suicide” was made for about $2 million, according to
Amazon’s Internet Movie  Database . The movie, directed by David
Lee Miller, won the top prize at the Berlin Fillm Festival. It
will be released in theaters in May and then to the home-
entertainment market on DVD, video-on-demand and for rent or
purchase on iTunes and Amazon, Arrieta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  