-- 
Mexico's PRI Proposes Tax Bill to Boost Revenue By as Much as 1.5% of GDP

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-03-09T19:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/mexico-tax-bill-aims-to-boost-revenue-by-as-much-as-1-5-of-gdp.html
  Mexico ’s largest opposition party
plans to propose a bill tomorrow that would increase government
income by as much as 1.5 percent of gross domestic product,
Senator Francisco Labastida said.  The  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, aims to
expand the tax base by placing levies on products that are
currently exempt, such as some food and medicine items,
Labastida said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City
office. The measures would increase public revenue by at least
140 billion pesos ($11.7 billion), he said.  “The proposal has objectives that aim to boost investment,
economic growth,  job creation  and to expand the tax base,” said
Labastida, who is a former interior minister, governor of
Sinaloa state and a presidential candidate in 2000.  Mexican  government spending  is constricted by a tax
collection rate that is the  lowest  among the 34 member countries
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
That low rate, combined with falling oil output and a recession,
led Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to lower the country’s
credit rating in 2009 because of concern about the strength of
its public finances.  The bill, if approved, would lower income taxes paid by
businesses to 25 percent from 30 percent, according to a copy of
the PRI proposal obtained by Bloomberg. The bill would also
eliminate a special business tax known as the IETU and combine
it with the current income tax.  Lower  Sales Tax   It would lower the sales tax to 13 percent from 16 percent
and charge a new 3 percent sales tax that could be refunded,
said Labastida, one of the bill’s authors. The lower house of
Congress must vote on the bill before the Senate does and may do
so by September, he said.  To receive the 3 percent refund on the sales tax, consumers
would have to prove they pay income taxes, and consumers would
have to buy goods and services from providers that also pay
taxes, Labastida said.  The plan, which would go into effect in 2013 if approved in
Congress, would keep a basic basket of food and medicine
products tax-exempt in order to help the poorest Mexicans,
Labastida said.  The wealthiest 20 percent of Mexicans buy 50 percent of the
country’s food products, while the poorest 20 percent purchase
only 3 percent, Labastida said.  Basic Basket of Food  “Previous attempts to change the value-added tax didn’t
succeed because they wanted to tax the basic basket of foods,”
Labastida said. “We’re proposing to leave alone the foods that
make up the basic basket.”  Products that wouldn’t be taxed include milk, eggs,
chicken, meat, beans, vegetables, fruits, corn, oil, tuna,
sardines and pasta, he said.  The extension of the sales tax to products now exempt would
provide an additional 180 billion pesos per year in public
revenue, while the changes in income taxes would cost 40 billion
pesos, Labastida said. The proposal for a refundable 3 percent
sales tax, which aims to increase the tax base by providing
disincentives to evasion, may add an extra 40 billion or 50
billion pesos in the medium term, he said.  Mexico’s Congress in 2009 passed legislation that increased
the sales tax to 16 percent from 15 percent, as well as a higher
income tax, a higher duty on cash deposits, and a new
telecommunications tax.  Pemex Tax Proposal  The PRI will also propose to lessen the tax burden for  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned  oil company . The proposal
would eliminate the $6.5 per barrel deduction cap for
exploration investments, Labastida said.  Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, would use
the additional savings to invest more in second-hand recovery
and exploration of new fields, Labastida said.  “The current cap is very low and it significantly impacts
the company’s finances,” Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said yesterday in an interview in Houston. “It’s
important to change that limit for deductions.”  Suarez Coppel said that eliminating the cap for exploration
investments will save about $4 billion in tax payments, which
will allow the state-owned company to post profits instead of
losses.  Last week, the Mexican oil producer posted its third
consecutive quarterly loss. The net loss narrowed to 26.04
billion pesos from 65.1 billion pesos a year earlier. Revenue
rose 10 percent to 343.1 billion pesos.  Lowest Tax Collection  The country’s tax collection was 17.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, while the nation with the highest tax
burden,  Denmark , collected 48 percent of GDP, according to the
OECD.  While Mexico’s economy is the second largest in Latin
America, its  tax revenue  as a percentage of GDP is only the
twelfth-highest in the region, below  Honduras ,  Nicaragua  and  El
Salvador , according to a copy of the PRI proposal obtained by
Bloomberg.  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 11.9609 per dollar at 2:10
p.m. New York time from 12.0054 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at   wfaries@bloomberg.net  