-- 
F&C Has Full-Year Loss as Expenses, Financing Costs Rise

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T08:17:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/f-c-has-full-year-loss-as-expenses-financing-costs-rise-2-.html
  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , whose
shareholders ousted Chairman Nick MacAndrew last month, posted a
full-year loss as operating expenses and financing costs rose.  The net loss for 2010 was 16.6 million pounds ($26.8
million), compared with a profit of 15.9 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based firm said today in a statement. That
beat the 18.9 million-pound loss forecast by six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We feel the underlying building blocks for a recovery in
our profitability have been put in place,” Chief Executive
Officer Alain Grisay said on a call with reporters. “To ensure
we maximize the delivery of value to shareholders the board will
review F&C’s strategy over the coming months.”  Edward Bramson, founder of activist shareholder Sherborne
Investors LLC, replaced MacAndrew as chairman of the  fund
manager  last month after criticizing the company’s levels of
debt and recent acquisitions. At a shareholder meeting in
February, Bramson said he planned to work with the company’s
current management to formulate a new strategy.  F&C’s operating expenses rose 6 percent to 247.3 million
pounds in 2010, while financing costs climbed 11 percent to 33.6
million pounds. Net revenue was 243.2 million pounds, compared
with 225.1 million pounds a year earlier.  The net loss was driven by accounting charges that reduced
the value of past acquisitions such as REIT Asset Management in
2008 and Thames River Capital LLP last year, Chief Financial
Officer David Logan said on the call.  Assets Under Management  Assets under management increased 8 percent to 105.8
billion pounds and the group’s average net management fee margin
was 22.6 basis points, compared with 21.8 basis points a year
earlier. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  F&C cut its second-half dividend 50 percent to 2 pence a
share, in line with the reduction in the first six months of the
year. That means the full-year dividend will be 3 pence a share,
matching the analysts’ estimates.  Before his appointment as chairman, Bramson criticized
F&C’s board for its “expensive borrowings to pay for high-
priced acquisitions” such as Thames River last year. He also
said he would pursue “conservative financial policies in the
future” after the firm’s net debt doubled from 2006 to 2010.  It’s too early to disclose details of the company’s
strategic changes, said Grisay, who proposed that shareholders
should support former Chairman MacAndrew at last month’s
emergency general meeting. “There is no dispute, there are no
arguments,” he said. “It’s entirely professional and it’s been
like that quite frankly within an hour of the EGM.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 