-- 
Favorite Business Books, From ‘Invisible Hand’ to ‘Ugly Beauty’

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/favorite-business-books-from-invisible-hand-to-ugly-beauty-.html
With the world’s balance of economic
power shifting, we’re often asked to recommend books that put
the upheaval in context. Here’s a list of our 10 favorite titles
on markets and economics so far this year.  “Beyond the Invisible Hand” by  Kaushik Basu . India’s
chief economic adviser explores the dark side of Adam Smith’s
invisible hand.  “Exorbitant Privilege” by  Barry Eichengreen  (Oxford). A
brisk primer on the dollar’s role as the dominant international
currency.  “The Futures” by Emily Lambert (Basic). A bouncy
historical jaunt through Chicago’s trading pits.  “How the West Was Lost” by Dambisa Moyo (Allen Lane/
Farrar, Straus & Giroux). A reasoned look at how the world’s
most-advanced nations are squandering their economic lead.  “The New Lombard Street” by Perry Mehrling (Princeton). A
cogent analysis of how the financial crisis turned the  Federal
Reserve  into America’s “dealer of last resort.”  “The Price of Everything” by Eduardo Porter (Portfolio/
Heinemann). An energetic tour of how prices work, from cheap
sperm to $4,731 printer ink.  “Punching Out” by Paul Clemens (Doubleday). A blackly
comic journal of what happens after a U.S. factory shuts down.  “Red Capitalism” by Carl E. Walter and Fraser J.T. Howie
(Wiley). An eye-opening look at how Communist Party bosses
control  China’s economy .  “Spousonomics” by Paula Szuchman and Jenny Anderson
  Random House /Bantam). A geeky guide to finding marital bliss
through economics.  “Ugly Beauty” by Ruth Brandon (Harper). An incisive
history of cosmetics tycoon Helena Rubinstein and Eugene Schueller, the founder of  L’Oreal SA. (OR)   (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 