-- 
Foreclosure Settlement Plan Flawed, U.S. House Republicans Say

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-09T19:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/foreclosure-settlement-plan-flawed-u-s-house-republicans-say.html
U.S. House Republicans criticized a
proposed federal-state settlement of flawed foreclosure
practices and questioned whether the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has authority to participate in the talks.  “The settlement agreement not only legislates new
standards and practices for the servicing industry, it also
resuscitates programs and policies that have not worked or that
Congress has explicitly rejected,” the lawmakers wrote in a
letter dated today to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  State attorneys general and a federal  task force  have been
investigating flawed paperwork and improper procedures in
foreclosures. Officials have been negotiating a settlement with
the top mortgage servicers, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally
Financial Inc.  State and federal officials gave the firms a 27-page
settlement “term sheet” last week outlining future rules on
mortgage servicing and conditions for possible mortgage
modifications. They had previously floated the idea of a $20
billion penalty as part of any deal.  The letter, written by Representative Scott Garrett of  New
Jersey , took specific aim at the consumer bureau, which is
scheduled to officially begin work on July 21.  Elizabeth Warren ,
the Treasury and White House adviser charged with setting it up,
got the job in September after Christopher Dodd, then head of
the Senate Banking Committee, said she couldn’t win the
necessary votes for confirmation as its formal director.  In today’s letter, the lawmakers said that since it “does
not yet have any regulatory or enforcement authority” the
consumer bureau’s role in servicing talks raises “further
questions about the process through which the terms of the
settlement are being negotiated.”  Other Signatures  Garrett, who heads the Financial Services subcommittee on
capital markets and the government-sponsored enterprises, was
joined by Spencer Bachus of  Alabama , the committee’s chairman;
Randy Neugebauer of  Texas , chairman of the subcommittee on
oversight and investigations; and Patrick McHenry of  North
Carolina , who heads the finance subcommittee of the House
Government Oversight Committee.  Jennifer Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer bureau, and
Andrea Risotto, a spokeswoman for the Treasury Department,
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Tom Miller, the Iowa attorney general who is leading the
servicing talks for the states, said on March 8 that the CFPB
should take the lead in enforcing any settlement since it will
have jurisdiction over mortgages.  ‘More Sense’  “It makes a lot more sense to have them enforce it from
the beginning,” Miller, a Democrat, told reporters in
Washington.  If it turns out that the CFPB doesn’t have “direct
authority” in federal law to negotiate a settlement, it could
codify the deal in a new regulation when it begins official
operations in July, Miller said.  Greg Zoeller, the Republican attorney general of  Indiana ,
who opposed the bureau’s creation, said the consumer bureau
should “circle back and codify” any legal deal with mortgage
servicers.  “The concern I have is that you skip the regulatory
process” by negotiating a settlement directly with the banks,
Zoeller said in a March 8 interview.  State attorneys general of both parties have embraced the
CFPB and Warren as a player in the talks, both because it could
enforce the deal, and because Warren is a useful point of
contact for them, said Roy Cooper, the attorney general of North
Carolina.  ‘Fact of Life’  “I think there’s a pretty strong feeling that we need to
work with the bureau,” Cooper, a Democrat, said in an
interview. “It’s a fact of life.”  In the letter to Geithner, the Republicans demanded answers
to a list of questions on the specific legal authority that the
federal government has to negotiate the settlement, and the role
of “persons associated with the CFPB” in the talks.  They also asked about the legal basis for using money from
a settlement to fund principal reductions in mortgages, and how
a deal would affect “the safety and soundness” of firms
covered by it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
 Lorraine Woellert in Washington at
   lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 