-- 
U.S. House Panel Votes to Abolish Obama Foreclosure-Prevention Programs

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/foreclosure-aid-on-chopping-block-as-democratic-support-fades.html
The House Financial Services
Committee voted to abolish President  Barack Obama ’s signature
anti-foreclosure program, saying it failed to deliver the
promised help to homeowners.  The panel voted yesterday along party lines, 32-23, to
repeal the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, which
pays lenders to rewrite loan terms to lower borrowers’ payments.  Representative Patrick McHenry, a North Carolina
Republican, called the plan an “epic failure.”  The panel also voted 31-24 to end spending on the
Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which gives federal money to
states and localities to restore communities hit by foreclosures
and abandoned properties.  The votes today follow committee action last week to
rescind two other housing aid programs, the Federal Housing
Administration Short Refi Option, which seeks to aid homeowners
whose home values have dropped below the amount owed on the
mortgage, and the Emergency Homeowners Loan Program, which
provides short-term loans to borrowers who have lost their jobs.  Republicans called the repeal effort a necessary step to
reduce  government spending  and the federal deficit.  “There’s always a reason to help as long as you’re using
someone else’s money to do it,” said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican. “We’re borrowing money to
fund these programs, we’re going into debt to fund these
programs. We have to say no.”  TARP Funds  The Treasury is projected to spend about a fourth of the
$50 billion allocated for HAMP by the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The
program has spent about $1 billion so far. About 90 percent of
the Neighborhood Stabilization Program has already been promised
to local projects.  “We have people holding on by their fingernails, trying to
keep their homes,” said Representative David Scott, a Democrat
from  Georgia . “To assassinate these programs and have nothing
to take the place of them, how irresponsible is that?”  The full House is scheduled to vote on the FHA refinance
repeal today and emergency loan repeals this week. President
Barack Obama has threatened to veto the bills, which also face
hurdles in the Democrat-controlled Senate.  Senate Republicans Jim DeMint of  South Carolina ,  Bob Corker 
of Tennessee, both members of the Senate Banking Committee, and  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, yesterday introduced their own
legislation to end HAMP.  Waning Support  While the attack on HAMP and other homeowner aid has been
led by the Republicans, Democrat support also has been waning.
This week, House Democrats sent a letter to Vice President  Joe Biden  saying that HAMP abandons distressed homeowners to
“abusive” mortgage servicers. They said foreclosure problems
have grown too urgent to wait for a legal settlement like the
one being negotiated by regulators, the states and banks.  The letter, sent by 18 Democrats led by Representative
George Miller of California, came after what Miller called an
“unsatisfactory” session last week with Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner and Housing and Urban Development Secretary
Shaun Donovan.  HAMP, which draws funds from TARP, has helped more than
600,000 homeowners with permanent loan modifications in the past
two years, far short of the 3 million to 4 million had promised
to help. Foreclosure filings reached a record 2.9 million in
2010.  GAO Criticism  The program has been criticized by government watchdogs
including the Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress.  Banks involved in modifying loans under HAMP have come
under scrutiny for lapses in their foreclosure procedures.
Unprepared for the record number of loan delinquencies brought
on by the housing bubble burst, servicers have relied on
inexperienced workers who failed to track paperwork or
improperly signed thousands of legal documents. The so-called
robo-signing practices prompted several lenders to temporarily
suspend foreclosures last fall.  All 50 states and a federal  task force  are investigating
at least 14 companies that conduct foreclosures. Federal
agencies and a group of state attorneys general are negotiating
a 27-page proposal for resolving the matter with  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Ally Financial Inc.,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said any settlement is
months away.  -- Editor: Lawrence Roberts, Gregory Mott  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 