-- 
Former Giant Tiki Barber Seeks NFL Return After Marriage, TV Career Fail

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-09T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/former-giant-tiki-barber-seeks-nfl-return-after-marriage-tv-career-fail.html
Tiki Barber will try to return to
the  National Football League  more than four years after playing
his last game for the  New York Giants .  Barber, the Giants’ career rushing leader with 10,449
yards, announced his decision yesterday through his agent, Mark
Lepselter. Barber, who in the past year went through a failed
marriage and lost his broadcasting job, didn’t give a reason for
his planned comeback. He’ll be 36 next season.  “I just didn’t expect Tiki Barber to be the type of guy
who decided that he wanted to come back after he left,” said
former Giants linebacker Carl Banks, now a radio broadcaster for
the team on WFAN and Sirius. “He’s always been his own man, but
this one is a bit interesting, to say the least.”  The Giants said in a statement that they would release
Barber from the final two years of his contract once a
collective bargaining agreement is reached with the players’
union, making him a free agent.  Barber played his entire 10-year NFL career with the Giants
and retired in January 2007. The team won the  Super Bowl  the
following season.  “We wish Tiki nothing but the best, and when we are able
to make the transaction, we will release him from our reserve/
retired list,” the team said.  ‘Very Good Shape’  Jim Fassel, who coached Barber for seven seasons in New
York, said that Barber is probably in “very good shape” after
his break from football.  “He hasn’t taken a pounding,” Fassel said in a telephone
interview. “If he played running back the last four years it’d
probably be the end of the road, but he probably has a couple of
years left.”  Banks, 48, said it’s unlikely Barber will be able to regain
the form that helped him rush for more than 1,000 yards in each
of his last five NFL seasons. Barber rushed for a career-high
1,860 yards in 2005 and 1,662 yards in his final season with the
Giants.  Former NFL rushing champion Ricky Williams, who missed
almost two full seasons after violating the league’s substance-
abuse policy, was 31 when he returned in 2008.  Philadelphia Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick  was out of the
NFL for two seasons, spending 18 months in jail for his role in
an interstate dog-fighting ring. When he returned in 2009, he
was 29.  Only three NFL running backs over the age of 30 rushed for
more than 500 yards last season. Williams, now 33, had 673 yards
for the  Miami Dolphins , 31-year-old LaDainian Tomlinson had 914
yards for the  New York Jets  and 32-year-old Thomas Jones had 896
yards for the  Kansas City Chiefs .  “It’s a young man’s game,” Banks said by telephone.
“Some would say (Barber) had four years without punishing his
body, but you take into account the 10 years he did play.”  Barber’s Retirement  After his retirement, Barber worked for NBC’s “Football
Night in America” and “Today” programs. NBC is now owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Barber in April left his wife of 11 years, who was eight
months pregnant with twins, for a 23-year-old NBC intern,
according to the New York Post. He was fired from his
contributor role on “Today” in May, the Post said, and his
reporter role on NBC’s NFL show wasn’t renewed when it expired
in 2010, according to AOL Fanhouse.  Barber also antagonized Giants fans with his criticism of
coach Tom Coughlin and quarterback Eli Manning following his
retirement. Barber was booed in October when he was inducted
into the team’s Ring of Honor at New Meadowlands Stadium in  East
Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  Banks said he isn’t sure what NFL team would take a chance
on a 36-year-old running back, even if longevity runs in the
family. Barber’s twin brother, Ronde, next season will enter his
15th NFL season as a cornerback for the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  “I don’t know if he’ll be a good backup for anyone or if
he’ll make it out of training camp,” Banks said. “The numbers
and the history of this game say that the game is not kind to
older players, much less running backs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net 
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 