-- 
Fortress Investment Is Said to Start Asia Macro Hedge Fund Run by Levinson

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-03-10T01:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/fortress-investment-is-said-to-start-asia-macro-hedge-fund-run-by-levinson.html
  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
buyout and hedge-fund firm run by  Daniel Mudd , started an Asia-
focused macro hedge fund that it aims to grow to $500 million,
three people with knowledge of the plan said.  The Fortress Asia Macro Fund has started trading with the
firm’s own money and that of a few clients, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.
The fund is set to attract more money starting in April, when
investors make their allocations, the people said. Gordon Runte,
a New York-based spokesman, declined to comment.  Adam Levinson, co-chief investment officer of global macro
funds, moved to Singapore from  New York  in January to lead the
firm’s Asia-specific macro-trading activities from the newly
opened office. Fortress joins global managers such as  New York- 
based Soros Fund Management LLC, founded by billionaire  George
Soros , in setting up shop in Asia as the region’s economic
growth outpaces the rest of the world.  “Asia is at the top of our list of priorities and high on
every investor’s list,” Mudd, Fortress’s chief executive
officer, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “The Asia region
has long been a key focus of our liquid markets business. We are
already trading about 40 percent of our Fortress Macro Fund out
of Singapore, and have begun to ramp up additional Asia-specific
strategies.”  ‘Very Bullish’  New York-based Fortress, which managed $44.6 billion as of
Dec. 31, said in December it appointed Thomas Kang, former CEO
of Seoul Securities Co., a South Korean investment firm that was
majority owned by  Soros Fund Management , as president of its
business in Asia. Fortress plans to have a team of 20 to 25
people in Singapore, one of the people said.  Levinson, who joined Fortress in 2002, serves on the firm’s
operating and management committees. He was previously a  fund
manager  at Paul Tudor Jones’s Tudor Investment Corp. and a
proprietary trader at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., spending nine
years in the bank’s  Hong Kong , Tokyo and London offices managing
portfolios focused on  Group-of-10  and emerging-market risk,
according to Fortress.  Mudd, the former chief of  Fannie Mae , said in October that
Fortress is also considering making more private-equity
investments in Asia.  Macro funds are “very bullish” on  Asia , said Christopher Fawcett, senior partner of Fauchier Partners, a fund of hedge
funds firm with about $8 billion of assets.  “Their commitment to Asia is stronger now than it was
previously because of the relative importance of the market
today,” London-based Fawcett said. “There’s a big interest in
Asia from the macro funds because of the  currency markets  here
and the amount of reserves that are held by the central banks.”  Macro Favored  Investors favored macro hedge funds in the fourth quarter,
allocating $6.6 billion of new capital to the strategy as they
“focused on the dynamics of inflation protection,” Chicago-
based  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  said in a report in January.
Macro funds seek to profit from broad economic trends by trading
currencies, bonds, stocks and commodities.    China  and Japan combined account for about 42 percent of
global reserves, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China may spur outflows of capital from emerging markets
unless it arrests inflation by tightening monetary policy,
Levinson said in January. China’s policy stance is too loose and
officials should be more aggressive in curbing inflation now to
avoid more “draconian” measures later, he said in  Singapore .  The Fortress Macro Fund Ltd. gained 0.12 percent in the
first two months of the year, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The fund gained 10.7 percent
in 2010, according to the firm. Macro funds, on average, gained
8.6 percent last year, according to HFR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  