-- 
France Shifts Stance to Allow German Trains Into Channel Tunnel

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-03-09T09:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/france-shifts-stance-to-allow-german-trains-into-channel-tunnel.html
The French government said it won’t
bar  Siemens AG (SIE)  trains from the Channel Tunnel if  Europe ’s rail-
safety agency backs their introduction, a shift that should
clear the way for  Deutsche Bahn  AG to begin services to  London .    France  will respect the  European Railway Agency ’s advice on
operations planned by the German state railway using a variant
of Siemens’s InterCityExpress train, said a government official
who declined to be identified, citing official policy.  The ICE has motors in each car, a system outlawed under
current rules because of a perceived fire risk. Former Transport
Minister Dominique Bussereau, replaced by Thierry Mariani late
in 2010, had said an order for the trains from incumbent tunnel
operator Eurostar Group Ltd. should be dropped for that reason.  While a  Franco-British Intergovernmental Commission  has the
final say on any rule change, it’s likely to follow the European
agency’s recommendations, the French official said. Deutsche
Bahn and  Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET) , which operates the 30-mile (48-
kilometer) subsea link, carried out tests and evacuation drills
in October to support an application for safety approval.  Eurotunnel is counting on new entrants to lift traffic and
revenue through the tunnel by adding routes to the current
Eurostar services linking London with Paris and Brussels.  Amsterdam, Frankfurt  Deutsche Bahn aims to introduce trains to Amsterdam,
Cologne and Frankfurt from London starting in 2013. Eurostar
plans to add the same cities a year later, it said in October
after announcing a 700 million-pound ($1.1 billion) fleet
upgrade that included a 10-train Siemens order.  “That order still stands and the contracts have been
signed,” Eurostar spokesman Leigh Calder said yesterday by
telephone, welcoming the French government’s revised stance.
“It’s good news that they will respect and abide by the
European agency’s recommendations.”  Eurostar, controlled by French state rail operator SNCF,
chose the ICE in preference to proposals from Paris-based  Alstom
SA (ALO) , which had also used so-called distributed traction rather
than the current system of a locomotive at either end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  