-- 
Gamesa Denies Suzlon Bid Saying It’ll Expand in India Alone

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T13:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/gamesa-denies-bidding-for-a-stake-in-india-s-suzlon-business-line-says.html
Gamesa Corp. Technologica SA,  Spain ’s largest wind-turbine maker, denied making a bid to buy a
stake in Indian competitor Suzlon Energy Ltd., saying it plans
to build its own factories in  India ’s growing wind market.  “There’s absolutely nothing to the rumors,” Chief
Executive Officer Jorge Calvet told reporters in Mumbai today.  Gamesa previously declined to comment on a Jan. 4 report by
television channel NDTV Profit that Suzlon, India’s largest
wind-turbine maker, may sell a stake to Gamesa’s U.K. unit.
Suzlon had called the report “speculative” and “inaccurate.”  “There’s been no time,” to consider potential
acquisitions in India, where Gamesa plans to start building its
first manufacturing plants this year, Calvet said.
“Acquisitions aren’t a priority.”  Calvet announced plans to invest 5 billion rupees ($111
million) in three new Indian plants to make parts for  wind
turbines , including blades, towers and turbine rotor housings
known as nacelles.  “We want to have more components made by ourselves in
India,” he said. “We’re keen on developing a very significant
supply chain.”  India is the world’s fifth-largest wind market with an
installed wind capacity is 13,065 megawatts. That accounts for
about 70 percent of the nation’s overall renewable energy
capacity, according to ministry statistics as of Dec. 31.  Shifting Production  U.S. and European wind-turbine makers, including Vestas
Wind Systems A/S and  General Electric Co. (GE) , are shifting
manufacturing to Asian countries that have lower labor costs,
higher margins and a fast-growing domestic market.  “One hundred percent of our sales in 2010 were outside of
Spain,” Calvet said. “That’s a market that used to be 35
percent.”  In contrast, India is expected to grow to 25 percent of
Gamesa’s sales from 5 percent today, he said. Within three
years, the company expects to sell 800 megawatts annually in
India.  Next year, Gamesa expects India to add 5,000 megawatts of
new wind-energy capacity, more than double the Indian
government’s estimate, as rising oil prices spur investment in
alternatives.  Gamesa will introduce a bigger, more efficient 2-megawatt
turbine in India by March 2012, Calvet said. It currently makes
an 850-kilowatt turbine at its assembly plant in  Chennai .  New Plants  Two new plants will be built by September to make blades
and towers, Ramesh Kymal, managing director of Gamesa’s India
unit, said. They’ll be located in Gujarat state to tap into a
growing wind market in northwest India, he said. Most of India’s
wind manufacturing and generation is currently concentrated in
the south.  The nacelle plant will be completed by the first quarter of
2012 in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , he said.  The manufacturing expansion will help Gamesa double its
India production capacity to 1,000 megawatts per year by
September, Kymal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 