-- 
Gang Members Indicted in U.S. Consulate Killings in Mexico

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-09T21:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/gang-members-indicted-in-u-s-consulate-killings-in-mexico.html
Ten Mexican nationals, linked to a
violent gang, have been indicted in the murders of three people
connected with the American consulate in  Ciudad Juarez ,  Mexico ,
the  Justice Department  said.  The 10 are members and associates of the Barrio Azteca
gang, which operates in the U.S. and Mexico, the department said
in a statement today. Seven are in custody in Mexico and
authorities are searching for the other three, according to the
statement.  A consular employee, her husband and the husband of a
Mexican citizen who works at the consulate were shot to death in
March 2010 in two incidents in Ciudad Juarez, across the border
from El Paso, Texas. The motive isn’t clear, said  Lanny Breuer ,
the assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice
Department’s criminal division.  “It could be as simple as mistaken identity,” Breuer said
at a news conference in  Washington . “Whatever the motivation
is, the alleged brutality of the murders was really quite
extraordinary.”  Twenty-five other people associated with the gang were
indicted in connection with offenses including  money laundering 
and drug trafficking, according to the Justice Department.  Transnational Organization  The gang began in the late 1980s in prisons and expanded
into a “transnational criminal organization,” according to the
statement. It is based in west Texas and Juarez, Mexico, and in
prisons in the U.S. and Mexico, according to the department. The
gang enriches its members and associates through drug
trafficking, money laundering, extortion and murder, according
to the Justice Department.  Barrio Azteca is “one of the most powerful and brutal
gangs operating along the U.S.-Mexico border,” Shawn Henry,
executive assistant director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , said at the news conference.  To increase its power, the gang formed an alliance with the
Vicente Carrillo-Fuentes drug trafficking organization in
Mexico, according to the Justice Department. Barrio Azteca
conducted “enforcement operations” against rivals of the
trafficking operation, which provides illicit drugs to the gang
at a discount, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  