-- 
Gasoline Surges as U.S. Supplies Drop, Libya Unrest Escalates

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-03-09T20:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/gasoline-gains-as-libya-unrest-escalates-threatens-supplies.html
Gasoline surged as U.S. supplies
fell the most in 29 months and Libyan oil output was disrupted,
increasing speculation that unrest may spread around the region
and threaten global oil shipments.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles shrank 5.49 million barrels to
229.2 million last week, the biggest drop since September 2008,
according to Energy Department data.  Libya ’s Ras Lanuf refinery,
the country’s largest, was shut amid fighting between government
forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels, an official with the
Libyan Emirates Oil Refining Co. said.  “It’s maintenance season right now and refiners are
clearing inventory to take advantage of high wholesale prices,”
said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc.
in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “The incentive is to pull product
from inventory that was produced under cheaper crude prices.”  Gasoline for April delivery added 8.05 cents, or 2.7
percent, to settle at $3.0272 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures have surged 22 percent since anti-
government protests began in Libya Feb. 15.  Futures also advanced as  Brent crude  for April settlement
rose $2.88 to $115.94 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Products futures are vulnerable to changes in Brent
because refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the
delivery point for heating oil and gasoline futures, process
crude grades priced relative to the European benchmark.  “Product gains are a combination of following the Brent
move and the constructive numbers in the” inventory report
today, said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at
Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Brent Forecast  Brent may trade at more than $140 a barrel in the next
three months amid rising global demand and halts to production
in Libya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  Nymex April crude fell 64 cents to settle at $104.38 a
barrel as supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
the U.S. benchmark grade, expanded to the highest level since at
least 2004, according to department data.  Oil tanks at the Es Sider terminal were damaged by bombings
today, according to Al Jazeera television. Qaddafi stepped up
attacks on towns in western Libya and his forces carried out air
and artillery strikes to stop a rebel advance along the coast
from the east. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron yesterday agreed to plan a “full spectrum of
possible responses,” including the imposition of a no-fly zone.  “It’s really getting intense in Libya, and the risk to
supply is extremely high so the oil market is very nervous,”
said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Gasoline Supplies  Gasoline supplies slipped more than the 1.5 million barrel
decline projected in a Bloomberg survey and the 3.74 million
barrel drop reported yesterday by the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute .  The largest fall was in the Gulf Coast, or PADD 3, where
supplies dropped 3.57 million barrels to 73.1 million, the
lowest level since June 25, as refiners shut units for unplanned
and scheduled repairs.  Gasoline demand, as measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
rose 0.3 percent to 9.19 million barrels a day last week, the
highest level since Dec. 24.  “I don’t think anybody really believes in increased end-
user demand,” Knight said. Refiners were moving winter grade
gasoline out of inventories to “make room for summer grade,”
he said.  The summer-grade fuel is costlier because it requires more-
expensive blending materials than winter grades to avoid
evaporation.  Distillate Supplies  Stockpiles of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, dropped 3.98 million barrels to 155.2 million, the
lowest level since June 4. Distillate demand jumped 14 percent
to an average 4.21 million barrels a day, the most since Nov. 5.  Heating oil for April delivery rose 5.96 cents, or 2
percent, to settle at $3.0707 a gallon. Heating oil has gained
13 percent since Feb. 15.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
0.7 cent to $3.524 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website ,
the highest level since Oct. 5, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  