-- 
Germany, France Join Denmark to Fight Basel Liquidity Rules

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-03-09T14:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/germany-france-join-denmark-to-fight-basel-liquidity-rules.html
Denmark is teaming up with Germany
and  France  to fight rules it says will penalize the world’s
third-largest covered bond market.  “It’s a matter of gathering support and finding friends,”
said  Louise Mogensen , a department head at the Copenhagen-based
 Economy Ministry , in a March 7 interview. “It’s still too early
to say that we’ll be successful; the commission has shown it’s
ready to listen to our points.”  Denmark wants the European Commission to change rules set
out by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that the
Nordic country says will force lenders to sell off mortgage
bonds. Ane Arnth Jensen, director of the  Association of Danish
Mortgage Banks , has called Basel’s reluctance to assign mortgage
debt the top liquidity status “grotesque,” while Nykredit A/S
Senior Vice President Jesper Berg says  Denmark  would face a
credit crisis “the likes of which this country has never seen”
if the rules aren’t changed.  A Dec. 20 joint letter from Denmark’s Economy Ministry, the
German Finance Ministry and France’s Ministry of Economy,
Finances and Industry obtained by Bloomberg shows the European
Commission is working on a model that the three countries say
“adequately reflects” the liquidity status of covered bonds.  The liquidity standards are “an essential issue,” said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for EU financial services chief  Michel Barnier , who is leading the commission’s work to
implement the Basel rules. “Given the problems linked to
liquidity we saw in the recent crisis, it is important to get
this right.”  Meeting Tomorrow  Barnier is likely to discuss the issue with Danish Economy
Minister Brian Mikkelsen in Brussels tomorrow, Hughes said.
Mikkelsen will be in Brussels to attend a scheduled meeting of
European Union ministers responsible for enterprise and
industry.  “We’re in continuous contact with the European
Commission,” Mogensen said. A directive on Basel implementation
in  Europe  “is expected by the end of June and in the meantime
we’re working to influence the final shape the draft takes,”
she said. “Basel hasn’t created rules, as such, it’s up to us
in Europe to decide what approach works best here.”  The letter concludes that the model, which isn’t disclosed,
“should be specified in 2014 within the capital requirements
directive as a political decision through the co-decision
procedure” with the European Council and European Parliament.  Observation Periods  “The Basel committee has said that its liquidity rules
will be subject to observation periods before they are
introduced, and we intend to make full use of them to address
any unintended consequences,” Hughes said. “In the meantime
the Commission is evaluating how best to incorporate technically
the liquidity standards into EU legislation.”  Denmark’s mortgage bond industry “greatly appreciates the
efforts by the authorities and the commission to find a
solution,” Nykredit’s Berg said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Our expectations are that at the end of the day, a
solution will be found that will address our concerns.”  Mogensen declined to comment on the model’s details. While
Basel’s deadline for implementing the liquidity rules is 2015,
the European Union has yet to legally commit itself to a
timeline. The model proposed allocates asset classes based on
“a number of strict liquidity criteria,” the letter said.  “We’re very much in favor of strict  capital requirements 
and support the inclusion of high-quality capital in the
liquidity ratio,” Mogensen said. “We don’t want to dilute or
weaken the existing proposal. We want a solution that doesn’t
assign an asset a liquidity value based on its name, but on the
quality of the asset.”  Liquid Market  Denmark’s lenders, which hold more than half the country’s
$490 billion of mortgage bonds, would be forced to sell off
holdings to comply with Basel’s 40 percent cap on using the top-
rated securities as liquid assets, according to Arnth Jensen.
Basel, which says the rule will provide lenders with more liquid
assets to guard against times of financial stress, doesn’t place
any limit on sovereign-debt holdings.  Denmark’s mortgage bond market is about 1 1/2 times the
size of the country’s economy and more than seven times the size
of the government bond market, according to the central bank.
Denmark, which isn’t one of the Basel Committee’s 27 members, is
one of the most vocal critics of the liquidity rules.  Outperformed Bunds  Trading in Denmark’s covered bonds -- securities backed by
the  cash flow  from a pool of mortgages -- rose during the
financial crisis, both in the total value of securities traded
and in the median size of individual trades, central bank data
show. It was easier to trade short-term mortgage bonds than
government notes, the bank estimates.  Danish mortgage bonds have lost 0.6 percent this year,
according to an index that doesn’t account for reinvested
interest. German debt with a maturity of more than 1 year has
lost 2.8 percent in price over the same period, according to a
Bloomberg index.  Denmark’s government-bond market is too small by about 300
billion kroner ($56 billion) to bridge the liquidity gap the
Basel rules would create, Arnth Jensen said in a December
interview.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  