-- 
Ghana's Oil Bill May Improve Credit Rating and Spur New Lending, IMF Says

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-03-09T11:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ghana-s-oil-bill-may-improve-credit-rating-and-spur-new-lending-imf-says.html
A policy approved by lawmakers in
 Ghana  that governs how revenue from the nascent oil sector is
spent may provide a credit-rating boost and increase lending to
the West African nation, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  The law, passed on March 2, allows oil revenue to be used
as collateral for loans in a “credit enhancement” program,
said Wayne Mitchell, resident representative for the fund, based
in Accra, the capital. The risk of default is reduced, which
will lower  interest rates , he said.    Ghana  can pledge future oil revenue or barrels of oil as
collateral to provide the lender of funds with reassurance that
it will be compensated if the government of Ghana or any of its
agencies defaulted on the loan,” Mitchell said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  Members of Ghana’s Parliament debated the bill since at
least November before assenting last week, almost three months
after production began at the offshore Jubilee oil field,
Ghana’s first major oil find. The bill allows the government to
use 70 percent of oil revenue for spending, including loan
collateral.  Ghana, which sold sub-Saharan  Africa ’s first Eurobonds
outside of  South Africa  in 2007, had its sovereign-credit rate
cut to B, five steps below investment grade, with a stable
outlook by  Standard & Poor’s  in August.  ‘Best Practice’  A provision to keep 21 percent of the revenue in a
stabilization fund for the country to fall on in times of price
volatility and a heritage fund with 9 percent of earnings saved
for the future is “best practice,” Mitchell said in an earlier
interview on March 2.  “It is only wise for the country to use a chunk of the oil
revenues now for current expenditure as Ghana is faced with a
lot of infrastructural need,” he said.  Ghana may earn more than the 584 million cedis ($383
million) of oil revenue projected in the country’s budget
statement issued in November, Mitchell said. The average price
of crude may be $95 per barrel in 2011 compared with the
government’s budget estimate of $73 to $75, he added.  Production may increase to 120,000 barrels a day later this
year from the current rate of about 50,000 barrels, according to  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the field’s operator.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 