-- 
Goldman Sachs Buys Stake in Closely Held Management Dynamics

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-03-09T16:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/goldman-sachs-buys-stake-in-closely-held-management-dynamics.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  bought a
stake in  Management Dynamics Inc. , a closely held New Jersey
company that makes software to automate international shipments.  “We plan to use the funds from Goldman to make a strategic
acquisition to expand our product portfolio and further distance
ourselves from the competition,” Management Dynamics Chief
Executive Officer Jim Preuninger said in a statement today from
the East Rutherford-based company.  Management Dynamics didn’t disclose the size of the stake.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
didn’t immediate reply to requests for comment.  Gene Yoon, a managing director at New York-based Goldman
Sachs, will join the board of the company, according to the
statement. Yoon is head of private equity for Goldman Sachs’s
Americas Special Situations Group, according to a biography
published on the Management Dynamics website.  Preuninger worked in sales and marketing for  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  before founding Management Dynamics in
1989, the company’s website says. John Preuninger, president and
chief operating officer and Jim’s twin brother, was a strategy
consultant at Monitor Company before joining Management Dynamics
in 1990, Kathleen Hickey, a spokeswoman, said.  Goldman Sachs in January changed the way it reports its
financial results, creating a new division called Investing and
Lending. Investments by the special situations group, which buys
distressed debt and equity and makes loans, have been mostly
moved out of the company’s fixed-income, currencies and
commodities division into the new investing and lending segment.  Investing and Lending contributed 19 percent of Goldman
Sachs’s 2010 revenue, making it the second-largest division on
that basis after institutional client services, or sales and
trading, according to Goldman Sachs’s annual 10-K filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  In 2009, Investing and Lending accounted for 6 percent of
the firm’s revenue, the filing showed, and in fiscal 2008 it had
negative revenue of $10.8 billion, making it the only money-
losing division that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 