-- 
Goldman Sachs Names Carr, Philip to Head Americas Mergers

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/goldman-sachs-names-carr-philip-to-head-americas-mergers.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
world’s best-paid merger adviser, named Michael Carr and David ‘Dusty’ Philip to run the business in the Americas, succeeding
Timothy Ingrassia.  Ingrassia, 46, will take the title of co-chairman of global
mergers and acquisitions alongside Jack Levy and Gene Sykes, New
York-based Goldman Sachs said yesterday in an internal memo.
Andrea Rachman, a spokeswoman for Goldman, confirmed the
contents.  Carr, 52, is returning to a leadership post he held a
decade ago. He joined Goldman Sachs from Salomon Smith Barney
Inc. in 1998 and was tapped to co-head the Americas mergers
business the following year. In 2000, he moved to Hong Kong to
oversee Goldman Sachs’ investment-banking operation in Asia, and
returned to New York in 2003.  Carr recently advised Radnor, Pennsylvania-based  Airgas
Inc. (ARG)  on its defense against a yearlong, $5.9 billion hostile
pursuit from Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  Philip, a Goldman Sachs employee since 1991, has advised
health-care and industrial companies on mergers, including
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp. on its $26 billion sale last
year to Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  In 2006, he
worked with Fisher Scientific International Inc. on its $11
billion sale to Thermo Electron Corp.  Gordon Dyal remains the global head of the mergers
business.  Goldman Sachs collected $2.06 billion from advisory fees in
2010, the most of any firm. Goldman Sachs trailed Morgan Stanley
in Bloomberg’s ranking of merger advisers by dollar value of
transactions last year, working on $451 billion of deals
compared with  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s $472 billion.  The Wall Street Journal previously reported the changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 