-- 
Gold, Silver Prices Rise on Demand for Investment Haven, Inflation Hedge

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-03-09T19:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/gold-may-advance-approaching-record-as-middle-east-turmoil-buoys-demand.html
Gold and silver rose for the third
time in four sessions as mounting tension in  Libya  and higher
energy costs boosted demand for precious metals as an investment
haven and an inflation hedge.  Muammar Qaddafi stepped up attacks on towns in western
Libya that have risen against him. Crude oil in New York gained
as much as 0.9 percent before easing. Gold climbed to a record
of $1,445.70 an ounce on March 7.  “The sentiment is just positive for gold and silver,”
said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-
Waldock in  Chicago . “People want to have that fear premium.
There’s a flight-to-quality for gold and fear in the backdrop
that higher oil prices are inflationary.”  Gold for April delivery rose $2.40, or 0.2 percent, to
settle at $1,429.60 at 1:46 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
price has gained 27 percent in the past year.  Investors are buying the metal before a March 11 protest in  Saudi Arabia , Klopfenstein said. Postings on websites have
called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on that date and
March 20, Human Rights Watch said on Feb. 28.  Yesterday, gold held in exchange-traded products rose for a
fourth straight session to 2,024.63 metric tons, data compiled
by Bloomberg from 10 providers show. Holdings reached a record
2,114.6 tons in December.  Gold’s gains may be limited on speculation that central
banks will increase interest rates to slow inflation, eroding
demand for the metal as an alternative asset, said Jon Nadler,
an analyst at Kitco Inc. in  Montreal .  Pimco Report    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., eliminated government-related
debt from his flagship fund as of February, according to the
Zero Hedge website.  Yields on Treasuries may be too low to sustain demand for
U.S. government debt as the  Federal Reserve  approaches the end
of its second round of quantitative easing, Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted on Pimco’s website on March 2.  The Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark lending rate at
zero percent to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and is expected
to complete a second round of so-called quantitative easing by
June.  “Over the past month, more and more central bankers have
started to sound more and more hawkish, despite the perceived
threat that Qaddafi’s descent into madness is thought to
possibly pose to the world’s recovering economies,” Nadler said
in a report.  Sovereign Debt  Last year, accelerating inflation and increasing sovereign
debt drove gold prices up 30 percent, the 10th straight annual
gain. Asian countries from  China  to Indonesia boosted  interest
rates  this year to curb rising consumer prices.  Silver futures for May delivery rose 38.9 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $36.047 an ounce. The price has doubled in the past
12 months.  Palladium futures for June delivery dropped $5.05, or 0.6
percent, to $781.65 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The metal has gained 67 percent in the past 12 months.  Platinum futures for April delivery fell 60 cents to $1,802
an ounce. The price has advanced 13 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  