-- 
Gome Electrical's Chairman Chen Quits After Boardroom Battle With Founder

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T05:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/gome-electrical-says-chairman-chen-xiao-resigns-replaced-by-zhang-dazhong.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. Chairman  Chen Xiao  quit, succumbing to a seven-month
campaign by billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu  to reassert
control over  China ’s second-largest electronics retailer from a
prison cell.  Chen stepped down “to spend more time with his family”
and will be replaced by Zhang Dazhong, 62, founder of a rival
that Gome acquired more than three years ago, Gome said
yesterday in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  Gome shares rose as much as 6.5 percent today, with Chen’s
departure a victory for Huang, who is serving 14 years in prison
for bribery and insider trading. Huang, Gome’s biggest
shareholder, has disputed board decisions, threatened to split
the company and opposed an investment by  Bain Capital  LLC.  “Everything is under control now,” said CCB International
Securities Ltd.’s Forrest Chan, the top-ranked Gome analyst in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The
board of Gome used to be divided amid the dispute between Huang
and the management. Now their interests are aligned. Things are
getting better.”  Bain Capital  Chan has an “outperform” recommendation on Gome stock and
said the company likely will open more stores to protect its
position in the market.  Gome shares rose 3.3 percent to HK$2.86 at the noon break
in Hong Kong trading. After almost tripling in 2009, shares lost
0.7 percent last year.  Huang, once China’s richest man, owns about 31 percent of
Gome’s  Hong Kong  shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
He first proposed removing Chen in August because he disagreed
with Chen over decisions to slow store openings and to allow an
investment by Bain Capital, according to Zou Xiaochun, Huang’s
corporate lawyer.  Bain owns 9.9 percent, making it the second-largest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A Bain
affiliate bought $233 million worth of Gome convertible bonds in
June 2009.  “We welcome Mr. Zhang and Mr. Lee to the Gome board,”
said Bain Capital Managing Director Jonathan Zhu, referring to
Lee Kong Wai’s appointment as an independent, non-executive
director.  We “look forward to working with them to grow Gome and
create value for shareholders,” Zhu said in a statement.  Huang Threats  While Huang’s recommendation to remove Chen was rejected at
a  shareholders’ meeting  in September, Huang’s proposal to cancel
a mandate to issue new shares that may dilute his stake was
approved. Less than two months later, Gome agreed to appoint Zou
as an executive director and Huang’s sister, Huang Yanhong, a
non-executive director.  Huang Guangyu, who privately owns the Gome brand and about
400 stores, had threatened to sever ties, creating a competitor
to Gome’s 700-plus outlets in China. The board appointments of
his lawyer and sister were followed by a statement saying there
was no longer an intention to terminate the relationship.  Sun Yi Ding also resigned as an executive director yet will
stay on as a vice president, according to the statement. Huang
also proposed removing Sun last year.  Sun also resigned to spend time with his family, Gome said.
Chen and Sun had no disagreement with the board, and there are
no “matters that need to be brought to the attention of the
shareholders,” Gome said.  Richest Man  Zhang, 62, is  No. 290 on the Forbes list  of the richest
people in China, with an estimated wealth of $555 million. He
founded Beijing Dazhong Electronics Ltd., which a Gome partner
bought for 3.6 billion yuan. Gome financed the deal and operates
Dazhong.  Zhang also will be a non-executive director, Gome said.  Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, is serving the prison
term after being convicted in a Beijing court in May of bribery,
insider trading and illegally buying foreign currency. He was
ranked China’s richest man by Forbes magazine in 2006 with an
estimated wealth of $2.3 billion.  Huang’s wife,  Du Juan , has a 1.4 percent stake in Gome
while Chen has 1.2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hong Kong’s  High Court  lifted a freeze on Du’s assets after
two companies owned by Huang deposited with the court Gome share
certificates worth HK$1.66 billion ($213 million), the city’s
securities regulator said March 3. The freeze on Huang’s assets
remains, the Securities and Futures Commission said.  The freeze on Du’s assets was granted in August 2009 after
the SFC began investigating whether Huang and Du manipulated the
market by organizing a company share repurchase, according to an
SFC statement at the time.  Du was granted a suspension of her 3 1/2-year prison
sentence by a Beijing court last year after being convicted of  insider trading .  -  Michael Wei . With assistance from John Duce and Frank Longid
in Hong Kong. Editors: Michael Tighe, Lena Lee  To contact the Bloomberg Staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  