-- 
Government Shutdown Opposed by Americans in Poll Faulting Republican Cuts

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-03-09T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/government-shutdown-opposed-by-americans-in-poll-faulting-republican-cuts.html
Americans are sending a message to
congressional Republicans: Don’t shut down the federal
government or slash spending on popular programs.  Almost 8 in 10 people say Republicans and Democrats should
reach a compromise on a plan to reduce the federal  budget
deficit  to keep the government running, a Bloomberg National
Poll shows. At the same time, lopsided margins oppose cuts to
Medicare, education, environmental protection, medical research
and community-renewal programs.  While Americans say it’s important to improve the
government’s fiscal situation, among the few deficit-reducing
moves they back are cutting foreign aid, pulling U.S. troops out
of  Afghanistan  and Iraq, and repealing the Bush-era tax cuts for
households earning more than $250,000 a year.  The results of the March 4-7 poll underscore the hazards
confronting Republicans, as well as President  Barack Obama  and
Democrats, as they face a showdown over funding the government
and seek a broader deficit-reduction plan.  “Americans do not have a realistic picture of the
budget,” says J. Ann Selzer, the  Des Moines , Iowa-based
pollster who conducted the survey. “We all know people who are
in debt yet cannot for the life of them figure out where the
money goes.”  Overall, public concern about the deficit -- which is
projected to reach $1.6 trillion this year -- is growing,
although it’s still eclipsed by employment, with poll
respondents ranking job creation as a higher priority.  1% of Budget  More than 7 in 10 respondents say slashing foreign aid
and pulling troops out of Iraq and Afghanistan would result in
substantial savings, and large majorities back such moves. Yet
foreign aid accounts for about 1 percent of federal spending,
and the Pentagon requested $159 billion for the wars in  Iraq  and
Afghanistan this year, less than 5 percent of Obama’s $3.83
trillion federal budget.  Fewer than half of respondents say cutting Medicare
benefits or raising the age at which Americans receive Social
Security retirement benefits would have a large impact on the
deficit, and only 2 in 10 favor cutting Medicare benefits. Such
entitlements account for about 40 percent of the budget and are
the main drivers of the long-term deficit.  “Those people need those benefits,” says Will Moore, 36-
year-old electrician from  Dallas ,  Georgia , in a follow-up
interview. Congress instead should eliminate “useless
government programs and cut taxes and put money back in people’s
pockets to stimulate spending,” says Moore.  Eclipsed by Jobs  When given five choices for the most important issue facing
the nation, unemployment and jobs ranked first with 43 percent -
- down from 50 percent in Bloomberg’s December 2010 poll -- with
the deficit and spending cited by 29 percent, up from 25
percent. Health care was chosen by 12 percent, the war in
Afghanistan by 7 percent, and immigration by 3 percent.  Asked to choose between jobs and the deficit, 56 percent
called creating jobs the government’s more important priority
now, while 42 percent said cutting spending was.  Obama and congressional leaders have until March 18 to
break an impasse over funding the government through the end of
the 2011 fiscal year or risk a shutdown. The Republican-led
House last month passed a $1.2 trillion budget that includes $61
billion in cuts. Obama and Democrats call the reductions
excessive and propose cutting a total of about $10 billion. The
debate is only over the current budget and doesn’t include long-
term issues about the debt, including entitlements.  Cautionary Notes  To be sure, the poll holds cautionary notes and signs of
opportunities for both parties in the budget battle. It shows
the public doesn’t support the Republicans’ deep cuts to social
and scientific programs. Solid majorities reject significant
reductions in community programs that serve lower-income
Americans, medical and scientific research, education programs
and the Environmental Protection Agency. Fifty percent oppose
significant cuts to public television and radio, compared with
46 percent who are in favor of that.  Still, the results indicate the public embraces the
Republican argument that spending cuts will improve the economy
and create jobs and doesn’t agree with Obama’s plan to invest in
such areas as infrastructure to jumpstart a recovery.  Fifty-three percent say the drive to cut spending and taxes
would improve the economy, while 44 percent say spending money
on high-speed rail, expanding access to broadband Internet and
developing new sources of alternative energy, as Obama proposes,
would lay the groundwork for growth.  The poll also found that 61 percent say it’s possible to
bring down the deficit substantially without raising taxes,
while 37 percent said it isn’t possible.  Partisan Divide  While large majorities of both Democrats and Republicans
want to avoid a government shutdown, that feeling is stronger
among Democrats: Only 6 percent of Democrats say the issue of
spending cuts is important enough to warrant a shutdown,
compared with 92 percent who said they want to avoid that; 29
percent of Republicans say deep reductions need to be made even
if it means closing down the government for a time, while 69
percent say that should be avoided. Just over 7 of 10
independents say they want compromise.  Overall, 77 percent say while cuts need to be made, an
accord should be reached to avert a shutdown, compared with 20
percent who say a shutdown would be tolerable.  “I don’t think that allowing the government to shut down
is acceptable,” says Suzanne Ray, a 67-year-old retired state
employee from Richmond,  Virginia , who describes herself as an
independent. “We have elected people who should be able to
reach reasonable decisions instead of acting like a bunch of
spoiled children.”  Hands Off Medicare  While the broad majority that wants compromise on the
budget may signal peril for Republicans, 45 percent say the
party would benefit more than Democrats from a shutdown for
having taken a strong stand against spending; 34 percent say
Democrats would gain.  People are reluctant to touch Medicare, with more than
three-quarters opposing any reduction in benefits to the
insurance program for the elderly. Fifty-one percent say that
would make little difference to the federal deficit, compared
with 44 percent who say it would have a big impact.  Respondents split over whether gradually raising the age of
eligibility for retirement for Social Security to 69 would
produce at least modest savings: 47 percent say it would produce
very or fairly large savings, compared with 48 percent who say
it would have little impact.  The public may be opening up to the idea of raising the
eligibility requirement for Social Security. From December,
there was a 7-point increase in the percentage of Americans who
support raising the  retirement age , to 44 percent. While just 22
percent say Medicare benefits should be reduced, that’s a 7-
point jump from three months ago.  Do Something  And 40 percent say Medicare should be replaced with a
system in which government vouchers would help participants pay
for their own health insurance.  “Something has to be done,” says Stanley Stein, a 75-
year-old retired X-ray technician from Sahuarita,  Arizona , who
endorses raising the retirement age and means-testing Social
Security benefits. “Otherwise, there’ll be nothing for
anybody.”  There’s also a partisan split in public perceptions of the
threat posed by the deficit.  Forty-six percent of Republicans and 47 percent of Tea
Party supporters call the deficit and government spending the
most important issue facing the country, compared with 16
percent of Democrats, for whom jobs ranks first. Almost 7 in 10
Republicans and Tea Party backers say spending is the more
important priority over jobs, while 77 percent of Democrats
choose  job creation  over the deficit. Jobs are the higher
priority for independents, by a margin of 55 percent to 42
percent -- almost identical to respondents overall.  The poll of 1,001 adults has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  