-- 
GRATs Let Children Pass Millions to Mom or Granny Free of U.S. Gift Taxes

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/grats-let-children-pass-millions-to-mom-or-granny-tax-free.html
Anita Sarafa, a managing director
for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Private Bank, helped a client give
more than $300,000 to his parents free of gift taxes, using an
estate strategy the Obama administration is seeking to limit.  Grantor retained annuity trusts, or GRATs, allow wealthy
children to pass investment gains to their parents or
grandparents without dipping into their $5 million lifetime
gift-tax exemptions.  “It’s sort of a heads-I-win, tails-I-win technique,” said
Allen Laufer, managing director for New York-based Silvercrest
Asset Management Group.  The strategy hasn’t escaped the attention of President
Barack Obama’s administration, which is  recommending  imposing
10-year minimum terms on GRATs that would make them less
appealing for children looking to pass money on to elderly
parents, according to Joseph Falanga, president of the
Cleveland-based  National Association of Estate Planners &
Councils .  “If they want to do something for their parents they may
want to go ahead and do it now,” said Sarafa.  Individuals currently can give up to $5 million to others
during their lifetimes without triggering gift taxes, which have
a top federal tax rate of 35 percent. This amount will fall to
$1 million and the maximum gift tax rate will rise to 55 percent
in 2013, unless Congress acts.  Upstream Money  “A lot of people don’t want to use their lifetime
exemption to move money upstream to their parents, they would
rather use it to move money downstream to their children,” said
Chicago-based Sarafa, whose clients have $25 million or more in
investable assets.  With a GRAT, a child sets up a trust with a term of at
least two years and funds the trust with stock or other
investments. The trust pays the principal plus interest back to
the child over its term as if it were an annuity, based on an
interest rate set by the  Internal Revenue Service . Any
appreciation of the underlying investments above this “hurdle”
rate passes on to the GRAT’s beneficiary, in this case the
parents, without being considered a gift for tax purposes. If
the investments return less than the interest rate, which was 3
percent in March, the GRAT must pay all its assets back to the
child, with no gain for the parents.  For example, a child could have created a two-year GRAT
funded with $1 million of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shares in March 2009, when
the IRS-set interest rate was 2.4 percent. The child would have
received a payment of $471,476 in the GRAT’s first year and
$565,771 in its second year, according to Laufer. By March 2011
the shares would have gained a total of 300 percent and the
trust would pay the parent $2.6 million, Laufer said.  ‘Opportune Time’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has returned 5.5 percent
this year, which means a GRAT set up in January and invested in
the index’s stocks currently would be ahead of its 2.4 percent
hurdle rate. The IRS sets rates every month for new GRATs.  “Now is a very opportune time to do something like this”
because  interest rates  are low and it’s still possible to set up
GRATs with terms of as little as two years, said Sisi Tran,
director of trust and estate planning for Rockville, Maryland-
based  Convergent Wealth Advisors , which manages more than $14
billion and whose average client account is about $50 million.  A 10-year minimum term would make GRATs less useful in
providing for the elderly, said Tran, who’s based in  Los
Angeles . “The parent has to wait until the end of the term to
reap the benefits,” she said.  If a child dies before a GRAT has paid out its assets, the
GRAT becomes part of the child’s taxable estate, so 10-year
terms also increase this mortality risk, said Tran.  Help With Expenses  GRATs have been a popular tool for estate planners and are
most commonly set up by parents to pass money to their children,
according to Tran. Using GRATs for a parent is “not that much
different from planning for your child,” she said.  For Sarafa’s client, who set up two GRATs with two-year
terms in late 2008 and early 2009, the structures allowed him to
assist with medical expenses related to his mother’s Alzheimer’s
disease and to provide for the quality of life of his “very
active” father, she said.  “That really is going to provide a good cushion,” said
Sarafa. She declined to provide the client’s name for privacy
reasons.  Beneficiaries generally pay  capital gains  taxes of up to 15
percent on the appreciation of assets they receive from a GRAT,
based on those assets’ original cost basis. The Obama
administration has proposed raising the maximum rate on capital
gains to 20 percent. The highest rate on ordinary income is
currently 35 percent, which may rise to 39.6 percent in 2013,
unless Congress acts.  Substitute Cash  One step children can take to increase the benefit their
parents receive is to substitute cash for any investments that
have appreciated within the trust before the term ends, in order
to minimize the parents’ taxes, said Sarafa.  Families may pay anywhere from $5,000 to “hundreds of
thousands of dollars” in legal and other fees to set up one or
more GRATs, said Deborah Korompilas, head of trust and estate
services for Chicago-based  Harris Private Bank , which manages
$29 billion and is a subsidiary of the  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  The
cost depends on the number and complexity of the trusts and on
the lawyer’s hourly rate, she said.  The gift-tax status of GRATs was established in 2000 when
the U.S. tax court decided a lawsuit in favor of Audrey Walton,
the ex-sister-in-law of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  founder Sam Walton,
according to Richard Covey, who represented Audrey Walton in the
case. Walton had set up two GRATs each funded with about $100
million in Wal-Mart shares and designed the GRATs to ‘zero out,’
or to fully liquidate their principal, so that only investment
gains would pass through to her two daughters, said Covey,
senior counsel for New York-based  Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP .  Beating Hurdle Rate  The biggest risk for financially needy parents is that a
GRAT’s underlying investments won’t beat the IRS hurdle rate,
said Laufer. “The GRAT only works where you have that
appreciation,” he said.  Those unwilling to bet on the market’s return may consider
giving money to their parents outright. For 2011, gifts of up to
$13,000 are not taxed and will not count against an individual’s
lifetime gift-tax exemption. A married couple may give married
parents up to $52,000.  Children can also pay their parents’ medical expenses
without dipping into their gift-tax options, as long as they pay
the service provider directly rather than reimbursing their
parents, according to Coventry Edwards-Pitt, a managing director
of  Ballentine Partners , a registered  investment adviser , based
in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York   eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 