-- 
Hank Greenberg Seeks Removal of Judge in New York Case on AIG Transaction

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-09T19:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/greenberg-seeks-recusal-of-judge-in-case-over-aig-transactions.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the
former  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive
officer, claimed the judge presiding over a  New York  state
lawsuit against him is biased and must step down from the case,
according to court papers.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Charles Ramos’s
improper statements and reliance on inadmissible evidence
require his recusal, Greenberg and his co-defendant Howard Smith, AIG’s former chief financial officer, said in court
papers dated yesterday.  Former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  filed the
suit in 2005, accusing Greenberg and Smith of using sham
transactions to distort New York-based AIG’s reported financial
condition. On March 1, an appeals court put on hold Ramos’s plan
to start a trial May 2. The Appellate Division,  First
Department , said it would hear appeal arguments in the case
during the May term.  “The court has repeatedly demonstrated its intention to
use improper and inadmissible evidence in adjudication of the
case,” Greenberg’s and Smith’s lawyers say in support of
recusal.  At a hearing last April, Ramos said the attorney general’s
office has put together “a devastating case.”  “I can see big problems with establishing a defense” to
the state’s claims about  securities fraud , Ramos told  David Boies , a lawyer for Greenberg.  ‘A Phantom Transaction’  The judge has called a deal with General Reinsurance Corp.
“a phantom transaction,” and has used the 2008 criminal
conviction of former Gen Re CEO Ronald Ferguson to wrongly infer
Greenberg must have acted improperly, according to defense
lawyers. The judge’s statements suggest a bias against the
defendants, based on the fraud trial in  Connecticut , the lawyers
said. Neither Smith nor Greenberg was a defendant in that trial.    Eric Schneiderman , the current New York Attorney General,
said in court papers the bias claim was “manufactured” on the
eve of trial. The attorney general’s office said Ramos has
overseen the case for almost six years and has presided over
about 33 hearings, decided 45 motions and supervised discovery
involving 30 million pages of documents and more than 45
depositions.  “The only possible purpose of this frivolous motion can be
to try to intimidate the court, before it presides over a hotly
contested trial,” the New York Attorney General’s office said.  AIG, based in New York and once the world’s largest
insurer, ousted Greenberg in March 2005, two months before
Spitzer sued. Greenberg seeks to dismiss the claims. Spitzer
dropped portions of the suit in 2006 that included four
allegations tied to his investigation. The company settled with
Spitzer and other regulators, agreeing to pay $1.64 billion,
without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in Manhattan Supreme Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  