-- 
Pimco’s Gross Eliminates Government Debt From Total Return Fund

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-09T19:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/gross-drops-government-debt-from-pimco-s-flagship-fund-zero-hedge-reports.html
  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
eliminated government-related debt from his flagship fund
last month as the U.S. projected record budget deficits.  Pimco’s $237 billion Total Return Fund last held zero
government-related debt in January 2009. Gross had cut the
holdings to 12 percent of assets in January, according to the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s  website . The fund’s
net cash-and-equivalent position surged from 5 percent to 23
percent in February, the highest since May 2008.  Yields on Treasuries may be too low to sustain demand for  U.S. government debt  as the  Federal Reserve  approaches the end
of its second round of quantitative easing, Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted on Pimco’s website on March 2.
Gross mentioned that Pimco may be a buyer of Treasuries if
yields rise to attractive levels.  Treasury yields are about 150 basis points too low when
viewed on a historical context and when compared with expected
nominal gross domestic product growth of 5 percent, he wrote in
the commentary. The Fed is scheduled to complete purchases of
$600 billion of Treasuries in June.  Gross in his February  commentary  urged investors to reduce
holdings of Treasuries and U.K. gilts and buy higher-returning
securities such as debt from emerging-market nations. “Old-
fashioned gilts and Treasury bonds may need to be ‘exorcised’
from model portfolios and replaced with more attractive
alternatives both from a risk and a reward standpoint,” Gross
wrote.  Emerging-Market Debt  Gross last month increased holdings of emerging-market debt
to 10 percent, the highest since October, from 9 percent in
January. He cut holdings of mortgage securities to 34 percent
from 42 percent in January.  The Zero Hedge website first reported the change in assets
today. Pimco doesn’t comment on changes in holdings.  Treasuries returned 5.9 percent in 2010, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. The securities lost 0.6
percent so far this year.  Ten-year Treasury yields have risen for each of the past
six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the longest
run since June 2006, as the economy showed signs of improvement
and prices of commodities climbed. The 10-year yield fell six
basis points to 3.48 percent today.  Gross kept the holdings of non-U.S. developed debt at 5
percent in February.  Inflation Outlook  Gross’ fund has returned 7.23 percent in the past year,
beating 85 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 1.39 percent over the past month.  As the Fed maintains its target rate at a record low range
of zero to 0.25 percent and has made an increase in inflation a
cornerstone of its monetary policy, Gross noted that inflation
may be a bigger factor than many suggest.  Gains in so-called headline inflation matter more for the  U.S. economy  than Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggests and
rising oil prices may cut U.S. gross domestic product by a
quarter to half a percentage point, Gross said March 4 in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “Bernanke tends to think this doesn’t matter -- at least
in terms of headline versus the core -- we do,” Gross said.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the company’s website. The fund can have a so-called negative
position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset. Futures are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a later specific price and date. Shorting is
borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.24 trillion of assets as of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  