-- 
Libyan Fund Owns $20 Billion in Bonds, About 1% of Italy's Eni, Zarti Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 
2011-03-09T16:03:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/libya-owns-20-billion-in-bonds-about-1-of-eni-zarti-says.html
The Libyan Investment Authority owns
$20 billion in bonds and holds about a 1 percent stake in
Italian oil company  Eni SpA (ENI)  as part of $9 billion in equity
stakes, its former deputy chief executive officer said.  The country’s main sovereign-wealth fund had about $65
billion of assets, most of it cash and short-term securities,
when the uprising against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  began
last month, Mustafa Zarti said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Vienna. Zarti quit on Feb. 24 to protest violence
against civilians.  “I resigned from the LIA actually because it’s not a
healthy environment, as you see in the news,” he said. “I
cannot work in that environment with the violence and the
blood.” He added that he had “no idea” whether the Tripoli-
based fund was still operational and hadn’t been in touch with
fellow managers since he left Libya on Feb. 21.  Among the fund’s long-term investments are its 2.6 percent
of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank; 2 percent of Italian
defense contractor  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ; 3 percent of  Pearson Plc (PSON) ,
publisher of the Financial Times; and 2 percent in  Wienerberger
AG (WIE) , the Vienna-based world’s biggest brickmaker.  Rome-based Eni, which has been involved in Libya for half a
century, has refused to confirm the Libyan stake, which would be
worth about 718 million euros ($998 million) at current market
prices. “It’s a long-term investment in a company we like,”
Zarti said about the Eni investment.  Freezing Assets  European Union authorities have agreed to extend a freeze
on Libyan assets to include the Libyan Investment Authority, the
central bank and other Libyan entities in an effort to drive
Qaddafi from power, four officials familiar with the plan said
yesterday.  Zarti, the highest-ranking executive of  Libya ’s investment
vehicles publicly known to have resigned, will be among a group
of Libyan individuals to be included in the asset freeze. That
move would follow a freeze ordered by  Austria , of which Zarti is
a citizen and where he currently lives. Zarti today challenged
the Austrian freeze in the country’s constitutional court, his
spokesman said.  In his resignation letter to the Libyan Investment
Authority, which was provided by his spokesman, Zarti wrote that
the government’s violent response to protests prompted his
resignation.  “What is taking place in our beloved Libya as a result of
unjustified violence against civilians, who seek reform and
change, has resulted in so many lives having been lost,” Zarti
wrote in the letter. This “prompts me as a Libyan citizen” to
“submit my resignation as Vice Chairman of the Board of
Directors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  