-- 
Libya's Largest Crude Refinery Is Said Shut After Nearby Terminal Bombed

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-03-09T17:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/libya-s-ras-lanuf-refinery-said-shut-amid-government-clashes-with-rebels.html
  Libya ’s Ras Lanuf refinery, the
country’s largest crude-processing plant, was shut amid fighting
between government forces and rebels, an official with the
Libyan Emirates Oil Refining Co. said.  While the facility hasn’t been damaged, employees have
fled, said the person, who declined to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to speak on the matter. Oil tanks at the nearby
Es Sider terminal were damaged by bombings today, according to
Al Jazeera television. The network showed fireballs and plumes
of smoke over the area.  Al Arabiya  reported a “large” blast at
the Ras Lanuf refinery.  “With the violence escalating, it was a question of time
when oil facilities would be drawn into the fighting,” Samuel Ciszuk, senior Middle East energy analyst at IHS Global Insight
in  London , said in a phone interview. “To dislodge opposition
forces, you need to take these facilities. That would entail
hitting some.”  Libyan Leader  Muammar Qaddafi  has stepped up attacks on
towns in the west of the country, where anti-government forces
are resisting. The military carried out air and artillery
strikes to stop a rebel advance along the coast from their
eastern base. The Ras Lanuf refinery, which also has its own
tanker terminal, has been under sporadic air and artillery
bombardment since it was seized by the insurgents last week.  Force Majeure  State-controlled Libyan Emirates Oil Refining declared
force majeure on Feb. 25, allowing it to avoid penalties for
failing to fulfill delivery contracts because of circumstances
beyond the company’s control, the person said.    Brent crude  for April delivery increased $2.36, or 2.1
percent, to $115.42 a barrel at 5:15 p.m. local time on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “This is just one more factor in there that has
essentially been priced into the market,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Pennsylvania-based Schork Group said in an
interview with Betty Liu and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg
Television’s  “In the Loop” program. “We are talking about
two thirds of Libya’s refinery output and with the export
terminal there, we’re talking about 5 percent of the country’s
oil exports.”  Ras Lanuf is able to process 220,000 barrels of crude a
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Libya’s second-
biggest refinery, the 120,000 barrel-a-day plant in Zawiyah, is
also closed because of fighting, Abdeljalil Mayuf, manager of
Arabian Gulf Oil Co.’s information department, said March 7.  The two refineries account for 88 percent of the country’s
processing capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crude exports from Libya have dropped by as much as 1
million barrels a day amid the civil conflict, according to the  International Energy Agency . The country holds the biggest oil
reserves in  Africa  and is the continent’s third-largest producer
after Nigeria and  Angola .  The North African country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day
on average in February, down from 1.59 million the previous
month, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  