-- 
Icahn Says He Has Right to Bid for Blockbuster at Auction

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-09T23:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/icahn-says-he-has-a-right-to-make-competing-bid-for-blockbuster-at-auction.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  said he has
the right to bid for  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , which has a $290 million
offer from a group of senior creditors.  Icahn, who owns the bankrupt movie-rental company’s senior
debt, isn’t part of the bidding group that includes Monarch
Alternative Capital LP, the  New York  investor said in a court
filing yesterday. However, he has “worked constructively” with
Blockbuster in its failed effort to reorganize and now supports
the sale of the company, he said in the filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  The judge will assess his good faith if he decides to bid
and if Blockbuster determines that his bid is “the highest and
best,” Icahn said.  Blockbuster’s bid from the Monarch group values the
company, once the world’s largest movie-rental chain, at less
than half of the face value of its senior debt, giving no value
to junior debt or stock. There may be five or six potential
buyers, creditors said today in a court filing, citing a
Blockbuster adviser. They didn’t say what prices were being
offered or discussed.  At a March 4 board meeting, Springdale, Arkansas-based
Target Development Group Inc., which has a film library of 180
titles, decided to try to assemble a financing group to buy
Blockbuster out of bankruptcy for as much as $315 million,
according to a regulatory filing.  Icahn, asserting his right to bid, was responding to a
junior creditor who said the billionaire, a former stockholder
of Dallas-based Blockbuster who resigned from the board more
than a year ago, shouldn’t be allowed to bid at the auction.  Icahn bought about a third of Blockbuster’s senior bonds
before the September bankruptcy filing, according to a person
familiar with the matter. He spent about $100 million, paying
less that 50 cents on the dollar, and putting up more money
toward a $175 million loan intended to adapt the storefront
business into an online video service, said the person.  ‘Steering Group’  As a senior creditor, Icahn Capital LP is part of a
“steering group” that includes Monarch, Owl Creek Asset
Management LP, Stonehill Capital Management LLC and Varde
Partners Inc. He joined them in supporting a sale of
Blockbuster, after trade creditors including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Universal Studios  and Yahoo! Inc. said the plan would only
benefit the group, and not other creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York has
scheduled a hearing on the issue for tomorrow. The outcome will
determine how the cash-strapped movie-rental chain should end
its bankruptcy, and whether it should be liquidated.  “The premature conversion to a Chapter 7 liquidation at
this stage would be a disaster for all constituents,” the
steering group wrote in court papers filed today. It wouldn’t
help anyone to “cut the debtors’ legs out from under them by
blocking their attempt to conduct what could be a very
competitive auction,” it said.  Universal’s Titles  Universal’s titles should be sold as part of the sale, over
objections from the studio, the group said. Any claim that
Universal has for damages should be considered an unsecured
claim, it said.  Blockbuster had paid more than $854 million to trade
creditors and other vendors during the bankruptcy, partly by
using collateral securing senior loans, the creditor group said.
Movie studios got $174 million, with game and merchandise
vendors getting $76 million, they said.  The senior secured noteholders have a lien of $630 million
on all of Blockbuster’s remaining property and it’s unlikely
other creditors will receive a distribution in a liquidation,
they said.  The 74-year-old Icahn led a 2005 proxy fight that put him
on Blockbuster’s board as the company’s largest shareholder,
when shares were worth about $10. He resigned five years later
and in March 2010 sold most of his 16.9 percent common-share
stake, according to a regulatory filing. By then, shares were
trading at less than 50 cents.  Icahn’s fortune was valued at $10.5 billion by Forbes
magazine last year.  Blockbuster began reorganizing in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. The petition listed assets
of $1.02 billion against debt of $1.47 billion.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 