-- 
Ice Loss Accelerates in Greenland, Antarctica, NASA Study Finds

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-09T12:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ice-loss-accelerates-in-greenland-antarctica-nasa-study-finds.html
Greenland and Antarctica’s ice
sheets are shrinking more quickly, suggesting  United Nations 
projections for sea-level rise are too conservative, a U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration-funded study said.  From 1992 to 2009, the two regions lost on average 36.3
billion tons more ice every year than the previous year,
scientists led by Eric Rignot at NASA’s Jet Propulsion
Laboratory in  Pasadena ,  California , said in a study in the
Geophysical Research Letters  journal . The researchers said they
linked two independent sets of measurements to validate them.  Continuing the trend may raise oceans 15 centimeters (6
inches) from 2010 to 2050, and by 56 centimeters by 2100, the
study said. That’s more than what was factored into the 2007 
projection by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change for seas to rise 18 to 59 centimeters by 2100.  “If present trends continue,  sea level  is likely to be
significantly higher than levels projected by the United
Nations,” Rignot said in a statement e-mailed late yesterday by
NASA. “Our study helps reduce uncertainties.”  The UN prediction also includes the expansion of water with
warmer temperatures and the melting of mountain glaciers and
smaller ice caps.  The researchers said their 2050 forecast has a margin of
error of 2 centimeters. Melting from mountain glaciers and
smaller ice caps would add 8 centimeters to the sea level
increase. The expansion of water as temperatures rise would add
9 centimeters, the researchers said.  They warned their 2100 figure can’t be considered a
projection because of “considerable uncertainty in future
acceleration of ice sheet mass loss.”  ‘Surprising’ Acceleration  The IPCC in 2007 said Greenland and Antarctica contributed
a combined 0.42 millimeters a year to sea level rise from 1993
through 2003. That’s just over half the 0.77-millimeter
contribution from mountain glaciers and smaller ice caps, and a
quarter of the 1.6-millimeter rise as a result of water
expanding with warmer temperatures.  The North Atlantic island and southern continent now
contribute more than mountain glaciers and ice caps, according
to the  NASA  study. The researchers cited another paper that put
the ice loss of the glaciers and ice caps at 402 billion tons in
2006, compared with the 475 billion tons from Greenland and
Antarctica in the same year -- equivalent to 1.3 millimeters of
sea level rise. The acceleration in ice loss is three times
greater than for mountain glaciers, they wrote.  “That ice sheets will dominate future sea level rise is
not surprising -- they hold a lot more ice mass than mountain
glaciers,” said Rignot, also a researcher at the  University of
California , Irvine. “What is surprising is this increased
contribution by the ice sheets is already happening.”  Utrecht University in the Netherlands and the National
Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder,  Colorado , also
contributed to the research. The scientists correlated different
sets of satellite, radar and climate modeling data to produce
the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  