-- 
Iliad Shares Fall as Subscriber Growth Misses Estimates

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-09T13:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/iliad-beats-profit-estimates-targets-doubling-revenue-by-2015.html
  Iliad SA (ILD) , the broadband Internet
provider setting up  France ’s fourth mobile-phone network, fell
the most in six months in Paris trading after signing up fewer
clients in the fourth quarter than analysts had anticipated.  Iliad dropped as much as 4.5 percent to 81.60 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since Sept. 7, and was down 3.8 percent
as of 2:15 p.m.  The company added about 6,000 net broadband subscribers in
the quarter when declines at its Alice brand are included,
analysts at Execution Noble, including Andrew Hogley in  London ,
said today in a report to clients. That compared with a gain of
66,000 customers that the analysts had predicted. Paris-based
Iliad  reported  that full-year subscriber numbers rose 1.8
percent to 4.53 million.  “This weakness continues the deterioration in Iliad’s
subscriber growth trend,” the Execution Noble analysts said.
Growth at Iliad was held back by “strong performances from its
competitors,  France Telecom  and SFR in particular.”  Iliad’s full-year net income climbed 78 percent to 313
million euros ($436 million), the company said today. Profit
beat the 296 million-euro average of nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The company will seek to double revenue
to about 4 billion euros by 2015 and plans to increase the
dividend on 2010 earnings by 8.1 percent to 40 cents a share.  The company said it’s targeting a cumulative free  cash flow 
from fixed-line operations in excess of 1.1 billion euros for
2010 through 2012. It’s also looking to secure a long-term share
of 24 percent to 25 percent of the broadband market.  Network Setup  Iliad, majority-owned by billionaire entrepreneur Xavier Niel, is laying the groundwork for a challenge to  France Telecom
SA (FTE) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR brand and  Bouygues SA (EN)  in the French mobile-
phone market next year. France Telecom, the largest domestic
mobile operator, agreed this month to allow Iliad customers to
use its third-generation mobile services in areas not yet served
by Iliad’s network.  Winning the roaming deal with France Telecom removed a key
obstacle for the start of Iliad’s planned Free Mobile service
next year, enabling it to operate on data-hungry devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Niel has pledged to help reduce prices in
France’s mobile market, where consumers pay more than in the
U.K., according to the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Reduced Risk  The roaming agreement “reduces the execution risk a bit
more” for Iliad’s mobile plans, Chief Financial Officer Thomas Reynaud told reporters in Paris today. “This mobile project,
which people said would be extremely risky, is actually becoming
real.”  In advance of Iliad’s entry, France Telecom and Bouygues
are promoting so-called quadruple-play packages that combine
mobile-phone, fixed-line, cable-television and  Internet service .
Iliad won’t be able to match those products until the start of
its own mobile operations.  Iliad may eventually match its competitors’ nationwide
distribution networks with a foray into storefront retail. The
company is planning to open a small group of physical shops in
different formats as an experiment before the start of mobile
services, Niel said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  