-- 
Iliad Beats Profit Estimates, Targets Doubling Revenue

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-03-09T09:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/iliad-beats-profit-estimates-targets-doubling-revenue-correct-.html
(Corrects market share target in third paragraph).    Iliad SA (ILD) , the broadband Internet
provider setting up France’s fourth mobile-phone network,
reported full-year profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said
it will seek to double overall revenue by 2015.  Net income climbed 78 percent to 313 million euros ($435
million) from 176 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. The profit exceeded the 296
million-euro average of nine analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Iliad will aim to double overall sales to about 4 billion
euros by 2015, and is targeting a cumulative free cash flow from
its fixed-line operations of more than 1.1 billion euros between
2010 and 2012, the company said. It’s also looking to secure a
long-term share of 24 to 25 percent of the broadband market.  Iliad, majority-owned by billionaire entrepreneur Xavier Niel, is laying the groundwork for a challenge to  France Telecom
SA (FTE) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV)  and  Bouygues SA (EN)  in the French mobile-phone market
next year. France Telecom, the largest domestic mobile operator,
agreed earlier this month to allow Iliad customers to use its
third-generation mobile services in areas not yet served by
Iliad’s network.  Winning the roaming deal with France Telecom removed a key
obstacle for the start of Iliad’s planned Free Mobile service
next year, allowing it to operate on data-hungry devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Niel has pledged to help reduce prices in
France’s mobile market, where consumers pay more than in the
U.K., according to the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 