-- 
Hill & Smith Rises Most in Two Months on U.S. Acquisition Move

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-09T10:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hill-smith-rises-most-in-two-months-on-u-s-acquisition-move.html
  Hill & Smith Holdings Plc (HILS) , a
supplier of motorway barriers to U.K. construction firms, rose
the most in almost two months after saying it is buying a U.S.
distributor to drive growth amid U.K. government spending cuts.  Shares rose as much as 5 percent in London trading, the
biggest gain since Jan. 11. The company said today it is buying
Paterson Group Inc., a pipe supports and hanger distributor in
the U.S., for $45 million.  In a separate statement, it said net income fell 11 percent
to 24.6 million pounds ($39.8 million) in 2010.  “We do believe that the Scandinavian, Australian, Middle
East and American markets are all good growth drivers for the
future for the roads market,” Derek Muir, chief executive
officer of the Solihull, England-based company said in a phone
interview. Volumes at the company’s U.S. galvanizing business
continued to be “strong” into the first two months, even
though the U.K. market hasn’t “come back to life” he said.  The company is expanding overseas as the British
government’s spending review has an impact on the company’s
roads business. The company, which has operations in  France , the
U.S., Thailand and  China , said today underlying profit from
operations fell 2.3 percent to 45.9 million pounds.  Hill & Smith expects the acquisition will close on March
16, according to today’s statement. Many electricity plants in
the U.S. will be replaced over the next two decades  and the
Paterson purchase will allow Hill & Smith to tap into that
“strong market,” according to Muir.  It now generates 55 percent of its underlying profit from
operations outside the U.K. compared with 2 percent four years
ago, according to the company. Sales fell 4 percent to 374.2
million pounds in 2010, while earnings per share declined 12
percent to 32 pence from 36.3 pence.  ‘Pigeon-Holed’  “The stock market has pigeon-holed Hill and Smith as a
U.K. industrial proxy for U.K. government spending cuts and
general negativity on the U.K. as a whole,” said Investec
Securities analysts Chris Dyett and  Andrew Wilson  in a note to
investors today. The company is “fundamentally misunderstood”
and international sales will be a “key growth driver going
forward,” they said.  Investec initiated coverage of the Hill & Smith today with
a “Buy” rating and a target price of 420 pence.  Muir said operating profit and earnings per share achieved
in 2010 may not be reached again until 2013, as U.K. cut backs
lead to a “slower year” in the company’s U.K. roads business.  “It will probably be very close in 2012 but definitely
there in 2013,” he said.  Paterson had sales of $59.6 million, according to its 2010
financial statements, Hill & Smith said. Paterson’s profit is
expected to fall this year, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  