-- 
Essar to Spend $750 Million to Revamp Zimbabwe Iron and Steel

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-09T18:31:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/india-s-essar-to-spend-750-million-to-revamp-zimbabwe-iron-and-steel-mill.html
  India ’s Essar Group took control of
the Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Co. in a deal that will see the
Zisco mill refurbished, said Welshman Ncube, the southern
African nation’s Industry Minister.  “In broad terms, the agreement provides for Essar to take
over and release the Zimbabwean government from its debt
obligations,” Ncube said in Harare, the capital, today. “Essar
will also complete all work relating to the re-lining of the
blast furnaces and coke oven batteries,” he said. Essar,
through its Essar Africa Holdings Ltd. unit, will invest $750
million in the first phase of the project, Ncube added.  Zisco, which was state controled, hasn’t operated since
2004 when it closed due to mounting debts and ageing equipment.
Essar will have a 54 percent stake in the company, Ncube said.  Essar Africa’s Vice Chairman Ravi Ruia said his company
would have to first put in place “coal, uninterrupted
electricity supplies, transport and logistics” in order to re-
open the steel mill.    Zimbabwe  President Robert Mugabe blocked the sale of Zisco
to ArcelorMittal in June last year, saying the company was “too
big” for the country.  Essar, which won a subsequent bid for Zisco, plans to
produce steel within 12 to 15 months from now, Ruia said.  In a second phase, Essar will rehabilitate the rail link
between Redcliff-based Zisco and the Hwange Colliery Co. in
western Zimbabwe. Hwange is Zimbabwe’s biggest digger of coal,
which is needed to fire furnaces at Zisco’s plant.  Essar will be the steelmaker’s biggest shareholder, with
government holding a minority 35 percent and the balance held by
other shareholders, Ncube said.  “Zisco is totally insolvent, with debts in excess of $340
million. It has no value as a company and its debts exceed its
assets,” Ncube said, adding that most bidders valued the
company at about $45 million during the due diligence process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 