-- 
Yuvraj Helps India Extend Cricket World Cup Group Lead; Tahir Breaks Thumb

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-09T22:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/india-beats-the-netherlands-by-5-wickets-in-cricket-world-cup-group-match.html
Yuvraj Singh welcomed his return to
form after helping  India  to a five-wicket win over the
Netherlands that extended its Cricket World Cup group lead.  Man-of-the-match Yuvraj took two wickets and scored an
unbeaten 51 in New Delhi yesterday as India made hard work of
beating the Dutch, who have now never defeated a Test-playing
nation in 18 World Cup matches.  The Netherlands, who won the toss, were all out for 189 in
46.4 overs. Ryan ten Doeschate, who’s scored more runs and taken
more wickets in one-day internationals than any other Dutchman,
was dismissed for 11 by Yuvraj. India ended on 191-5 with 81
balls remaining.  “Last year was full of injuries, I was coming in and going
out, so I am happy to be back in form,” Yuvraj said at the
post-match ceremony. “My job is to play the middle overs and
try to take the team to the end. I batted according to the
situation.”  Netherlands captain Peter Borren led his team with 38 from
36 balls. Four other Dutch players had scores in the 20s.  India reached 69-0 before losing three wickets for 13 runs,
all of them to slow left-armer Pieter Seelaar, including
Virender Sehwag and Yusuf Pathan. The other,  Sachin Tendulkar ,
was out for 27 after becoming the first batsman to score 2,000
Cricket World Cup runs. The loss of Virat Kohli made it 99-4.  Yuvraj and captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, on 19, guided
India to victory in 36.3 of its 50 overs, Yuvraj hitting the
winning runs with a boundary. Sehwag made 39, and Seelaar
finished on 3-53.  Dutch Pride  “At 99-4 you might sneak a couple of wickets. But I’m
proud of my boys,” Borren said. “We have two games coming up
which are big games for us. Tonight will give us confidence.”  Dhoni said there are still some areas India needs to
improve, “like the power play overs, and the lower order
shouldn’t have to come in to finish things off.”  India has seven points atop Group B ahead of  England  on
five, with West Indies and South Africa on four. Ireland and
Bangladesh have two points and the Netherlands none.  Winning the seven-team group would mean co-host India faces
the fourth-place finisher from Group A in the quarterfinals. The
top four teams from each of the pools advance to the last eight
after a round-robin competition.    New Zealand  and  Pakistan  lead Group A with six points, with
Sri Lanka and  Australia  on five. Zimbabwe and  Canada  have two
and  Kenya  has none. Sri Lanka can take over at the top by
beating Zimbabwe in Kandy today.  India next plays South Africa in Nagpur on March 12. The
Netherlands meet  Bangladesh  in Chittagong two days later and
Ireland on March 18.  South Africa Blow  The South Africans are likely to be without Imran Tahir,
the tournament’s  second-highest  wicket-taker with 11, after the
leg-spinner sustained a fracture in his left thumb during his
team’s six-run loss to England four days ago.  “His thumb has been splintered and immobilized and
a decision on what happens further will be made in the next two
days,” South Africa team manager Mohammed Moosajee said in a
statement on Cricket South Africa’s website.  The International Cricket Council said it approved
England’s request to call up  Chris Tremlett  as a replacement for
injured seam bowler  Stuart Broad , who strained his side in the
victory over  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  