-- 
India Plans ONGC, Steel Authority Share Sales Next Quarter

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   I n d r a n i l   G h o s h
-- 
2011-03-09T15:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/india-plans-oil-natural-gas-steel-authority-share-sales-next-quarter.html
  India  will sell shares in Oil &  Natural Gas  Corp.,  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  and Power
Finance Corp. next quarter as part of a plan to cut state
holdings, the top official overseeing the offerings said.  “We are working to meet our target as there’s good
appetite for strong state-run companies,” Disinvestment
Secretary Sumit Bose said today in an interview in  New Delhi ,
without specifying how much the government plans to raise from
the three offerings. Oil & Natural Gas is the nation’s biggest
explorer, while Steel Authority is the second-largest producer
of the alloy. Power Finance lends to state-run utilities.  The sales may help Prime Minister Manmohan Singh raise
funds to build roads, ports and utilities and trim the  budget
deficit  to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the year
starting April 1, the lowest since 2008. Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee, in his budget speech on Feb. 28, said the government
aims to raise 400 billion rupees ($8.8 billion) from asset sales
after falling short of a similar target for the year ending
March 31.  “The government has lined up very impressive pipeline for
disinvestment and there may be good appetite,” said Killol
Pandya, who manages the equivalent of $300 million assets at
Daiwa Mutual Fund. “But at the same time, volatile crude  oil
prices  and choppy market conditions pose headwinds to asset
sales.”  Faltering Market  The benchmark Sensitive Index on the Bombay Stock Exchange
has lost 9.9 percent this year, making it the worst performer in  Asia . Crude oil in New York trading gained 6.7 percent last week
and 14 percent in the previous seven days, the sharpest increase
since February 2009.  India’s cabinet in November 2009 approved a plan requiring
the government to reduce its stake in profitable state-run
companies to a maximum 90 percent. That made about 60 state-run
companies eligible for sales, the  finance ministry  said at the
time, including miner and power producer Neyveli Lignite Corp.,  National Fertilizers Ltd. (NFL)  and MMTC Ltd., the nation’s biggest
state-run trading company.  The government has raised 227.6 billion rupees from asset
sales in the year ending March, according the disinvestment
department’s website. Shares were sold in companies including
Coal India Ltd., Shipping Corp. of India Ltd. and Power Grid
Corp.  Citigroup, HSBC  Indian companies raised 41 billion rupees in share sales
since Dec. 31, less than a fifth of the amount collected in the
same period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Citigroup is the top-ranked arranger of stock offerings in the
country this year, maintaining the lead it had in 2010, followed
by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and HSBC Holdings Plc, the data show.    MMTC Ltd. (MMTC) , Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd, National Buildings
Construction Corp. and Hindustan Copper Ltd. are likely to sell
shares after June, Bose said.  Crude oil for April delivery rose to $105.44 a barrel on
March 7, the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008 as violence
in Libya renewed concern Middle East supply disruptions will
worsen.  Unrest in Libya, Africa’s third-largest crude producer, has
cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according to
the International Energy Agency. The North African country
pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59
million the previous month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Oil & Natural Gas hired  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Nomura Holdings
Inc., Bank of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, JM Financial
Services Ltd. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , to manage the share sale, Bose
said today.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JM Financial Ltd., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and ICICI Securities Ltd. will manage the Power
Finance share sale, Bose said.  “Disinvestment proceeds are an important source of revenue
for the government to meets its projected budget deficit target
of 4.6 percent of the GDP,” Bose said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Indranil Ghosh at   ighosh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  