-- 
Infosys Says It’s Looking ‘Day-in, Day-out’ for Acquisitions

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   A r i j i t   G h o s h
-- 
2011-03-09T10:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/infosys-searches-day-in-day-out-for-takeovers-billionaire-murthy-says.html
  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFY) , hoarder
of the biggest cash pile in India’s computer-services industry,
is searching for acquisitions to add companies that specialize
in providing health-care and government services.  A team is scanning “day-in and day-out” for such
technology companies and is looking for targets in non English-
speaking countries, billionaire Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy
said yesterday in an interview in Bangalore. The team has
examined about 150 potential purchases, Murthy, 64, said.  Infosys has almost quadrupled its warchest to $3.6 billion
in the past five years, almost twice that of bigger rival  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  Indian software companies, after a
decade of growth fueled by outsourcing of jobs from the U.S. and
western economies, are seeking to expand overseas and in new
industries amid the emergence of low-cost centers in the  Philippines  for back-office operations.  “I don’t see the need for them to deploy cash just for the
sake of it,” said Walter Rossini, who manages a 250 million
euro ($347 million) India equity fund at Aletti Gestielle SGR
SpA in Milan. “I would prefer them to keep the cash and wait
for a good opportunity.”  Infosys, India’s second-largest software exporter, fell 0.7
percent to 3,095.50 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in  Mumbai , valuing the company at $40 billion, or more than that of
Philadelphia-based rival  Accenture Plc. (ACN)   ‘Reckless’ Acquisition  Murthy, who has a master’s degree in engineering from the
Indian Institute of Technology, said Infosys will continue to
hold off on purchases unless targets meet all their criteria.  The company had 162 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) of cash,
near cash and short-term investments at the end of the fiscal
year in March 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Tata Consultancy, which had 71.8 billion rupees, may spend as
much as $500 million on acquisition in Germany or Japan, Chief
Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said last month.  “We want to do business boldly, but not recklessly,”
Murthy said. “If there is a good candidate that indeed
satisfies all the criteria we’ve set out for acquisitions, we’ll
do it.”  In 2008, the Bangalore-based company walked away from a
plan to acquire U.K.-based Axon Group Plc after its 407.1
million pound ($657 million) bid was trumped by New Delhi-based  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  In 2006, Infosys spent $115 million to buy
Citigroup Inc.’s stake in Progeon Ltd., a back office service
provider controlled by Infosys, in the  company’s biggest
acquisition to date.   Borrowing From Wives  Infosys, which builds software programs and provides back-
office support to clients including Microsoft Corp. and BT Group
Plc, was founded by Murthy and six colleagues in 1981 with $250
they borrowed from their wives. In 1999, Infosys became the
first Indian company to sell American Depositary receipts.  Murthy will retire in August when he turns 65, he said
yesterday. The company will name his successor by July 15.  In the year ended in March, the company had sales of 227
billion rupees and net income of 62.7 billion rupees, second
only to Tata Consultancy in  India . Sales may rise to $6 billion
in the year ending March 31, Murthy said yesterday.  To increase revenue, Infosys is also betting on so-called
cloud computing, where a shared pool of computing resources
including servers and data storage is operated by contractors.  “In the next 10 years, almost everything will move towards
the cloud, which means entire IT opportunities will be cloud-
based,” he said. Murthy forecasts Indian software developers
will get as much as $75 billion of revenue from managing clouds
in the next five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Bangalore News at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh in Bangalore News at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  