-- 
ING Says It’s Preparing for Sale of U.S. Online-Banking Unit After Bailout

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-03-09T12:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ing-says-it-s-preparing-for-sale-of-u-s-online-banking-unit-1-.html
  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, is preparing to sell its U.S.
online-banking division to meet European Union conditions for
the firm’s bailout.  “We agreed with the European Commission to sell ING Direct
USA before 2013, as well as our insurance and investment
management operations,” Raymond Vermeulen, a spokesman for the
Amsterdam-based company said by telephone today. “To make sure
you can comply with all requirements, you need to make timely
preparations.”  ING had to consent to divesting its insurance unit by the
end of 2013 to gain approval for a bailout that included 10
billion euros ($14 billion) of state aid and the transfer of
21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage assets. The company, which
traces its roots to 1743, also agreed to sell its U.S. online-
banking unit and some Dutch retail-banking assets. Some of the
EU requirements are subject of an appeal at the EU’s General
Court in Luxembourg.  Vermeulen declined to comment on a New York Post report
today that said ING has started an auction for ING Direct USA
that may fetch as much as $10 billion for the division.  CIT
Group Inc. (CIT)  is among the potential bidders for the unit, the
newspaper reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter. It’s unclear whether ING plans to sell all or only part
of the business, the newspaper said.  Unit IPOs  Deutsche Bank AG is assisting ING with the sale of the
unit, which has about $100 billion in assets, the New York Post
reported. Libby Young, a spokeswoman for the German bank,
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  “One of the steps to be taken when preparing for the
divestments is hiring advisers,” Vermeulen said.  The bank and insurer said in December it didn’t expect to
complete the divestment of ING Direct USA, headed by Arkadi Kuhlmann, before the end of 2013.  ING is preparing its insurance businesses for two initial
public offerings, one for the U.S. and one for Europe and  Asia .
The firm paid back 5 billion euros of state aid in December 2009
and aims to repay a further 2 billion euros in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  