-- 
ING Said to Talk With Citigroup, CIT, Chrysler Financial on U.S. Bank Deal

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-03-10T16:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ing-said-to-talk-with-cit-chrysler-financial-as-it-seeks-u-s-lending-arm.html
  ING Groep NV (INGA) , preparing for a sale
of its U.S. online bank, is looking to merge the unit with a
lending operation and has talked in recent months with  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  and Chrysler Financial Corp., said people
with knowledge of the matter.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, is
considering combining the ING Direct USA bank with New York-
based Citigroup’s private-label credit-card unit or with CIT,
the commercial lender, said the people, who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the talks are private. ING in December lost
a bidding contest for Cerberus Capital Management LP’s Chrysler
Financial auto lender, the people said.  The European Union is requiring ING to sell the U.S. unit
by 2013 as a condition of a 10 billion-euro ($13.9 billion)
state bailout. ING executives recently signaled they are open to
a transaction involving ING Direct USA, such as a partnership,
sale or initial public offering, after previously seeking to
avoid or delay such a move,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts led by
Duncan Russell said in a Feb. 17 note.  Spokesmen for ING, Citigroup and New York-based CIT
declined to comment. In a regulatory filing today, CIT said it
needs to build or buy a retail bank branch network or Internet-
banking operation to gain deposits. Regulators have capped the
amount of deposits it can obtain from brokers, it said.  ‘CIT Would Make Sense’  ING has excess deposits compared with its loans and other
assets, and would benefit from combining with a company with a
loan portfolio, said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV.   “A sale to a party with the profile of CIT would make
sense,” he said.  ING’s U.S. banking unit had $77.7 billion in deposits at
the end of 2010, of which $69.9 billion was held in money market
deposit accounts, which tend to be interest-rate sensitive,
according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  data .  The bank held $40 billion in net loans and leases, which
gave it a Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength,
of 26.8 percent at the end of 2010, compared with an average of
12.7 percent for all banks, according to the FDIC  figures . The
bank’s return on assets was 0.3 percent in 2010, less than half
the industry average of almost 0.7 percent, according to the
FDIC.  Second-Lien Borrowings  CIT, led by Chief Executive Officer  John Thain , has sought
to bulk up on lower-cost  bank deposits  to finance loans to small
and medium-sized businesses. CIT has $20.5 billion of second-
lien borrowings. It pays 7 percent interest, with maturities
from 2013 to 2017, according to Bloomberg data. By contrast,
banks pay depositors about 1 percent for  savings accounts .  In January 2009, Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit moved the
private-label card business into Citi Holdings, the division
holding $359 billion of the bank’s troubled and unwanted assets.
The private-label business listed $49 billion in assets, or
about 14 percent of Citi Holdings, at the end of last year.  The unit made a  pretax profit  of $445 million in 2010 as  credit quality  improved and analysts have since questioned
whether the bank may keep the business and remove it from Citi
Holdings. Citigroup doesn’t anticipate doing so, Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said on a conference call with analysts in
January.  Cerberus agreed in December to sell Chrysler Financial, the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based former lending arm of the Chrysler
automaker, to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  for $6.3 billion. ING also
submitted a bid for the unit, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 