-- 
International Court Summons Six Kenyan Officials About Post-Vote Violence

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-09T14:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/international-court-summons-six-kenyan-officials-over-post-vote-violence.html
The    International Criminal Court 
summoned six Kenyans to appear before a pre-trial chamber over
their alleged involvement in post-election violence in 2008.  The officials include Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta ,
Henry Kosgey, who resigned as Industrialization Minister in
January, and suspended Higher Education Minister William Ruto,
the Hague-based court said in a  statement  posted on its website.  Others summoned are the head of the civil service, Francis Muthaura, former police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio presenter, according to a separate  statement .
All six men deny the charges.  “The chamber finds that the contextual elements for crimes
against humanity alleged in the prosecutor’s application have
been satisfied,” the court said. Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno- Ocampo requested that the summons be issued in December.  Fighting flared between ethnic groups in  Kenya  following a
disputed December 2007 presidential vote, leaving 1,500 people
dead and forcing 300,000 to flee their homes. The clashes abated
after President  Mwai Kibaki , an ethnic Kikuyu, signed a power-
sharing accord in February 2008 with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , of the Luo group, who was named prime minister. No
one has been convicted for orchestrating the crimes.  Government Challenge  The government plans to challenge both whether the cases
are admissible and whether the Hague-based court has
jurisdiction over them, Justice Minister Mutula Kilonzo,
Attorney General Amos Wako and Internal Security Minister George Saitoti said today in a statement, according to the Nairobi-
based  Daily Nation’s website .  Kenyatta, who is also deputy prime minister and son of the
country’s first post-independence president, Jomo Kenyatta, said
he welcomed the ICC’s summons.  “I will finally have the opportunity to be heard and am
entirely confident of my innocence,” Kenyatta said in a
statement posted on his Facebook site today. The statement was
confirmed by his aide, Njee Muturu, in a phone interview.  Ali, Sang and Kosgey said in interviews and through lawyers
that they’ve agreed to appear before the court, the  Daily Nation 
reported on its website today.    Kenya ’s main stock index fell for an eighth day today to
its lowest level in 10 months. The All-Share index was down 1.37
percent to 73.25 at the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi, the capital.
The Kenyan shilling weakened 0.6 percent to 83.95 against the
dollar, its lowest level in 17 years, according to Aly-Khan Satchu, an independent analyst in Nairobi.  ‘Bad News’  “The ICC summons adds to the bad news that we already
have,” including concern about elections next year, rising oil
prices and domestic inflation, Eric Musau, an analyst at African
Alliance Securities Kenya Ltd. in Nairobi, said in a phone
interview today.  Ruto, Kosgey and Sang jointly face four charges including
murder, torture, persecution and the deportation or forcible
transfer of people, which constitute a crime against humanity,
the ICC said.  Kenyatta, Muthaura and Ali may have also “committed or
contributed to the commission” of crimes including murder, rape
and other forms of sexual violence that also constitute a crime
against humanity, the court said.  “The ICC’s decision to issue summonses to six suspects is
a step toward justice for the victims of Kenya’s horrific post-
election violence in 2007-2008,” Elizabeth Evenson, senior
international justice counsel at New York-based  Human Rights
Watch , said in an e-mailed statement today. “We look forward to
a judicial process without political interference and where the
rights of the accused are fully respected.”  Domestic Tribunal  Kibaki has opposed the ICC’s prosecution of Kenyan
suspects, saying the cases should be handled by a domestic
tribunal. A reorganization of the judiciary promised in the
country’s new constitution enacted in August will ensure the
cases can be brought before capable Kenyan courts, Vice
President Kalonzo Musyoka said in January.  Previous failures by Kenya to push through changes required
to set up a local tribunal led the ICC to pursue its own probe.  A Kenyan delegation led by Musyoka visited United Nations
Security Council President Li Baodong on March 7 to lobby for
the cases to be deferred for a year, according to an e-mailed
statement from Kalonzo’s office yesterday.  Kalonzo held a meeting with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon in  New York  yesterday on the ICC process and handed over a
message from Kibaki, according to a statement yesterday on the
 UN News Service  website.  “It’s embarrassing that Kenyans have to go to a court
outside of the country,” Kilonzo told reporters in Nairobi
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 