-- 
Internet by the Minute Lures Mobile Users in Emerging Markets

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-03-09T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/internet-by-the-minute-lures-mobile-users-in-emerging-markets.html
Rusdi, an Indonesian office worker,
has never had a home Internet connection. Since getting a
Samsung Electronics Co. smartphone, he now gets online every day
and pays 2 cents a minute to carrier PT Indosat.  “I need entertainment while waiting for my wife
shopping,” said Rusdi, 26, who doesn’t have a family name.
“Mobile Internet is the only answer.”  From  Indonesia  to  Brazil , emerging market carriers are
breaking Web services into more affordable, bite-sized pieces to
hook clients like Rusdi on using the Internet on their phones.
Carriers are offering unlimited surfing plans for a day or as
little as a minute and dangling free access to Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. to lure customers, particularly younger people.  “It’s a teaser concept, with the idea that eventually
users will upgrade,” said Marc Einstein, an analyst at Frost &
Sullivan Inc. in Tokyo, who has advised carriers including NTT
DoCoMo Inc. and Telstra Corp. “Most of these countries have a
very large youth market.”  Unlike in the U.S. and  Europe , where most users sign up for
contracts of a year or more and pay monthly for their Internet
and voice services, the clients of emerging-market carriers are
almost all prepay customers. Clients in those markets often
don’t have the credit to qualify for contracts or prefer the
flexibility of paying for communications services with the money
they have available.  Indonesians With Smartphones  Carriers in  Asia  and Latin America are figuring out ways to
offer online access profitably without making it too expensive
or producing unexpected charges. Competition among handset
makers is also reducing the prices for phones that can access
the Internet.  Only about 2 percent of Indonesians have Internet
connections at home, though 60 percent access the Web through
Internet cafes and other alternatives, Einstein said.  Rusdi said he uses the mobile Internet about 15 minutes a
day with funds from a prepaid card he tops up about once a month
for 200,000 rupiah ($23). His phone is Samsung’s  Star , a
touchscreen device that runs on Jakarta-based Indosat’s second-
generation mobile network, not the faster 3G network used by
advanced handsets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  “There was a Facebook app installed on the device, and the
device fit my budget,” Rusdi said. He paid 1.3 million rupiah
for his Star. Indosat is the second largest carrier in Indonesia
behind PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia.  Prepaid Customers  While Rusdi’s 2 cents a minute of  Internet access  may not
seem like much, it adds up quickly in countries where the
average revenue per user is about $2 a month, said Einstein.  Indosat is using Internet promotions to boost revenue and
to improve customer loyalty in a market where many consumers use
multiple devices with different carriers, said Djarot Handoko, a
company spokesman. Prepaid customers make up at least 95 percent
of Indosat’s 44.3 million clients, and about 85 percent of them
pay for Internet access, he said.  Smartphones climbed to 12 percent of mobile-phone shipments
in Indonesia last year, from 4.4 percent in 2008, according to
market researcher IDC. That compares to 18 percent for the Asia-
Pacific region in 2010 and 38 percent for the U.S.  Rogerio Takayanagi, marketing director for Brazilian
mobile-phone company  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4) , said he was grappling
with the problem of how to boost mobile Internet growth when he
took a trip to Asia last August to see how his counterparts
overseas were handling the challenge.  Free Facebook Access  “Our main inspiration came from Indonesia,” Takayanagi
said in a phone interview. “It was very clear for us that
playing in emerging markets is completely different from Europe
and the U.S. Trying to replicate from what works in those
markets in Brazil does not work.”  Tim introduced its Brazil-tailored version of what
Takayanagi saw in Indonesia, a service called  Infinity Web , in
late September. Fifty centavos (30 cents) would buy the user a
full day of unlimited Web access. By early this year, Tim, which
has about 52 million users, was getting 8 million clients a
month on Infinity Web.  Rio de Janeiro-based Tim is one of several emerging-market
carriers around the world that offer  0.facebook.com , a scaled-
down version of the  Palo Alto , California-based social-
networking site for phones that don’t have the Web-browsing
power of smartphones. Clients who download the application get
three months of free Facebook access through their phones.  Mimics Internet Cafes  To further boost growth, handset prices must come down,
Takayanagi said. Tim has made headway by working with Samsung
and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  to produce phones with a proprietary
operating system, reducing royalty payments. While the phones
lack the processing power of more expensive devices, they have
large screens and full keyboards, making them fit for Web
browsing.  Tim is the third largest carrier in Brazil, trailing  Vivo
Participacoes SA (VIV)  and America Movil SAB.  Part of the appeal of “snack-sized” Web access on phones
is that it mimics Internet cafes, which also charge users based
on the time they spend rather than the data they consume, said
Joanna Africa, head of platform management at  Globe Telecom
Inc. (GLO) , the second-biggest wireless carrier in the  Philippines .  “The Philippine consumer understood the Internet in
hours,” Africa said in an e-mail. “Mobile Internet addresses
the snacking requirements, i.e. the need to post updates on
Facebook or needing to quickly check information through
Google.”  ‘Holding the World’  Globe has determined that prepaid customers are willing to
spend about 5,000 Philippine pesos ($115) for an Internet-
capable device, Africa said. Smartphones with operating systems
such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Android  should begin to reach $100 this
year, she said.  Budhiwan Pradhana, a record-label promoter in Jakarta, has
upgraded, paying about $339 six months ago to get a BlackBerry
device from  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to replace his Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications AB handset. His carrier, Jakarta-based XL,
automatically deducts 99,000 rupiah ($11) a month for Web access
and BlackBerry messaging from his prepaid plan.  With his new phone, Pradhana said he can upload images
directly to his Facebook account. He also chats with friends on
Yahoo Inc.’s and RIM’s instant-messaging services. He said he
rarely accessed the Internet with his old phone, finding it too
costly.  “This device helps me in working and in my social life,”
said Pradhana, 30. “The technology development makes me feel
like I’m holding the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  