-- 
Iran Atom Work Unimpeded as Diplomats Make ‘Sausage,’ U.S. Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-09T12:16:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/iran-atom-work-unimpeded-as-diplomats-make-sausage-u-s-says.html
World powers reiterated their
willingness to negotiate with  Iran , watering down a joint
statement even as the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program
races ahead, a top U.S. official said today in Vienna.  The so-called P5+1 group, composed of  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and U.S., asked Iran in a one-page
declaration to show “a similarly constructive spirit” to
engage.  The compromise document, delivered at the  IAEA ’s 35-
member board of governors meeting, was weaker than U.S. and
European statements.  “It’s always a challenge,” U.S. International Atomic
Energy Agency ambassador Glyn Davies said today at a press
briefing. “It was the sausage making of diplomacy.”  It was the first joint statement issued by the P5+1 since
the group’s Istanbul talks with Iran broke down in January.
Tensions rose in the wake of the Jan. 22 meeting where Iranian
negotiators refused to discuss their country’s nuclear work. The
U.S. accuses Iran of having a secret atomic weapons program.
Iran says it only wants to generate nuclear power.  Iran continues stockpiling uranium, the heavy metal used
for nuclear weapons and atomic power, the IAEA reported last
month. The atomic inspectorate has received new information that
Iran may continue exploring nuclear weapons capabilities, IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano said.  “The increasingly apparent military dimensions to  Iran’s
nuclear program , including efforts by Iran to develop a nuclear
warhead, intensify and lend urgency to these concerns,” Davies
said in a statement to the IAEA.  The European Union asked IAEA inspectors to provide a
“comprehensive analysis on possible military dimensions to
Iran’s nuclear program,” according to a statement.  China and Russia didn’t provide copies of their statements.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  