-- 
Iraq Plans to Name Key Security, Planning Ministers Tomorrow

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-03-09T14:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/iraq-plans-to-name-key-security-planning-ministers-tomorrow.html
Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki
will name key security ministers tomorrow and announce economic
measures in response to protests over  living standards , a member
of his parliamentary coalition said.  Al-Maliki will present his candidates for the defense,
interior and national security ministries to parliament, Ali
Shalah said in a telephone interview from Baghdad. The premier
will also ask lawmakers to endorse his candidate for the
planning ministry, and announce “his vision for economic reform
in light of the demonstrations in  Iraq  for better services,”
Shalah said, without identifying any of the nominees.  Al-Maliki had left key ministerial slots vacant when he
formed his government in December because of disagreements among
the country’s political groups. Before that, Iraqi leaders had
been wrangling over a power-sharing formula for nine months
following inconclusive parliamentary elections last March.  Tensions persist as Al-Maliki’s main political rival,
former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi , accused the premier of
failing to uphold his vow to share power in the unity coalition.
Allawi said March 3 that he no longer wants to head a National
Strategic Policy Council, which was due to be created for him as
part of the deal that led to the government’s formation.  Iraqis across the country have held street rallies in
recent weeks calling for greater accountability from politicians
and better services, and several people have died in clashes
with security forces. Al-Maliki responded by redirecting $900
million from a jet-fighter program to increase food subsidies.
The Cabinet also presented a bill to parliament to reduce
government wages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Kadhim Ajrash in  Baghdad  at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at   mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  