-- 
Enda Kenny Elected as Irish Prime Minister Amid Bank Crisis

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-03-09T15:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ireland-s-kenny-elected-prime-minister-as-he-seeks-lower-rate-on-aid-loans.html
Enda Kenny was elected Irish prime
minister, vowing to renegotiate the terms of the country’s
bailout after becoming the first leader of the Fine Gael party
to take power in 14 years.  Lawmakers in the Dublin-based  parliament  voted 117 to 27
today to make Kenny prime minister, with the  Labour Party 
supporting his nomination. The 59-year-old will name his cabinet
when parliament resumes at about 4:40 p.m. today.  “This is the darkest hour before the dawn,” Kenny said in
speech to lawmakers. A “new day is here.”  Ireland accepted an 85-billion euro ($118 billion) rescue
package in November as mounting losses related to real-estate
loans pushed the country’s banks close to collapse. Kenny
inherits an economy that has shrunk about 15 percent in three
years after a decade-long property boom imploded.  “It is probably one of the toughest jobs to be taken on by
any government outside of wartime,” said Brian Devine, chief
economist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. “It has to correct the
public finances and get the banking system working.”  Fine Gael  won 76 seats in an election last month, the best
ever performance by the party. Labour, which will share power in
a coalition, took 37 seats.  Fine Gael, whose supporters backed the 1921 treaty granting
Ireland independence from the U.K. and partitioning the country,
was founded by the winners of a civil war ignited by the north
remaining under British control.  While Kenny, who is from Mayo in the west of Ireland, is
the longest-serving current member of Ireland’s parliament, his
only experience in government was as tourism and trade minister
between 1994 and 1997 and a junior education minister in 1986.
He won his first election in 1975 after the death of his father,
who also represented Mayo.  The Fine Gael-led coalition is seeking to lower the 5.8
percent interest rate on the country’s bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . Kenny also wants EU
approval to impose losses on some senior holders of bank bonds,
who were sheltered under the bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  