-- 
Portuguese 10-Year Yields Slip From Record After Sale on ECB Speculation

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T17:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/italian-10-year-yield-rises-to-5-for-the-first-time-since-november-2008.html
  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yields
retreated from the highest in more than 14 years on speculation
the  European Central Bank  may buy the securities of the region’s
most-indebted nations to curb surging borrowing costs.  The bonds slid earlier as the country sold 1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) of 2013 securities at borrowing costs that were
almost 50 percent higher than at a September auction. The ECB
inquired about prices for Irish bonds and didn’t buy, according
to two traders with knowledge of the matter. A spokesman for the
Frankfurt-based central bank declined to comment. German bonds
gained as investors sought the safety of  Europe ’s most liquid  debt market . Greek debt fell for a 10th day.  “It’s a combination of talk about the ECB being in the
market or inquiring about prices and the fact that they got the
supply out of the way,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.  The yield on 10-year Portuguese bonds was little changed at
7.63 percent as of 4:32 p.m. in London, after rising to 7.70
percent, the most since at least 1997 when Bloomberg began
collecting the data. The 4.8 percent securities due June 2020
traded at 81.69.  Italian 10-year bonds fell for a third day, lifting yields
by three basis points to 4.99 percent following an earlier climb
to 5.03 percent, the highest since Nov. 3, 2008. Similar-
maturity Spanish yields were also two basis points higher, at
5.51 percent.  ‘Rebuild Trust’  Portugal is trying to convince investors that it can avoid
a Greek-style bailout by raising taxes and implementing the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades as it sells
debt to cover its fiscal deficit. The country’s main task is to
“rebuild trust” among investors by meeting deficit-reduction
targets and boosting economic growth, Nuno Brito, the country’s
ambassador to the U.S., said in an interview with Bloomberg in  New York  yesterday.  Borrowing costs increased at Portugal’s debt sale today
with the September 2013 security issued at an average yield of
5.993 percent, up from 4.086 percent at a previous auction of
the same-maturity bills on Sept. 8, the country’s debt
management agency said. The auction attracted bids for 1.6 times
the amount offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.9 in
September.  ‘Pay Up’  “They’ve had to pay up in a big way,” said Ostwald. “The
yields have risen spectacularly. It doesn’t change any of the
dynamics; long term Portugal cannot carry on funding itself at
these sort of penal rates.”  Portugal will report a 2010 fiscal deficit of about 7
percent of gross domestic product, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates 
said Jan. 28. The government has set a target for a budget
deficit of 4.6 percent of GDP in 2011 and aims to reach the EU
limit of 3 percent in 2012.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the budget
shortfall will reach 7.3 percent for 2010 before narrowing to
5.3 percent this year and 4.5 percent in 2012.  “The trajectory of rising peripheral borrowing costs is
the key issue in the market right now,” said Mark Schofield,
head of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“Portugal has got to issue quite a lot of debt so there’s a
feeling that they might be forced to” get bailed out. “When
you’ve got worries about the weakest peripheral countries then
the concern spreads right through the system,” he said.  Leaders Summit  European Union leaders are scheduled to meet in Brussels on
March 11 to discuss how to construct a comprehensive support
package for the region’s most indebted nations, details of which
are expected to be announced at the conclusion of a March 24-25
summit.  Standard & Poor’s  said on March 1 that Portugal “could
find itself forced to approach” the EU’s rescue fund and the  International Monetary Fund .  The yield on the German 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government security, fell two basis points to 3.29 percent. Two-
year German yields declined one basis point to 1.74 percent.  “Investors are favoring the 10-year part of the curve
because of the bearishness towards the front end due to the
likelihood of rate increases from the ECB,” said Elaine Lin, a
strategist at Morgan Stanley in London.  German two-year note yields jumped last week after ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said that policy makers may raise
borrowing costs from a record low 1 percent as soon as April.
ECB Governing Council member Axel Weber said yesterday he
wouldn’t want “to correct market expectations” for as many as
three quarter-point increases in the bank’s key rate this year.  Industrial production in  Germany  grew 1.8 percent in
January from the previous month when it slipped a revised 0.6
percent, the  Economy Ministry  said in Berlin today. That was
higher than the 1.7 percent median estimate of 35 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Germany sold 1.96 billion euros of inflation-linked bonds
due April 2020, the Bundesbank said today. That compared with
bids for 3.55 billion of the debt, the central bank data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  