-- 
Hittite Sphinx May Return to Turkey From Germany, Minister Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T10:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hittite-sphinx-may-return-to-turkey-from-germany-minister-says.html
  Germany  is willing to negotiate the
return to Turkey of a Hittite sphinx that has been in Berlin for
almost 100 years, Culture Minister Bernd Neumann said.  The 3,300-year-old sphinx was part of a gate to the Hittite
capital Hattusa in modern-day Anatolia. It was excavated in 1907
and sent to Berlin for restoration and study about 10 years
later, according to the  Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation .
Turkey has been urging Germany to return it since 1938, the
foundation said in a statement.  Neumann and his Turkish counterpart, Ertugrul Gunay, met
yesterday to discuss the sphinx’s return, according to a
statement today from the  German Culture Ministry . They agreed to
find a solution in a meeting in  Turkey  in April.  “I think it should be possible because it is a unique case
with no parallels, so would not create any kind of precedent for
other restitution demands,” Neumann said.  Germany has rejected Egyptian calls for the return of Queen
Nefertiti’s bust from Berlin’s  Neues Museum , saying the more
than 3,000-year-old bust was legally exported after being
excavated by a German archaeologist in 1912.  Turkey had threatened to close German excavations in
Anatolia if the sphinx was not returned, an ultimatum that
Hermann Parzinger, the president of the Prussian Cultural
Heritage Foundation, said on Feb. 25 “does not create the right
climate for finding a positive solution.”  The sphinx, one of a pair, was sent to Berlin for
restoration in about 1916 along with 10,000 fragmented Hittite
clay tablets damaged by fire, according to the foundation.  The second sphinx, which was in better condition, was
returned to Istanbul in 1924 along with the first clay tablets
to be restored. It is now in Istanbul’s  Ancient Orient Museum ,
the foundation said.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 