-- 
J&J Hip Failure Rate as High as 49 Percent, U.K. Doctors Say

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-09T22:30:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/j-j-hip-replacement-failure-rate-may-be-49-u-k-orthopedists-group-says.html
A hip replacement made by  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy unit fails in the U.K. as often as 49 percent of
the time, or four times what the company cited in recalling the
device last year, a British orthopedists’ group said.  The British Orthopaedic Association and the British Hip
Society said in a statement this week that data on the ASR XL
Acetabular System from four surgeons show the rate of second
operations, or revisions, ranges from 21 percent after four
years to 49 percent after six years.  “It’s probably the best indicator so far of what the
failure rate is likely to be,” John Skinner, an orthopedic
surgeon and chairman of the groups’ expert advisory group on
metal bearing hips, said in a telephone interview. “As far as I
can tell, it’s reliable.” Skinner said the data haven’t
undergone peer review required for publication.  DePuy recalled both the ASR XL and an ASR hip resurfacing
system in August. At the time, the company cited unpublished
data from the National Joint Registry of  England  and  Wales 
saying 13 percent of ASR XL patients required second surgeries
in five years, and 12 percent of patients with the resurfaced
hips needed such operations within five years. Both devices use
metal balls and sockets to replace ailing hips. The orthopedists
didn’t report on the resurfacing system in the statement.  ‘DePuy Remains Committed’  “Since the recall decision was made, DePuy has worked to
provide patients and surgeons with the information and support
they need,” Mindy Tinsley, a DePuy spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “DePuy remains committed to addressing
reasonable and customary costs of testing and treatment for
reasons related to the recall, including revision surgery if
necessary.”  J&J fell 31 cents to $60.40 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 2.3 percent
this year. The DePuy unit, which also makes spinal-care
products, generated $5.59 billion in sales last year, 9.1
percent of total revenue for Johnson & Johnson, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Only the ASR XL was approved for sale in the U.S., where
37,000 were implanted.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, the
world’s largest health-care company, faces 600 lawsuits in the
U.S. so far over the devices. Lawyers suing the company on
behalf of patients have said the damages could cost DePuy
billions of dollars.  U.K. Implants  Skinner said that about 10,000 of the hips were implanted
in the U.K., including 5,000 or so resurfacing devices and 5,000
of the ASR XL prostheses, also known as total-hip replacements.  The group said that “well researched and audited results”
of these devices “show a higher than anticipated early failure
rate.” The 21 percent revision rate at 4 years could rise to 35
percent “if all currently known painful implants progress to
revision,” according to the statement.  The two-page statement, obtained by Bloomberg News, said
the four sets of data were presented last week at the British
Hip Society Annual Conference.  The statement limits itself to commentary on large diameter
metal-on-metal implants, without defining “large diameter.”  DePuy said in its August recall statement that revision
rates would probably be highest for ASR head sizes less than
50 millimeters (0.2 inch) in diameter, generally the types
implanted in female patients.  ‘Metal-on-Metal’  “Based on the results presented, the use of large diameter
metal-on-metal bearings in primary total hip replacement should
be carefully considered and possibly avoided,” the U.K. panel
wrote.  “The results were at a level where we thought it was best
to act now,” Skinner said. “The purpose is to tell British
surgeons that the ASR XL patients are likely to have a higher
rate of revision on the basis of this data, if it turns out to
be correct.”  David Floyd has submitted his resignation as president of
DePuy Orthopaedics, the maker of the hip replacements, Lorie
Gawreluk, a company spokeswoman, said last week. Floyd is
leaving at the end of March to “pursue other interests,” she
said, declining to be more specific.  “These are catastrophic failures,” John Restaino, an
attorney and co-chairman of the plaintiffs’ science committee in
federal litigation over the device in the U.S., said in a phone
interview. “A revision rate of 49 percent after six years is
astounding,” Restaino, a former podiatric surgeon, said.  Lawsuits Filed  Plaintiffs have brought product-liability, negligence and
failure-to-warn claims against DePuy over the devices, and are
seeking medical costs, lost wages and compensation for their
pain and suffering. More than 350 lawsuits have been
consolidated in federal court in  Ohio , and more than 220 are
pending in California state court. Another group of cases is
pending in New Jersey state court.  The statement by the British orthopedists “suggests that
DePuy has a bigger problem on its hands than it has
acknowledged,” said Lexi Hazam of Lieff Cabraser Heimann &
Bernstein LLP in  San Francisco , who is representing clients in
DePuy hip lawsuits.  J&J bought DePuy for $3.5 billion in 1998. A year earlier,
London-based Smith & Nephew Plc had introduced the Birmingham
Hip Replacement, or BHR, a device that built on the metal-on-
metal designs of the 1960s and 1970s which had fallen out of
favor as metal-on-polyethylene grew popular.  Cup in Socket  The BHR consists of a cup implanted in the pelvic hip
socket, or acetabulum, and a cap that covers, or resurfaces, the
ball-shaped head of the thigh bone, or femur, that fits into the
pelvic socket.  DePuy began selling a similar device, the ASR Hip
Resurfacing System, outside the U.S. in 2003. The ASR XL
Acetabular System involves a cup and a ball that sit atop a stem
driven into the femur, requiring more bone loss than in a
resurfacing.  DePuy hip sales slowed at the end of last year, hurt by the
recalls, said Michael Mahoney, J&J’s worldwide chairman for
medical devices, in a March 2 presentation at an investor
conference. DePuy is still the world’s leading seller of
artificial hips, he said.  The company took a $280 million charge in the fourth
quarter to pay for the recall, according to a Jan. 25 earnings
statement.  “We’re setting the right high bar for the industry in how
we’re managing the recall. But it is something that we’re
continuing to work through,” Mahoney said at the conference.
“We’ll see the impact of ASR diminish throughout, as we move
forward in 2011.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 