-- 
Japan May Cast Off Deflation in 2012, Says Ex-BOJ Vice Governor

-- B y   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-03-09T10:57:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/japan-may-cast-off-deflation-in-2012-says-ex-boj-vice-governor.html
     March 9 (Bloomberg) --Toshiro Mutoh, chairman of Daiwa
Institute of Research and former deputy governor of the  Bank of
Japan , comments at the Daiwa Investment Conference Tokyo 2011.  On Japan’s economy:  “The main scenario is Japan’s economy stopped marking time
between January and March in this year, and will begin an
expansion that is gradual and steady. It is possible that Japan
will restart its recovery with more than two percent growth in
2012.”  “Japan is likely to cast off deflation after the start of
fiscal 2012.”  On the yen:  “The interest spread between the U.S. and Japan began
leveling-off after Japan’s credit easing in October and the U.S.
easing last November. As a result, it staved off the stronger
yen.”  “There are two points to forecast the future movement:”  “One is how fundamentals of the  U.S. economy  go. Interest
rates may expand with greater expectations for growth and
inflation if the economy heads skyward enough not to need credit
easing anymore. It is natural that the dollar appreciates with
stronger American fundamentals, and that may restrain the
stronger yen.”  “The other is how Mideast situation influences  oil prices .
Anarchy in Mideast triggers a weaker dollar, and the yen, as a
risk-free asset, may be bought more.”  On the BOJ’s purchase of financial assets such as exchange
traded funds and real estate investment trusts:  “People understood that the Bank of Japan showed strong
will as a central bank. The amount was not so big compared to
gross domestic product, but the bank suggests that it will
expand the amount if needed.”  Editors: Nick Gentle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 