-- 
China Naval Action Draws Growing Protests From Japan, Vietnam, Philippines

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T07:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/japan-protests-after-chinese-helicopter-buzzes-destroyer-in-east-china-sea.html
Japan joined  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  in protesting against China’s actions in disputed
waters in the past week, drawing attention to the potential for
clashes in resource-rich areas that are key to trade.  Japan yesterday made a formal protest after a Chinese
helicopter buzzed a Japanese destroyer in the East China Sea,
Japan’s defense minister said. Japan today warned a Chinese
fishing patrol vessel not to enter waters near disputed islands,
Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo.  Japan’s protest follows a diplomatic dispute between  Asia ’s
biggest economies after a Chinese fishing boat collided with
Japanese coast guard vessels in the same waters in September.
Complaints from Vietnam and the Philippines over separate
incidents in the South  China  Sea underscore growing pressure on
China to abide by a defined code of conduct.  “It highlights the absence of any kind of agreements among
Asian countries to avoid potentially dangerous situations at sea
between warships,” Ian Storey, a fellow at the Institute of
Southeast Asia Studies in  Singapore , said today by telephone.
“The other thing that links the three is China’s increasing
ability to use its naval assets to pursue its claims, and to
show its presence in East Asia’s waters.”  ‘Extremely Dangerous’  The Chinese helicopter flew near a Japanese destroyer in
the East China Sea on March 7 at an altitude of about 40 meters
(131 feet), Japan’s Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa told
reporters yesterday. The incident was “an extremely dangerous
action,” Kitazawa said. “We have asked through diplomatic
channels that action is taken to avoid any accidental
collisions.”  Japanese coast guard vessels and planes today warned a
Chinese fishing patrol ship not to enter waters near disputed
islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, Edano
said. Last year’s collision was among the factors that prompted
Japan to say it would focus its defense policy more on China and
away from  Russia .  China yesterday reasserted its claim to sovereignty over
parts of the  South China Sea  following the protests from the
Philippines and Vietnam. China’s claim is “indisputable,”
China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu told reporters in
Beijing, adding leaders are committed to resolving disputes
peacefully.  China’s claims cover most of the South China Sea, including
areas surrounding the disputed Spratly islands.  Philippines, Vietnam  The Philippines formally protested to China after two boats
harassed a Philippine oil exploration team in the contested
area, President  Benigno Aquino  said March 4. Vietnam objected to
Chinese counter-piracy drills near the Spratlys, the Foreign
Ministry said in a statement.  China is unilaterally developing gas fields in the  East
China Sea , the Asahi newspaper reported today, citing an
official at China National Offshore Oil Corp.  “We have repeatedly said that such activities shouldn’t
take place, and have asked China for explanations,” Edano said.
“We are in the process of confirming media reports. We will
wait for a response before deciding on our course of action.”  The Chinese government has resisted calls for a code of
conduct for ships traveling in the South China Sea, which
contain vital shipping lanes and may be rich in oil and gas
reserves.  ‘Destabilizing Factor’  These disputes “are becoming a destabilizing factor in the
region,” Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said in a speech in
January. “Japan will show leadership in creating guidelines to
prevent conflicts while boldly expressing its own rights so that
the Asia-Pacific will remain a sea of peace.”  In March 2010, Japan said it spotted Chinese submarines and
destroyers in international waters close to the southern island
of Okinawa, which houses more than 75 percent of the U.S.
military bases in Japan, and last April a helicopter from a
Chinese vessel approached a Japanese warship.  Separately the U.S. aircraft carrier Ronald Reagan will
take part in military drills with  South Korea , according to a
 statement  from the U.S. 7th Fleet. The maneuvers, dubbed “Foal
Eagle,” began on Feb. 28 and are part of annual war games that
have drawn threats of retaliation from  North Korea  every year
they have taken place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  