-- 
Japan Machinery Orders Rise More Than Forecast in Sign of Economy Rebound

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-09T02:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/japan-machinery-orders-rise-more-than-forecast-in-sign-of-economy-rebound.html
Japan’s machinery orders rose more
than economists expected in January, signaling that companies
will boost spending as economic recoveries abroad strengthen.  Factory orders increased 4.2 percent from December, the
biggest jump in five months, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo. Orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three to six
months, were projected to climb 3 percent, according to the
median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Japan’s stocks rallied on optimism the economy will rebound
from a fourth-quarter contraction, spurred in part by a retreat
in the cost of oil. Companies from Asahi Glass Co. to Nippon
Power Graphite Co. have unveiled investment plans as global
growth accelerates.  “Capital spending has been rising gradually, and looking
at today’s machinery report, those increases will probably
continue,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “We can expect investment
growth from manufacturers to be sustained given export growth.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average jumped 3.8 percent last month
and was up 1 percent at 11 a.m. in Tokyo.  Revised Growth  The Cabinet Office tomorrow will probably say the world’s
third-largest economy shrank at a revised annual pace of 1.2
percent in the fourth quarter, according to the median estimate
of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The preliminary report
on the gross domestic product released Feb. 14 showed the 1.1
percent contraction was driven by a slowdown in exports.  That demand may be coming back.  China ’s imports soared 51
percent in February from a year before, while the jobless rate
in the U.S. unexpectedly slid to the lowest level in almost two
years. China and the U.S. are Japan’s two largest markets.
Today’s report showed overseas orders rose 71 percent from the
previous month, a record pace, signaling export demand is
increasing.  “With the pickup in production, manufacturers are getting
ready to produce more,” Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at
Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the report.
“The investment recovery is likely to continue, albeit
gradually.”  Japan’s government raised its assessment of the economy for
a second straight month in February, saying the nation is
emerging from “a recent pause” as production and exports gain
pace. Factory output rose for a third month in January and
companies plan to boost output in February and March, setting
the stage for the first advance in production in three quarters.  Those brighter signs are boosting confidence in the economy,
making it likely that machinery orders will continue to rebound,
Nomura Securities Co. said in a report last week.  New Plant  Nippon Power Graphite, a joint venture between Sumitomo
Corp. and Nippon Coke and Engineering Co., said Feb. 28 it will
spend 1 billion yen for a plant to make materials used in  lithium-ion batteries . The plant, in Fukuoka, southern Japan,
will triple the venture’s production capacity to 1,000 metric
tons, the company said.    Asahi Glass  said Feb. 9 it will invest 20 billion yen in a
new furnace in Hyogo to meet booming demand for mobile devices.
The glassmaker expects net income to rise 5.5 percent this year.  At the same time, a 9 percent advance in the yen against
the dollar in the past year has given companies an incentive to
move production outside of Japan. Michijiro Kikawa, chief
executive officer at Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., said
his company plans to procure more of its components abroad to
protect its profits from currency swings.  “Until now we’ve followed a concept that key components
are developed and produced in Japan and they are supplied
globally,” he said in a Feb. 23 interview. “We won’t
necessarily stick to Japan” for less important parts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  