-- 
Japan's Economy Shrank 1.3% in Fourth Quarter, More Than Previous Estimate

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-03-10T01:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/japan-gdp-shrank-1-3-last-quarter-more-than-previous-estimate.html
Japan’s economy contracted more
than the government initially estimated in the fourth quarter
because of a downward revision to  capital investment  and  consumer spending .  Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent
rate in the three months ended Dec. 31, more than the 1.1
percent contraction reported last month, the Cabinet Office said
today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 1.2 percent contraction.  Recent reports show the world’s third-largest economy may
have already put the worst behind it with machinery orders, an
indicator of future  capital spending , and industrial production
both rising in January. Companies including Sony Corp. and
Nissan Motor Co. are forecasting an increase in sales as demand
in  Asia  grows.  “Consumer spending will come back and exports and
production will be supported by the global recovery,” said
Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist　at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo, who correctly predicted the annualized
GDP contraction.  Japan’s stocks retreated in tandem with shares from  Seoul 
to Sydney on concern that the increase in oil prices will damp
the world economy’s expansion. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was
down 1 percent at 10,480.24 as of 10:18 a.m. in Tokyo.  Consumer Spending  Private consumption fell 0.8 percent drove GDP lower in the
fourth quarter after the government ended a subsidy program to
buy fuel-efficient cars in September and reduced incentives to
purchase electronic home appliances in December, a program that
will end in March. Capital spending rose 0.5 percent, compared
with the initial estimate of a 0.9 percent increase.  GDP will probably expand 1.73 percent in the first quarter
with growth accelerating to a 2.08 percent pace by the fourth
quarter, according to the average forecast of 43 economists in a
survey by the government-affiliated Economic Planning
Association released on March 8.  Today’s report confirmed “the economy paused in the
October to December period, but it is rebounding this year,”
supported by exports and automobile sales, Takashi Wada, a
parliamentary secretary to the Cabinet Office, told reporters in
Tokyo. “The biggest concerns going forward are conditions in
the Middle East and rising  oil prices .”  Asian Demand  Japanese companies are tapping demand in Asia. Sony
forecast its sales of televisions in  India  may almost double to
about 1.6 million units next fiscal year, Masaru Tamagawa, Sony
India’s managing director, said last month.  Nissan, Japan’s second-largest automaker, raised its profit
forecast last month after new models and increasing sales in
Asia helped the company offset the impact of a stronger yen,
which has risen 9 percent against the dollar in the past year.  China’s imports soared 51 percent in January from a year
before, while the jobless rate in the U.S. unexpectedly slid to
the lowest level in almost two years in February.  China  and the
U.S. are Japan’s two largest markets.  Risks to Japan’s recovery include higher oil prices that
could depress capital spending and private consumption,
according to Yoshiki Shinke, senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo. Crude oil prices have risen more
than 10 percent this year and are approaching their 2008 peak.  “If oil keeps surging, growth may not accelerate in the
coming quarters like we had expected,” Shinke said. “Going
forward, rising oil prices are going to erode corporate profits,
and if that leads to a rise in consumer prices, that could
really hold down consumer spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  