-- 
JCDecaux Reiterates Interest in CBS Outdoor While Foregoing 2010 Dividend

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-03-09T13:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/jcdecaux-2010-profit-more-than-doubles-falls-short-of-estimates.html
  JCDecaux SA (DEC) , the world’s largest
seller of outdoor advertising, reiterated its interest in buying
CBS Outdoor Inc., and withheld a dividend from annual earnings
to fund acquisitions this year.  “We are the natural buyer for these assets,” co-Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Francois Decaux said in a phone interview
today. He said the company is also eyeing purchases in  Germany ,
east  Europe  and emerging markets. “Something will happen this
year,” Decaux said, referring to acquisitions.  JCDecaux, based in Neuilly-sur-Seine outside Paris, is
withholding a dividend from 2010 annual earnings “to have the
maximum financial flexibility” to take advantage of
consolidation, Decaux said. The company has a credit line of 850
million euros ($1.18 billion) with a group of banks in Europe
and will have almost no debt by the end of 2011, he said.  “If we can’t spend the cash on growing our business
externally we would have paid a dividend,” he said. “We are
well-positioned to take advantage of consolidation.”  CBS Outdoor and JCDecaux already operate joint ventures in
Vancouver and  Los Angeles , Decaux said. “The timing is
completely in their court; we know them well.”  ‘Body Language’  Decaux said his company has become more public about its
interest in CBS Outdoor after Les Moonves, chief executive
officer of New York-based  CBS Corp. (CBS) , said the outdoor advertiser
was no longer part of CBS’s core business. “The body language
has clearly changed at CBS,” Decaux said.  JCDecaux today said its profit last year more than doubled.
Earnings before interest and taxes rose to 279 million euros and
net income jumped to 173.3 million euros from 24.5 million euros
a year earlier.  Sales rose 22.5 percent to 2.35 billion euros, driven by
revenue from the company’s transport and street furniture
divisions, Decaux said.  With the growth momentum continuing, the company expects
sales in the first quarter this year to rise about 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 