-- 
Jiau, Longueuil Plead Not Guilty to Insider Trading Charges

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-09T23:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/jiau-longueuil-plead-not-guilty-to-insider-trading-charges-1-.html
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant
for  Primary Global Research LLC , and ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP
fund manager Donald Longueuil pleaded not guilty to insider
trading charges in an indictment made public today.  The two defendants entered their pleas in a hearing today
before U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in  Manhattan .  Jiau, 43, was arrested by the U.S. in December. Longueuil
was arrested and charged in a criminal complaint in February.
Federal prosecutors yesterday added Longueuil to Jiau’s
indictment, which alleges that Jiau passed inside information to
an unidentified hedge-fund portfolio manager and to Noah Freeman, a Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty last
month to securities fraud.  Longueuil gave information to Freeman in a conspiracy to
commit securities and  wire fraud  that ran from 2006 to 2010,
the U.S. said in the superseding indictment released today. In
exchange, Freeman passed material non-public information to
Longueuil that he had obtained from sources including Jiau,
according to prosecutors.  “Longueuil communicated regularly with Freeman” and the
unidentified co-conspirator “to share the material nonpublic
information each learned from his respective sources,” the U.S.
said in the new indictment. “These communications occurred over
the telephone, as well as through e-mails and instant message
communications.”  Not Guilty Pleas  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged that Jiau passed tips on  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to Freeman and the unidentified
hedge fund portfolio manager, identified in court papers as
“CC-1.” Jiau was paid as much as $10,000 a month in return,
prosecutors alleged.  Longueuil is separately charged with conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and wire fraud for allegedly obtaining non-
public information from Freeman, unidentified public company
employees, other sources and “independent research
consultants” whom the U.S. didn’t identify.  “Ms. Jiau is innocent of the charges against her and looks
forward to clearing her name at a trial as soon as possible,”
her lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said in a telephone interview after
the court hearing.  Craig Carpenito, a lawyer for Longueuil, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  Jiau was originally indicted Feb. 22 and pleaded not guilty
to conspiracy and  securities-fraud  charges at her arraignment
the following day.  Bail Revoked  On March 2, Patterson ordered Jiau’s bail revoked after
prosecutors said it was “unmistakably clear” she would flee
the U.S. Prosecutors said Jiau was recorded saying in
conversations with a friend after her arrest that she planned to
flee to  Taiwan  after she was released on bail. She had the
friend liquidate her bank accounts and take $2,000 in cash she
had hidden in her home, prosecutors said.  On Feb. 8, Bharara’s office announced insider-trading
charges against Longueuil, Freeman and Samir Barai, the founder
of Barai Capital Management, as well as Jason Pflaum, who worked
for Barai. Pflaum pleaded guilty in December as part of a
cooperation deal. Freeman pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a
cooperating agreement with the U.S.  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at  Primary Global Research , a  Mountain
View , California-based expert-networking firm that links
investors with industry experts who work for public companies.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  