-- 
Jiau, Longueuil Accused of Fraud in New U.S. Indictment

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-09T16:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/jiau-longueuil-accused-of-securities-fraud-in-new-indictment-by-u-s-.html
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant
for  Primary Global Research LLC , was accused of  securities fraud 
conspiracy in a new indictment that also names ex-SAC Capital
Advisors LP fund manager Donald Longueuil.  Jiau, 43, was arrested by the U.S. in December. Longueuil
was arrested and charged in a criminal complaint in February.
Federal prosecutors yesterday added Longueuil to Jiau’s
indictment, which alleges that Jiau passed inside information to
an unnamed hedge-fund portfolio manager and Noah Freeman, a
Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty last month to
securities fraud.  During a conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud
that ran between 2006 and 2010, Longueuil gave information to
Freeman as well, the U.S. said in the superseding indictment
docketed today. In exchange, Freeman passed material non-public
information to Longueuil that he had obtained from sources
including Jiau, according to prosecutors.  “Longueuil communicated regularly with Freeman” and the
unidentified co-conspirator “to share the material nonpublic
information each learned from his respective sources,” the U.S.
said in the new indictment. “These communications occurred over
the telephone, as well as through e-mails and instant message
communications.”  Nvidia, Marvell  Prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara charged that Jiau passed tips on  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to Freeman and the unnamed hedge
fund portfolio manager, identified in court papers as “CC-1.”
Jiau was paid as much as $10,000 a month in return, prosecutors
alleged.  Longueuil is separately charged with conspiracy to commit
securities and wire fraud for allegedly obtaining non-public
information from Freeman, unnamed public company employees,
other sources and “independent research consultants” whom the
U.S. didn’t identify.  Longueuil is scheduled to have a court appearance later
today before U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in  New York ,
Bharara’s office said.  Craig Carpenito, a lawyer for Longueuil, and Jiau’s lawyer,
Joanna Hendon, didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking
comment.  Jiau was originally indicted Feb. 22 and pleaded not guilty
to conspiracy and securities-fraud charges at her arraignment
the following day.  Bail Revoked  On March 2, Patterson ordered Jiau’s bail revoked after
prosecutors said it was “unmistakably clear” she would flee
the U.S. Prosecutors said Jiau was recorded saying in
conversations with a friend after her arrest that she planned to
flee to  Taiwan  after she was released on bail. She had the
friend liquidate her bank accounts and take $2,000 in cash she
had hidden in her home, prosecutors said.  On Feb. 8, Bharara’s office announced  insider-trading 
charges against Longueuil, Freeman and Samir Barai, the founder
of Barai Capital Management, as well as Jason Pflaum, who worked
for Barai. Pflaum pleaded guilty in December as part of a
cooperation deal. Freeman pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a
cooperating agreement with the U.S.  The allegations marked the first time in the 16-month U.S.
probe that insider trading has been publicly alleged to have
occurred at SAC Capital.  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at  Primary Global Research , a  Mountain
View , California-based expert-networking firm that links
investors with industry experts who work for public companies.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  