-- 
Goblin Dangles as Taymor Departs $65 Million ‘Spiderman’

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-10T16:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/julie-taymor-out-new-director-writer-take-over-65-million-spider-man-.html
  Julie Taymor , the director and co-
author of “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,” has been replaced,
the producers announced last night, just before another
mechanical glitch.  The show came to a halt during the big aerial battle
between Spider-Man and Green Goblin when the latter’s flying
gear failed, leaving the villain dangling over the heads of
people sitting in the orchestra.  The show continued on the ground.  “Taymor is not leaving the creative team,” Michael Cohl
and Jeremiah Harris, lead producers of the $65 million musical,
said in a statement released before the show. The performance
was the 100th preview.  “Julie’s previous commitments mean that past March 15, she
cannot work the 24/7 necessary to make the changes in the
production in order to be ready for our opening.”  The statement didn’t say what those commitments are, nor
did it specify a new opening date, other than that it had been
“rescheduled for early summer, 2011.”  After negotiations earlier this week, the producers hired
Philip William McKinley to replace Taymor at the helm of the
show. McKinley’s only previous Broadway experience was as
director of “The Boy From Oz,” a 2003 musical about Peter
Allen that starred Hugh Jackman. McKinley has also worked as a
director for the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus.  No Contract  Taymor’s duties as co-author, with Glen Berger, of the
show’s book have been given to Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa, a
playwright and sometime contributor to the “Spider-Man” comic
books published by Marvel Entertainment.  Surprisingly, Taymor doesn’t have a signed Dramatists Guild
contract for the show, according to the person familiar with the
meetings this week. Her words can be altered.  Although such contract terms had been set, the person with
knowledge of the negotiations said, the contract wasn’t signed
by Bono and The Edge.  The U2 band members wrote the songs for the show and
recruited Taymor as director because of her success in staging
“The  Lion King ” on Broadway. For “Spider-Man,” Taymor is
credited as director, co-author of the book and designer of the
masks.  “The production will not comment on private business
matters regarding the show,” said spokesman Rick Miramontez in
an e-mail.  Two-Week Shutdown  Many critics called the storyline incoherent. Taymor
introduced Arachne, a figure from Greek mythology, as a major
character in a plot otherwise drawn from the comic book’s
familiar elements. Her scenes will be minimized or cut entirely,
said two people with knowledge of the negotiations.  “Deeply Furious,” a musical number in which Arachne and
her accomplices go shopping for shoes, will be cut, despite the
fact that it is reputedly one of Taymor’s favorites.  The Green Goblin’s Act I death will also be cut, so that
his appearance in Act II will make more sense.  To facilitate the changes, Cohl and Harris will close down
the show for about two weeks before setting a new opening date.
It would mark the sixth time an opening date has been announced
for the show.  “Everybody in the company has a deep affection for
Julie,” one of the leading actors in the show said before last
night’s performance. “We have no idea what is going to happen,
but it’s going to be very sad.”  After years of delay, changes of producers and postponed
openings, “Spider-Man” finally began previews on Nov. 28 last
year.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 