-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Weakens to 17-Year Low, Stocks Decline on Growth Concerns

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-03-09T13:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/kenya-s-shilling-weakens-to-17-year-low-stocks-decline-on-growth-concern.html
Kenya’s shilling extended its
decline to the weakest level in 17 years against the dollar and
its broadest stocks gauge fell to an almost 10-month low on
concern drought and high  oil prices  will curb economic growth.  Bamburi Cement Co., Lafarge SA’s Kenyan unit, led the
retreat in the 55-member All Share Index, which dropped 1.8
percent to 73.25 by the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi, the lowest
since May 13. The shilling depreciated for a fifth day,
weakening 0.7 percent to 83.95 per dollar, the weakest intraday
level since March 1994.  Much of Kenya, the world’s biggest black-tea exporter, will
probably receive below normal rainfall during the March-to-May
long rainy season, crimping agricultural production, the  Kenya
Meteorological Department  said yesterday. Inflation quickened
for a fourth month in February to 6.5 percent, the highest since
October 2009, as fuel costs rose. Oil climbed as much as 0.2
percent to $105.19 a barrel, trading within 76 cents of a 29-
month high.  “There is a feeling that the gross domestic product
expansion last year will not be matched this year because of dry
weather, there is concern about rising prices of fuel,” Aly-
Khan Satchu, a Nairobi-based independent financial analyst, said
in a phone interview today. “There is political risk with the
elections expected in 2012 and a dysfunctional government with a
lot of noise.”  ICC Summons    Kenya , which relies on agriculture for a quarter of its
gross domestic product and half of exports, expanded an
estimated 5.4 percent last year, President  Mwai Kibaki  said Feb.
28. Tea production may decline as much as 12 percent in 2011,
according to the Kenya Tea Board.  The  International Criminal Court  summoned six Kenyans,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , to appear before a
pre-trial chamber over their alleged involvement in post-
election violence in 2008, the Hague-based court said in a
statement dated yesterday.  Fighting flared between ethnic groups in Kenya following a
disputed December 2007 presidential vote, leaving 1,500 people
dead and forcing 300,000 to flee their homes. The clashes abated
after President Kibaki, an ethnic Kikuyu, signed a power-sharing
accord in February 2008 with then-opposition leader  Raila Odinga , of the Luo group, who was named prime minister. No one
has been convicted for orchestrating the crimes.  Shillings Pressure  Kenya’s shilling “is under sustained pressure and with the
ICC summons, it’s likely to head into unchartered territory,
which opens it up for further weakening,” Bernard Matimu, chief
dealer at Nairobi based NIC Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview
today.  Bamburi Cement slumped 3.4 percent to 188 shillings, the
lowest in more than two months, after Business Daily quoted
National Social Security Fund head Alex Kazongo as saying rising
competition will reduce the company’s growth prospects.  Kenya’s state-run pension company will sell its 14 percent
stake in Bamburi, the Nairobi-based newspaper cited Kazongo as
saying.  “That is bad trading strategy by NSSF,” Eric Musau, an
analyst at Nairobi-based African Alliance Securities Kenya Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. “They should not make the
announcement before they have a buyer because the price will
fall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  