-- 
King Abdullah Meets Saudi Shiite, Tribal Leaders After Protests

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-09T07:43:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/king-abdullah-meets-saudi-shiite-tribal-leaders-after-protests.html
Saudi Arabia’s  King Abdullah  met
with tribal leaders and top government and military officials,
after demonstrations in the country’s east and calls for a
nationwide protest on March 11.  The Shiite Muslim cleric Sheikh Mansour al-Salman, who was
among those attending talks, told the 86-year-old king that
Shiites in the city of al-Qatif in the country’s Eastern
Province support his rule and have no demands except “security
and stability,” the official  Saudi Press Agency  reported late
yesterday.  Shiites in al-Qatif held a demonstration on March 3,
attended by about 100 people and heavily policed, to demand the
release of prisoners. There was another rally of a similar size
in the eastern village of Awwamiya the same day, while on March
4 protesters in al-Hofuf demanded the release of Shiite cleric
Tawfiq al-Amir. Activists said he was freed two days later.    Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves,
has announced plans to spend more than $30 billion on housing,  job creation  and social security, as King Abdullah seeks to
shield the kingdom from popular unrest that has swept the
region. Protesters in countries including Saudi Arabia’s
neighbors Bahrain and Yemen are demanding civil rights, higher  living standards  and the ouster of entrenched autocracies.  Saudi Arabia has a Shiite community of between 10 and 15
percent of the population which complains of discrimination by
the Sunni rulers.  Activists have called for a nationwide  “Day of Rage”  on
March 11, and a Facebook Inc. page advocating the plan has more
than 30,000 followers. The kingdom’s Council of Senior Islamic
Scholars this week condemned protests as forbidden, and the
Interior Ministry warned that demonstrations, marches and sit-
ins are “strictly” prohibited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 