-- 
King Kamehameha Estate Disputes MSR Resorts’ Right to Hotel

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-03-09T23:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/king-kamehameha-estate-disputes-msr-resorts-right-to-hotel-1-.html
The estate of King Kamehameha III,
king of  Hawaii  from 1825 to 1854, said the Grand Wailea Resort
Hotel & Spa in Maui shouldn’t be part of the U.S. bankruptcy of
MSR Resorts, according to a letter filed in  Manhattan  court.  A portion of the land on which the resort is located is
part of the king’s estate and was inherited by his children,
according to a letter from the estate dated Feb. 28. The letter
was addressed to Judge Sean Lane, who is overseeing MSR Resorts’
bankruptcy, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, and
the government of  Singapore ’s investment corporation, which has
expressed interest in buying some of MSR’s properties.  Claims on royal properties are “misinformed,” the estate
said in the letter, which demands that legal claims for the
Wailea hotel be withdrawn. The U.S. “is obligated by law to
refrain from intermeddling in foreign royal patented probate
estates affairs,” the letter stated.  MSR filed for Chapter 11 protection in Manhattan court Feb.
1 after it was seized by lenders including Paulson & Co. from  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s real estate funds. Morgan Stanley had bought
the former owner, CNL Hotels & Resorts, for $6.7 billion in
2007.  Paul Basta, a lawyer for MSR, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  Other Resorts  The  Grand Wailea , a Waldorf Astoria resort built in 1991,
covers 40 acres along Maui’s southwestern shore and has 780
guest rooms at rates starting at $369 a night, according to its
website. It makes up 42 percent of the mortgage collateral of
the company.  Other properties included in the bankruptcy are the La
Quinta Resort & Club PGA West in  California ; the Doral Golf
Resort & Spa in Miami; the Claremont Resort & Spa in Berkeley,
California; and the  Arizona Biltmore Resort & Spa  in Phoenix.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  