-- 
Korean Won Rises to Two-Week High as Oil Retreats; Government Bonds Gain

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-03-09T07:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/korean-won-rises-to-two-week-high-on-decline-in-oil-rate-increase-outlook.html
South  Korea ’s won rose to its
strongest level in two weeks as crude oil extended yesterday’s
retreat from a 29-month high, allaying concerns that costlier
fuel will damp derail the global economic recovery. Bonds gained.  The currency and the Kospi stock index climbed for a second
day before a central bank policy review tomorrow at which  interest rates  are forecast to be raised for the second time
this year. Inflation in February breached the Bank of Korea’s 4
percent target ceiling for a second month.  “There’s a bit of reprieve from the crisis in the Middle
East and this has driven down the dollar as risk sentiment rises,
which is positive for the won,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based
currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “The
jury is still out on whether high inflation should lead to a
faster won appreciation. But for now, it seems positive for the
won as Bank of Korea is expected to move on rates tomorrow.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to close at 1,115.65 per dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
reached 1,113.45, the strongest level since Feb. 21.  Crude prices fell 0.7 percent to $104.24 a barrel in  New
York  as members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries considered holding a meeting to agree a production
increase after an uprising in Libya disrupted supplies. Oil is
still 14 percent higher than at the start of the year and
touched $106.95 on March 7, the highest level since September
2008.  South Korea  is  Asia ’s fourth-largest importer of the fuel.  Inflation reached a two-year high of 4.5 percent in
February and Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said today a
similar rate is expected for this month. The bank will lift its
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 3 percent tomorrow, according to all 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Borrowing costs were
increased in January for the third time since mid-2010.  The government’s benchmark three-year bonds rose for a
fourth day. The yield on the 3 percent note due December 2013
slid four basis points to 3.84 percent, its lowest level this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  