-- 
National Australia Bank Buys 35% of Area Property as Real Estate Recovers

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-03-09T21:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/national-australia-buys-35-stake-in-area-property-as-real-estate-recovers.html
  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
nation’s fourth-largest lender, bought a 35 percent stake in
William Mack’s Area Property Partners as the U.S. firm seeks
funding to expand its global real estate investments.  Mack, chairman of New York-based Area, and Lee Neibart,
chief executive officer, will remain in charge of all investment
decisions, the real estate fund manager said in a statement.
Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed.  Area, which has invested in  New York ’s Time Warner Center,
the St. Katherine Dock complex in central  London  and the Pascal
Tower in Paris, is seeking to increase its real estate holdings
in the early stages of an improving market. A recovery is “well
under way” in most major markets and global direct investment
in commercial properties may climb as much as 25 percent this
year, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in a Feb. 2 report.  “We think that there will be opportunities to acquire some
smaller REITs,” or real estate investment trusts, Neibart said
in an interview in New York. “There’ll be an opportunity to
acquire larger distressed assets. We think that there’ll be an
opportunity to significantly grow our debt business. So by
having access to this type of capital, we can look for bigger
things to do.”  National Australia, based in  Melbourne , had been seeking a
“a top-tier global real estate investment manager,” Garry Mulcahy, CEO of the bank’s investment-management arm, NabInvest,
said in the statement.  “We believe in Area’s ability to deliver high-quality
investment solutions for its investors and therefore have high
confidence in Area’s future prospects,” he said.  Money for Growth  The bank’s interest will be non-controlling, Neibart said.  “This deal was not done for NAB to provide capital for a
continuation of our businesses,” he said. “Our business is in
very good shape and it’s totally organized. The capital they
invested is really for growth of other businesses and doing new
things. That’s really its purpose.”  The agreement will give Area access to institutional
investors in Australia and  New Zealand , the fourth-largest
asset-management market globally, according to Neibart. He
projects that the National Australia Bank’s investment could
produce returns of 15 percent to 20 percent.  The partnership “puts us in a unique position to take
advantage of the recovery,” Mack, 71, said in the statement.
Mack, who founded the firm in 1993 with Leon Black’s Apollo
Global Management LLC, said a year ago that Area was focusing on
investing outside the U.S.  Strategic Move  Area’s move to seek non-U.S. institutional investors makes
good strategic sense, said David Hodes, managing partner at
Hodes Weill & Associates, a New York firm that advises investors
and fund managers. Major U.S. public pension funds, which have
been some of the largest investors, are under political pressure
to shift to defined-contribution systems, similar to 401(k)
plans, “and therefore may be capital constrained,” Hodes said.  “What you’re seeing is a manager who has done well for
close to 20 years and they’re taking a step back” to prepare
for the future, Hodes said of Area.  Interest in U.S.  The deal is a sign that non-U.S. investors are seeing
recovery in the U.S. property market, said Peter Slatin,
editorial director at New York-based Real Capital Analytics
Inc., which tracks commercial real estate sales and pricing
worldwide. It may also be the beginning of a spate of
international partnerships, he said.  “You have a company that now has global capital seeking
global opportunities. That’s what’s most exciting,” Slatin
said. “We will see more cross-border capital partnerships along
with cross-border acquisitions.”  Area plans to invest more than $1 billion of equity this
year, up from about $825 million last year, according to
Neibart. About $500 million probably will be split between
Europe and  India , and slightly more than that in the U.S., he
said.  The firm is considering acquisitions in the Manhattan hotel
market, and looking to acquire multifamily assets in U.S. cities
including Atlanta, Miami,  Dallas  and  Washington , Neibart said.
It also is seeking investments in retail properties.  Office Discomfort  “We still don’t feel comfortable in the office market,”
Neibart said.  Area, formerly known as Apollo Real Estate Advisors, has
invested about $13 billion of equity in more than 500
transactions since its founding, according to the statement.  National Australia Bank investors have suffered in the past
from the lender’s U.S. expansion. The company in October 1997
agreed to pay $1.2 billion for HomeSide Inc., a U.S. home-loan
business, as part of a plan to build a global mortgage company.
The bank sold HomeSide in 2002 after $2.2 billion of writedowns
from the takeover ended eight years of record profits.  In November 2007, National  Australia  Bank agreed to buy
U.S.-based Great Western Bancorp for $798 million. In the year
ended September 2010, cash earnings at Great Western, which
sells services in seven Midwest states, rose 1.4 percent to A$74
million ($75 million). That was 1.6 percent of National
Australia Bank’s total profit in the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  