-- 
NATO Sends Ships Toward Libya, No-Fly Zone Debated

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-10T16:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/nato-countries-weighing-libya-action-may-face-resistance-over-no-fly-zone.html
NATO agreed to send more ships to
the seas off  Libya  and said more planning and a United Nations
mandate are needed if they’re to put in place a possible no-fly
zone to ground Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s  28  defense
ministers, meeting in Brussels today, considered “initial
options regarding a possible no-fly zone in case NATO were to
receive a clear United Nations mandate,” the bloc’s secretary
general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, told a news conference.
“Ministers agreed that further planning will be required.”  Qaddafi’s forces resumed air strikes today on oil hubs in
the central area of Libya’s coastline that marks the east-west
dividing line in the conflict between government forces and
rebels. While countries such as the U.K. and  France  have urged
an air-exclusion zone, with the U.S. less enthusiastic,  Germany 
and other nations have expressed concern about the consequences.  The increased maritime presence in the central
Mediterranean “will improve NATO’s situational awareness, which
is vital in the current circumstances, and they will contribute
to our surveillance and monitoring” of the arms embargo against
Libya, Rasmussen said. He said there was no discussion at
today’s meeting of possible air strikes to enforce a no-fly
zone.  ‘Sucked Into War’  “We don’t want to get sucked into a war in North  Africa ,”
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in
Brussels before a separate meeting of European Union foreign
ministers.  Some Libyan rebels said a no-fly zone would help them
defeat the Qaddafi regime. An aerial blockade must be part of a
“full spectrum of possible responses,” President  Barack Obama 
and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said after a phone call
this week.  Libya, which holds Africa’s largest oil reserves, has seen
its crude output drop by about 1 million barrels a day.  Oil
prices  have risen more than 20 percent as the conflict rages.  Plumes of black smoke billowed from an oil storage depot in
Ras Lanuf, where fighting intensified near a refinery, Al-
Jazeera showed in a broadcast from the coastal city today.  Qaddafi’s air force dropped bombs near the Ras Lanuf
refinery and a building of the Libyan Emirates Oil Refinery Co.,
Reuters reported.  ‘Clear Legal Basis’  “I can’t imagine the international community and the
United Nations stand idly by if Colonel Qaddafi continues
attacking his people systematically,” Rasmussen said. “But I
have to say we do not look for intervention in Libya and we will
need a clear legal basis for any action.”  U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox , speaking on BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program, said a no-fly zone wouldn’t have to start
with air strikes.  “In Iraq that was not the way that we carried out the no-
fly zone,” Fox said. “Rather than taking out air defenses, you
can say that if your air-defense radar locks on to any of our
aircraft we regard that as a hostile act and we take subsequent
action.”  Bastian Giegerich, a consulting fellow at the London-based
 International Institute for Strategic Studies , said NATO and EU
leaders aren’t yet in a position to decide on military measures.  “We will see options by the end of this week -- but not
action,” Giegerich said in a telephone interview.  Russia,  China   The two veto-wielding members of the  UN Security Council 
are unlikely to back an air-exclusion zone, according to Svenja
Sinjen, security and defense expert at the German Council on
Foreign Relations in Berlin.  “Russia and China have many concerns,” Sinjen said in a
telephone interview.  The Obama administration has pushed back on more vocal
calls for the measure from members of Congress, including
Senators  John McCain  and  John Kerry . Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the UN must make the ultimate decision. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  has said that a successful campaign would
require attacking Libya’s air defenses and that a no-fly zone
would be complicated to enforce.  Still, U.S. forces would be required in any military
scenario overseen by NATO, according to the IISS’s Giegerich.  “France and the U.K. could take the lead on the political
level but I don’t think you can do this without the U.S.,” he
said.  Rasmussen expressed concern about the broader consequences
of a breakdown of the Libyan state.  There is the risk of division within the country and the
risk of seeing a failed state in the future that could be the
breeding ground of extremism and terrorism,” he told reporters.
“So obviously this is a matter of concern and the reason that
we strongly urge the government of Libya to stop violence to
allow a peaceful transition to democracy in the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Brussels at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  