-- 
New Zealand’s Rate Cut Hurts Currency as Investors Look for Higher Yields

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-10T04:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/new-zealand-lowers-key-rate-to-2-5-as-quake-hurts-growth-currency-drops.html
  New Zealand ’s central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate to a record low, reducing the
attractiveness of the nation’s assets as officials from Beijing
to London move to contain inflation by raising borrowing costs.  Governor Alan Bollard today lowered the official cash rate
half a percentage point to 2.5 percent and signaled no change
until next year, citing the economic damage of an earthquake in
Christchurch. Ten of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect rates are on hold until the first quarter next year.  New Zealand’s dollar, the worst-performing G-10 currency
this year, may fall further on concern the nation will slide
into a recession and the prospect that  Australia ,  Korea , the
euro area and the U.K. will raise rates this year. Bollard said
the economy may contract in the first quarter as the aftermath
of the magnitude 6.3 quake in the nation’s second-largest city
on Feb. 22 hurts consumer confidence and spending.  “The fact that absolute interest rates are 2.5 percent is
woeful” for the currency, said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research at TD Securities in  Singapore . “We don’t like
the kiwi. We pretty much have it lower because the economy is
underperforming.”  New Zealand’s currency has slumped 5.7 percent so far this
year, and fell as low as 73.36 U.S. cents after today’s rate
decision, the lowest since Oct. 1. It bought 73.58 cents at 5:44
p.m. in Wellington.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s reduction in the cash
rate was its first since April 2009, when the South Pacific
nation’s economy was emerging from a recession during the global
financial crisis.  Tightening Policy  The  Bank of Korea  today raised interest rates for the
second time this year after inflation exceeded its target
ceiling for two consecutive months. Eighteen of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect Australia will raise its
benchmark rate in the second quarter.    China  has raised rates three times since mid-October and a
Feb. 15 report showed the nation’s inflation exceeded the
government’s 2011 target for a fourth month, escalating pressure
on the central bank to keep increasing borrowing costs.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
last week he may raise borrowing costs from a record low after
inflation quickened above its limit to 2.4 percent.  Investors predict the  Bank of England  will boost borrowing
costs to 0.75 percent in June from 0.5 percent and to 1 percent
in October, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.  Relative Rates  When asked about the effects of his rate cut on the local
dollar, Bollard acknowledged that New Zealand’s interest rates
are low compared with the world’s major economies.  “It’s hard to say we’ve got high interest rates in New
Zealand now compared to the” countries in the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Bollard
said today during testimony to parliament’s select committee in
Wellington.  Still, Bollard’s pledge that the rate cut will be reversed
when post-earthquake construction begins to fuel economic growth
may slow the currency’s decline, Beacher said. “The Reserve
Bank has pretty much promised the next move is up, and that
might keep a floor under the currency for longer,” she said.  Last month’s temblor struck Christchurch at lunchtime,
wrecking buildings and forcing an evacuation of the central
business district. Output from the South Island city, which
makes up 15 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product, has
slowed as workers left the city and offices were abandoned.  Death Toll  More than 160 people died, making the quake the deadliest
since 256 died after a temblor struck the North Island city of
Napier in 1931.  “It is clear that economic activity, most certainly in
Christchurch but also nationwide, will be negatively impacted,”
Bollard said in Wellington earlier today. “Lowering the cash
rate should be regarded as an insurance measure, designed to
help offset the negative economic effects of the earthquake.”  The economy showed signs of slowing before the February
quake, with risks that the nation fell into a recession in the
second half of 2010. GDP contracted in the third quarter partly
because of a less damaging earthquake in Christchurch in
September, and Finance Minister Bill English said last month it
was possible it shrank in the three months ended Dec. 31.  “Even before the earthquake, GDP growth was much weaker
than expected,” Bollard said, citing weak retail sales,
declining housing investment and an early summer drought.  Recession Risk  GDP “held steady” in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the
quake likely reduced growth by 0.6 percentage point in the three
months through March, making it “quite possible” the economy
shrank, the central bank said.  The economy will grow an annual average of 0.9 percent in
the year ending March 31, less than the 1.7 percent forecast in
December, the central bank said. By March 2012, growth will have
improved to 2.7 percent, although that is slower than the 3.4
percent forecast in December.  Rebuilding damaged buildings and infrastructure in
Christchurch will boost growth in 2012 and 2013, Bollard said.
The cost of reconstruction will be NZ$15 billion ($11 billion),
he said.  “With interest rates being one of the main drivers for
G-10 foreign exchange at the moment, we expect that the kiwi
will remain under pressure,”  Win Thin , head of emerging-market
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York , said in a
research note. “It is clear that the RBNZ is likely to remain
one of the more dovish central banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  