-- 
NFL, Players Union Can't Bridge Impasse on Financial Data; Talks Continue

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-03-10T05:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/nfl-players-union-wants-team-by-team-financial-results-talks-continue.html
The  National Football League 
and its players union have yet to resolve a 2-year-old
impasse about financial transparency less than two days
before their labor deal is due to expire.  The NFL has failed to provide the union with audited
financial statements for the league and its 32 teams, union
president Kevin Mawae said. The request was made in a
letter, dated May 2009 and obtained by Bloomberg News, from
DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the NFL Players
Association, to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.  “Anybody that will report that we’ve gotten that
information and rejected it is simply not telling the
truth,” Mawae told reporters after leaving a mediation
session in Washington yesterday.  The sides are at loggerheads over how to divide $9
billion in revenue, the most for any sports league. Talks
under the guidance of a federal mediator are headed for a
15th day. Failure to agree on a new labor pact tomorrow may
lead to a shutdown of the most-watched U.S. sport a month
after the Super Bowl championship game drew the biggest
audience in U.S. television history.  The union has said it may abandon its role in the
negotiation, starting a process that would let individual
players file antitrust lawsuits against a shutdown of the
sport. The same tactic was used after a 1987 strike,
spawning about 20 lawsuits including one that helped create
free agency.  Record Audiences  A work stoppage would end 24 years of labor peace and
may empty stadiums financed with a combined $7 billion in
taxpayer money. It may also interrupt the schedules of the
largest U.S. broadcasters and leave fans without a sport
that, during the 2010 regular season, was watched by a
record 207.7 million people, according to Nielsen Co. data.  In his letter to Goodell, Smith asked for operating
income, operating expenses, profit from operations and net
income for the league and each of its teams. He also asked
to see cash and investment assets, along with dividends
paid to owners and their families.  It’s a request Smith has made repeatedly since owners
voted in 2008 to opt out of the deal, saying it didn’t
account for costs, such as those of building stadiums. The
league wants to double to $2 billion a year the amount of
revenue set aside for expenses before paying players,
according to the union.  Smith said owners haven’t provided evidence to justify
their demand.  ‘Utterly Meaningless’  The union’s investment bankers and advisers said the
information the league has offered to provide is “utterly
meaningless” in helping evaluate the league’s finances,
Smith said last night after nine hours of meetings.  “How much financial information would you want before
you were being asked to write a $5 billion check?” Smith
said to reporters. “The information that was offered was
not what we asked for.”  Jeff Pash, the league’s chief negotiator, said the NFL
has provided the union unprecedented access to its finances
during the talks.  “The players’ association has received more -- and
more detailed -- financial information than in any prior
negotiation,” Pash told reporters after leaving
yesterday’s meetings. “Has it gotten everything it wants?
Evidently not. Have we offered to provide more? Absolutely.
And is it a subject that we’re prepared to discuss?
Absolutely.”    Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, said collective bargaining often
includes disputes over financial information. The  United
Auto Workers , for example, asked  General Motors Co. (GM)  to show
proof it needed concessions from workers in the 1940s.  Public Sympathy  “The fact that the UAW president demanded it garnered
public sympathy, because he was essentially saying ‘you’re
simply being greedy,’” Shaiken said in a telephone
interview. “Americans tend to favor openness and fairness,
so the request simply for information tends to elicit a
positive response.”  Under the expiring agreement, about $1 billion is
deducted before player payrolls are calculated for costs
related to stadiums, marketing, NFL.com and the NFL
Network, Smith has said.  In addition to retaining a further $1 billion a year,
owners want to add two regular-season games, taking the
number to 18. The sides have agreed on a rookie pay scale,
Yahoo Sports reported yesterday, and another point of
contention is health benefits for current and retired
players.  Two Extensions  The league and players have twice extended the
existing deal in a bid to reach agreement on a new pact.  They opted for a weeklong extension three days after
U.S. District Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis  ruled that
the league improperly negotiated $4 billion in television
rights fees that owners might have tapped in a work
stoppage. Doty will consider damages in a yet-to-be-
scheduled hearing.  Doty, ruling on March 1, overturned an arbitrator’s
decision rejecting a union complaint that the NFL
improperly negotiated to receive broadcast rights fees from
its most-important television partners -- CBS Corp., News
Corp’s Fox, Comcast Corp.’s NBC, Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and
DirecTV -- even if a work stoppage cancels games in 2011.  Mawae said “there are many hurdles” still to
overcome in the talks and that his preference is that
another extension won’t be needed.  “We’re continuing to work on what we’re trying to get
accomplished,” he said. “Anything that works us further
and closer to getting a deal done is positive for us and
the players and, more specifically, the fans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  