-- 
Nigerian Rebel Leader Okah Condemns Refusal to Extradite Him Over Bombings

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-03-09T05:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/nigerian-rebel-leader-okah-condemns-refusal-to-extradite-him-over-bombings.html
Nigerian militant leader  Henry Okah ,
who is facing terrorism charges in South Africa, said Nigeria’s
government is refusing to seek his extradition because a trial
in his homeland may prove his innocence.  Okah, 45, is facing charges under South Africa’s terrorism
law for alleged involvement in car bombs on Oct. 1 in Abuja,
Nigeria’s capital, that killed 12 people close to where
President Goodluck Jonathan was celebrating the country’s 50
years of independence. South African law allows trials of
alleged terrorists arrested or resident in the country no matter
where their acts were committed.  “If I’m such a terrorist, as they say, why don’t they want
to try me in Nigeria?” Okah said in a March 6 phone interview
from a Johannesburg prison. “They’re using the South African
government to hold me and they’ve been successful in jailing me
without trial.”  Nigeria hasn’t requested Okah’s extradition, Justice
Ministry spokesman Ambrose Momoh said by phone on March 7 from
Abuja. He said he was “unaware” of any plans to seek a trial in
Nigeria “at the moment.” He declined further comment.  An extradition treaty  South Africa  and Nigeria signed in
2002 hasn’t entered into force, according to the  South African
Department of Justice . Okah’s application for bail has been
rejected by two South African courts and he is appealing against
the decisions.  “The Nigerian authorities indicated that they have no
intentions of extraditing Okah,” Mthunzi Mhaga, spokesman for
the South Africa’s National Prosecuting Authority, said in a
March 7 interview in Johannesburg.  Niger River Delta  The Abuja bombing was claimed by the Movement for the
Emancipation of the  Niger Delta , the main armed group in the
southern Niger River delta, which is home to the country’s oil
and gas industry. Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and
the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  Nigeria’s government accuses Okah of being the leader of
MEND, which says it’s fighting for a greater share of oil
revenue for the region.  Attacks in delta by armed groups including MEND cut more
than 28 percent of the West African nation’s oil output between
2006 and 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California ,  Total
SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the
nation’s oil.  Arms Trafficking  Okah, a South African resident, was first arrested in
Luanda, the Angolan capital, in 2007 on suspicion of arms
trafficking. He was later extradited to Nigeria, where he was
put on trial on 62 charges, including capital offenses of
treason and terrorism.  The Nigerian government freed Okah under an amnesty
initiated in August 2009 by former President Umaru Yar’Adua, and
he returned to South Africa. Jonathan succeeded Yar’Adua after
he died on May 5.  While Okah denies involvement in the Abuja blasts and of
being the leader of MEND, he says he commands the support of
many of the armed groups in  Nigeria ’s oil region.  “I’m not likely to get a fair trial under these
circumstances,” Okah said in the phone interview. He said he was
moved from a medium- to a maximum-security prison after mobile
phones were found in his cell last month. “I’m held in
punishment wing, the cell I’m in have no windows, no sunlight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg on 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 