-- 
Fish Tag Misfires With $26 Head Cheese-Stuffed Branzino: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/noisy-fish-tag-misfires-with-26-head-cheese-stuffed-branzino-ryan-sutton.html
Michael Psilakis was one of  New
York ’s most promising chefs. At Anthos, now closed, he ran the
city’s only Michelin-starred Greek restaurant.  Then he opened Fish Tag.  Got to feel bad for the Upper West Side, long in need of a
first-rate seafood spot. Psilakis is serving Greek fare that’s
often overwrought and unappetizing.  Reservationists might not answer your phone calls (how long
will it ring?) Entrees might follow appetizers by less than 30
seconds; tea might be served without spoons, napkins or sugar;
bartenders don’t always offer water; transferring tabs to your
table is frowned upon.  Low ceilings ensure ear-piercing sound levels.  Bread service is on request, so speak up or you’ll go
hungry waiting 20 minutes before eating anything, even though
your appetizer, smoked sablefish, requires no cooking.  The silken slices exude so much gorgeous oil it’s as if the
fish had been raised on omega-3 pills. Except that it’s paired
with olive-oiled bread. Do we really need more fat?  Anthos was known for such inspired pairings as raw tuna
with mastic. Here, we get Psilakis’s outtakes.  Yesterday’s Tide  Do not order mussels. You could be presented with a bowl of
bland shellfish in an under-salted lamb broth that looks like
dirty water.  With sea urchin, you need only cut open the spiny black
exterior and plop a spoon into the orange roe. It’s nature’s
soup bowl. Psilakis instead puts it in a stemmed glass and adds
enough ocean water to give the slippery creatures the look and
feel of something that came in with yesterday’s tide.  Fish Tag’s best fare is made elsewhere: Buttery smoked
pastrami salmon, an impressive cheese board (16 varieties, all
correctly served at room temperature) and a honey-chestnut
gelato whose complementing flavors distinguish it as the grown-
up ice cream of the year. It comes from  Il Laboratorio del
Gelato .  Yes, hunter-gatherer skills are essential for the 21st-
century restaurateur. Not every place can be, say, Blue Hill at
Stone Barns, which raises its own livestock and air dries its
own charcuterie.  The problem is that much of what Fish Tag chooses to do in
its own kitchen isn’t very good.  Flow Charts  Try to comprehend the  Venn diagram  of a menu. Mains and
starters are classified according to five overlapping groups of
hypothetical beverage pairings. A separate color-coding system -
- red for smaller plates, black for larger ones -- makes it even
more vexing (though on one visit I found a monochrome menu that
used underlining to indicate dish size).  The results are often amusing, sometimes ridiculous. Four
varieties of toast show up in four different spots on the menu.
Let me simplify matters: Try the salt cod and skordalia cheese
open-face sandwich. It’s a comforting, smoky riff on a tuna
melt. Avoid the crab bruschetta, which uses sour eggplant and
manouri cheese; the crustacean is all but virtually
undetectable.  Fish Tag has a habit of taking expensive proteins and
drowning them in a mash-up of ingredients. Are firm Ligurian
noodles really paired with short ribs? The menu says so, but I
couldn’t taste any beef amid the tomatoes and mozzarella.  Where’s the Shrimp?  Psilakis tops a giant smear of chili-spiked feta with
flavorless, undercooked prawns. “Wait, there were shrimp in
that?” a dining companion asked. My point exactly.  Chorizo overpowers an orzo-based paella, turning it into a
single-note dish. Swordfish and Greek sausage, a clever surf-
and-turf of oil and fat, needs something to cut the richness.
And so it gets a bulgur salad with a pucker-inducing dose of
lemon juice. The taste is straight out of a deli.  The same pickled vegetables that set the unctuous salmon in
lively high relief reappeared later to demolish our cheese
sampler.  And yet, is there better, moister branzino anywhere? Surely
not. Too bad it’s wrapped like a Yule log around head cheese so
gritty and cartilaginous it triggers the gag reflex.  Fish Tag isn’t the worst restaurant of the year, but it’s
certainly the most disappointing.  Every now and then the Psilakis splendor comes through.
Bone marrow with scallops, not a new pairing, works just as well
here as at fancier restaurants. Sturgeon with basil, and smoked
octopus with pickled mushrooms evoke the awesome Anthos era of
refinement and balance. More of these would serve Fish Tag and
its customers well.
Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost: All dishes $26 or under.  Sound Level: 80-85 decibels when full. Extremely loud.  Date Place: It’s a great, neutral breakup place.  Inside Tip: A lamb burger, doing its best impression of
kefta, stays moist even when well done.  Special Feature: Ask for the excellent rose water petits
fours.  Will I be back: Doubtful.  Fish Tag is at 222 W. 79th St. near Broadway. Information:
+1-212-362-7470;  http://www.fishtagrestaurant.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 