-- 
Nokia Siemens Postpones $1.2 Billion Motorola Deal Again

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-09T15:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/nokia-siemens-motorola-deal-won-t-close-in-first-quarter.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the network-
equipment joint venture between  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
delayed the closing of its $1.2 billion purchase of assets from
Motorola Solutions Inc. for a second time within three months.  The deal won’t be completed in the first quarter as the
Chinese government hasn’t given antitrust approval yet, the
company said today in a statement. The Chinese Ministry of
Commerce has extended its review period for another 60 days,
Motorola Solutions said in a separate statement.  Nokia Siemens said Dec. 28 that the closing would probably
occur in the first quarter after previously targeting a year-end
close. Nokia Siemens spokesman Ben Roome said the company needs
antitrust approval in each affected market and that it got all
other approvals by the end of 2010.    China  may be using Motorola as a leverage point in the
continuing controversy over the access of Chinese communications
equipment suppliers to the U.S.,” said Daniel Hays, a
Washington, D.C.-based partner with management consultants PRTM.  Huawei Technologies Co. said last month perceptions that
the Chinese phone-network equipment maker threatens U.S.
national security are unfounded. Huawei’s comments came a week
after the company withdrew its purchase of  Santa Clara ,
California-based 3Leaf Systems’ patents, in compliance with a
recommendation by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United States .  Failed Bids  Prior to 3Leaf, Huawei failed in bids to acquire companies
including 3Com Corp. in 2008 and 2Wire and Motorola’s wireless
business last year.  All the major telecommunications equipment providers do
some of their development and manufacturing in China, so access
restrictions on China-based companies are “somewhat
unjustified,” PRTM’s Hays said.  The purchase would buttress NSN’s position as the world’s
second-largest maker of wireless  network equipment . It would
bring more than 50 accounts at new or existing customers,
significantly expanding the company’s reach in the U.S. and
Japan, Nokia Siemens said when it announced the deal.  “When we look at the fourth-quarter market numbers for the
networks business in general, including Huawei, Ericsson et
cetera, there was more growth than we expected,” Nokia Chief
Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila said at a UBS conference
today. “We really want to provide the NSN management the best
possible room to execute their focused strategy, which I think
they are executing well.”  Market Share  Nokia rose as much as 3.1 percent to 6.245 euros in
Helsinki trading and was up 2.2 percent as of 5:20 p.m. Siemens
dropped 0.2 percent in Frankfurt trading.  Concluding the Motorola deal may require concessions on
either the U.S. or Chinese side, PRTM’s Hays said.  “It’s highly likely the deal will proceed and at worst NSN
could be forced to give up the Motorola business in China which
is probably a relatively small part of overall revenue,” he
said.  The purchase is now in the third phase of the review by the
anti-monopoly bureau at China’s Ministry of Commerce,  Nokia
Siemens  said in the statement without specifying when the deal
may now be completed.  “It is negative as Nokia will not be able to start reaping
synergies before the transaction has been closed,” said Sami Sarkamies, a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank. Delays are
likely to hurt the Motorola unit’s ability to get new sales, he
said.  Ericsson AB was the biggest wireless equipment provider in
the fourth quarter with a market share of 36.9 percent, compared
with 21.4 percent for Nokia Siemens Networks in second place,
according to figures from Dell’Oro Group cited by Nokia Siemens.
Huawei Technologies Co.’s share was 17.9 percent and Motorola’s
was 2.6 percent, according to the figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.ne  