-- 
Novatek Will Lead Gazprom in Putin's LNG Push After $4 Billion Total Deal

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-03-09T21:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/novatek-to-lead-gazprom-in-putin-s-lng-push-after-total-deal.html
OAO Novatek will challenge OAO
Gazprom’s dominance in foreign markets after agreeing with  Total
SA (FP)  to build an Arctic gas-export plant.  Novatek’s $20 billion development in the Yamal region is
slated to be Russia’s largest plant for shipboard gas within
seven years, starting earlier than Gazprom’s flagship Shtokman
project. Yamal LNG got a boost last week when  France ’s Total
agreed to take a 20 percent holding as well as to buy a $4
billion stake in Novatek.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who wants Russia to export
10 percent of its gas as LNG by 2020, blessed Novatek’s plans at
a ceremony near Moscow last week, calling it a “good and large-
scale work.” Gazprom has delayed decisions on expanding
Russia’s only LNG facility, the Sakhalin-2 project with Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, and developing the Shtokman field on the
Barents Sea.  “Novatek’s project is now Russia’s primary LNG project
outside of Sakhalin,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
UralSib Financial Corp. “Total’s strategic partnership with
Novatek is an acknowledgement that Shtokman is on a much slower
development path with an unpredictable future.”  Total has criticized delays at Shtokman, in which it has a
25 percent stake. In June, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie urged Putin to keep the project on track and said
Novatek CEO Leonid Mikhelson pledged faster progress on Yamal
LNG.  Tax Breaks  Putin has pledged tax breaks for Novatek’s project. The
proposal would exempt the first 250 billion cubic meters of
natural gas and 20 million metric tons of condensate from the
extraction tax. Gazprom hasn’t yet secured tax holidays for
Shtokman.  The French explorer sees no conflict between the two
projects and is trying to handle them in the best way possible,
de Margerie said March 2 after the signing ceremony.  All of Yamal LNG’s planned output will “easily” find
demand as it targets  Europe ,  Asia  and North America, Mikhelson
said. Yamal LNG plans to produce 5 million metric tons of fuel a
year for export in 2016, ramping up to a total 15 million tons a
year by 2018 from three production units, or trains, according
to documents distributed to reporters March 2.  Novatek has secured an agreement from Gazprom, which holds
a 10 percent stake in the smaller gas producer, to export LNG
from Yamal and sell the fuel as an agent.  ‘Strong Foothold’  “The government has a much better chance of establishing a
strong foothold in the global LNG business with Novatek’s LNG
project than waiting for Shtokman,” Weafer said. Shtokman is
located about 600 kilometers (373 miles) from Russia’s  Barents
Sea  coast in stormy, iceberg-ridden waters.  Gazprom is likely to concentrate on pipeline gas to Europe
and building a link to  China , Weafer said.  Novatek used nuclear icebreakers to send a cargo of gas
condensate from the Arctic to China last year as it weighs the
costs of Asian exports. Novatek plans another trial run this
year, Mikhelson said.  “There is an emerging possibility that Novatek could
become a de facto competitor to Gazprom - if a small one which
plays only in LNG,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at Eurasia Group,
said in a note.  Gazprom, Total and their third partner, Statoil ASA, are
considering an LNG plant with an annual capacity of 7.5 million
tons for the Shtokman field. The start of gas output has been
delayed by three years to 2016, with LNG a year later. Russia
may push the project back further, to 2018, Pyotr Sadovnik,
deputy head of the subsoil resources, said on Feb. 17.  Japanese Partners  The gas producer is also considering building an LNG plant
in Vladivostok with Japanese partners.  Shtokman had planned to ship as much as 90 percent of the
LNG it would produce to  North America , where demand for imported
gas fell last year during the financial crisis and as domestic
shale-gas output surged.  Shtokman may postpone an  investment decision  on initial gas
output beyond a planned March deadline, while seeking tax
incentives, Andre Goffart, vice president of Shtokman
Development AG, said on Feb. 17.  “Gazprom will probably shift its priority to the on-shore
Yamal gas deposits,” Weafer said.  Gazprom plans to produce at least 310 billion cubic meters
a year on the Yamal Peninsula in 2030 and build a pipeline with
capacity of more than 300 billion cubic meters a year, according
to its website. That compares with Russia’s output of 650
billion cubic meters last year. The largest field, Bovanenkovo,
will cost about 600 billion rubles ($21 billion) to develop, the
company has said.  Gazprom is likely to bring foreign partners, such as Shell,
into the Yamal region as  Russia  makes Arctic resources a
priority, Weafer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  