-- 
Obama Set to Announce Pick of Locke Today as China Envoy

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-09T15:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/obama-said-to-announce-choice-of-locke-today-as-u-s-ambassador-to-china.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
announce today he is nominating Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to
be the next U.S. ambassador to China, replacing Jon Huntsman, an
administration official said.  The president is scheduled to make the announcement at
10:50 a.m. at the White House, according to a White House
statement.  Locke, 61, would be the first Chinese-American to be the
top U.S. envoy to a country that is a linchpin in Obama’s trade
policy.  China’s economy  passed Japan’s to become the world’s
second-largest last year, and the Asian nation is the second-
biggest U.S. trading partner after  Canada .  A former two-term governor of  Washington , Locke has led
annual trade talks between the U.S. and  China . Locke’s Commerce
Department reported a $273.1 billion trade deficit with China
last year, a 20.4 percent increase from 2009 and the biggest
U.S. bilateral trade gap.  Obama regularly cites China as a top economic rival to the
U.S., and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton warned Congress
last week that the two countries are in a “competition for
influence” around the world.  China has expanded its global presence as it searches for
commodities to fuel its economy. In response, Obama has traveled
to countries such as  India  and Indonesia and met with the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations to boost trade. As
commerce secretary, Locke has been central to Obama’s drive to
double U.S. exports to $3.1 trillion by 2014 from $1.6 trillion
in 2009.  Economic Relationship  The economic relationship between China and the U.S.,
marked by $457 billion in annual trade, is complicated by
disagreements on issues as varied as human rights, China’s
enforcement of intellectual property laws and what Obama
officials say is the artificially low value of China’s currency.  The yuan slipped 0.06 percent to 6.5721 per dollar as of
the 4.30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , after weakening 0.08 percent
yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It touched 6.5628 on March 7, the strongest level since China
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  At the last round of the annual trade talks, held in
Washington in December, China agreed to curtail the use of
pirated software by the government and state-owned enterprises
that were hurting sales by U.S. companies such as Redmond,
Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Huntsman, 50, announced in January that he was resigning
effective April 30. His decision has led to speculation that the
former governor of  Utah  may be considering a bid for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 Rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  