-- 
Obama Chooses Locke to Be Next U.S. Ambassador to China

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-09T18:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/obama-to-nominate-commerce-chief-locke-for-next-u-s-ambassador-to-china.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
nominate Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to be the next U.S.
ambassador to China, putting him at the forefront of managing
one of the nation’s “most critical” relationships.  As commerce secretary, Locke has helped increase U.S.
exports and “earned the trust of business leaders across
America,” Obama said at the White House today. “When he’s in
Beijing, I know that American companies will be able to count on
him to represent their interests in front of China’s top
leaders.”  Locke, the first of Obama’s Cabinet secretaries to leave
his post, said he will return to the birthplace of his
grandfather, father and mother and to be a “devoted and
passionate advocate for America.”  He would replace Jon Huntsman, 50, who announced in January
that he was resigning effective April 30. White House press
secretary Jay Carney said no timetable has been set for naming
Locke’s replacement at commerce.  Locke, 61, whose nomination is subject to confirmation by
the Senate, would be the first Chinese-American to be the top
U.S. envoy to a country that is a linchpin in Obama’s trade
policy.  China ’s economy passed Japan’s to become the world’s
second-largest last year, and the Asian nation is the second-
biggest U.S. trading partner after  Canada .  A former two-term governor of Washington, Locke has led
annual trade talks between the U.S. and China. Locke’s Commerce
Department reported a $273.1 billion trade deficit with China
last year, a 20.4 percent increase from 2009 and the biggest
U.S. bilateral trade gap.  Economic Rival  Obama regularly cites China as a top economic rival to the
U.S., and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told Congress last
week that the two countries are in a “competition for
influence” around the world. In his remarks today, Obama called
the U.S. relationship with China “one of the most critical of
the 21st century.”  China has expanded its global presence as it searches for
commodities to fuel its economy. In response, Obama has traveled
to countries such as  India  and  Indonesia  and met with the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  to boost trade. As
commerce secretary, Locke has been central to Obama’s drive to
double U.S. exports to $3.1 trillion by 2014 from $1.6 trillion
in 2009.  Locke said he was eager to “manage one of America’s most
critical and complex diplomatic, economic, and strategic
relationships.”  Complicated Relationship  The economic relationship between China and the U.S.,
marked by $457 billion in annual trade, is complicated by
disagreements on issues as varied as human rights, China’s
enforcement of intellectual property laws and what Obama
officials say is the artificially low value of China’s currency.  The yuan slipped 0.06 percent to 6.5721 per dollar as of
the 4.30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , after weakening 0.08 percent
yesterday, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It touched 6.5628 on March 7, the strongest level since China
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  At the last round of the annual trade talks, held in
Washington in December, China agreed to curtail the use of
pirated software by the government and state-owned enterprises
that were hurting sales by U.S. companies such as Redmond,
Washington-based  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Locke is popular in China, thanks to his long relationship
with the country as a governor and as commerce secretary and his
visits there. On a trip last October to open a Sam’s Club
warehouse store in  Guangdong province , he was rushed by so many
fans that Huntsman, who was accompanying him, compared Locke’s
air of celebrity to that of the rock star Bono, of the group U2.  Business Reaction    Muhtar Kent , chief executive officer of Atlanta-based Coca-
Cola Co. and chairman of the U.S.-China Business Council, said
in a statement that Locke’s recent successes in strengthening
commercial relationships “makes him ideally suited to be a
strong and effective ambassador to China.”  Citing the “rampant piracy in China” Locke and others in
the Obama administration have “succeeded in elevating the use
of illegal software and other intellectual property concerns to
the top of the bilateral economic agenda,” Robert Holleyman,
president and chief executive of the  Business Software Alliance ,
said in a statement circulated by the White House.  Locke’s grandfather immigrated more than a century ago to  Washington  state from Guangdong province, working as a servant
in exchange for English lessons. Both of his parents were also
born in China and Locke spoke Taishanese, a Chinese dialect, at
home in  Seattle . He didn’t begin English lessons until he went
to preschool.  When Locke was 10, his family took him to see his
grandmother, who had fled China and lived in a Hong Kong refugee
camp. The family’s plan to leave him with his grandmother was
abandoned when he became homesick and persuaded his parents to
bring him back to the U.S., he said in an interview last year.  Huntsman’s resignation has led to speculation that the
former governor of  Utah  may be considering a bid for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  