-- 
Obama Said to Consider Ex-Pfizer CEO, Google’s Schmidt for Commerce Chief

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/obama-said-to-consider-ex-pfizer-ceo-google-s-schmidt-for-commerce-chief.html
President  Barack Obama  may look to
the business community for his next secretary of Commerce with
former  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Kindler and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  CEO  Eric Schmidt  among potential candidates,
according to a person familiar with the process.  Ron Kirk, who has had a leading role in pressing the
administration’s trade agenda as U.S. trade representative, also
is a contender for the job, according to another person. Both
spoke on condition of anonymity because the search is in
preliminary stages.  The post is coming open because the president said
yesterday that he is nominating the current secretary, Gary Locke, to be the U.S. ambassador to China. Locke would replace
Jon Huntsman, whose resignation is effective April 30.  Administration officials yesterday refused to comment on a
possible successor to Locke.  “The president will consider a range of qualified
candidates, but we are at a very early stage in the process and
no decisions have been made,” said  Jen Psaki , an administration
spokeswoman.  As top jobs have opened up in the second half of his term,
Obama has considered candidates from outside politics and
academia. His new chief of staff,  William Daley , was an
executive at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  before joining the
administration in January.  Business Relations  Obama’s aides have been seeking to counter criticism from
some corporate leaders over administration policies on
regulation and health care. On Dec. 15, after a 4 1/2-hour
meeting with 20 company executives, Obama said they were making
“good progress” on establishing closer cooperation between
government and business.  Presidents often have looked to the ranks of corporate
executives for the Commerce Department post. Daley held the job
in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration. Obama’s White House
predecessor,  George W. Bush , had as his Commerce secretaries
Carlos Gutierrez, the former CEO of Kellogg Co., and Donald Evans, former CEO of oil exploration company Tom Brown Inc.  With an executive “you get the management experience, and
you get an understanding of a large complex organization that is
active globally,” said  Meredith Broadbent , a senior adviser at
the Washington-based  Center for Strategic and International
Studies .  Still, an inside candidate has advantages, she said.  “Kirk would bring an understanding of the U.S. negotiating
agenda and what needs to be accomplished in Geneva in the Doha
rounds and in the  Trans-Pacific Partnership  negotiations,”
Broadbent said.  Confirmation Process  A nominee from the business community likely would face
scrutiny about corporate practices during Senate confirmation
hearings, possibly drawing out the process. Kirk, by contrast,
has already been vetted by the administration and was confirmed
by the Senate for his current job.  Kirk, 54, a former Dallas mayor and partner at the Houston-
based law firm Vinson & Elkins LLP, declined to comment on his
prospects of getting the Commerce job. “I just don’t want to
get involved with hypotheticals,” he said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “I am privileged to serve the president
as his trade ambassador.”  Kindler didn’t return two messages left at his home. A
Google spokeswoman declined to comment.  Export Initiative  The next Commerce secretary will have a significant role in
Obama’s  National Export Initiative  to double U.S. exports to
$3.1 trillion within five years. In announcing Locke’s
nomination as the top U.S. diplomat in  China , Obama signaled his
priorities for the job Locke is leaving.  “He’s overseen an increase in American exports, and
particularly exports to China,” Obama said of Locke at the
White House. He also “earned the trust of business leaders
across America.”  Kindler, 55, was CEO of New York-based Pfizer, the world’s
largest drugmaker, for four years before stepping down in
December. He also was part of a presidential advisory board on
increasing U.S. exports that Obama named last July.  Schmidt, 55, announced in January that he plans to step
down as Google CEO in April and become executive chairman. He
led the  Mountain View , California-based company for 10 years.  Schmidt gave $25,000 to Obama’s inaugural committee, and he
has regularly consulted with the president on economic matters.
That includes a December meeting with 20 executives in  Washington  and a smaller dinner with a dozen leaders of the
technology industry last month at the California home of venture
capitalist  John Doerr .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  