-- 
Ofcom Wants Review Changes to Tackle Media Power Dominance

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-03-09T16:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ofcom-wants-review-changes-to-tackle-media-power-dominance-1-.html
U.K. media regulator Ofcom said it
has reservations about the risk of future concentration of power
in media, after it cleared Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
proposed takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Corp.’s offer to spin off Sky News, BSkyB’s 24-hour
news channel, is a “credible solution,” Ofcom Chief Executive
Officer Ed Richards said in an e-mailed statement today. At the
same time, the U.K. needs a mechanism to review market changes
at any time, not only when an acquisition occurs, he said.  “The plurality regime as it currently stands is deficient
because it fails to provide protections from developments such
as organic growth in market shares or market exit,” Richards
said in a speech at Cambridge University.  News Corp. last week won government approval for its
takeover plan as it sought to avoid a long antitrust review of
the deal. U.K. Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt is now consulting
on the proposed remedy until March 21.  Ofcom said remedies including forced divestments could be
imposed if insufficient plurality was found.  The company, which owns four of the largest newspapers in
the U.K., including the Times and the Sun, would hold 39.1
percent of Sky News and be barred from raising its stake without
government approval for 10 years.  A group of U.K. media companies, including BT Group Plc,
Guardian Media Group Plc, Associated Newspapers Ltd., Trinity
Mirror Plc, Northcliffe Media Ltd. and Telegraph Media Group,
said last week that they may challenge Hunt’s decision.  The group questioned the independence Sky News would have
under the structure being proposed by News Corp.  -- Editors: Simon Thiel, Robert Valpuesta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  