-- 
Loomis Sayles Cuts U.S. Growth Forecast as Unrest Drives Oil Prices Higher

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-09T05:47:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/oil-prices-likely-to-damp-u-s-spending-loomis-s-rolley-says.html
Rising oil prices are likely to damp  consumer spending  in the U.S. over the next few months, trimming
prospects for the nation’s economic expansion, according to
Loomis Sayles & Co.  As the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation, the U.S. is
“oil sensitive,”  David Rolley , who helps manage $152 billion
as a portfolio manager at Loomis, said at a conference in Sydney
today. The Boston-based firm lowered its forecast for U.S. gross
domestic product to 3.1 percent in 2011 due to the oil-price
surge, after increasing it to 3.5 percent in January, he said.  Crude oil reached a 29-month high in  New York  on March 7 as
violence in Libya, Africa’s third-largest crude producer, and
anti-government demonstrations in the Middle East fueled
concerns that supplies will be disrupted. Kuwait’s oil minister
said yesterday members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries are discussing whether to convene an “urgent
meeting.”  For Americans, higher  oil prices  “mean there is going to
be less money to spend on anything else,” Rolley said. “Don’t
be surprised if in the next couple of months, you see some very
soft retail sales numbers.”  Consumers’ response to costlier gasoline is pivotal because
they account for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy  and feel
oil-market disruptions with every fill-up. At $3.52 a gallon on
March 7 in a survey by Heathrow, Florida-based motorist group
AAA, the average U.S. retail price for regular unleaded gasoline
has risen about 14 percent this year.  ‘Sustainable Shock’  Crude for April delivery was at $104.26 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as of
3:41 p.m. in Sydney. It ended at $105.44 on March 7, the highest
settlement since Sept. 26, 2008.  Loss of supply in  Libya , hoarding and an additional risk
premium due to the unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
will likely add $15 to $20 to the price of oil in a
“sustainable shock,” Rolley said.  The U.S. economy is forecast to grow 3.2 percent this year,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  U.S. retail sales probably climbed 1 percent in February,
the most in four months, economists predicted before a March 11
Commerce Department report. The figures aren’t adjusted for
changes in prices.  The Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of  consumer confidence  eased in March, according to economists’
forecasts before a report due the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 