-- 
Oil Tanker Rates Doubling on Lower Speeds, Libya Uprising: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-09T16:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/oil-tanker-rates-doubling-on-lower-speeds-libya-uprising-freight-markets.html
Supertanker owners are coping with
the second-highest fuel costs on record by sailing ships at the
slowest speeds in at least three years, reducing vessel supply
and bolstering charter rates.  The carriers, each bigger than the Chrysler Building, moved
at an average of 10.7 knots last month, about a knot slower than
a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The drop
cuts the fleet’s capacity by 9 percent, according to Pareto
Securities AS, an Oslo-based investment bank. Frontline Ltd.,
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  and
Euronav NV, which control 16 percent of all supertankers, told
investors in recent weeks they are cutting speeds.  The combination of what the industry calls ultra-slow
steaming and violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-biggest oil
producer, more than doubled daily returns for owners to $32,089
since the end of February, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange, which assesses more than 50 maritime routes. Traders
of forward freight agreements, used to bet on or hedge shipping
costs, anticipate the gains will last, with second-quarter
contracts at $28,894.  “Whoever says it’s not positive is on the wrong side of
the trade,” said Doug Mavrinac, the analyst at Jefferies & Co.
in Houston who correctly predicted a rally in charter costs in
2009. “When ships are going slow you need additional ships. It
does essentially absorb excess fleet capacity.”  Fuel prices more than doubled in the past two years and
surged 16 percent in six weeks as fighting in  Libya  disrupted
oil supplies. The extra costs diminish returns for an industry
already facing an estimated 6.8 percent gain in fleet capacity
this year, compared with a 2.2 percent increase in demand,
according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Empty Supertanker  An empty supertanker burns about 90 metric tons of fuel,
known as bunkers, a day when traveling at 14 knots, according to
Riverlake Shipping SA, a broker in Geneva. Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Frontline, the world’s biggest supertanker operator, can
cut that to about 25 tons when sailing at 10 knots on the empty
leg of a journey, said Jens Martin Jensen, chief executive
officer of the company’s management unit in  Singapore . That
means saving about $42,000 a day at the global average price.  “If I was a ship owner, I would be bending over backwards
to operate at the slowest speed I could get away with,” said
Martin Stopford, the London-based managing director of
Clarkson’s research unit. “With today’s bunker prices, slowing
down is going to be very high on their agenda.”  Freight Agreements  Forward freight agreements on the industry’s benchmark
Saudi Arabia-to-Japan route gained because of the prospect of
slower speeds and the possibility the Middle East nation will
ship more oil to replace Libyan barrels, said Will Leslie, head
of tanker derivatives at broker ACM-GFI in London.  Fuel cost 61 percent of rental income on the Persian Gulf-
to-Japan route since the start of the year, heading for the
second-highest quarterly average since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 2002. The average over nine years is about 35
percent, the data show.  The incentive to slow down the fleet of 537 vessels is the
greatest since the late 1980s, when charter rates had plunged
and fuel costs surged, said Mark Jenkins, the London-based
director of research at Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., the
world’s second-largest shipbroker.  Owners are mostly decelerating on the so-called ballasting
leg of journeys, when they’re sailing empty, said Martin Korsvold, a Pareto analyst. Now shipping lines are seeking
accords to do the same when vessels are full, he said.  Fewer Deliveries  The slowdown doesn’t mean fewer deliveries. There are about
10 percent more supertankers available in the Persian Gulf
region than estimated cargoes, according to Bloomberg’s weekly
survey of brokers and owners. Nor does it mean a slowing global
economy. World oil demand will expand 1.7 percent this year, the
Paris-based International Energy Agency estimates.  As the cost of cargoes rises, so does the fuel to ship it.
Crude was at $105.21 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  by 11:15 a.m. local time, from $84.32 on Feb. 15. No
monthly contract on the bourse through December 2019 costs less
than $100.  Crude output is lower in Libya and there have been riots in
Bahrain, Oman and Yemen, all neighbors of  Saudi Arabia , the
second-biggest producer behind  Russia .  Owners reduce their fuel bills “exponentially” by slowing
and they need to spend about $100,000 modifying each engine to
do so, said Hugo de Stoop, chief financial officer of Antwerp,
Belgium-based Euronav. The company’s vessels, each capable of
carrying about 2 million barrels of oil, are part of the world’s
biggest pool of supertankers, operated by Tankers International.
Overseas Shipholding is also a member.  Fuel Bills  Ship owners are seeking alternatives to cut fuel bills.
Akzo Nobel NV, the world’s biggest paintmaker, said last month
that it developed a hull coating that can cut a supertanker’s
fuel consumption by more than 10 percent. The paint is being
used on more than 400 ships in the global fleet of 70,000, said
John Wilshire, marine manager at International Paint, the Akzo
Nobel unit that sells the product.  The industry is also considering alternative energy
sources. Liquefied natural gas will become the dominant merchant
fleet fuel within 40 years because of tighter emissions laws,
according to Det Norsk Veritas, a Hoevik, Norway-based company
that inspects and classifies ships.  Nuclear power may be used to propel 10 percent of merchant
vessels within 15 years, Lloyd’s Register, a London-based ship
classifier, said in November. The carriers would need refueling
about every five to seven years.  Ship Kites  SkySails GmbH & Co. , a Hamburg-based company, created a
sailing system for ships that can cut fuel use by as much as 35
percent. The 320 square meter (3,400 square foot) kite, already
being used on four vessels, will be deployed on the largest ship
so far next year, a carrier with a capacity of about 30,000
deadweight tons. Supertankers are about 10 times bigger.  Cutting speeds may curb or eliminate losses in a market
where returns for shipowners in the spot, or single voyage,
market today rose above the $30,100 a day Frontline says it
needs to break even on each of its supertankers for the first
time since Feb. 21. Carriers also hire out vessels at fixed
rates for longer periods.  Frontline will report a profit of 0.1 cent a share for this
quarter, compared with a loss of 15 cents in the final three
months of 2010, based on the mean of nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas Shipholding will narrow its
first-quarter loss to $1.46 a share from $1.83 a share in the
previous three months, the mean of seven estimates shows.  The six-member Bloomberg Tanker Index rose 0.3 percent this
year, compared with a 4.6 percent advance in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  “We haven’t lived in this sort of high bunker price world
for an extended period of time ever,” Morten Arntzen, chief
executive officer of New York-based Overseas Shipholding, said
on a conference call Feb. 28. “People are now experimenting
with lower speeds and realizing that it works and not only does
it work, it puts money in their pocket.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net . 