-- 
Oil Above $100 Fattens Budgets in Texas, Louisiana, Alaska by $800 Million

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/oil-jump-upsets-at-pumps-helps-states-led-by-texas-plug-holes.html
  Texas ’s Eagle Ford oil field on the
southern prairie is boosting energy  tax revenue  in the biggest
 oil-producing  U.S. state, generating $40 million in receipts
last year.  “This is a great addition to the state’s reserves,” said
Dominique Halaby, who directs the  University of Texas  at  San
Antonio ’s Community and Business Research Center and who has
studied the field’s economic effects. It may yield another $800
million in state receipts, he said. “It’s a game-changer.”  As crude prices have surpassed $100 a barrel since turmoil
in North Africa began toppling governments, U.S. states led by
Texas, Alaska,  North Dakota  and Louisiana have gained from
energy taxes that are tied to market prices. In Texas, that may
provide relief for a deficit of as much as $27 billion. Oil
futures touched $106.95 a barrel March 7 in  New York .  “When you see $100-a-barrel oil, it will really create
some upside for Texas,” said John Hallacy, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch manager of municipal research in New York. “It
can bring in new revenue.”  In Cotulla, a ranching town of about 4,000 people 90 miles
(145 kilometers) south of San Antonio, trailer parks are full
and campers have taken up every available space and vacant lot,
said Bill Cotulla, 74, a native of the town named for his great
grandfather. Oil workers compete for counter space and tables
when he goes for lunch at one of the town’s restaurants, such as
JJ’s Country Store, Cotulla said.  Crowded Out  “If you want to get a seat in the restaurant, you go at 11
instead of 12,” said Cotulla, whose 145-year-old ranch house
has three-foot-thick walls built to withstand Indian attacks. In
a report last month, Halaby said the Eagle Ford field supported
about 12,600 jobs in the area last year and produced almost $48
million in local-government revenue.  “The Texas economy is benefitting from higher  oil
prices ,” said Mine Yucel, a senior economist at the Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas and co-author of a forthcoming report on
the energy industry’s local effects. “There’s more jobs and
more demand for services.”  Texas Comptroller Susan Combs, in a January revenue
forecast, said her estimate of $72.2 billion for the 2012-2013
fiscal biennium, which begins Sept. 1, assumes stable crude-oil
and natural-gas prices. She projected a  reserve fund  fed by
energy receipts would reach $9.4 billion by August 2013, based
on $80-a-barrel crude. Crude futures, up 66 percent from a 2010
low of $64.24, have averaged almost $92 a barrel this year.  Reserve Draw Down  The fund may be drawn down by as much as $4.3 billion to
close a current-year deficit under a proposal pending in the  House of Representatives  from Jim Pitts, a Republican from
Waxahachie who heads the appropriations committee. Pitts said
March 7 that about 90  House Republicans  favor his bill. The
state also faces a projected deficit of between $15 billion and
$27 billion in the two fiscal years that begin in September.  Neighboring  Louisiana , the fifth-largest U.S. oil producer,
also may benefit from higher production-tax revenue, said Greg
Albrecht, chief economist in the  Legislative Fiscal Office . Yet
the increase won’t cover a deficit projected at $1.6 billion in
fiscal 2012, he said.  Each $1 increase in the price of a barrel of oil for a year
yields $12 million in tax revenue for Louisiana, Albrecht said.
However, a drop in natural-gas prices and taxable production has
more than offset oil revenue gains, he said. Natural-gas futures
touched $4.87 per British thermal unit in New York Jan. 24
before falling to a 15-week low of $3.73 per Btu on March 4. The
most-active contract ended yesterday at about $3.86 per Btu.  Still Not Enough  “With the increase in crude oil, things are looking
better, but so many other things are offsetting it that you
can’t see it,” Albrecht said. “Even if we get another $100
million, it isn’t going to solve Louisiana’s budget problem.”    California , the state with the biggest population and the
third-largest U.S. oil producer, doesn’t tax energy production.  In  Oklahoma , the sixth-largest U.S. producer, current
fiscal-year revenue from energy-extraction taxes was up 12
percent through February compared with a year earlier.    Alaska , the second-largest U.S. oil producer, gets about 87
percent of its general-fund revenue from energy-extraction
taxes. The Revenue Department projected receipts to reach about
$4.7 billion this year on Nov. 26, basing the estimate on an
average oil price of about $78 a barrel.  Since then, a rebellion in  Libya , with the world’s ninth-
largest crude reserves, sent Alaska North Slope oil spot prices
up 43 percent to a high of $118.05 a barrel March 7. It averaged
 $92.56  in January, the highest level since February 2008.  Revenue Gain  North Dakota, the fourth-largest producer, will get
$181,000 in additional daily revenue from each $5 increase in
the price of oil, based on January’s output levels, said Cory Fong, the state’s tax commissioner.  “It’s not all good news because our agriculture producers
have to pay higher prices for fuel and fertilizer,” Fong said.
“It’s good news for state revenue but bad news for most of the
people in the state.”  While the gains will help ease financial pressures on
energy producers, it won’t cure underlying fiscal ills, oil-
state officials and economists said. A sustained period of
relatively high crude prices also may cut consumer spending and
employment, offsetting gains from taxes on energy production.  “We don’t celebrate when gasoline prices are $4 and $5 a
gallon,” said Alaska Governor Sean Parnell, a Republican, in an
interview last month in  Washington .  Consumer Reaction  Oil at more than $100 a barrel for a sustained period will
push up fuel costs to the point where consumers will cut back
spending and that may erode U.S. gross domestic product,
researchers at IHS Global Insight said in a  Feb. 24 report .  A 30 percent increase in the price of gasoline to $3.60 a
gallon may trigger reduced consumption, Natalie Cohen, a Wells
Fargo Securities analyst in New York, said yesterday by e-mail.  “A reduction in vehicle miles driven could have
consequences for gas-tax bonds and toll roads and put additional
strain on municipal budgets that use the gas tax for road
construction and repair,” Cohen said.  A rise in North Sea Brent crude of $15 a barrel for a year
may cut U.S. GDP growth by 0.3 percentage point, Lexington,
Massachusetts-based IHS said. Brent futures closed at $113.06
yesterday in  London , after averaging about $84 in 2010.  “With the current prices, we would be looking at a surplus
and good cash flows,” said Jerry Burnett, an Alaska Revenue
Department deputy commissioner. “It’s definitely good for our
budget, but it’s not good for our citizens. We are concerned
about people having to pay more at the pump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 