-- 
Tokyo Exchange Plans to Merge With Osaka Securities Amid Global Takeovers

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a ,   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 
2011-03-10T11:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/tokyo-exchange-plans-merger-talks-with-osaka-president-says.html
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc.,
which runs the world’s second-largest equity market, plans to
hold merger discussions with  Osaka  Securities Exchange Co. as
takeovers sweep exchanges around the world.  The 133-year-old exchange, home to Sony Corp. and Toyota
Motor Corp., is interested in acquiring its Osaka rival, which
operates a derivatives trading system with Nikkei 225 Stock
Average futures, President  Atsushi Saito  said in an interview
today. Osaka Exchange president Michio Yoneda said the bourse
was prepared to finalized a deal within in three months if it is
to happen, a spokesman for that bourse said. The Tokyo Stock
Exchange will also start preparing an initial share sale after
reporting its earnings for the period ending March, Saito said.  Trading volume and the number of listed companies at the
Tokyo Stock Exchange declined in 2010, while trading of
derivatives expanded faster in Asia than anywhere else. The
merger between Japan’s two largest bourses would be the latest
in a cascade of planned exchange tie-ups totaling more than $21
billion since October, including  Deutsche Boerse ’s agreement
last month to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  to create the world’s largest
exchange operator.  “The merger between the Tokyo and Osaka exchanges is an
inevitable part of the process of globalization,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “It will be tough for the
Tokyo Stock Exchange to take the initiative and proceed given
how they’re behind the curve.”  Derivatives Trading  “We’re looking at this very positively, but we haven’t
started talks,” said Saito, a former Nomura Holdings Inc.
executive. “We’ve made absolutely no decisions on timing.”  The Tokyo bourse sent a statement that no decision has been
made on a merger, responding to an earlier Nikkei newspaper
report. The Osaka exchange, which also operates the Jasdaq
Securities Exchange, issued a statement saying there was no
truth to the report. Shares in Osaka Exchange climbed as much as
12 percent before closing 6.9 higher at 460,000 yen, giving the
company a market capitalization of 124.2 billion yen ($1.5
billion).  “President Yoneda said: ‘If we’re going to do it, we’re
prepared to lock the deal in three months,’ but, the official
comment as Osaka Securities Exchange is still there is no
truth,’’ Masahiro Yada, a spokesman for the Osaka exchange said.  Kyodo News  earlier quoted Yoneda as saying he expected a merger
agreement could be reached within three months.  ‘Strong Domestic Exchange’  Derivatives trading in the Asia-Pacific region increased
more in 2010 than it did in the Americas and in  Europe ,  Africa 
and the Middle East, according to data  compiled  by the World
Federation of Exchanges.  Asia  now accounts for the largest
portion of derivatives transactions with 8.9 billion contracts
traded last year, compared with 8.8 billion in the Americas.  A purchase of Osaka for the Tokyo Stock Exchange “would
make them a very strong domestic exchange, combining both
equities and derivatives,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York . “The derivatives
component of exchanges garners a higher valuation globally since
the cash equities business is seen as very competitive.”  The Tokyo Stock Exchange, which has been the center of
Japan’s stock trading since 1878, faces increasing competition
from growing bourses in countries such as China, as global
investors increasingly raise investments in those markets in-
line with the surge in economic expansion. The Tokyo exchange
delayed an initial public offering in March 2009 after the
biggest global financial crisis since the Great Depression.    China  Competition  The Osaka exchange traded 1.4 million units of Nikkei 225
futures and 8.6 million of a smaller version of the product in
February,  according  to the company.  China overtook Japan last year as the world’s second-
largest economy behind the U.S. Japan’s economy shrank an
annualized 1.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the Cabinet Office
said today.  China’s economy  grew 9.8 percent in the quarter,
according to the statistics bureau on Jan. 20.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has plunged about 73 percent
from its peak on Dec. 29, 1989, while China’s Shanghai Composite
Index has surged about 30-fold since December 1990.  Discussions between the two Japanese exchanges would follow
Deutsche Boerse’s Feb. 15 agreement to buy NYSE Euronext for
$9.53 billion.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  bid A$8.35 billion ($8.4
billion) in October for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , which runs the Australian
stock market, and London Stock Exchange Group agreed Feb. 9 to
pay 1.94 billion pounds ($3.14 billion) to buy Canada’s  TMX
Group Inc. (X)   Race For IPOs  Average trading volume on the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell 8.2
percent to 2.12 billion shares a day in 2010, from 2.31 billion
shares the year earlier, according to the exchange.  The number of initial public offerings in Japan so far this
year reached 11, compared with 33 in China and 23 in  Hong Kong ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There were just 12 foreign companies listed on the Tokyo
exchange as of July last year, compared with a  peak of 127  in
1991, according to the exchange.  The market value of stocks listed in Japan totals $4.12
trillion, behind only the U.S. at $16.3 trillion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a change in the tide, with the Japanese realizing
they have to consolidate in a situation where demand is very
weak,” said Diane Lin, a Sydney-based  fund manager  at Pengana
Capital Ltd., which has about $1 billion of assets.  Chi-X Growth  The main equity markets in Japan are facing competition
from  Chi-X Japan Ltd. , an alternative venue that started in July.
The system handled 282 billion yen in equities last month and
accounted for almost 1.2 percent of trading in Nikkei 225 stocks
on Tokyo exchange’s auction market, according to a  notice .
Parent company Chi-X Global Inc. is owned by New York-based
Instinet Inc., a subsidiary of  Nomura Holdings Inc. (NMR)  in Tokyo.  Tokyo Stock Exchange introduced a faster trading platform
in January 2010 called Arrowhead,  developed  by Fujitsu Ltd. and
other companies. The exchange operator also modernized trading
rules and the market data it compiles to suit investors eager to
buy and sell shares electronically with less delay.  “Tokyo doesn’t want to be left behind,” said Simmy Grewal,
a London-based analyst with  Aite Group LLC  in  Boston . “With all
the mergers going on, they want to be on the competing field.
Asia is the next hunting ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 