-- 
Home Gene Test Kits May Need Doctor Review, U.S. Rules, FDA Official Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T23:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/home-gene-test-kits-may-need-doctor-review-u-s-rules-fda-official-says.html
Some genetic tests sold directly to
consumers as predictors of health risks may instead need to be
supplied through doctors, a U.S. Food and Drug Administration
official said.  The agency will decide, case-by-case, whether to restrict
the availability of tests sold by companies such as  23andMe
Inc. , Alberto Gutierrez, director of the FDA office that
regulates diagnostic screening tools, said today after an
advisory panel meeting.  The test kits allow consumers to collect saliva samples and
send them to the companies for DNA analysis. The FDA said last
year that home gene-testing kits may require the agency’s
approval if they make health claims. The FDA called the two-day
advisory panel meeting to obtain guidance on how to regulate the
products to ensure their benefits outweigh potential risks.  “We’re probably not going to be able to take one approach
to all the types of tests that the companies want to offer,”
Gutierrez told reporters. “It depends on the disease and the
type of test.”  The FDA may require some tests to be ordered by doctors,
and some results may have to be sent to doctors instead of
patients, he said. Other gene tests “may not require a doctor
at all,” he said.  Do-it-yourself gene analysis may do more harm than good if
people use them to predict medical risks without consulting
their doctors, members of the panel said today. Consumers may
make the wrong health choices if they misinterpret the results
of the tests, panel members said.  Working on Compliance  Executives from  Mountain View , California-based 23andMe and
 Pathway Genomics Corp. , both closely held, said they are working
with the FDA to bring their gene tests into compliance with
agency rules.  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain,
halted plans last year to carry gene tests made by San Diego-
based Pathway after regulators said the kits appeared to be
medical devices subject to agency review.  Pathway has voluntarily stopped selling its gene tests to
consumers while it works with the agency, Ed MacBean, the
company’s vice president for  product management , said today in a
presentation to the panel.  “People have a right to their own health information,”
MacBean said. Providing that information “can help consumers
improve their own health and wellness while lowering the costs
of health care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Gaithersburg, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  