-- 
JPMorgan's One Equity Is Said to Favor $1.4 Billion IPO of Austria Metall

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-09T17:49:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/one-equity-s-austria-metall-considers-vienna-initial-share-sale.html
Austria Metall GmbH, an Austrian
aluminum maker owned by  One Equity Partners LLC , is considering
an initial public offering and listing on the Vienna Stock
Exchange this year.  BNP Paribas SA and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are acting as
joint global coordinators and bookrunners, the Ranshofen,
Austria-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The
IPO may begin as soon as April and value the company from 800
million euros ($1.1 billion) to 1 billion euros, according to
four people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the plan isn’t public.  One Equity, JPMorgan’s buyout arm, weighed offers from at
least three potential buyers, the people said. The option of
selling the company would remain open should the IPO process
not go well, two of the people said.  Companies are preparing public offerings in the Austrian
capital as the country’s benchmark ATX index has doubled from
its near six-year low in March 2009. Constantia Industries AG
is planning to sell shares in its Isovoltaic solar unit to the
public this year, two people with knowledge of the discussions
said in January. The IPOs would be the first on the Vienna
exchange since construction company Strabag SE went public in
October 2007.  Pre-Marketing  Pre-marketing for the IPO will start on March 14, Wolfgang Matejka, founder of Matejka & Partner Asset Management, said in
a telephone interview from Vienna today.  Funds advised by One Equity took control of Austria Metall
when it bought Constantia Packaging AG last year. Constantia
Packaging owns 90 percent of the aluminum group, with a trust
of Austria Metall’s employees holding the remainder. Constantia
Packaging and Constantia Industries were split when their owner
Herbert Turnauer died in 2000. His daughter inherited
Constantia Packaging, while his son got Constantia Industries.  “We have prepared for this very thoroughly and will
carefully examine the market environment during the coming
weeks and months,” Austria Metall Chief Executive Officer
Gerhard Falch said in the statement. “We seek new capital to
further increase our production capacities and to strengthen
our position in emerging markets.”  Leopold Poecksteiner, a spokesman for Austria Metall,
declined to comment on timing or valuation when contacted today.    Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  was among companies that weighed acquiring
Austria Metall, the people said. Norsk Hydro Chief Executive
Officer Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said on Feb. 16 that the
Austrian aluminum maker was on his “radar.”  “We are, of course, following the business very closely in
the industry, but for this specific issue we have no comment,”
said Erik Brynhildsbakken, a spokesman for Norsk Hydro, over
the phone from Oslo yesterday.  In 2010, Austria Metall had sales of 728 million euros and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of 139 million euros, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 