-- 
Indian Oil, ONGC Share Sale May Be Deferred on Crude Rally, Stock Decline

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   I n d r a n i l   G h o s h
-- 
2011-03-10T04:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ongc-indian-oil-stock-sales-said-to-be-deferred-on-crude-rally.html
  India , which raised only half its
target from share sales in the past 12 months, plans to defer
offers by Oil &  Natural Gas  Corp. and Indian Oil Corp. because
of rising crude prices and a faltering stock market, a
government official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The sale of a 140 billion rupee ($3.1 billion) stake in
state-owned ONGC will be pushed to May or June, the official
said, asking not to be identified before a public announcement.
A plan to sell shares in Indian Oil in the nation’s biggest
offering may be delayed to the end of the year starting April 1,
the official said.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said Feb. 28 India needs
to sell 400 billion rupees of stock in state-run companies to
trim the  budget deficit  to a four-year low. His challenges
include attracting investors to the world’s fourth-worst
performing stock market and a 29 percent surge in crude oil in
the past year, analyst Jagannadham Thunuguntla said.  “Half the budgeted money is expected to come from oil
refiners and volatile  oil prices  and stock market conditions
will pose the biggest threat,” said Thunuguntla, chief
strategist at New Delhi-based brokerage SMC Global Securities
Ltd. “The government needs to prepare a Plan B in case the
uncertainties increase.”  ONGC Chairman A.K. Hazarika and Indian Oil Finance Director
S.V. Narasimhan declined to comment.  Oil & Natural Gas declined as much as 1.6 percent to 267.10
rupees and traded at 268.50 rupees as of 10:26 a.m. in Mumbai.
Indian Oil retreated as much as 2.2 percent to 301.10 rupees.
The benchmark Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange fell
1 percent.  May, June  Share sales in New Delhi-based ONGC,  Steel Authority of
India Ltd. (SAIL)  and Power Finance Corp. may raise as much as 195
billion rupees in May and June, the official said. Steel
Authority, the second-largest producer, may offer 40 billion
rupees of stock and Power Finance 15 billion rupees, the
official said.  The government raised 227.6 billion rupees in the 12 months
ending March, according to the disinvestment department’s
 website.  Authorities sold stakes in Coal India Ltd., Shipping
Corp. of India Ltd. and Power Grid Corp.  The administration will meet its target for stock sales
next fiscal year, the top-ranked adviser on state share offers
in 2010 said. ONGC, India’s biggest explorer, and Steel
Authority could have been pushed through if needed, Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. Managing Director Uday Kotak said in an
interview Feb. 28.  The local units of New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Kotak and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG are the top arrangers of share
sales in India this year, Bloomberg data show.  Crude Gains  Crude oil in New York trading gained 6.7 percent last week
and 14 percent in the previous seven days, the sharpest increase
since February 2009. Crude oil for April delivery rose to
$105.44 a barrel on March 7, the highest settlement since Sept.
26, 2008, as violence in  Libya  renewed concern Middle East
supply disruptions will worsen.  Explorers including ONGC are required to supply oil at a
discount to refiners including Mumbai-based Indian Oil to help
compensate them for selling fuel below cost to curb inflation.
Indian Oil, the nation’s biggest state-owned refiner, loses 2.2
billion rupees daily selling fuels below cost, Narasimhan said
on March 1.  “The lack of a clear policy on how the  oil companies  will
be compensated for losses in the face of surging oil prices will
have a bearing on the asset-sales program,” said Sadanand Shetty, a Mumbai-based  fund manager  at Taurus Asset Management
Co., which manages about $665 million including shares of ONGC.
“The current market conditions are also a big headwind.”  The 5 percent stake sale in ONGC may start in the first
week of March, former chairman  R.S. Sharma  said Dec. 16. The
company is awaiting clarity on fuel subsidies before the sale,
he said at the time.  The government’s push to sell stakes next fiscal year may
be complicated by the markets’ decline. The benchmark Sensitive
Index on the Bombay Stock Exchange has lost 9.9 percent this
year, making it the worst performer in  Asia .  Indian Oil’s share sale may happen in the year beginning
next month if crude prices fall, Oil Secretary S. Sundareshan
said on Feb. 15. The government will sell a 10 percent stake and
the refiner an additional 10 percent, former chairman Brij Mohan Bansal said Nov. 19.  The shortfall in the government’s finances will narrow to
4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the next fiscal year
from 5.1 percent this year, finance minister Mukherjee estimated
in his Feb. 28 federal budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Indranil Ghosh in New Delhi at 
 ighosh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  