-- 
Lookers Full-Year Profit Nearly Triples on Automobile Parts

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-03-09T16:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/lookers-full-year-profit-nearly-triples-on-automobile-parts.html
  Lookers Plc (LOOK) , a U.K. automobile-sales
group with 119 dealerships, said full-year profit nearly tripled
as it sold more auto parts and services during the economic
slowdown.  Net income rose to 22.9 million pounds ($37 million), or
5.85 pence per share, from 8 million pounds, or 2.72 pence per
share a year earlier, the Manchester, England-based company said
in a statement. Last year’s period included a 14.2 million-pound
charge for refinancing and a loss on terminated businesses.  In 2010 the company closed or sold seven weak dealerships,
adding six, in order to focus on stronger businesses. Lookers
gets 59 percent of gross profit from service, maintenance, and
its independent parts division, the company said today.  “In a fairly diffident used-car market, it was a positive
result, built largely on the strength of the after-sales
market,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Jones said in a
telephone interview. “It’s given the business great stability
in the economic downturn.”  Lookers dropped 1 penny, or 1.6 percent, to 63 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London. The shares have gained 1.6 percent
this year, giving it a market value of 280 million pounds.  Target  Lookers is currently running ahead of its target of 5
percent gains in new-car volume, helped by  interest rates  that
remain low, Jones said. About 60 percent of new-car customers
take out financing at the dealerships and 40 percent of used-car
buyers do the same, he said.  Lookers is seeking more premium dealerships, such as those
selling  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi cars or those produced by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , he said. It’s also looking to make
acquisitions such as companies that supply goods to car-parts
and accessories suppliers, he said.  Motor-division pretax profit rose 12 percent to 28 million
pounds, led by repairs and service, the company said. New-car
profit increased, even though the company sold 4.8 percent fewer
vehicles, because Lookers reduced sales to lower-margin
corporate accounts.  Parts division pretax profit, excluding one-time items and
amortization, gained 11 percent to 12.3 million pounds, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in  London  at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  