-- 
OPEC Should Wait on Emergency Meeting, Angola Minister Says

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-03-09T01:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/opec-should-wait-on-emergency-meeting-angola-minister-says-2-.html
OPEC should wait to see how events
in  Libya  unfold before calling an emergency meeting about prices
and production, Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters at an  IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates  conference in Houston.  “The information that we have is that the market is
supplied,” he said. Prices have risen because of geopolitical
problems in North  Africa , and “we need to wait a little bit”
to act “because for example in Egypt and  Tunisia , they took
about 15 or 20 days” to resolve their internal unrest.  Oil fell from the highest level since September 2008 today
after Kuwait’s oil minister said members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries are discussing whether to convene
an “urgent meeting.”  Botelho de Vasconcelos said he hasn’t heard from OPEC
Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri about any plans for an
emergency meeting. The next scheduled meeting is in June.  “Maybe when I go back to my country, maybe,” he said.  Speculators are causing oil price volatility, Botelho de
Vasconcelos said.  ‘Urgent Meeting’  Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah,  Kuwait ’s oil minister,
said in  Kuwait City  today that El-Badri “is calling everybody
and making a consensus on whether we’ll need an OPEC meeting, an
urgent meeting,” to discuss a possible increase.  Anti-government demonstrations have spread throughout the
Middle East, fueling concern that supplies will be disrupted.
Violence in Libya, Africa’s third-largest crude producer, has
cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according to
the  International Energy Agency .  Libya pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down
from 1.59 million in January, according to Bloomberg News
estimates.  OPEC hasn’t approached Angola about producing more oil to
make up for the Libyan reduction, the minister said.  Angola  is
OPEC’s second-largest African producer, after  Nigeria , and
pumped 1.6 million barrels a day of oil in February, according
to Bloomberg News estimates.  Botelho de Vasconcelos said in Houston that production is
at 1.6 million to 1.7 million barrels a day.  Crude Declines  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 42 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $105.02 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract ended yesterday at $105.44,
the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. Futures are up 28
percent from a year ago.  The U.S. boosted its oil-price forecast for the year to
$101.77 a barrel from February’s projection of $93.26 because of
the unrest in the Middle East, according to the monthly  Short-
Term Energy Outlook  published by the Energy Information
Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy Department.  OPEC ministers decided at the group’s last meeting on Dec.
11 to maintain production limits. OPEC hasn’t altered quotas
since December 2008, when the group announced record supply cuts
that have left the 12-member organization with about 6 million
barrels a day of spare capacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in Houston at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 