-- 
Toronto-Dominion, National Bank Apprehensive on TMX Sale

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-09T21:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/toronto-dominion-national-bank-apprehensive-on-tmx-sale-to-london-bourse.html
  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and other
Canadian lenders are apprehensive about the proposed sale of  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  to  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  because the
country will cede regulatory control of its main stock exchange.  “Several financial institutions including TD have
expressed apprehension about the proposed merger,” Robert Dorrance, head of Toronto-Dominion’s investment bank, told a
parliamentary committee in Toronto today. “We do not believe
this takeover offers the right solution to creating a globally
sustainable exchange.”  Canadian banks are beginning to voice their opposition to
the proposed C$3.2 billion ($3.2 billion) transaction, concerned
that control of the exchange and the regulation of capital
markets will shift to  London . Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
Vice Chairman Jim Prentice said yesterday the exchange is “more
than a strategic asset.”  Banks including Toronto-Dominion and National Bank of  Canada  released a letter today outlining their concerns with the
transaction, which they say may cost Canada jobs, a loss of
regulatory control and hinder the exchange’s role as a hub for
mining and energy trading.  “The outlook for Canadian capital markets over the next
number of years would be very uncertain,” according to the
letter, signed by five investment bankers, including Dorrance,
Richard Nesbitt, CEO of  CIBC World Markets , and Ricardo Pascoe,
co-CEO of National Bank Financial.  ‘Right for Canada’  “This does not mean we are obliged to support any deal
that wraps itself in the flag of globalization,” the bankers
wrote in the letter titled ‘Let’s Build on a Canadian Success
Story’. “Canadians are quite capable of competing and winning
on the global stage. Our success does not depend on selling out
or waiting for others to ‘save’ us.”  Dorrance said during the hearing that financial firms are
also worried about access to capital and governance of the
combined company.  “Rule making will lose its Canadian focus,” Dorrance
said.    National Bank of Canada (NA)  Vice Chairman Luc Bertrand, who
appeared alongside Dorrance, later told reporters that the issue
is what’s right for Canada.  “Canada has made some really smart decisions over the
years, and we’re the envy of the world,” said Bertrand, the
former head of the Montreal Exchange. “What we’re hoping to
impress upon policymakers is, let’s continue in that same
culture and vein of thinking.”  Stocks Fall  TMX and LSE dropped on concern the deal may be blocked. The
takeover requires approval from the federal government and five
Canadian provincial regulators including Ontario and  Quebec .
London Stock Exchange fell 11.5 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 869
pence in London trading today. TMX Group fell 81 cents, or 2
percent, to C$39.07 at 4 p.m. trading in Toronto.  “We see this as the most serious obstacle to date for the
LSE/TMX merger, and it comes at a time when politicians in
Canada are treating the merits of the deal for Canada with a
measure of skepticism,” Macquarie Capital Markets analyst  Ed Ditmire  said in a note.  Shares of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner are trading
about 5 percent below the offer from the LSE, according to
Bloomberg data. When the deal was announced Feb. 9, TMX
shareholders were offered a premium of more than 8 percent. The
discount to the offer price indicates investors are betting the
sale may not be approved.  Considerable Discussion  “There’s no question this is a proposal that has provoked
considerable discussion and debate from the financial services
community,” Janet Ecker, president of the Toronto Financial
Services Alliance, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
been clear for some time that there’s not unanimity within the
community about the value of the deal.”  The Canadian banks own Alpha Group, which operates an
alternative trading platform that competes with TMX. Alpha has
taken about 19 percent of the share of equity trading in Canada
since it launched in November 2008.  “Of course they’re against it because it provides real
competition for Alpha,” said Brendan Caldwell, Chief Executive
Officer of Caldwell Investment Management Ltd., a money manager
that owns shares in TMX. “They banks don’t like real
competition, they like the little oligopoly where they divvy up
the financial pie of Canada amongst themselves. It’s quite
incestuous.”  Toronto-Dominion CEO Edmund Clark has proposed that Alpha
combine with TMX Group, the Financial Times reported today on
its website. Dorrance said he wasn’t aware of a potential
merger.  ‘Get With the Program’  Barbara Stymiest, a former CEO of the Toronto Stock
Exchange who is retiring as an executive from  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY)  in June, told the committee she’s in favor of the
transaction, calling it an “opportunity not to be squandered.”  “Let’s get with the program; let’s believe in ourselves,”
Stymiest said.  Royal Bank, the country’s biggest lender, is advising the
London exchange on the transaction, while  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the
No. 4 bank, is working with TMX.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 