-- 
`Mockery' Made of Some Creditors in Proposed Mortgage Servicing Settlement

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-03-09T19:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/mortgage-proposal-with-investor-benefits-has-lien-mockery-amherst-says.html
A mortgage-servicing settlement
proposal sent to banks represents a “mixed bag” for investors
in home-loan securities, making a “mockery” of some bondholder
concerns, Amherst Securities Group LP analysts said.  State attorneys general and federal agencies submitted the
27-page proposal to the country’s five largest servicers last
week as a starting point for negotiations, according to Iowa
Attorney General Tom Miller, who is helping lead the talks.  Investors would benefit from proposed terms that would
limit bad-loan fees borne by borrowers or bondholders and that
would boost the number of loan  modifications  that lower
homeowners’ balances, reducing “re-defaults,” the New York-
based analysts led by  Laurie Goodman  said today in a report. The
“big negative” stems from terms that would slow the pace of
property sales after borrowers stop paying, the analysts said.  The proposal also fails to require banks to take relatively
larger writedowns on borrowers’ junior-ranking home-equity debt
as they cut principal on mortgages owned by investors, “making
a mockery of the notion of lien priority,” they wrote. “We had
also hoped that there would be some notion in this document that
the second lien was subordinate to the first” and would take a
complete, or at least disproportionate, writedown of principal,
according to the report.  The current settlement doesn’t go further than saying that
second liens must be modified “at least proportionately to the
first lien,” the authors wrote. Goodman, who was  inducted  into
the Fixed Income Analysts Society’s Hall of Fame in 2009, has
said lenders have jeopardized the housing market’s recovery by
not recognizing impairments to their home-equity holdings.  Defaulted Loan Delays  Proposed terms that would lengthen bad-loan timelines
include prohibiting servicers from starting foreclosures while
considering borrowers for loan modifications and requiring that
they be “more careful” and thorough in producing documents to
support foreclosures, Goodman said in an e-mail.  Investors lose more money per defaulted loan as property
liquidations take longer, with a two-year delay for a $225,000
mortgage creating losses potentially 9 percentage points larger
as taxes, insurance and property maintenance accrue, according
to Amherst.  Liquidation timelines have slowed since October when all 50
states began investigating foreclosure practices after
complaints that banks used faulty documents in seizing homes and
servicers reviewed their practices. A  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
executive said yesterday that his company, the largest home-loan
servicer, expects to “return to normalized foreclosure run
rates over the next two to three months.”  Regulatory Settlement  Regulators may also seek penalties from banks to help fund
mortgage-principal reductions, which lenders have typically
opposed on concern that they would encourage more defaults.  Lowering balances is “not a panacea,” Terry Laughlin, the
Bank of America executive who runs a unit handling its most-
troubled loans, said yesterday during presentations for its
investors.  Out of a  sample  of 100 borrowers that could potentially get
loan modifications from the company under the federal Home
Affordable Modification Program, 28 never return calls or fail
to provide financial information, he said. An additional 52 fail
to qualify, about 46 percent because they already have housing
payments equal to or below 31 percent of their incomes, the
“affordable” bills that  HAMP  seeks to create, he said.  “The fundamental issue here is if a borrower does not have
sufficient income or their income’s been diminished, principal
reduction is not going to help them,” Laughlin said.  Any settlement between servicers and regulators is unlikely
to be completed within two months, contrary to what reports this
week suggest, Amherst said.  “Investors need to make their voice heard,” the analysts
said. “Our analysis indicates there is still time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  