-- 
Mortgage Applications in U.S. Increase 16% in Biggest Advance Since June

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-09T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-rise-16-biggest-gain-since-june.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
rose last week, reflecting gains in purchases and refinancing
that signal the housing market may be stabilizing.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of loan
applications surged 16 percent in the week ended March 4, the
biggest gain since June. The measure fell 6.5 percent in the
previous period that included the Presidents’ Day holiday. The
group’s purchase index climbed 13 percent last week, the most
since November, while its refinancing gauge jumped 17 percent.  As the jobless rate eases and companies ratchet up hiring,
more Americans may look to buy houses, stabilizing the industry
that triggered the recession. At the same time, a growing number
of foreclosed properties continues to depress prices and may
hamper the housing recovery.  “The housing market in the U.S. still has a lot of
challenges ahead of it,”  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before the report.
“Ultimately it’s all about how many homes still are going to
hit the market. People don’t want to buy homes because they feel
prices could fall further.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan increased last
week to 4.93 percent from 4.84 percent. Borrowing costs have
been moving up after reaching 4.21 percent in October, the
lowest since the group’s records began in 1990.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage held at 4.17
percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
65.5 percent last week from 64.9 percent the prior week.  Highest Level  Purchases of new houses fell 13 percent in January,
Commerce Department figures showed on Feb. 24. Sales of
previously owned homes, which make up more than 90 percent of
the market, climbed to the highest level in eight months, led by
rising demand for distressed properties, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  The drop in new-home sales is slowing construction.  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the largest homebuilder in  New
Jersey , reported on March 1 a first-quarter loss after a drop in
sales and the absence of a tax benefit that boosted results a
year earlier.  The loss was $64.1 million, or 82 cents a share, for the
quarter ended Jan. 31, the Red Bank-based company said in a
statement. That compared with a profit of $236.2 million, or
$2.97, a year earlier, when results included a $291 million tax
gain.  “We need confidence to go up,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said March 2 during a call with analysts. “We
need employment numbers to get better, and I think that’ll
attract traffic as well as customers.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent in December from a year earlier, the biggest 12-
month decrease since December 2009. Prices were down 31 percent
from their peak in July 2006, the data showed on Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  