-- 
Hotel Buys Will Soar With Room Rates, Jones Lang LaSalle Says

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-09T11:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hotel-purchases-will-soar-on-rising-room-rates-jones-lang-lasalle-says.html
Hotel acquisitions will increase
this year as real-estate investors react to rising occupancy and
room rates, according to a  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  executive.  Lodging purchases will gain 15 percent to 20 percent to
about $30 billion in 2011, Arthur de Haast, global chief
executive officer of the broker’s hotels unit, said in an
interview at the International Hotel Investment Forum in Berlin.
The volume of deals will rise the fastest in the  Europe , Middle
East and Africa region, where the executive expects an increase
of as much as 25 percent.  Hotel rates will gain this year as a recovery in business
travel fills more rooms, lodging companies including Marriott
International Inc., the biggest hotelier in the U.S., said
yesterday in Berlin. Leisure travel is also rebounding after
consumers trimmed spending during the recession. Revenue per
room in the hotel industry rose worldwide in 2010, according to
researcher STR Global.  “In 2011 we will see more deals with what we describe as
secondary type assets,” the executive said. Banks are pushing
owners of hotels that are outside city centers to sell the
assets, he said.  Hotel purchases peaked at $120 billion in 2007 and won’t
reach more than $100 billion again for five to 10 years, de
Haast said. Deal volume rose to $26 billion last year from a
$9 billion low in 2009.  Most deals last year were in the luxury sector, including
the sale of Geneva’s Le Richemond and Hotel de Crillon in Paris,
or involved securing income through existing leasing contracts,
de Haast said. This year, investors are taking greater risks as
the industry recovers, according to the executive.  Future growth will be driven by deals in emerging countries
rather than in mature markets, according to de Haast. “Chinese
insurance companies will buy Chinese hotels and Indian insurance
companies will buy Indian hotels,” he said.  Jones Lang LaSalle, based in  Chicago , had $2.93 billion in
revenue last year from real estate services and  investment
management . The hotels unit is based in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Berlin at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ; 