-- 
Loughner Judge Orders Mental Fitness Hearing Before Trial in Shooting Case

-- B y   A . J .   F l i c k   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/loughner-pleads-not-guilty-to-murder-charges-in-january-shooting-rampage.html
Jared Lee Loughner’s mental
competency must be considered in court before he can be tried on
charges he killed a federal judge and five other people at a
Jan. 8 community meeting held by U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  outside a Tucson, Arizona, supermarket, a judge ruled.  Loughner, 22, entered a not guilty plea yesterday in
federal court in Tucson. He was charged March 4 in a 49-count
grand jury indictment and could face the death penalty if
convicted.  U.S. District Judge Larry Burns scheduled a competency
hearing for May 25 in response to a request from prosecutors,
who said in a March 7 court filing that online video clips
posted by the defendant suggest he may have “mental issues.”  Burns said he would have had “questions” independent of
the government’s request based on his observations of Loughner’s
“affect.” While the judge previously said he wanted a trial to
start no later than Sept. 20, he said yesterday that the
scheduling will depend on the competency hearing.  The U.S. attorney in Phoenix filed a superseding indictment
March 4 that broadened the case to include victims who weren’t
federal employees. In addition to U.S. District Judge John Roll,
the people killed included an aide to Giffords and four Arizona
residents who had come to meet the congresswoman at what
prosecutors said was a “federally provided activity.”  13 Wounded  Thirteen others were wounded before bystanders wrestled the
suspect to the ground. Giffords survived a gunshot through her
head. Prosecutors charged Loughner with attempting to
assassinate the Arizona Democrat.  In court yesterday, Loughner sat with his lawyers while
handcuffed and shackled, wearing a khaki prison uniform. His
brown hair, which was shaved off at the time of the Jan. 8
shootings, has grown out and he wore long sideburns that
extended to his jaw line.  His lead lawyer,  Judy Clarke , told Burns a competency
hearing is “premature” and might taint defense attorneys’
attempts at establishing trust with Loughner.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Wallace Kleindienst said that
Clarke, in court filings, “admitted that her client has mental
afflictions.”  “Certainly every murder is irrational,” Kleindienst said.
“But this one is more irrational than the rest.”  Odd Behaviors  Kleindienst said an array of odd behaviors have been
documented on Loughner’s own videos and Internet postings. His
MySpace and YouTube postings include a seven-minute video clip
of a hooded and masked person, believed to be the suspect,
wearing garbage bags on his lower body and burning an American
flag, prosecutors said in the March 7 court filing.  The MySpace account was taken down after the shooting while
the YouTube postings are still online, according to the filing.  Yesterday, when Kleindienst mentioned the videos Loughner
made and how the defendant believed the government was
“bugging” him, Loughner nodded vigorously. Loughner raised his
eyebrows and smiled when Kleindienst mentioned that Loughner
said he heard voices.  Prosecutors and defense attorneys will work out whether
Loughner will be examined at the federal prison south of Tucson,
where he is being held, or in  San Diego , where there is an
established competency program and where his defense attorneys
are from.  Burns yesterday also ordered the unsealing of a search
warrant used to collect evidence from Loughner’s home. Burns
said he would redact “minimal” information from the warrant.  2007 Letter  Investigators who searched Loughner’s home found a 2007
letter from Giffords thanking him for attending a “Congress on
your Corner” event at a mall in Tucson, according to a Jan. 9
FBI statement filed in court. They also found an envelope with
handwriting saying “I planned ahead,” “My assassination” and
“Giffords,” according to the statement.  The FBI seized two shotguns from Loughner’s home, as well
as notebooks with writing, a U.S. history book, drawings of
weapons, music and photo CDs and computer disks, according to
the unsealed search warrant materials posted on the court’s
website.  Searchers also found a handwritten note that said “What is
government if words don’t have a meaning,” according to the
partially redacted court filing.  Loughner posted a farewell message on his MySpace account
and one of his YouTube videos said it was his farewell,
according to the filing.  Green Chevy Nova  On the morning of the shooting, Loughner left the home
where he lived with his parents in his green Chevy Nova,
according to the documents. He came back and took a black bag or
backpack from the trunk of the car. When his parents tried to
talk to him, he took off running, according to the documents.  Loughner was wearing earplugs and deputies found two
handgun magazines with ammunition in his pocket when he was
arrested, according to the documents.  Loughner’s lawyers, in a March 4 request filed after the
new indictment was brought, asked Burns to wait on setting a
trial date until prosecutors have said whether they will seek
the death penalty. Alternatively, the lawyers asked for a trial
date in January of 2013.  The defense lawyers said they will need to conduct a
thorough life history investigation of Loughner to reliably
evaluate his mental health.  Burns postponed addressing a defense request for access to
prison psychologists’ reports on Loughner’s conduct and a
request from prosecutors for handwriting samples from Loughner.  The judge said yesterday that by the time the case goes to
trial, prospective jurors likely will have forgotten any media
reports being generated now by the case.  “Experience teaches me that passage of time dims the
memory and dampens community reaction,” Burns said. “I have in
mind that this case is not going to be tried for a while.”  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
A.J. Flick in Tucson, Arizona, St ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at  epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  