-- 
Lloyds CEO Horta-Osorio Replaces Consumer, Insurance Chiefs

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-03-09T09:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/lloyds-s-consumer-head-weir-insurance-chief-kane-step-down-1-.html
  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Chief
Executive Officer, Antonio Horta-Osorio, replaced the British
lender’s consumer banking and insurance chiefs less than 10 days
after taking up the job.  Helen Weir, head of the retail division, will step down and
insurance chief Archie Kane, 58, will retire, the lender said in
a statement today. Antonio Lorenzo, 44, who moved from Banco
Santander SA’s U.K. unit with Horta-Osorio, will take over the
Lloyds’s consumer and marketing units.  The departures leave only finance director Tim Tookey and
wholesale head Truett Tate as the last surviving executive
directors from Lloyds’s takeover of mortgage lender HBOS Plc,
which led to 13 billion pounds ($21 billion) of losses and left
the taxpayer owning 41 percent of the bank.  Eric Daniels  stepped
down as CEO last month.  “The axman cometh,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas said in a note to clients today. Investors “may
broadly welcome his clean break with the old regime.”  Four of the bank’s top eight executives are now former
Santander employees. Horta-Osorio appointed Juan Colombas, his
chief risk officer at Santander, to the same job at Lloyds. Matt Young also moved from Santander to become corporate affairs
director and member of Lloyds’s group executive committee.  2011 Targets  Horta-Osorio is reviewing the lender’s operations after
taking over as CEO on March 1. He joined a bank is trying to
reduce its balance sheet by 200 billion pounds by 2014. Lloyds
has sold assets and cut more than 22,000 jobs since its bailout.  “These changes to the group’s management team will enable
us to focus on meeting our 2011 targets, whilst putting in place
some of the foundations which will enable us to deliver on our
longer-term plans following the conclusion of the strategic
review,” Horta-Osorio, 47, said in the statement.  Weir, 48, joined Lloyds as finance director in 2004 from
home-improvement retailer Kingfisher Plc, where she held the
same role. She took over the running of Lloyds’s consumer unit
in 2008 and oversaw the integration of HBOS Plc’s consumer
operations after Lloyds acquired the mortgage lender.  Kane is a former chairman of the  Association of British
Insurers , the industry lobby group, and CEO of Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership. He joined TSB, a predecessor company of
Lloyds, in 1986 and has sat on the board since 2000.  The bank will split its insurance operation into a life,
pensions and investments division run by Phil Loney and a
general insurer run by Andy Briggs. Joy Griffiths will continue
to head the Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland Community Bank and
David Nicholson will continue to run the Halifax Community Bank,
Lloyds said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  