-- 
Toyota Ready to Unveil Emerging Market Push, Executive Moves After Recalls

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-09T00:11:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/toyota-ready-to-unveil-emerging-market-push-executive-moves-after-recalls.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President Akio Toyoda today unveils a 10-year strategy to expand in emerging
markets as the world’s biggest automaker seeks to restart growth
after two years overshadowed by vehicle recalls and recession.  Toyoda, 54, may shift Toyota’s focus from developed markets
such as the U.S., source of more than half its profit over the
past decade, in favor of China and India, said two people
familiar with the plan. He will also cut at least 10 positions
from Toyota’s 27-member board, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the details aren’t yet public.  With the “Global Vision 2020” plan, Toyoda may strengthen
his grip on the company after succeeding Katsuaki Watanabe in
2009 amid the economic crisis. Fast-growing  China , India and  Brazil  offer the biggest opportunities for Toyota, whose shares
underperformed Volkswagen AG and Hyundai Motor Co. in 2010 as
the company grappled with record worldwide recalls of more than
10 million vehicles for flaws linked to unintended acceleration.  “Expansion in Japan and North America is limited, and the
only places that Toyota can expect growth are in China and the
emerging markets,” says Takeshi Miyao, analyst at consulting
company Carnorama in Tokyo.  Toyota rose 1.2 percent to 3,745 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday. The stock has gained 16 percent this year after
declining 17 percent in 2010.  ’21st Century Corolla’  As part of its focus on emerging markets, Toyota added the
Etios compact in  India  in December, and is readying the small
car for sale in China,  Thailand  and Brazil.  Toyota Executive Vice President Yukitoshi Funo has dubbed
the Etios the “21st Century Corolla,” a reference to its
bestselling compact model. The automaker will also include
measures to strengthen its quality control in the plan, the
people said.  Toyota spokesman Koki Konishi declined to discuss details
of the plan prior to a press conference set for 4 p.m. Tokyo
time.  While other regions may be getting more attention, Toyota
has said it expects to boost sales in the recovering U.S. market
by at least 10 percent this year.  Even with the 42 percent U.S. sales gain it posted in
February, Toyota needs fresher, more exciting products, said
Jack Nerad, executive market analyst for Kelley Blue Book in  Irvine ,  California .  ‘Mojo’  “To really get their mojo back it would be good if they
had some ‘must have’ products, particularly in the midsize sedan
and compact car segments,” said Nerad. “Toyota, Lexus and
Scion are in need of some excitement. All three brands are kind
of lukewarm right now.”  With Volkswagen aiming to surpass Toyota as the world’s
largest carmaker by 2018, and competitors including General
Motors Co. and Hyundai gaining on the Toyota City, Japan-based
company, management has been divided over whether it should be
more aggressive or remain cautious, said two Toyota group
executives, who declined to be identified.    Standard & Poor’s  lowered Toyota’s credit rating to AA-from
AA on March 4, citing the company’s “weak” profitability.
Toyota still relies on  North America  for about 60 percent of its
operating profit, excluding exports, according to the automaker.  “As the recall problem has settled down, there’s hope that
Toyota will turn around and get on the offensive,” said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan.
“But I’m not optimistic.”  Slimmer Board  Toyota is “trying to return to a less aggressive way of
doing things after being so fixated on profit,” Endo said.  Other changes that may be announced today include the
elimination of two vice-chairman positions and the reduction of
Toyota’s board to 17 or fewer members from 27, the biggest
management shakeup in eight years, said the two people.  Former PresidentWatanabe will become an adviser without a
board vote, and former head of research and development Kazuo Okamoto will move to an affiliate, the people said. Board member
Yoshimi Inaba, head of North American operations, will retire,
while three managing officers including Toyota Motor
Manufacturing Canada Inc. Chairman Ray Tanguay will be promoted
to a new executive class with operational duties, Nikkan Kogyo
reported on March 7.  A slimmer board would help Toyota respond to changes in the
global industry more quickly, the people said.  In Toyoda’s February 2010  testimony before Congress , at the
height of the recall crisis, he linked vehicle defects to the
rapid expansion that pushed the company to the top of the
industry.  ’Too Quick’  “I fear the pace at which we have grown may have been too
quick,” Toyoda said. The grandson of Toyota’s founder has
advocated a return to founding principles such as “putting the
customer first” and “genchi genbutsu,” or “going to see
things first-hand.”  Toyoda’s 2020 vision revises a plan outlined by Watanabe,
69, in November 2007, which included a goal of offering hybrid
versions of all its models and commercializing next-generation
battery technology and new modes of mobility.  Watanabe said in 2006 he expected the company’s operating
margin to grow to 10 percent from 8.5 percent at the time. That
compares with 2.9 percent for the nine-month period through
December.  Toyota expects to earn 490 billion yen ($5.92 billion) in
net income in the year ending March 31, a figure that may almost
double to 922 billion yen in the year ending March 2013,
according to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s still below the record 1.7 trillion yen it
earned in fiscal year 2007.  The automaker plans to increase annual operating profit to
more than 1 trillion yen in two to three years, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today, without citing where it got the
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo
at   mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  