-- 
Toyota Pushes U.S. Image Boost, Emerging-Market Gains

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n ,   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-03-10T06:14:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/toyota-aims-to-get-half-of-profit-from-emerging-markets.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President Akio Toyoda set the world’s largest carmaker on a course seeking
sales growth in emerging markets and an improved image in the
U.S., in a bid to rebound from record recalls and a recession.  Toyoda, grandson of the company’s founder, laid out a
“Global Vision” yesterday focused as much on boosting
emotional ties to customers as on financial targets. His plan
also shrinks Toyota’s board to 11 members from 27, the
automaker’s biggest management shakeup in eight years.  Toyoda, 54, aims to strengthen his grip on the carmaker
almost two years after becoming chief executive amid a global
economic crisis that was followed by recalls of more than 10
million autos worldwide, most for flaws tied to unintended
acceleration. The Toyota City, Japan-based company is still
rebuilding its reputation as an industry benchmark for quality.  “They want to re-establish a peace-of-mind thing,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , chief executive officer of Edmunds.com, an
industry data provider in  Santa Monica ,  California . “Where
Toyota might have let people down with its recalls was problems
with some very basic things, like floor mats, that may have
caused some to question assumptions about its basic quality.”  The U.S. government said last month it had concluded its
review of unintended acceleration issues in  Toyota vehicles . The
company may still face more recalls, said Takeshi Miyao, an
analyst at Carnorama in Tokyo.  “Recalls from shifting their production lines overseas
will continue until at least 2013,” Miyao said.  Operating Profit  Toyota fell 1.8 percent to close at 3,650 yen, the lowest
since Feb. 8, in Tokyo trading. The shares have gained 13
percent this year.  “The word ‘vision’ conjures notions of quantitative
targets for things like sales and operating income in some sort
of time frame,” Toyoda said during a conference call. “What we
have prepared is a vision of a different kind. We have sketched
the outlines of the kind of company that we want to be. We have
identified the values that we want to cherish.”  Among the quantitative targets that were announced, Toyota
said it aims to earn an operating profit of at least 1 trillion
yen ($12 billion) by 2015, regardless of global economic
conditions. The target is based on an exchange rate of 85 yen to
the dollar and annual sales volume of 7.5 million vehicles.  The carmaker expects to sell 7.53 million vehicles in the
current fiscal year ending March 31. Sales of Toyota and Lexus
models may reach 9 million by 2015, Toyoda said. Including
affiliates Daihatsu Motor Co. and Hino Motor Co., annual
deliveries may total 10 million by then.  Emerging Markets  The 1 trillion yen target could be met even if another
economic downturn cut sales by 20 percent, Toyoda said at a
press conference in Tokyo yesterday.  The company plans to get half its global auto sales from
emerging markets, compared with 40 percent in 2010. Toyota is
aiming to get 15 percent of its sales from China, the world’s
largest car market, where it lags behind  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   As part of its focus on emerging markets, Toyota added the
Etios compact in  India  in December and is readying the small car
for sale in China,  Thailand  and  Brazil .  “It’s about time they began acting more aggressively,”
said  Satoru Takada , an analyst at TIW Inc. in Tokyo. “Toyota
seems to be catching up on expanding sales in emerging
markets.”  ‘Behind Rivals’  “Toyota is definitely behind rivals in emerging markets,
and in China we are now entering a period where we need to be
cautious,” said Tatsuya Mizuno, a director at Mizuno Credit
Advisory in Tokyo. “I thought Toyota would come out with a
vision that leads its competitors, but I didn’t see anything
like that.”    China ’s passenger-car sales growth in February fell to the
slowest in more than two years after the government ended
vehicle-buying incentives and a week-long national holiday
stymied demand.  In North America, Toyota’s biggest source of operating
profit, the carmaker plans to maximize output at assembly plants
as it continues to shift more production from Japan, the company
said.  “It will probably take at least another two years for
sales in North America to recover to the level that it was at in
2007 and early 2008,” Carnorama’s Miyao said.  North America  Changes in North America include the promotion of Ray Tanguay, currently a Canada-based managing officer. Tanguay, a
20-year Toyota veteran who has overseen construction of plants
in Ontario and  Mississippi , will become senior managing officer
on April 1, making him the automaker’s highest-ranking non-
Japanese executive.  Toyota is looking for opportunities to export from the U.S.
for production and capacity reasons and also for currency
reasons, Tanguay said today in Tokyo. Toyota exports Avalon
sedans and Sequoia sport-utility vehicles to the Middle East
from the U.S.  “Toyota has invested in the U.S. and will make good use of
it,” Tanguay said.    North America  will also take over development
responsibility for the Camry, the company’s top-selling U.S.
model, the automaker said.  “They need to be bringing products into the market a
little faster -- a new Camry, a new Corolla,” Edmunds.com’s
Anwyl said. “Competitors have really been upping their game,
particularly Hyundai.”  Hybrids  Toyota, already the world’s biggest seller of gasoline-
electric autos, plans at least 10 more hybrid models by 2015,
Toyoda said.  “We will focus on emerging markets and environmental
vehicles,” Toyoda said.  Toyota’s slimmer board may help it adapt to challenges in
the global industry more quickly, Miyao said. Honda, Japan’s
third-largest carmaker, reorganized its management last month,
cutting the number of company directors to 12 from 20.  Among the management changes, Vice Chairmen Kazuo Okamoto
and Katsuaki Watanabe, Toyoda’s predecessor as president,
Executive Vice President Yoichi Ichimaru and Director Yoshimi Inaba will step down from Toyota’s board. Ichimaru will become
an adviser, and Inaba will remain head of North American
operations.  The company is also creating outside advisory committees
for its regional operations. For North America, the panel
includes Mark Hogan, a former GM executive and  Magna
International Inc. (MG)  president, and former U.S. Labor Secretary
Alexis Herman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  