-- 
HP CEO Apotheker, Board Faulted Over Appointment of Directors

-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/hp-ceo-apotheker-board-faulted-over-appointment-of-directors.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  directors,
including Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , went against
company rules in their appointment of new board members,
according to a shareholder-advisory group.  Apotheker played a direct role in picking new board
members, a move that contravenes the board’s own rules governing
director selection, according to  Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. , an adviser to investors on corporate governance
matters.  “The direct participation of Apotheker in the appointment
of five new directors raises red flags,” ISS said in a report
prepared for clients and obtained by Bloomberg News. “The board
is responsible for representing shareholders and overseeing
management, in particular the CEO.”  Hewlett-Packard reshaped its board with executives who have
ties to Apotheker, whose tenure as CEO began Nov. 1. One
director sits on a board in  Europe  with Apotheker, and at least
three others have been customers of German software maker SAP
AG, where Apotheker was CEO and worked for two decades. The ties
could inhibit directors from acting objectively, ISS said.  ISS recommended that shareholders vote against three
sitting directors who are up for re-election at the annual
meeting, scheduled for March 23, because they shouldn’t have
permitted Apotheker to play a role in the nomination, ISS said.  ISS’s recommendation is based on a “misinterpretation of
the process that HP employed in identifying, selecting and
nominating” directors, Hewlett-Packard said in a statement
yesterday.  Stockholders’ Interest  “We do not believe that it would be in the best interests
of HP’s stockholders to lose the service of the experienced and
dedicated board members who have been delegated primary
responsibility for establishing and maintaining those governance
practices,”  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard said.  The charter for Hewlett-Packard’s nominating and governance
committee calls for the identification of potential director
candidates to be conducted by independent directors only,
according to ISS.  “The CEO’s formal participation in the ad hoc committee
established to identify potential director candidates runs
contrary to the Nominating and Governance Committee’s Charter,”
the group said.  Three directors -- Lawrence Babbio, Sari Baldauf and G.
Kennedy Thompson -- shouldn’t have permitted Apotheker to play a
role in the nomination, ISS said.  “Shareholders should be significantly concerned about the
committee’s failure to fulfill its role in leading the process
for board appointments,” according to the report.  Babbio  Glass Lewis & Co. , another shareholder adviser, also
recommended against the re-election of Babbio for his role in
approving the severance package for former CEO  Mark Hurd . The
executive departed in August after the company said inaccurate
expense reports filed by Hurd or on his behalf concealed a
personal relationship with a contractor, in violation of HP’s
standards of business conduct.  It also faulted Babbio for failing to create a  succession
plan  that “may have avoided last summer’s high-profile and
ultimately expensive CEO hunt,”  Glass Lewis  said.  Hewlett-Packard’s directors “have carried out their
obligations in a fully compliant manner,” Hewlett-Packard said
in the statement.  ISS also recommended that shareholders vote against
Apotheker’s proposed pay package, valued by ISS at $47 million,
given his role in appointing directors.  New Board Appointments  The new board members, who were announced Jan. 20, include
Dominique Senequier, who runs AXA Private Equity, the investment
buyout arm of French insurer  AXA SA. (CS)  Apotheker sits on AXA’s
supervisory board. Senequier and Apotheker also both sit on the
supervisory board of Schneider Electric SA, the world’s largest
maker of circuit breakers.  Three other newly appointed directors --  Meg Whitman ,
former CEO of EBay Inc.; Patricia Russo, former CEO of Alcatel-
Lucent SA; and Gary Reiner, former chief information officer of
General Electric Co. -- all did business with SAP while
Apotheker was in management.  In 2003, when Whitman was CEO of EBay and Apotheker was a
top sales and marketing executive at SAP, the companies
 announced a deal  that let SAP customers post excess goods for
sale on EBay. Whitman was EBay’s CEO from 1998 to 2008.  SAP said in 2008 that Alcatel-Lucent had upgraded 6,000
users in 30 countries to a new version of SAP’s applications
software. At General Electric, Reiner handled technology matters
such as  e-commerce  under CEO  Jack Welch  and his successor  Jeffrey Immelt . GE has been a customer of SAP’s Business Objects
data-analysis software.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 