-- 
Palm Oil Seen Rising 12% as Record Food Costs Roil Governments

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-03-09T11:28:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/palm-oil-may-climb-12-on-shortages-extending-record-food-price-advance.html
Palm oil, the world’s most consumed
cooking oil, may climb 12 percent in the next several weeks on
shortages, said  Dorab Mistry , who has traded the commodity used
by Nestle SA and Unilever for more than 30 years.  The tropical oil, used in candy and instant noodles from
Baltimore to Beijing, will probably advance to 4,000 ringgit
($1,319) a metric ton in Kuala Lumpur, said Mistry, director of
Godrej International Ltd., who correctly predicted the surge
since June. That would add to a 35 percent gain in the past year.  World food costs climbed to a record in February, according
to the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization, pushing
up inflation from Jakarta to  New Delhi . The UN has started a
series of seminars to help governments cope with escalating food
costs that have contributed to riots across North Africa and the
Middle East and the toppling of leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.  “The war is going to go on in terms of acreage,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , senior economist at the FAO, referring to
the planting season in the Northern Hemisphere. “Spring is
going to be extremely critical. In many major producing regions,
we have already hit maximum acreage,” he said in a video
briefing in Bangkok today.  An index of 55 food commodities advanced 2.2 percent to 236
points in February from 230.7 the month before, the eighth
consecutive gain, the UN said March 3. Wheat climbed 60 percent
in the past year, corn gained 92 percent and soybeans 46 percent.  Climate Change  Agriculture faces increasing consumption from expanding and
richer populations, higher costs and rising demand to use crops
for making biofuels, according to the FAO.  Climate change  may be
causing more frequent and extreme weather events that raise the
risk of shocks to markets, it said.  Food costs are at “dangerous levels” after pushing 44
million people into poverty since June, World Bank President
Robert Zoellick said Feb. 15. That adds to the more than 900
million people around the world who go hungry each day, he said.  Record food prices are likely to be sustained toward the
end of this year because of high oil costs and lower harvests,
said Hiroyuki Konuma, the Asia representative of the FAO, in an
interview today in Bangkok.  “I expect current high prices to remain intact for the
next 8 to 10 weeks and during that time to test new highs,”
said Mistry in  Kuala Lumpur . A “sharp correction would not be
unexpected” around May or June, followed by a “strong
recovery” from August, driven by biofuels demand, he said.  Biofuel Appeal  Crude oil in  New York  has stayed above $100 a barrel for
most of the month, increasing the attraction of biofuels made
from sugar, corn and cooking oils.  “This year, the most important price-making factor will be
energy prices and their effect on biodiesel,” Mistry said. “We
have never before been so aligned to energy prices as we are
now” as the unrest in the Middle East and North Africa has
changed the scenario dramatically, he said at a conference.  Violence in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The North African country
pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59
million the previous month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Recovering production in  Southeast Asia  may curb palm oil
prices, said Thomas Mielke, executive director of Oil World, at
the conference today. The price may decline from May or June as
output increases, replenishing stockpiles, said Mielke.  Futures climbed to a record 4,486 ringgit a ton in March
2008, fueled by rising consumption in  China  and  India  and on the
prospect that surging crude prices would boost demand for
biofuels made from cooking oils.    Palm oil  for May delivery on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange ended little changed at 3,585 ringgit a ton today.  “This is going to be a year of high volatility and high
excitement,” Mistry said. “We must be prepared for volatility
like we have never experienced before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Matthew Oakley  at 
 moakley@bloomberg.net  