-- 
Parmalat Investment Funds Said to Propose Rossi as Interim Chief Executive

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-03-09T12:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/parmalat-investment-funds-said-to-propose-rossi-as-interim-chief-executive.html
Massimo Rossi, a former manager at
Swedish Match AB, will be proposed as an interim chief executive
officer of  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  by a group of investors, according to
two people familiar with the situation.  Three funds that own 15.3 percent of Parmalat, Italy’s
biggest dairy company, may announce their list of board
candidates as early as today, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because discussions are private.  Mackenzie Financial Corp., Skagen AS and Zenit Asset
Management AB are proposing a new board and management team that
would consider acquisitions. Parmalat, which pioneered long-life
milk in the 1960s, holds its annual meeting in April, when the
board’s election takes place.  Under CEO Enrico Bondi, Parmalat has recovered about 2
billion euros ($2.8 billion) in legal settlements from banks and
auditors that the company accused of sustaining fraud that led
to its 2003 bankruptcy filing. The Italian government appointed
Bondi, a turnaround specialist, as the company’s administrator
when it collapsed in Italy’s biggest bankruptcy case.  Amid a decade of consolidation in the European  dairy
industry , Parmalat has made three purchases since returning to
the stock market, the largest of which was spending about $54
million to buy some fresh milk operations from  Australia ’s
National Foods Ltd., according to Bloomberg data.  Rossi joined Swedish Match,  Europe ’s largest maker of
smokeless tobacco products, in 1975 and retired from the company
at the age of 62, according to a Sept. 10, 2004  article 
published on its website. His specialty during the tenure was
acquisitions and divestments. “I have divested and acquired
about 80 companies during my time at Swedish Match,” he was
quoted as saying in the article.  Attempts to reach Rossi weren’t immediately successful. A
Parmalat official at the company’s headquarters in Collechio,  Italy , had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  