-- 
Pemex Seeks to Buy `Significant' U.S. Refining Asset This Year, CEO Says

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-03-09T21:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/pemex-seeking-significant-u-s-refining-asset-as-gasoline-demand-surges.html
  Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin America’s
largest oil producer, said it’s seeking to buy a “significant”
refining asset in the U.S. as Mexican gasoline demand surges.  Pemex, as the state-owned company is known, is evaluating
several acquisitions and may close a deal this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said yesterday in an
interview in Houston, declining to name the potential targets.  The Mexico City-based company is interested in boosting
refining capacity as more Mexicans buy cars, driving up fuel
demand by about 5 percent a year through 2012, according to the
nation’s  Energy Ministry.   Oil companies  such as Chevron Corp.
and BP Plc are selling refineries even as a rebound in demand
for gasoline and diesel leads to an increase in profits.  “The driver of this transaction is strategic, so our plan
is to go ahead with a deal regardless of the current  oil
prices ,” Suarez Coppel said. The company may also make more
than one acquisition in the oil refining industry, he said.  Potential acquisitions will have the capacity to increase
fuel output by “significantly” more than 50,000 barrels a day,
Suarez Coppel, 51, said without elaborating on the costs.  U.S. refineries are selling for less than the cost of
building a new one after prices of such assets fell 80 percent
from what they fetched in 2006, according to Dahlman Rose & Co.  Deer Park Venture  In 1993, Pemex and Royal Dutch Shell Plc formed a joint
refinery venture in Deer Park,  Texas . The plant, which was
upgraded in 1995 to process Mexico’s Maya crude and expanded in
2001, is capable of processing 340,000 barrels of oil a day.  Pemex buys 50 percent of the gasoline produced at Deer Park
and ships it back to Mexico. The Latin American country’s six
refineries, which can process about 1.54 million barrels of
crude a day, haven’t been able to produce at full capacity
because they have not been upgraded to handle enough heavy
crude.  BP,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company, said last month it
will sell refineries in  Texas City , Texas, and Carson,  California .  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  said in July it would put its three
refining plants up for sale to exit that business and focus more
on production.  Pemex Production  Pemex produced 424,800 barrels of gasoline a day in 2010
and imported a daily average of 371,800 barrels. About 80
percent of its fuel imports come from the U.S. The company also
buys refined products from  China  and  Canada . Pemex is building
its first oil refinery in three decades at a cost of $10 billion
in the state of Hidalgo, Mexico, to be ready by about 2016.  “Today’s U.S. asset market would provide Pemex the ability
to acquire high quality refining assets at a steep discount to
the new construction with volumes immediately available versus
the time delay associated with new construction,” Ann Kohler, a
senior vice president at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Mexican drivers bought the most gasoline ever in 2010, at
an average of 802,759 barrels a day. That’s a gain of about 20
percent in the past five years.  “Existing subsidies to gasoline prices in  Mexico  will
prevent demand from slowing even during slow economic growth
periods,” Suarez Coppel said.  On Dec. 15, Carlos Trevino, then-chief financial officer of
Pemex, said the company was looking into joint ventures, as well
as mergers and acquisition opportunities, which include refining
assets, to improve the financial performance of the company.  Imports Stable  Suarez Coppel said gasoline imports to Mexico should remain
stable this year at about 400,000 barrels a day.  Fuel imports to Mexico surged to the highest on record in
2010 after unscheduled stoppages pared production at Pemex
refineries.  Pemex’s program to upgrade its refineries has faced
multiple delays. Two of the upgrades have been fully completed.  Purchasing a refinery in the U.S. “makes economic and
technical sense,” David Shields, an energy analyst and
publisher of Mexican oil magazine Energia, said yesterday in an
interview. Still, the plan may be “politically unfeasible,”
because "I don’t think the president of Mexico will spend money
a year before the elections in the U.S. instead of Mexico,’’ he
said.  Pemex would need to build a refinery every three to four
years until 2021 to become self sufficient in gasoline,
according to the Energy Ministry. Mexican law doesn’t allow
companies other than Pemex to refine or sell crude and its
refined products in the country.  The yield on the Pemex 10-year bonds fell 1 basis point, or
0.1 percentage point, to 5.238, the lowest since Feb. 3. The
price of the security rose 0.07 cents to 105.403 cents on the
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Chicago at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 