-- 
TPG, Apollo Said to Be Among Creditors Poised to Take Over Aliante Casino

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-03-09T18:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/tpg-apollo-said-to-be-among-creditors-poised-to-take-over-aliante-casino.html
TPG Capital and Apollo Global
Management LLC are among creditors poised to take over Aliante
Station casino hotel in  Las Vegas  and may reach an agreement as
soon as next week, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Aliante, a 40-acre northern property owned by Las Vegas-
based Station Casinos Inc. and Greenspun Corp., is negotiating
with creditors after defaulting, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. The discussions
are ongoing and could fall apart, they said.  The move would hand creditors the resort, a $662 million
project when built, at a fraction of its original cost.
Investors in distressed debt are circling troubled off-Strip
casinos as Las Vegas begins to recover from a record slump. The
private equity firms bought Aliante debt at a discount and are
among the biggest holders, the people said.  Spokesmen for  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG and New York-
based Apollo declined to comment. A Station spokeswoman also
declined to comment.  Aliante Station has drawn $392 million on a  term loan  and
has a $20 million revolver, both due in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The property is about 15 miles (24
kilometers) north of the Las Vegas Strip. It is surrounded by a
planned community, much of which hasn’t been developed since  Nevada  home prices plunged.  Co-owner Station Casinos filed Chapter 11 in July 2009
after a leveraged buyout by its founding Fertitta family and  Colony Capital LLC . Station is expected to exit  bankruptcy
protection  this year, with most properties controlled by the
existing owners.  The Fertittas would continue to manage Aliante under the
proposed accord, while creditors would have ownership of the
property, the people said. The joint venture’s restructuring is
separate from Station Casinos’ bankruptcy.  Gambling for Locals  Aliante caters mostly to locals. It opened in November
2008, during the steepest tourism slump in Las Vegas history and
a year after Station Casinos’ ill-fated buyout.  The hotel and casino includes more than 2,000  slot
machines , 35 table games, a poker room, a race and sports book,
and a 200-seat bingo room. The property  includes  six
restaurants, pools with private cabanas and a party deck, a
1,500-square-foot fitness center, a 16-screen cinema and 14,000
square feet of meeting and banquet space.  Family Company  Apollo, led by  Leon Black , and David Bonderman’s TPG
already own Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest
casino company, after taking it private in January 2008 for
$30.7 billion, including debt and transaction costs.  Closely held Greenspun, based in Henderson, Nevada, owns
the Las Vegas Sun newspaper, magazines, Nevada television
stations, and real estate developer American Nevada Co., which
built Green Valley, the area’s first master-planned housing
community.  Station’s second venture with Greenspun,  Green Valley Ranch 
Resort, Spa & Casino, is also restructuring, Station filings
show. The $550 million Green Valley Ranch, with almost 500
rooms, is about 13 miles (21 kilometers) southeast of the Strip.  Las Vegas is among the markets hit hardest by the housing
price collapse and the economic effects of the financial crisis.  Home prices  in the area fell 57 percent through December from an
August 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Single
Family Home Resale Home Price Index.  Station’s bankruptcy case is In re Station Casinos Inc.,
09-52477,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  