-- 
Philippines Expects Wider Budget Gap in 1st Half, Abad Says

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-03-09T09:27:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/philippines-expects-wider-budget-gap-in-1st-half-abad-says-1-.html
The Philippine first-half  budget
deficit  may be wider than the second as the government is
expected to spend 196.7 billion pesos ($4.5 billion) on roads,
bridges and classrooms when the weather is favorable.  “We want more spending to happen in the early part of the
year to take advantage of the good weather months,” Budget
Secretary Butch Abad said in an interview in his office in
Manila today. “The drawdown is a higher deficit at the start of
the year.”  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing state spending to a
record this year to expand the economy by as much as 8 percent
annually while narrowing the shortfall from an all-time high in
2010. Three-year bond yields today stayed at a one-month low on
speculation the government will succeed in shrinking the deficit
to 300 billion pesos in 2011 from 314.4 billion pesos last year.  The government plans to increase spending on social welfare
by 4 billion pesos to help the poor cope with faster inflation,
Abad said, adding he favors increasing welfare spending rather
than cutting taxes.  “I will not push for a cut in revenues but target
subsidies to those who need it most,” Abad said. “I would be
careful about cutting sources of revenue and introducing general
subsidies.”  Confronting Inflation    Asia ’s central banks and government are confronting
inflation as  oil prices  stay above $100 a barrel, boosting
transportation and food costs. Bank of Thailand today increased
its benchmark rate for the second time in three months.    South Korea  and Thailand have imposed price controls on
goods and services including electricity and gas and  China  has
released reserve of agricultural goods.  The Philippines doesn’t have a lot of fiscal flexibility to
protect its citizens from rising prices as the government is
committed to meeting its budget deficit goal, Abad said,  “We haven’t been doing so well on the revenue side and we
cannot continue to scrimp on spending side,” Abad said. The
government missed revenue and spending targets in 2010, a report
Showed this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  