-- 
Philippines Said to Plan $1 Billion Bond Sale, Seeks Arrangers

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-03-09T04:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/philippines-said-to-plan-1-billion-bond-sale-seeks-arrangers.html
The  Philippines  plans to sell $1
billion of dollar-denominated bonds overseas and is seeking
offers from potential arrangers, a government official said.  The Southeast Asian nation plans to raise $2.5 billion by
selling overseas debt this year to help fund a  budget deficit 
forecast to narrow to 300 billion pesos ($6.9 billion) from a
record of 314.4 billion pesos in 2010. In January, it sold $1.25
billion of peso-denominated debt to global investors.  “There’s always appetite for Philippine sovereign debt,”
said  Scott Bennett , a  fund manager  in  Singapore  at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc, which oversees $287 billion globally.
“It’s been like that for years. The country continues to grow.
There’s a hiccup now because of higher inflation.”  Philippine dollar debt lost 2 percent in the past three
months, according to an index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in nine months in
February as oil and food prices climbed. Consumer prices
increased 4.3 percent from a year earlier, after a revised 3.6
percent gain in January, the  National Statistics Office  said in
Manila on March 4.  “There’s still some volatility in emerging markets and
with the right premium, they should be able to attract buyers,”
said Rachana Mehta, the Singapore-based head of fixed income at
KE Capital, a unit of Japan’s Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.  ‘Strong Demand’  The extra yield investors demand to own Philippine dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed four basis points to 150
yesterday. It has widened by 22 basis points since reaching this
year’s low of 128 on Jan. 5, according to the JPMorgan EMBI Plus
Philippines Sovereign Spread Index. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Banks have until March 11 to submit their offers, said the
official, who declined to be named because the details aren’t
public yet. The government still needs to get clearance from the
central bank, the official said. The Philippines last sold
dollar bonds in October when it raised $200 million as part of a
debt exchange.  “We would consider buying them as there’s been strong
demand for Philippine’” debt, said Esther Teo, a money manager
in  Kuala Lumpur  at HwangDBS Investment Management Bhd., which
manages about $3 billion of assets. “Valuation may be a bit
expensive after a rally in the past two years. I’m comfortable
with the Asian economic outlook as fundamentals are still
strong.”  The government also plans to sell yen-denominated bonds due
in 15 years and is in talks with  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  for a guarantee, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima
said on March 4.  The Philippines sold 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion) of 10-
year Samurai bonds in the first quarter of 2010, based on
official data. The nation has 50 billion yen of debt due in
December, data show. Samurai bonds are yen-denominated notes
sold in Japan by overseas borrowers.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  