-- 
Picasso’s Nude Outshone by Record $106.5 Million Price: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/picasso-s-nude-outshone-by-record-106-5-million-price-review.html
There is an invisible, you might
even say conceptual, addition to  Pablo Picasso ’s “Nude, Green
Leaves and Bust.” An enormous price tag reading “$106.5
million” might as much be hanging on the wall beside it.  That figure will be present in the minds of those
contemplating it at London’s  Tate Modern , where the piece has
gone on public display for the first time in decades.  For this is the work that fetched the highest sum ever bid
at auction (on May 4 last year at Christie’s International,  New
York ). Or, more simply, as I overheard a group of visitors
telling each other, “this is the world’s most expensive
painting!”  Of course, that is by no means the same thing as the
world’s best. It is evidence that at least two people (the
successful bidder, and the under-bidder), liked it a lot.  Previously, it was in the collection of Sidney and Frances
Brody of  Los Angeles , who bought it in 1951. It had been on
public exhibition just once, in 1961. Now its new, anonymous
owner has loaned it for about two years to Tate, starting from
this week.  So how does “Nude, Green Leaves and Bust” hold up? Well,
it is a fine Picasso. This is a grandly opulent picture, the
product of the artist’s erotic obsession with his mistress
Marie-Therese Walter. Her naked body reclines in front of her
own sculpted bust, the fruit on a plate in front rhyming
visually with her breasts.  Mistress Desire  The image hums with desire. John Richardson, Picasso’s
biographer and long-term friend, described it to me as “a
wonderful painting, a rich man’s picture with everything in it
but the kitchen sink. It’s filled with stuff, a little too much
so in a way.”  Yet “Nude,  Green Leaves  and Bust” isn’t as powerful as
“The Three Dancers” (otherwise known as “La Danse,” 1925,)
from the Tate’s own collection, displayed in the same room.  Nor, in Richardson’s opinion, is it quite as “remarkable”
as “Nude in Black Armchair,” which was painted the following
day, March 9, 1932. That picture -- in Richardson’s view
“simpler and to that extent probably better” -- also made a
substantial price, $45.1 million, when it was auctioned in
November 1999.  Since “Nude, Green Leaves and Bust” also represents a
day’s work by Picasso, it follows that in 48 hours he created
goods now worth more than $150 million, which may in itself be a
record of some kind.  Wynn’s Dream  A little more than a month before on Jan. 24, 1932, Picasso
painted “Le Reve” (“The Dream”), which casino owner Stephen A. Wynn offered for $139 million in a private sale in 2006.
There are other works by other artists, yet rarer, that might
conceivably come on the market. How high could the price of a
work of art go? $200 million? $500 million?  Some find such sensational sums distasteful. After the
Leonardo da Vinci “Cartoon” was bought by the U.K.’s National
Gallery for a then amazing 800,000 pounds (now $1.3 million) in
1962, the critic John Berger complained.  “It has acquired a new kind of impressiveness,” Berger
said. “Not because of what it shows -- not because of the
meaning of its image. It has become impressive, mysterious
because of its market value”.  Just at the moment, that’s true of “Nude, Green Leaves and
Bust.” For all that, not too many people remember the cost of
the Leonardo Cartoon, and 800,000 pounds doesn’t seem at all
amazing any more. After a while, the price is forgotten, and you
are just left again looking at the work.  Tate Modern, Bankside,  London , SE1 9TG. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/modern/  or +44-20-7887-8888.  The record Picasso is on view with two paintings from the
Tate collection, in a room entitled “Pablo Picasso: Convulsive
Beauty” in the “Poetry and Dream” section on Level 3.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 