-- 
Poland's Benchmark Rate Will Probably Reach 4.25% by June, Bratkowski Says

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-03-10T10:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/poland-main-rate-likely-to-reach-4-25-by-june-bratkowski-says.html
The Polish central bank will
probably raise the benchmark interest rate to a two-year high of
4.25 percent by the end of June to keep inflation in check,
Monetary Policy Council member Andrzej Bratkowski said.  It is “highly probable” that the  Narodowy Bank Polski 
will boost borrowing costs starting next month after policy
makers kept the seven-day  reference rate  unchanged at 3.75
percent on March 2, he said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.  The scope of an increase hinges on a March 16 wage report,
which may indicate further price pressure, Bratkowski said. The
January inflation rate rose to 3.8 percent, exceeding the 3.5
percent upper end of the central bank’s target range and hitting
the highest mark in 20 months.  We “have the problem of the inflation rate being above the
target, which requires a vigorous response,” Bratkowski said.
“The safest option would be two small hikes in the first half
of the year, starting in April, which would give us a cumulative
increase of 50 basis points over two or three months.”  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs
indicate rates may rise by 42 basis points in the next three
months, based on the difference between the three-month FRA and
the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles. Central
bank rates will rise by 25 basis points by June, according to
the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Global Pressure  Policy makers around the world are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
The  European Central Bank  may raise interest rates next month,
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 2.  “Bratkowski is a proponent of monetary tightening, so his
comments don’t increase the chance of an April rate increase,”
ING Bank Slaski said in a research note today. “Still, they
indicate the kind of pressure the global situation is exerting
on policy makers and domestic prices.”  The zloty weakened to 3.9930 per euro at 11:34 a.m., down
0.2 percent on the day, as Moody’s Investors Service decision to
cut  Spain ’s debt rating hurt investor appetite for risk.  Polish central bankers the same day refrained from raising
interest rates, saying growing unemployment, lagging investments
and slowing retail sales growth eased concerns that consumer
demand will stoke inflation.  ‘Fall Behind’  While there’s no evidence of price pressures from economic
growth, the fastest in more than two years at an annual 4.4
percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, interest rates should
rise before “this growth-generated pressure starts to appear”
as “otherwise, we’ll fall behind the curve,” Bratkowski said.  The central bank started raising interest rates with a
quarter-point increase from a record-low 3.5 percent, the first
since 2008. Poland was following Hungarian policy makers, who
started tightening its policy in November to tame inflation.  “We want a calm, gradual tightening cycle, because our
view is that stretching the increases out over time is more
appropriate given the external risks,” Bratkowski said. “On
thin ice, one needs to tread carefully, and the current external
situation qualifies as thin ice.”  Sending a Signal  The inflation rate rose to 3.8 percent in January, reaching
the highest in 20 months and exceeding the 3.5 percent upper end
of the central bank’s target range.  Companies boosted hiring in January by 3.8 percent from a
year earlier, the fastest pace since September 2008. At the same
time,  unemployment rate  rose in January to 10-month high of 13
percent and retail sales growth slowed to 5.8 percent from 12
percent in December.  With its decision to leave rates unchanged this month, The
Monetary Policy Council wanted to send a signal that it hasn’t
formed a “clear picture of what the future holds,” Bratkowski
said.  “The biggest dilemma is how to react to higher food and
fuel prices,” he said. “This is a demand shock on a global
scale, so we have to assume fast growth of food and fuel prices
may be a sustained phenomenon and last for years.”  “We need some sort of countermeasures instead of
tolerating higher inflation, even if it’s driven by energy
prices,” Bratkowski said. “Tolerating faster inflation is
justified on a temporary basis, but at the same time we need to
act to bring inflation back to the target in the medium term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  