-- 
Portugal Must Boost Investor Trust as Yields Rise, Ambassador to U.S. Says

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-03-09T00:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/portugal-must-boost-investor-trust-as-yields-rise-ambassador-to-u-s-says.html
  Portugal  must shore up investor
confidence by meeting deficit-reduction targets and spurring
economic growth, Nuno Brito, the country’s ambassador to the
U.S., said as the nation prepares to sell 1 billion euros ($1.39
billion) in debt with yields hovering close to record highs.  “One of our main tasks is to rebuild trust,” Brito, who
assumed his post last month, said in an interview at Bloomberg
News headquarters in New York yesterday. “We have no option but
to be overambitious.”  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield reached 7.636 percent on Feb.
10, the highest since at least 1997, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, as concern mounted the nation will need to follow
Greece and Ireland in requesting a bailout from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund . Portugal’s sale of up
to 1 billion euros of September 2013 notes today will be its
second debt auction this year.  Portugal’s credit rating has been downgraded twice by  Standard & Poor’s  during  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. The
rating company, which ranks Portugal at A-, its seventh worst
investment grade, placed the nation on a negative outlook Nov.
30, saying the government has made little progress on boosting
economic growth to offset the fiscal drag from scheduled 2011
budget cuts.  The Iberian nation’s 10-year bond yield has traded above 7
percent every day since Feb. 3. Greece, whose credit rating was
downgraded three levels by Moody’s Investors Service on March 7,
needed a rescue within 17 days of its 10-year yield breaching 7
percent in April, while Ireland lasted less than a month after
it cracked that level in October. Brito said Portugal is
structurally different from  Greece  and Ireland.  Wage Bill  Portugal is raising taxes and implementing the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades to convince investors
it can narrow its budget gap further and avoid a rescue.  “For the first time in 15 years, in January and February,
we decreased the public expenditure by 3.7 percent,” said
Basilio Horta, chief executive of Aicep Portugal Global, a
government-sponsored business development agency. “The
government took very important measures.”  The government is trimming the wage bill by 5 percent for
public-sector workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month,
freezing hiring and raising value-added  sales tax  by 2
percentage points to 23 percent to help narrow a deficit that
amounted to 9.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2009, the
fourth biggest in the euro area after Ireland, Greece and  Spain .  Portugal intends to sell as much as 20 billion euros of
bonds this year to finance its budget and cover the cost of
maturing debt. It faces no bond redemptions until April, with
repayments that month and in June worth about 9 billion euros.  Comprehensive Package  Moritz Kraemer, managing director of European sovereign
ratings at Standard & Poor’s, said yesterday in  London  that some
countries in the euro region may have their credit ratings cut
further and a default by Greece remains a possibility.  European Union policy makers intend to approve a
“comprehensive” package of measures at a March 24-25 summit in a
bid to restore confidence in bond markets. This may include
setting up a permanent rescue facility, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, which will take over the existing mechanism
after 2013.  Credit ratings of some euro-region countries, particularly
Greece and Portugal, will also depend on the outcome of the
summit, Kraemer said.  “Our concerns about features that we believe will be part of
it have to do with the preferred credit status effectively
subordinating senior bondholders, and also the possibility to
introduce conditionality for lending that would entail the
restructuring of commercial debt,” said Kraemer. “Both of those
we would consider bad news for bondholders.”  As a consequence, S&P “would consider downgrading ratings
of countries that are possible clients of the ESM after 2013,”
he said. “These countries, in the first instance, are Portugal
and Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  