-- 
Prada Gets My $1,500 While Poor Can Live in Envy: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-09T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/prada-gets-my-1-500-as-poor-can-live-in-envy-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
In the annals of fashionable
timing, Prada SpA’s trip to  Asia  deserves a mention.  It’s blowing off Milan and taking the largest initial
public offering of a family-owned Italian company since 2006 to
Hong Kong. The reason investors in Prada’s hometown must reach
5,800 miles away to buy the stock: Asia’s hot,  Europe ’s not.  It gets even better for Prada. The $2 billion IPO will hit
the investment catwalk just as Hong Kong plans to send checks to
scores of wealthy folks who don’t need the money. The city’s
ill-conceived plan to dole out HK$40.5 billion ($5.2 billion) in
cash and tax rebates will aid the Prada set more than the poor.
Hmmm, what’s Cantonese for “ka-ching,” I wonder?  Too bad the money isn’t being aimed at the other end of an
economy suffering from one of Asia’s worst rich-poor divides.
The government, desperate to bolster its credibility, is
engaging in a transparent and short-sighted effort to buy
support. Getting short shrift is worsening poverty and inflation
that’s the highest since 1997.  It’s all so  George W. Bush , circa 2001, and speaks to the
incompetence of a government investors tend to view as among the
most able around.  Hong Kong  must narrow the gap between the
obscenely wealthy and everyone else. It should use the money to
bolster the underfunded pensions of the less well-off and
provide more affordable housing, health care and education.  Instead, a good chunk of the spoils are going to those most
likely to head off to luxury shopping malls and swanky eateries.
Such instant gratification is hardly what an economy awash in
inequality and overheating risks needs.  Embarrassment of Riches  True, Hong Kong faces an embarrassment of riches. Its
reserves will probably rise this fiscal year to HK$591.6
billion, or 34 percent of gross domestic product. It will likely
have a surplus of HK$71.3 billion by the end of March.  Yet to paper over a crisis of political legitimacy, Hong
Kong’s leaders are spending the surplus rashly, just as former
President Bush did a decade ago. And how well did that work for
the U.S., which now is drowning in debt?  Hong Kong often is ranked as the world’s  freest economy 
thanks to its low taxes, unrestricted entry of foreign capital
and rule of law. Never mind that Hong Kong has a pegged
currency, the only state-backed Disney theme park, a leader
chosen in Beijing and an oligarchic economy, one towered over by  Li Ka-Shing  and a handful of fellow tycoons.  Hong Kong’s standing owes much to the conservativeness of
the government and its predictability on financial matters. Yet
the city’s bureaucracy is unimaginative and suffers from a
unique kind of moral hazard. Proximity to  China  has bred a
dangerous complacency. Why retool your economy when the 10
percent growth across the  Pearl River Delta  is all that matters?  Taxpayer Rebates  Incompetence looms large these days, and China knows it. In
December 2009, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told Hong Kong leader Donald Tsang to address “deep-rooted contradictions” in society. A
year later, Wen told him to improve  living standards .  Hong Kong plans to give HK$6,000 to permanent residents
aged 18 or more, and will give the 38 percent of the workforce
that pays income tax a 75 percent rebate capped at that level.  There are indeed some givebacks for low-income workers,
including a plan to waive two months’ rent for public-housing
tenants. It marks a surprising U-turn by the  government , which
had initially planned to give workers HK$6,000 each in their
pension accounts.  That, I would argue, was a better way to go. A household of
two adults would have had the feel-good factor of the equivalent
of getting about $1,500 U.S. dollars in their pension fund. Now,
that money is being sent out as cash to fan inflation and
benefit few but the Pradas and Loewe AGs out there.  Record Poverty  The number of Hong Kong’s 7 million people living in
poverty rose to a record 1.26 million in the first half of 2010,
from 1.2 million the prior year, according to the Hong Kong
Council of Social Service. Contrast that with a January Forbes
magazine report that the wealth of the city’s 40 richest people
grew 20 percent to $163 billion from $135 billion in 2010.  Bad governance isn’t confined to the economy. Take
uninspiring efforts to clean Hong Kong’s darkening skies. It
plans to ban idling engines to reduce vehicle emissions, a
victory for the 14-year battle to curtail smog. Then it
announced so many exemptions that it’s partly, well, hot air.  Most finance ministers would kill to be in Hong Kong’s
situation.  Timothy Geithner  in  Washington , Yoshihiko Noda in
Tokyo and  George Papaconstantinou  in  Athens  can only dream of
the balance sheet enjoyed by their Hong Kong counterpart.  Yet Hong Kong is taking steps that will do little to
prepare the economy for tomorrow and adding to an inflation rate
that may reach 4.5 percent this year.  Nice job, folks.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  