-- 
Princeton Beats Pennsylvania to Set Up NCAA Playoff With Harvard

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-03-09T05:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/princeton-beats-pennsylvania-to-set-up-ncaa-playoff-with-harvard.html
  Princeton University  captured a
share of the Ivy League men’s basketball title to set up a one-
game playoff with co-champion  Harvard University  that will
determine which team plays in the national tournament.  The Tigers and Crimson will meet March 12 at  Yale
University ’s John J. Lee Amphitheater in  New Haven ,  Connecticut ,
which is equidistant between their campuses. The teams split a
pair of games during the regular season.  “It’s 1-1 and it’s two good teams, and we’re both 12-2 and
we’re sharing this Ivy League championship,” Princeton captain
Dan Mavraides told reporters after a 70-58 win last night
against the  University of Pennsylvania . “It’s going to be a
great game.”  The meeting to decide who plays in the National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament will be the eighth tiebreaker in
the history of the  Ivy League , the only conference in college
basketball’s top division without a season-ending tournament.
Princeton has been a part of all of them, including in 2002 when
three schools finished atop the league.  Princeton has now won at least a share of the Ivy League
title a record 26 times, while Harvard is champion for the first
time in 100 years of trying. The Tigers (24-6) made the most
recent of their 23 appearances in the NCAA tournament in 2004.
Harvard (23-5) has qualified once, in 1946. Both teams went 12-2
in conference play this season.  Senior forward Kareem Maddox came off the bench to score 21
of his 23 points in the second half against Penn as Princeton
followed its lowest offensive first half (19 points) of the
season with its highest-scoring second half (51 points). Tyler
Bernardini led Penn with 18 points.  After the victory at The Palestra in Philadelphia, the
Tigers held their hands up and gathered with friends and family
near their bench as the Princeton marching band played “Old
Nassau,” the school’s alma mater.  NCAA Tournament Appearances  Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard, the top university
in U.S. News & World Report’s annual ranking, clinched at least
a share of the Ivy League title when it defeated Princeton 79-67
on March 5.  The Tigers defeated the Crimson 65-61 in their first
meeting this season, at Princeton’s Jadwin Gymnasium on Feb. 4.  After the loss at Harvard, Princeton coach Sydney Johnson
made his players sit on their bench and watch as Crimson fans
stormed the court -- creating a memory the Tigers likely will
relive as the playoff approaches.  “I didn’t want to embarrass anybody, neither players or
coaches, but we needed to see that when you get outworked, when
you get out-executed, when people want it more, they get to
celebrate,” Johnson said last night. “If you want to do
anything about it, you’re going to change your ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at The Palestra in Philadelphia at
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  