-- 
Prudential Plc Profit Rises Faster Than Estimated on Growth in Asia, U.S.

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T11:56:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/prudential-plc-profit-rises-faster-than-estimated-on-growth-in-asia-u-s-.html
Prudential Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, appeased investors who rejected last
year’s $35.5 billion bid for  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  by raising its
dividend 20 percent as 2010 profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Operating profit climbed to 1.94 billion pounds
($3.1 billion), beating the 1.74 billion-pound median estimate
of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the London-based insurer
said today. Prudential raised its full-year dividend to 23.9
pence a share.  “These numbers have beaten expectations on almost every
measure and show why Prudential didn’t need an expensive
acquisition in Asia,” said Jonathan Newman, a London-based
analyst at Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc, which manages about
23 billion pounds of assets including Prudential stock. “The
dividend increase sends a very strong signal about the direction
of the business.”  Chief Executive Officer  Tidjane Thiam , who took up the job
in October 2009, plans to squeeze more profit from the company’s
Asian units after an investor rebellion sunk his attempt to buy  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Asian unit last year. The
insurer uses profits generated from old U.K. policies expiring
to invest in 13 Asian economies, which Thiam says are the
world’s fastest-growing insurance markets.  The stock climbed 30 pence, or 4.2 percent, to 744 pence
at 11:16 a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about
18.9 billion pounds.  Asian Earnings  Operating profit in Asia increased 29 percent to
536 million pounds and earnings in the U.S. climbed 37 percent
to 855 million pounds. The group’s net income more than doubled
to 1.4 billion pounds.  “The 20 percent increase in the dividend is spectacular,
as is the turnaround in Asian cash generation,” said Kevin Ryan, a London-based analyst at Investec Plc with a “hold”
rating on Prudential.Thiam has “delivered a much better than
expected set of results, which should make investors happy.”  Prudential said in December it planned to double profit in  Asia  to 930 million pounds within the next two years from 2009
levels and that it would increase the cash generated from its
divisions in the U.K., the U.S. and Asia by at least 23 percent
in the same timeframe.  Dividend Rises  “The board has decided to raise our dividend 20 percent,
which is an exceptional move in the history of this company,
because we feel we have transformed the capacity of this company
to generate cash,” Thiam said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  The insurer increased profit by selling more policies to
consumers and fewer products to businesses and pension funds in
all three of its main regional markets, Thiam said on call with
reporters today. Reducing sales of bulk annuities in the U.K.
and increasing revenue from health insurance in Asia has
shortened products’ payback period, increased cash flow and
raised profit margins to 50 percent from 36 percent, he said.  Prudential’s U.K. division delivered more than half of the
group’s operating profit, while the U.S. unit had the fastest-
growing earnings.  “In the profit numbers there’s bias towards the U.S. and
the U.K., which seems to be at odds with the management’s focus
on the  Far East ,” Brewin Dolphin’s Newman said.    Baby Boomers   The insurer, which sells variable annuities to baby
boomers in the U.S., is taking advantage of competitors’
weakness following the financial crisis, Thiam said.  Baby boomers “control $7.6 trillion of assets, half
the wealth of the wealthiest country in the world,” he said.
“Our product is ideally placed for them. We are riding the
wave. 10,000 baby boomers will retire every day for the next
20 years.”  The rise in profit may trigger a 4.3 million-pound pay day
for the CEO, who is entitled to a bonus valued at 180 percent of
his 900,000-pound salary and long-term incentives of 300 percent
of his base pay.  “Although a CEO does many things, one of the things I
don’t do is set my remuneration,” Thiam said. “That’s for the
remuneration committee. It’s probably not a topic for today.”  Investors including Schroders Plc, Jupiter Asset Management
Ltd. and Neptune Investment Management Ltd. last year called for
Thiam and Chairman Harvey McGrath to resign after the bid for
AIA was halted by the Financial Services Authority. It cost the
company 284 million pounds in fees.    Prudential Plc (PRU)  is a separate company from Newark, New
Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  