-- 
Putin Studies Black Sea LNG Plant as Part of South Stream

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-09T16:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/putin-asks-ministry-to-examine-building-black-sea-lng-plant.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir
Putin  said the world’s largest natural gas exporter will study
building a plant to liquefy natural gas on the  Black Sea  as part
of the country’s  South Stream  project to ship fuel to  Europe .  The European Commission suggested shipments of LNG may be
an alternative as OAO Gazprom prepares to build the pipeline to
the European Union via the Black Sea, avoiding Ukraine and
Turkey, Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said today, according to
the Russian government  website . LNG is gas chilled to liquid
form for transit in tankers.  Price disputes with Ukraine, through which Russia ships
about 80 percent of its gas to Europe, led Gazprom to switch off
supply twice since 2006, disrupting flow to the region at the
height of winter.  Russia  plans to begin deliveries in October
via Nord Stream, a northern route to Europe via the  Baltic Sea ,
avoiding Belarus. Putin in 2005  called  the former Soviet states
through which Russia ships gas “parasites.”  “Putin is obsessed with his idea of ‘parasite-free’ gas
exports,” said Mikhail Korchemkin, head of East European Gas
Analysis, a Malvern, Pennsylvania-based industry consultant.
When it comes to Putin’s goal to free up access to European
markets, “money is no object,” he said.  The European Commission has not proposed an LNG terminal on
the Black Sea, Marlene Holzner, spokeswoman for energy at the
commission, said in an e-mail today.  “This was not discussed during the meeting between the
Russian government and the EU Commission in Brussels end of
February,” Holzner said.  Bosporus Route  Europe plans to build additional terminals to re-gasify
LNG, Shmatko said, citing the February summit. LNG transit costs
become equivalent to that of pipeline transit over distances
more than 2,500 kilometers (1,500 miles), Putin said today,
according to the website. The only sea route to Europe from the
Black Sea within that range is through the Bosporus Straits.  Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said Jan. 7 that the
volume of energy traffic through the Bosporus is already unsafe
for Istanbul’s population of 12 million. Turkish authorities are
consulting oil and shipping companies on ways to reduce traffic
and make bypass pipelines more economically feasible, he said.  “I am not sure about the economy of this idea, because
there aren’t many regional gas sources and it would have to be
pumped from West Siberia,” Artem Konchin, an oil and gas
analyst at Unicredit SpA, said by e-mail today. “At the same
time if the South Stream gets the final go-ahead, it would not
make much difference for them to deliver enough gas to supply
the plant and the pipeline.”  Rival Projects  Gazprom should give up the 63 billion-cubic-meter-a-year
pipeline plan in favor of a 12 billion-cubic-meter-a-year LNG
plant because the demand does not exist for all the pipeline
capacity Gazprom is building to Europe, Korchemkin said.  Russia’s South Stream project is competing with the
European Union-backed Nabucco project, which aims to deliver
Caspian gas to Europe via  Turkey , bypassing Russia. Azerbaijan
is also considering rival projects to supply Caspian gas to the
Georgian Black Sea coast to be liquefied or condensed and
transported to Bulgaria and  Romania .  “Black Sea LNG may be aimed at derailing the Azeri-
Georgia-Romania Interconnector,” Korchemkin said.  A Gazprom spokesman, who declined to be identified citing
company policy, wouldn’t comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/09/ :17 GMT 