-- 
Qaddafi's Son Declares Offensive as Libyan Rebels Flee Oil Hub Ras Lanuf

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-10T20:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/qaddafi-forces-strike-central-oil-ports-as-reward-posted-for-rebel-leader.html
Libyan rebels under fire fled a key
oil hub on the Mediterranean coast, as Muammar Qaddafi’s son
said government forces are mounting a full-scale attack and
Western countries will lose if they support the uprising.  Saif al-Islam, who has become a spokesman for his father,
said the government will never surrender to the rebels and that
the offensive is starting now.  “This is our country. We fight here in  Libya , we die here
in Libya,” he said at a press conference broadcast on Sky
television. “The Libyan people will never ever welcome NATO,
they will never ever welcome the Americans.”  Oil futures, which had risen to a 2 1/2-year high on the
conflict in Libya, pared early losses today following an
Associated Press report that Saudi Arabian police opened fire to
disperse protesters in the eastern city of al-Qatif. Crude oil
for April delivery declined $1.94 to $102.44 a barrel at 3:44
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil traded at about
$101.50 before reports of the gunfire.  Libyan Rebels in Ras Lanuf retreated today under air and
artillery fire from Qaddafi’s forces, Al-Jazeera showed in a
 broadcast  from the coastal city that is home to Libyan Emirates
Oil Refinery Co. Black smoke billowed from an oil depot nearby.  In  Washington , the director of the U.S. Defense
Intelligence Agency, Army Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess,
said the momentum in the fighting, initially with the rebels,
has shifted to Qaddafi’s forces. The U.S. director of national
intelligence, James Clapper, said Qaddafi “will prevail” if
the fighting goes on for a longer time.  “Local doctors have seen a sharp increase in the number of
casualties arriving at hospitals,” International Committee of
the Red Cross President Jakob Kellenberger said today in a 
statement  from Geneva. Twenty-two people have died and 40 have
been treated for wounds in the western city of Misrata and Red
Cross doctors have operated on another 55 casualties in the
northeastern town of Ajdabiya, he said.  Diplomatic Recognition  The rebels’ setback occurred as their leaders won French
diplomatic recognition for the Interim Transitional National
Council in a meeting in Paris with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who plans to send an ambassador to the opposition
stronghold of Benghazi. Libya may suspend ties with France,
state television reported after the announcement.  The rebels also were promised a meeting with U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  next week when she visits France, Egypt
and  Tunisia .  Sarkozy may propose to European leaders at a summit
tomorrow that Qaddafi installations be bombed, Agence France-
Presse reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
plans. Targets could include command centers in Tripoli and
military bases to the east and south, the agency said.  Casualties  More than 400 people have been killed and 2,000 wounded in
fighting in eastern Libya since Feb. 17, a member of the
insurgents’ provisional health committee told reporters
yesterday in Benghazi. The official, Gebril Hewadi, said the
dead include 350 civilians and 50 rebel fighters, according to
regional hospitals. The number of people missing is still
unknown, he said.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization defense ministers sought
to overcome differences about establishing a no-fly zone when
they met today in Brussels. While countries such as the U.K. and  France  have urged NATO allies to consider the proposal, which
would prevent Qaddafi’s forces from mounting air attacks on the
rebels, the U.S. has been less enthusiastic, and Germany and
other nations have expressed concern about the consequences.  “We don’t want to get sucked into a war in North Africa,”
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in
Brussels before a meeting of European Union foreign ministers.  Legal Basis  NATO needs a legal basis from the  United Nations  and the
backing of Arab states before it could impose any no-fly zone,
alliance Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters
in Brussels.  Libya’s air defense system is “quite substantial” and is
the second largest in the Middle East, Clapper said today in
Washington before the Senate Armed Services Committee. He said
Qaddafi’s forces have a logistical advantage over the rebels.  Burgess told the committee that the fighting has “reached
a state of equilibrium where the initiative, if you will, may
actually be on the regime side at this time.”  Sen.  Joe Lieberman  said in response that survival of
Qaddafi’s regime “would be a very bad outcome.” The U.S. might
help the rebels with such measures as a no-fly zone, jamming
regime communications, giving intelligence to the rebels and
“perhaps supplying them with weapons,” he said.  Somalia Scenario  Clapper said other possible outcomes include something like
the “pre-Qaddafi, pre-king history of Libya” in which there
are three semi-autonomous mini-states -- one based around
Tripoli, one around rebel-controlled Benghazi and one in other
tribal areas. “Or you could end up with a Somalia-like
situation,” he added.  Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, said the U.S. has an
interest not only in the humanitarian crisis in Libya but also
“we don’t want it to end up as a base like Somalia for anti-
American Islamist terrorism.” He called for the Obama
administration to follow France in recognizing the rebel’s
opposition government.  Qaddafi’s son said Libya was freeing three Dutch marines
who had been captured during an evacuation mission near the
coastal city of Sirte last month.“We are sending them back home
but we are still keeping their helicopter,” he said.  Oil Facilities  Mustafa Gheriani, media coordinator for the rebels in
Benghazi, said yesterday that Qaddafi’s forces fired missiles
against the oil pipeline that goes to Gulf of Sidra and against
the Ras Lanuf port.  Ras Lanuf has a tanker terminal that has exported 200,000
barrels a day, as well as Libya’s biggest refinery, with a
capacity of 220,000 barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . The Sidra terminal exported 450,000
barrels a day as recently as January, according to the IEA.
Together, the two ports account for 43 percent of exports in
January,  according to the IEA .  The Ras Lanuf refinery was shut and its employees fled
because of the fighting, an official from the Libyan Emirates
Oil Refining Co. said yesterday. He spoke before reports of a
raid on the facility and calls to his office later weren’t
answered.  The oil tanker Frankopan departed empty from Brega, another
port on the Gulf of Sidra close to the center of the conflict,
because there was no crude to collect, said Dragan Gacina,
marketing manager at Zadar, Croatia-based Tankerska Plovidba,
the vessel’s owner, by phone today.  Journalists Barred  Qaddafi’s government took Western journalists late
yesterday to a stadium on the outskirts of Zawiyah where regime
supporters waved flags amid fireworks, the AP said. Authorities
refused to let the journalists visit the central square where
insurgents had been resisting Qaddafi’s forces seeking to regain
control of the town, the AP said. Zawiyah was the closest city
to the capital, Tripoli, to fall under rebel control.  The EU, U.S. and other countries have frozen the assets of
Qaddafi and his associates held outside Libya.  Germany  has
frozen Libyan bank assets worth “billions,” Economy Minister
Rainer Bruederle said today. The EU is “in the process” of
widening sanctions to include organizations controlled by
Qaddafi as well as individuals, the bloc’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , said yesterday.  Regional Turmoil  The Libyan uprising followed popular protest movements that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak . There have also been anti-government
demonstrations across the region.  Yemeni protesters today rejected a plan announced by
President Ali Abdullah Saleh for a new constitution leading to
an elected government, and insisted the president should quit
immediately.  In  Saudi Arabia , where protests are prohibited, Foreign
Minister Saud al-Faisal called yesterday for “dialogue” to
deal with the complaints of the Shiite minority, who mostly live
in the oil-rich eastern part of the kingdom.  Gulf Cooperation Council countries, including Saudi Arabia,
agreed to set up a fund worth more than $10 billion to help two
of the group’s six members, Oman and Bahrain, Kuwait’s Foreign
minister Sheikh Mohammad Al-Sabah said. In both countries,
demonstrators calling for more democracy and higher  living
standards  have been killed in clashes with security forces.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  