-- 
Qaddafi Forces Strike Oil Ports to Halt Rebels' Advance

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-03-09T17:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/qaddafi-s-forces-hit-rebel-fighters-as-obama-cameron-consider-no-fly-zone.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s forces carried out
air and artillery strikes on central oil ports to halt a rebel
advance along the coast, while stepping up attacks on towns in
the west that have risen up against him.  Troops were within 20 kilometers (12 miles) of Ras Lanuf,
the western-most town in opposition hands, the  Associated Press 
said. Warplanes sent from Qaddafi’s home region of Sirte struck
the Ras Lanuf refinery, the country’s largest, Al Jazeera
television said. Libya’s state broadcaster blamed damage in the
town on retreating rebels. Most of the port of Sidra was
destroyed and an oil terminal was hit, Al Jazeera said.  Qaddafi “lost control of most of the export outlets when
the opposition gained ground in the first week of the uprising.
Now he is trying to take back control,” Samuel Ciszuk, senior
Middle East energy analyst at IHS Global Insight in London, said
today in a phone interview. “If you have a stalemate with
nobody controlling any of these facilities, there won’t be any
oil exports or revenues.”  The U.S. and its allies are debating ways to stop Qaddafi’s
attacks. President  Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  agreed to plan a “full spectrum of possible
responses,” including the imposition of a no-fly zone. Rebel
leaders say that the grounding of Qaddafi’s planes will help
them win the war and end his regime, and the proposal also won
backing from Arab nations.  Call for Recognition  Kuwait’s parliament today urged Arab nations to recognize
the rebels’ Interim Transitional National Council as Libya’s
legitimate government, and withdraw recognition from Qaddafi’s
regime.  Qaddafi’s military sealed off and bombarded Zawiyah, about
45 kilometers west of the capital, Tripoli, and the nearest city
to fall to the rebels, the AP said. At Bin Jawad, about halfway
along the coast, air strikes and rocket barrages stopped the
rebels, who pulled back from the town.  The conflict in  Libya  began as a popular protest movement
against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule, of the kind that has swept
across North  Africa  and the Middle East this year. It has
evolved into a civil war between armed camps after sections of
Libya’s army deserted to the rebels. Libya’s oil output has
dropped by about 1 million barrels a day, the  International
Energy Agency  said. The conflict in the country that holds
Africa’s largest reserves has pushed  oil prices  up more than 20
percent.  Crude Rises  Crude increased as action by Qaddafi’s forces bolstered
concern that the conflict will persist, further disrupting the
country’s oil shipments. Crude for April delivery rose 58 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to $105.60 a barrel at 9:19 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures are up 30 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude  for April delivery increased $1.33, or 1.2 percent,
to $114.39 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch increased its forecast for
Brent crude by $36 a barrel and said prices could “briefly”
surge above $140 a barrel in the second quarter.  Qaddafi said Western nations are waging a campaign against
Libya to control its oil. In a recorded speech aired today on
state television, he called on people in the eastern city of
Benghazi, the rebels’ stronghold, to “liberate” themselves
from the “traitors” forming the opposition’s ruling council
and from Islamist fighters from  Afghanistan ,  Egypt  and  Algeria 
who he blamed for the uprising.  In a separate interview with  Turkey ’s state broadcaster TRT
shown today, Qaddafi threatened to form an alliance with al-
Qaeda, which he accuses of fomenting the revolt in Libya, and
disrupting Mediterranean shipping if Western nations take action
against his regime.  Flight to Egypt  Libyan Major General Abdul-Rahman bin Ali al-Saiid al-Zawi,
the head of the country’s logistics and supply authority, flew
to Cairo today with a message from Qaddafi and asked to meet
Egypt’s military rulers, the AP reported, citing an Egyptian
army official who spoke on condition of anonymity. No further
details were immediately available, the news service said.  Rebel leaders in Benghazi, on the eastern end of the Gulf
of Sidra, said their supporters are still fighting in Zawiyah,
and that the offensive westward along the coast will resume.
While Qaddafi’s military has made forays into Zawiyah, they
haven’t taken control, Mustafa Gheriani, a spokesman for the
anti-Qaddafi rebel fighters, said yesterday in an interview in
Benghazi.  ‘Terrorist Gang’  State television, citing an unidentified person in
Qaddafi’s military, said the “cities in which there are
terrorist gangs” are now under army control, with the exception
of “some of the gang members” who have barricaded themselves
into their houses.  Opposition forces will seek to recapture Bin Jawad after
withdrawing from it to Ras Lanuf in the face of reinforced
government troops, said Khaled el-Sayeh, a coordinator between
the fighters and their ruling council.  Ras Lanuf, which has a tanker terminal in addition to the
refinery, has been under sporadic air and artillery bombardment
since it was seized by the insurgents last week. Several people
were injured in yesterday’s strikes and the city’s water supply
was cut off after storage tanks were bombed, Mohamed el
Megaryef, a resident of the city, said by phone.  The Ras Lanuf refinery was shut and its employees fled
because of the fighting, an official from the Libyan Emirates
Oil Refining Co. said today. He spoke before reports of a raid
on the facility and calls to his office later weren’t answered.  Talks Rejected  Abdulhafid Ghoga, a spokesman for the opposition council in
Benghazi, said yesterday that the  United Nations  should impose a
no-fly zone that would “stop the carnage” and enable the
rebels to “liberate the other cities, including Tripoli.” The
rebels have rejected negotiations with Qaddafi, who has also
ruled out talks.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said a no-fly zone
would need international support, and that the decision should
be made by the UN not the U.S. Hussein Hassouna, the Arab League
envoy to the U.S., said in an interview yesterday that the
proposal has Arab support and should be imposed within a week.  The issue of a no-fly zone over Libya will be discussed at
a meeting of North Atlantic Treaty Organization defense
ministers in Brussels beginning tomorrow, as well as at a summit
of European Union leaders the next day.  ‘Political Dimension’  “The military capacity is less important right now than
the political dimension,” Bastian Giegerich, a consulting fellow
at the London-based International Institute for Strategic
Studies, said by phone today. “It’s the political dimension
which is difficult.”  While the U.K. and France “could take the lead on the
political level,” he said, “in terms of military capacity, a lot
would have to come from the U.S.”  Cameron and Obama agreed yesterday to plan for “every
eventuality” in Libya and work on a  UN Security Council 
resolution, the British prime minister told Parliament in  London 
today without giving details. The two leaders also discussed
humanitarian aid, according to the White House.  A convoy of World Food Programme trucks carrying 70 tons of
high-energy date bars entered Libya from Egypt yesterday and
headed for Benghazi. It’s the first UN humanitarian operation
inside Libya, and part of plans to provide food to 1 million
people displaced or deprived by the conflict over the next three
months.  Assets Frozen  The EU Union and the U.S. have frozen the overseas assets
of Qaddafi and his associates, and the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
said today it will implement “targeted financial sanctions
against certain key persons” linked to the regime. The EU is
“in the process” of widening sanctions to include
organizations controlled by Qaddafi as well as individuals, the
bloc’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , said today.  The Financial Times reported that Libya’s central bank
governor, Farhat Omer Bengdara, who has been missing for two
weeks and may be one of the few Libyan officials authorized to
transfer funds, is in Istanbul and it’s not clear where his
loyalties lie.  The Libyan uprising followed popular protest movements that
ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak. There have also been anti-government
demonstrations in Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan, Algeria,  Iran , Iraq
and Oman, calling for moves toward democracy, action to improve
living standards, and the removal of autocratic leaders who have
held power for decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Benghazi at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 