-- 
Quake Hits Japan, Shaking Tokyo Buildings; Tsunami Alert Issued

-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-03-09T04:41:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/quake-hits-japan-shaking-tokyo-buildings-tsunami-alert-issued.html
A 7.3-magnitude earthquake struck
off the coast of northern Japan, shaking buildings as far away
as Tokyo. A tsunami warning was issued for the Pacific coast,
the  Japan Meteorological Agency   said  on its website.  The quake struck at 11:45 a.m. local time about 210
kilometers (130 miles), east of the city of Sendai, at a depth
of 8 kilometers, the agency said. There were no immediate
reports of damage or casualties.  A tsunami alert was issued for coastal areas stretching
from near the city of Iwaki to the northern tip of Honshu,
Japan’s most populous island, the weather agency said. A wave of
about 60 centimeters was observed at Ofunato port, north of
Sendai, national broadcaster NHK Television  said .  Sendai has a population of 1 million and is located about
300 kilometers north of Tokyo. Japan experiences about one-fifth
of the world’s earthquakes annually.  Bullet train services in northern Honshu restarted after
they were halted following the quake, East Japan Railway Co.
 said  on its website.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.,  Asia ’s largest utility, had no
damage at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi and Fukushima Dai-Ni nuclear
power plants in northern Japan after the earthquake, spokesman
Tetsuo Takahashi said by phone from Tokyo today.  Tohoku Electric Power Co.’s Onagawa nuclear power station
also wasn’t damaged, according to spokesman Masumi Nakatsuyama.  JX Nippon Oil and Energy Corp.’s Sendai refinery maintained
normal operations after the quake, said a company spokeswoman
who declined to be identified, citing company policy. The
country’s largest refiner continued oil product shipments from
the refinery, which produces 145,000 barrels a day, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 