-- 
U.K. Trade Deficit Narrows More Than Forecast as Exports Surge to a Record

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T10:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/trade-deficit-narrows-more-than-forecast-in-january-as-exports-hit-record.html
The U.K. trade deficit narrowed more
than economists forecast in January as exports surged to a
record and imports of aircraft declined.  The goods  trade gap  shrank to 7.06 billion pounds ($11.4
billion) from a record 9.69 billion pounds in December, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . The deficit
is the smallest in 11 months and compared with the 8.5 billion-
pound median forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Exports rose 5.4 percent and imports fell 4 percent.  Bank of England officials are counting on manufacturers
benefiting from the weakness of the pound, which has fallen by
about 23 percent since the start of 2007 on a trade-weighted
basis. Still, the trade gap has suffered as a surge in commodity
prices boosted import costs. Policy makers will probably hold
the key interest rate at 0.5 percent tomorrow as they debate the
risks from inflation that’s double their 2 percent target.  “There are some positives, but I would be hesitant to go
overboard and say the figures are great and the U.K. economy’s
rebalancing is completely on track,” said  Philip Shaw , an
economist at Investec Securities in London. “Exporters should
benefit from the pound’s weakness, but the pickup in some of the
main export markets has been less than expected.”  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the
report and was up 0.2 percent at $1.6187 as of 9:34 a.m.  Export Record  The goods trade gap had widened to a record in December as
aircraft imports surged before the government introduced a tax
change. In January, the decline in imports was led by aircraft.  Goods exports rose to 25.1 billion pounds in January, while
import slipped to 32.2 billion pounds, the statistics office
said. Food and drink exports and oil exports rose to a record.
Overseas sales of intermediate goods, such as machine
components, also gained. The monthly goods series began in 1980.  The total trade deficit narrowed to 2.95 billion pounds in
January from 5.48 billion pounds in December, the statistics
office said.  Britain’s trade deficit with non-European Union countries
narrowed to 4.17 billion pounds in January. The gap with EU
nations also narrowed, falling to 2.88 billion pounds.  BOE Meeting    Bank of England  officials start their two-day policy
meeting today, with all 61 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecasting that they will leave the benchmark interest rate
unchanged. Deputy Governor Charles Bean said last week that the
“substantial depreciation of sterling should, over time, help
to boost the contribution of net exports to U.K. growth.”  “We have seen some of the fruits of that in the robust
performance of manufacturing over the past year,” he said.  A U.K. index of factory orders rose in February as a
measure of exports advanced to its highest since 1995, the  Confederation of British Industry  said on Feb. 17.  Cobham Plc (COB) ,
the world’s largest maker of airborne-refueling gear, said on
March 3 that full-year profit rose 3.7 percent. It also said it
sees “challenges” in some of its defense, aerospace and
commercial markets as uncertainty over U.S. government spending
clouds the outlook.  The British Chambers of Commerce and U.K. consultancy
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP cut their outlook for 2011 economic
growth this week and said the Bank of England should postpone
rate increases. Both groups forecast the economy will grow 1.4
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  