-- 
Rajaratnam's Team Has Hollywood Pedigree; Jury Pool Has Excuses

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-03-09T17:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/rajaratnam-s-team-has-hollywood-pedigree-jury-pool-has-excuses.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s defense team should
play up their client’s lack of intent during his insider-trading
trial, now entering its second day, according to a jury expert
not involved in the case.  “This whole case is about what Mr. Rajaratnam intended at
the time, what he believed, what he knew,” Julie Blackman, a
principal at trial-strategy firm Julie Blackman & Associates
LLC, told Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop”
today. Opening arguments are set to begin today.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers won’t say if they’re using a
consultant to help them select a jury. Asked yesterday whether
he had brought in a jury expert,  John Dowd , lead lawyer for the
co-founder of hedge fund Galleon Group LLC, raised his eyebrows
and almost looked insulted.  Jim McCarthy , Rajaratnam’s
spokesman, declined to comment.  “If he was not intending to commit a crime, he should be
found not guilty,” said Blackman, a social psychologist whose
clients have included  Martha Stewart  and Leona Helmsley, both of
whom were convicted.  Meet John Dowd  The defense team has also had its share of high-profile
cases. Dowd, a 69-year-old ex-Marine, represented U.S. Senator  John McCain  in the “Keating Five” scandal more than two decades
ago and led the gambling probe of Pete Rose on behalf of  Major
League Baseball . The Internet Movie Database says Bob Zany
portrayed Dowd in “ The Informant! ” -- Steven Soderbergh’s 2009
film about price fixing at Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.    William White , another Rajaratnam attorney, was part of a
team of lawyers at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP and other
firms who helped win the freedom or full pardons for 38 black
people wrongly convicted of cocaine-dealing in Tulia,  Texas . The
lawyers’ efforts were described in Nate Blakeslee’s 2005 book
“Tulia: Race, Cocaine, and Corruption in a Small Texas Town.”  For his work battling the racially driven prosecutions,
White and other lawyers were finalists for the 2004 Trial Lawyer
of the Year Award presented by the Trial Lawyers for Public
Justice, according to the Akin Gump  website .  The biography of White distributed by Rajaratnam’s
spokesman yesterday doesn’t mention Tulia. It says White has
“led or had a senior role in leading dozens of high-profile
securities matters.”  White was a “well-fed, well-paid securities lawyer” with
“impressive” investigative credentials, Blakeslee wrote. Those
credentials will be put to the test starting tomorrow.  Excuse Me  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  spent two days
listening to potential jurors explain why they should be excused
from the case, which may last 10 weeks.  A transcript of the exchanges, most of which took place at
sidebars out of the earshot of reporters, reveals how some
citizens sought their release.  One cited his 30-year friendship with Al Sharpton, the
civil rights activist. He also said he has a lawsuit against the
late Percy Sutton, a former  Manhattan  borough president.  “It’s been eating away at me,” he said of the lawsuit.  Another told Holwell that he pleaded guilty to receiving
stolen property while in college.  “It was a street sign that was in my room, and they threw
as much of the book as they could at me,” the prospective juror
said.  Two people were excused based on how they described their
attitudes toward the rich. One said “the effect of the recession
on himself and his family” would affect his ability to serve on
the jury, Holwell said after letting the jury pool go yesterday.  ‘One to Go’  Not every exchange was serious, and Holwell has allowed his
sense of humor to seep into the proceedings.  “One tuition down, one to go,” Holwell told a potential
panelist whose child had recently graduated from school.  When another possible juror said “Judge Judy” was among her
favorite television shows, the judge smiled under his bushy
mustache and gave the chuckling gallery a look of feigned
surprise worthy of  David Letterman .  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 