-- 
Rajaratnam Defense Lawyer Says U.S. `Has It Wrong' in Galleon Insider Case

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-09T22:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/rajaratnam-defense-lawyer-says-u-s-has-it-wrong-in-galleon-insider-case.html
Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of the
Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, relied on newspaper articles,
research reports and his company’s own analysis for information
to make stock trades, not insider tips, his lawyer said at the
opening of his criminal trial.  Earlier today a prosecutor accused Rajaratnam of “greed”
and said he “exploited a corrupt network of people” to earn
millions of dollars in illegal profits. Among Rajaratnam’s
sources were Rajat Gupta, a former managing partner at McKinsey
& Co. and a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board member,
prosecutors said.  “The government has it wrong,” defense attorney  John Dowd , of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, told jurors.
Prosecutors, who used wiretaps to build their case, focused on
“snippets” of conversations and “didn’t do their homework,”
he said.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
investigation of hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The
Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million
from confidential information leaked by corporate insiders and
hedge-fund traders. Rajaratnam, a billionaire, may spend as long
as 20 years in prison if convicted of fraud.  Dowd’s opening statement is the most detail he has provided
yet about Rajaratnam’s trades.  Expert Analysis  Dowd told jurors that Rajaratnam’s firm “conducted the best
research” in the business, had the benefit of expert analysis,
and reached decisions “based only on public information.”  “He assembled a mosaic of information and did his own
calculations,” Dowd said after outlining for jurors how
Rajaratnam -- or “Raj, to his friends” -- launched Galleon after
emigrating to the U.S.  It’s “natural” for “people like Raj” to develop
information, Dowd said. “Talking to corporate executives is what
Raj did for a living,” Dowd said. “It’s what investors hired him
to do.”  Dowd said the stock trades at issue in this case are just a
“tiny percentage” of the billions of dollars of trades that
Galleon did each year.  “The information Raj gathered was
available to anyone willing to work hard,” he said. Galleon
“hired professional research consultants” and its traders
“questioned executives from companies themselves,” he said.  “They would analyze company’s published statements and
regulatory filings,” as part of “exhaustive research,” Dowd
said. “The evidence will show that Raj did not cheat.”  Listen for Context  A critical piece of the government’s evidence is secret
government wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s phone calls. Those taps will
show Rajaratnam talking about “his work, the buying and selling
of stocks,” Dowd said. He said prosecutors will rely on
“snippets” of these conversations to try to prove their case.  “Listen for the context of these conversations,” Dowd told
jurors.  Dowd assailed the government’s witnesses, saying they’re
lying to “save their own skins.”  Dowd used most of his opening to offer detailed
explanations for Rajaratnam’s stock trades. He said, for
instance, that Rajaratnam was “building a long position” in one
stock long before he allegedly got the illegal tip. News of
impending layoffs by  eBay Inc. (EBAY) , another stock where Rajaratnam
is alleged to have traded illegally, had been public before he
received another alleged tip, Dowd said.  “The whole world knew Hilton” was for sale, Dowd said,
referring to Hilton Hotels Corp., another stock at issue in the
case.  Stocks at Issue  One by one, Dowd went through stocks at issue -- Marvell
Technology Group,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , ATI Technologies Inc, Polycom
Inc. and many more. Reading from a script, he explained
Rajaratnam’s reason for trading in many of the stocks in the
case.  The lawyer assailed many of the prosecution’s witnesses,
saying they’re lying to save themselves from jail. For instance,
Anil Kumar, a former McKinsey partner, was caught defrauding his
partners and cheating on his taxes and is now testifying only to
save himself from prison, Dowd said.  Payments that Rajaratnam made to Kumar was for Kumar’s
legitimate research on the Indian and South Asian stock markets,
Dowd said. Kumar didn’t share those payments with his McKinsey
partners, Dowd said.  Hedge Fund Trader  Dowd took aim at hedge fund trader Danielle Chiesi, who was
captured on wiretaps leaking what prosecutors said was inside
information that she received from Hector Ruiz, then the
chairman of Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  Chiesi was all “talk, gossip and exaggeration,” which she
used to “impress others and insinuate herself” into
transactions, Dowd said. She didn’t understand what company
executives were telling her and she never passed inside
information, he said.  Rajaratnam had legitimate reasons to trade in Goldman Sachs
shares and wasn’t tipped by former Goldman board member  Rajat Gupta , the lawyer told jurors. On Sept. 23, a Washington
consulting firm that Galleon had hired told Rajaratnam that the
U.S. Troubled Assets Relief Program would be enacted into law
and result in a large payment to Goldman Sachs, Dowd said.  That was the reason Rajaratnam bought shares, and not
because Gupta told him that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. was buying
into the firm.  Public Sources  Weeks later, Rajaratnam chose to sell Goldman Sachs shares
after reading in a newspaper about bank layoffs and learning
from public sources that a Chinese bank in which Galleon had
invested had lost $1 billion.  “That’s why he sold,” and not because of a Gupta tip, Dowd
said.  Other trades were based on Galleon research, he said.  Earlier, assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter told
jurors that they’ll hear Rajaratnam committing crimes in “real
time” as they listen to secret government wiretaps of
Rajaratnam’s telephone conversations.  Rajaratnam told his accomplices to “trade stocks in a way
that would hide” their  insider trading  and to “create a paper
trail” that would conceal the illegal tips, Streeter said.  Rajaratnam “knew tomorrow’s business news today” because
he had inside information, Streeter said. “The sources of his
secret information were as different as his investments.”  Friend at McKinsey  Streeter said Rajaratnam got inside information from “a
board member at a public company,” “from his own employees,”
and from outside consultants including Anil Kumar, a longtime
friend who had gone to work for McKinsey & Co., Streeter said.  “The evidence will show that at Galleon, people did their
homework but they cheated too,” Streeter said. “At Galleon,
people did legitimate research, but they cheated too and that
cheating is called insider trading.”  Also today, U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  completed
the selection of a panel of jurors who will sit in judgment for
the next two-to-three months. Rajaratnam faces five counts of
conspiracy to commit insider trading and nine counts of  securities fraud .  Witness testimony is likely to begin tomorrow.  Federal prosecutors in  Manhattan  have announced charges
against more than three dozen traders, corporate insiders,
expert networking consultants and lawyers since Rajaratnam’s
arrest in October 2009. The investigation may last another two
years, prosecutors have said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 