-- 
Teachers, Retirees Are Among Those Picked for Rajaratnam Jury

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/rajaratnam-jury-includes-teachers-band-member-fed-worker-1-.html
Teachers, retirees, municipal
workers, a Federal Reserve employee were among the 18 jurors
chosen to consider insider-trading charges against  Raj Rajaratnam , co-founder of hedge fund Galleon Group LLC.  The panel also includes an unemployed 35-year-old whose
band, he said, could really use a drummer.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in Manhattan swore in
12 jurors and six alternates yesterday for a trial he said may
last 2 1/2 months. The panel was chosen from a pool of about 300
from New York City and surrounding counties who answered
questions about their backgrounds for a day and a half.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in a nationwide
investigation of hedge-fund insider trading that has implicated
technology companies, banks and consultants. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from confidential
information leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders.
He may spend as long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  The  New York  hedge fund manager has denied wrongdoing,
arguing that investment advisers routinely speak to company
insiders as part of their research on companies. The jurors, who
were identified by number only, heard opening statements
yesterday.  Juror 1, 49, said he works as a station agent for the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  and lives with his wife
and daughters.  Juror 2, 70, a retired bookkeeper with past criminal jury
experience, said she was briefly a volunteer with the Israeli
Defense Forces. She watches “Two and a Half Men.”  ‘True Blood’  Juror 3, a 27-year-old Bronx woman, told Holwell that she’s
an activities therapist for a private nursing home. She said she
enjoys family trips and watching the programs “True Blood” and
“Grey’s Anatomy.”  Juror 4, 49, a woman who lives in East Harlem, has worked
in food service for the city’s Board of Education for 31 years
and likes watching television, particularly soap operas, she
said. Her education is through the 11th grade, she said.  Juror 5, a 61-year-old nurse, lives in Westchester County
and has a son in the Navy, she said. The juror has three years
of college and doesn’t read newspapers. She said she babysits
her grandchildren in her spare time.  Juror 6, 52, who is also from Westchester County and works
for the New Jersey Board of Education, said she is a fan of  Oprah Winfrey .  Juror 7, 68, lives alone in Manhattan, reads the New York
Daily News and watches “The Late Show” with  David Letterman  on
television, he told the judge. He said he works as a receiving
clerk and attended school to the eighth grade.  Juror 8, a 46-year-old woman from the Bronx, teaches blind
and visually impaired children, she said. She likes reality
television shows and loves baseball, she said.  ‘Basic Guy Stuff’  Juror 9 is a 56-year-old graphic artist working for Apple
Inc. He moved to the Bronx after living about eight blocks from
the downtown Manhattan courthouse. His favorite television shows
include “Man v. Food” and sports programs on the ESPN network,
what he called “the basic guy stuff.”  Juror 10, 48, a man from the Riverdale section of the
Bronx, said he works for the  New York City  Administration for
Children’s Services.  Juror 11, 53, a lifelong resident of Westchester County,
said she has worked for Verizon Communications Inc. for 31
years. She watches “Oprah,” “Dateline” and “America’s Most
Wanted,” she told Holwell.  Five Newspapers  Juror 12, a 55-year-old Manhattan resident, works as a
customer service representative for the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority. He said he is active in his church and
is a bird watcher. He reads five newspapers, and has a
bachelor’s degree in business administration, he said.  The alternate jurors include a science teacher from the
Bronx, a New York City teacher who lives in Westchester County
and restores churches, a Parks Department foreman who lives in  Mount Vernon , a school aide from the Bronx, and an information
technology specialist for the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Alternate juror 6 told Holwell he is unemployed and lives
in Harlem with his girlfriend and two roommates. He has a
bachelor’s degree in English and has held temporary jobs at the  American Stock Exchange  and NASDAQ. He said he enjoys reading
and video games and belongs to a band that’s looking for a
drummer.  In college in the early 1990s, he was charged with a
misdemeanor for receiving stolen property and pleaded guilty, he
said.  “It was a street sign that was in my room and they threw
as much of the book as they could at me, but I got away from
it,” he told Holwell.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 