-- 
Rajaratnam Trial Offers U.S. Chance to `Test Drive' Gupta Insider Evidence

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-09T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/rajaratnam-trial-offers-u-s-chance-to-test-drive-gupta-insider-evidence.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s insider-trading
trial may serve as a dry run for a regulatory case against one
of his alleged tippers,  Rajat Gupta , a former director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   The criminal and civil cases of the longtime business
partners -- based partly on a phone conversation between them
wiretapped by the FBI -- were described by a Securities and
Exchange Commission lawyer in federal court in Manhattan last
week as mirror images of each other, according to a transcript
of the hearing.  “The U.S. Attorney’s Office has charged that Mr.
Rajaratnam received illegal tips from Mr. Gupta,” George Canellos, director of the SEC’s New York office, told the judge
in Rajaratnam’s criminal case on Feb. 28 in a confidential
proceeding that was later unsealed. “We’re charging that Mr.
Gupta provided those illegal tips to Mr. Rajaratnam.”  The SEC case is “the flip side of what the U.S. Attorney’s
Office has charged Mr. Rajaratnam with,” Canellos said.  Jury selection began yesterday in the criminal insider-
trading case of Rajaratnam, the co-founder of the Galleon Group
LLC hedge fund who is accused of making $45 million in illicit
profits by trading on inside information.  Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of using illegal tips from
traders, friends, and corporate officials including Gupta, who
prosecutors say is a “co-conspirator” in the scheme. Gupta,
62, the former worldwide director of consulting firm McKinsey &
Co., isn’t criminally charged and denies wrongdoing. The SEC
filed its administrative action against him on March 1.  SEC ‘Preview’  Barry Pollack, a white-collar defense lawyer at Miller &
Chevalier in  Washington  who isn’t involved in the Rajaratnam
case, said evidence at the Rajaratnam trial “will clearly give
us a preview of what the SEC enforcement action against Gupta
will be about.”  “That doesn’t mean that their fates are tied together,”
Pollack said. “Each one will be judged individually based on
his own state of mind. It’s not uncommon that one person has an
improper purpose and the other doesn’t.”    John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. Gupta’s
lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , also declined to comment.  The evidence against Gupta and Rajaratnam includes a tape
of a phone call between the two men on July 29, 2008, and phone
and trading records showing that Rajaratnam made stock trades
immediately after speaking to Gupta, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jonathan Streeter said at another hearing on March 4.  Wiretapped Call  Streeter didn’t disclose the content of the phone call,
which was secretly wiretapped by the government and will be
entered into evidence at the Rajaratnam trial. It wasn’t clear
from the transcript of the March 4 hearing whether the call
would implicate Gupta in wrongdoing.  Streeter did disclose the content of another taped call of
Rajaratnam, but not Gupta, in October 2008. In it, Rajaratnam
tells “employees” that “he was told by a Goldman Sachs board
member that the investment bank was losing $2 a share,”
Streeter said.  Phone and trading records show Rajaratnam bought and sold
Goldman Sachs stock “literally within minutes” of his
conversations with Gupta, Streeter said in Manhattan federal
court on March 4. The SEC made similar allegations in its
March 1 administrative action.  Gupta called Rajaratnam immediately after a September 2008
conference call during which the Goldman Sachs board considered
and approved the investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  as well as a public equity offering, according to
the SEC. Within a minute of Gupta’s call, Rajaratnam arranged
for Galleon funds to buy more than 175,000 Goldman Sachs shares,
the SEC alleged.  Blankfein, Earnings  In June 2008, Gupta illegally disclosed to Rajaratnam
information about Goldman Sachs’s financial results for the
second quarter of 2008 after a phone call to discuss earnings
with Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , according to the
SEC. Between that night and the following morning, there was “a
flurry of calls” between Gupta and Rajaratnam, the agency said.  Following the calls, Galleon bought more than 350,000
Goldman Sachs shares and 5,500  call options , generating more
than $13.6 million in illicit profits for the Galleon funds, the
SEC said.  “That evidence, we think, establishes that Mr. Gupta was
in a conspiracy with Mr. Rajaratnam to provide him with material
non-public information about Goldman,” Streeter said in court
last week.  23 Seconds  Gupta also allegedly tipped Rajaratnam to Goldman Sachs
fourth quarter 2008 results in October 2008, just 23 seconds
after Gupta was told the results, the SEC said. The next day,
Galleon began selling its holdings of Goldman Sachs stock, the
SEC said.  Gupta told Rajaratnam on Jan. 29, 2009, that Procter &
Gamble’s sales would fall short of public predictions for the
fourth quarter of 2008, the SEC said. Galleon sold short, or bet
against, about 180,000 of the company’s shares, making more than
$570,000 in illegal profits, according to the SEC’s order.  “There is no allegation that Mr. Gupta traded in any of
these securities or shared in any profits as part of any quid
pro quo,” Naftalis said on the day the SEC filed its case.
“Mr. Gupta had lost his entire $10 million investment in the GB
Voyager Fund managed by Rajaratnam at the time of these events,
negating any motive to deviate from a lifetime of honesty and
integrity.”  In bringing its case against Gupta, the SEC may not have
had access to the prosecutors’ tapes of Gupta. Prosecutors
didn’t provide the agency with the recordings. Regulators had to
sue Rajaratnam to gain possession of at least some of them.  Burden of Proof  It may be easier for the SEC to prove that Gupta violated
civil insider-trading laws than it is for the  Justice Department 
to persuade jurors that Rajaratnam is guilty of a crime, said
 Stephen Miller , a former U.S. prosecutor in  New York  and
Philadelphia and now a partner in the law firm Cozen O’Connor
LLP.  The SEC’s burden of proof is lower in an administrative
proceeding, where the rules of evidence may allow regulators to
offer hearsay that may be excluded at a criminal trial, Miller
said.  Gupta may not be out of the woods after Rajaratnam’s trial,
Miller said. Prosecutors may gauge how jurors reacted to their
evidence involving Gupta and elect to bring a criminal case
against him, he said.  In that sense, he said, the government may be using the
Rajaratnam trial to “test drive” the evidence against the
former Goldman Sachs director.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  