-- 
South African Bonds Rise, Rebound From 2008 Low, on Stable Inflation View

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-09T14:12:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/rand-falls-heads-for-lowest-in-week-as-oil-drops-for-2nd-day.html
South African bonds rose from a 29-
month low on speculation that domestic inflation may remain
stable over the next six months and won’t erode returns on
fixed-income assets.  The 13.5 percent bond due September 2015, known as the
R157, rose from the lowest since October 2008 reached yesterday,
adding 36 cents to 121.106 rand as of 3:43 p.m. in Johannesburg.
The yield fell 9 basis points to 7.86 percent.  Record food prices are likely to be sustained this year
because of high oil costs and smaller harvests, the United
Nations Food & Agriculture Organization said today. Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said March 7 that the “strongish” rand
is helping to curb inflation as rising oil and food prices
become a concern for governments around the world.  “Inflation may not ramp higher in the next six months as
many expect and there is a possibility for bonds to stage a
recovery from current levels,” Tradition Analytics researchers
led by Quinten Bertenshaw in Johannesburg wrote in a note to
clients today.   South Africa  by all accounts still offers
attractive  interest rates  and does not share the kind of debt
profiles of many developed market or indeed euro-zone peripheral
economies.”  The rand has climbed 6.1 percent against the dollar since
Feb. 15. The currency strengthened 11 percent in 2010, the
second-best performer among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies against the dollar after  Malaysia ’s ringgit. That’s
helped to keep inflation inside the central bank’s 3 percent to
6 percent target range.  Rand Performance  The  Reserve Bank  left its key rate unchanged at 30-year low
of 5.5 percent in January, after lowering it three times last
year, as price pressures picked up and the economic recovery
strengthened. The inflation rate climbed to a six-month high of
3.7 percent in January, the statistics office said on Feb. 16.  The rand strengthened for a second day after earlier
slumping to the lowest level in a week against the dollar, as  oil prices  rose after earlier falling on speculation the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will boost
production.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy was little changed
at 6.8832 per dollar after declining as much as 0.8 percent.
Against the euro, the rand added less than 0.1 percent to
9.5690.  “We view high commodity prices and the weak dollar as the
two drivers behind the rand’s dramatic strength in recent
weeks,” Standard Bank analysts including Johannesburg-based
Michael Keenan wrote in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  