-- 
Treasuries Advance as Report Shows Jobless Claims Rose More Than Forecast

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-03-09T07:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/treasury-30-year-yields-at-highest-level-in-two-weeks-before-debt-auctions.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day decline
on speculation rising fuel costs caused by violence in  Libya 
will slow the U.S. economic expansion.  Traders cut bets on the  Federal Reserve  raising  interest
rates  this year, with futures showing the probability of an
increase falling to 36 percent from 54 percent a month ago. The
average price for unleaded gasoline in the U.S. rose to $3.517
per gallon, the most in 29 months, according to the American
Automobile Association. The government is scheduled to sell $21
billion of 10-year notes today.  “Higher commodity prices may affect  consumer spending  and
that may lead to slower growth,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo. “In that case the Treasury market should rally.” BNP’s
U.S. unit is one of the 20 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed.  The yield on the 10-year note dropped one basis point to
3.54 percent as of 7:05 a.m. in  London , according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 3.625 percent security due in February 2021
climbed 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 22/32.  Americans “will have less money to spend,” said  David Rolley , who helps manage $152 billion as co-head of global fixed
income at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston . The company cut its
2011 U.S. growth forecast to 3.1 percent from 3.5 percent due to
the surge in  oil prices , Rolley said at a conference in Sydney.  The U.S. government is considering using petroleum reserves
to ensure rising oil costs resulting from turmoil in the Middle
East and North Africa don’t threaten the economy,  William Daley ,
President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff, said March 6 on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program.  Annual Loss  Treasuries have still handed investors a 0.6 percent loss
this year, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, as the
global recovery strengthened. The decline extends a 2.7 percent
slide from the fourth quarter of 2010. The MSCI All Country
World Index of stocks has returned 4.4 percent in 2011 including
reinvested dividends.  Ten-year notes have lagged behind the broader market,
falling 1.3 percent in 2011, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, as investors added to bets inflation will quicken.  The 10-year securities scheduled for sale today yielded
3.55 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 3.665 percent
the last time the notes were sold on Feb. 9.  Investors bid for 3.23 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus the average of 3.08 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders, the group that includes foreign central
banks, bought 71.3 percent of the debt, while the 10-sale
average is 49.2 percent. Direct bidders, non-primary dealers
buying for their own accounts, purchased 0.5 percent, the least
since January 2009.  ‘Not Bullish’  “We’re not so bullish on Treasuries,” said Masataka Horii,
one of four investors for the $32.9 billion Kokusai Global
Sovereign Open fund in Tokyo,  Asia ’s biggest bond fund. “The
economy is getting better and better.”  Kokusai Global Sovereign Open is favoring bonds that will
fall less in price if yields rise, Horii said.  A Commerce Department report March 11 will show retail
sales gained for en eighth month in February, based on a
Bloomberg News survey, after the Labor Department said March 4
that the  unemployment rate  fell.  At Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, the company’s
home-mortgage business is in “recovery mode,” Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said yesterday.  Inflation Outlook  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.57
percentage points yesterday, the most in 32 months.  Treasury investors were the most pessimistic since May in a
weekly survey conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, another
primary dealer. The company’s index of net longs -- the
difference between investors betting prices will increase and
those expecting declines -- fell to negative 11 on March 7 from
positive 4 the week before.  Demand rose at a $32 billion auction of three-year notes
yesterday with investors submitting bids for 3.22 times the
amount of debt on offer, the most since November.  The Fed is scheduled to buy $5 billion to $7 billion of
Treasuries due from March 2015 to August 2016 today as part of
its effort to sustain the economic expansion.  The central bank said in November it would buy $600 billion
of  government securities , and it has completed roughly 67
percent of the plan, Asha Bangalore, an economist at Northern
Trust Securities Inc. in  Chicago , wrote in a report yesterday.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has indicated that only under
conditions of strong sustained growth, expanding payrolls, and
inflation readings that are consistent with  price stability 
would the central bank consider terminating the program, the
report said. “Current economic data indicate that the Fed is
not even close to meeting these targets,” Bangalore wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 