-- 
Global Food Prices Will Probably Be Sustained at Record This Year, UN Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-03-09T11:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/record-food-prices-likely-to-be-sustained-fao-says-correct-.html
Record food prices are likely to be
sustained this year because of high crude oil costs and smaller
crops, said the United Nations  Food & Agriculture Organization .  “The potential risk is crude oil may continue to go higher,
and if floods and drought happen again, we’ll face further price
increases,” Hiroyuki Konuma, the FAO’s regional representative
in Asia, said in an interview today. “Now we’re in a much
better situation than the crisis in 2008.”  Global food costs advanced to an all-time high in February,
according to an index compiled by the FAO. The increase has
contributed to riots across North Africa and the Middle East
that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . Prices surged as bad
weather ruined crops from  Canada  to Australia and  Russia  banned
grain exports after its worst drought in a half-century.  “We will get an increase in production but not sufficient
to ease the market,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior FAO
economist. “High, volatile prices will continue in 2011 and
even in 2012,” he said in a video briefing today in Bangkok.  An index of 55 food commodities climbed 2.2 percent to a
record 236 points last month, from 230.7 in January, the UN said
March 3. Wheat advanced 60 percent in  Chicago  in the past year,
corn gained 92 percent and soybeans rose 46 percent. Prices of  palm oil , the world’s most consumed cooking oil, reached a 35-
month high of 3,967 ringgit a metric ton on Feb. 10.  Corn, Wheat  Turmoil in oil-producing countries including Libya has
pushed crude above $100 a barrel. Higher crude prices make
biofuels produced from crops more competitive, while raising the
cost of tractor fuel and fertilizer for farmers.  Global food prices probably will rise in the first half of
this century because of an expanding population and higher
incomes, slower crop-yield growth and the effect of climate
change,  Ross Garnaut , the Australian government’s climate-change
adviser, said last week in Canberra.  Corn and wheat are under pressure from supply shortages as  climate change  and natural disasters have reduced production,
leading to higher food prices, according to Konuma.  “We have to be extremely cautious about what is going to
come in 2011-2012,” Abbassian said. “Spring is going to be
extremely critical, when farmers will decide what crop they’re
going to plant. In many major producing regions, we have already
hit maximum acreage. So the war is going to go on in terms of
acreage.”  Food Security  Wheat production is estimated to total 645.4 million tons,
lower than the forecast 662.7 million tons of demand for the
year 2010-2011, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Corn output is estimated at 814.3 million tons, compared
with 836 million tons of demand, while rice production is
estimated at 451.6 million tons, slightly above consumption of
451 million tons, it said.  Investments in agriculture to boost output and productivity
are important to improve food security, Konuma said. About 947
million people still live in poverty in  Asia , the FAO says.  World food production will have to increase by 70 percent
by 2050 to meet increasing demand from an expanding global
population, which is projected to rise to 9.1 billion by 2050
from 6.9 billion at present, Konuma said.  Rice prices rose to records in January in  Indonesia , the
fourth-most-populous nation, prompting the government to suspend
import duty on the grain, FAO said last week. Prices remained at
record highs last month in Bangladesh, the largest South Asian
rice buyer, because of low inventories, according to the report.  North Korea and  Afghanistan  also face the risk of food
shortages and rising prices, Konuma said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  