-- 
Record Food Prices Will Probably Be Sustained This Year, FAO's Konuma Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-03-09T05:26:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/record-food-prices-to-be-sustained-on-higher-oil-lower-harvests-fao-says.html
Record food prices are likely to be
sustained this year because of high oil costs and lower harvests,
said the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization.    North Korea  and Afghanistan face the risk of food shortages
and rising prices, Hiroyuki Konuma, the FAO’s regional
representative in  Asia , said in an interview in Bangkok today.  Global food costs rose to an all-time high in February,
according to the UN. The increase has contributed to riots
across North Africa and the Middle East that toppled leaders in
Egypt and Tunisia. Prices surged as bad weather ruined crops
from Canada to Australia and Russia banned grain exports after
its worst drought in a half-century.  “We will get an increase in production but not sufficient
to ease the market,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior FAO
economist. “High volatile prices will continue in 2011 and even
in 2012,” he said in a video briefing today.  An index of 55 food commodities rose 2.2 percent to 236
points from 230.7 in January, the UN said March 3. Wheat rose 60
percent on the Chicago Board of Trade in the past 12 months,
corn gained 92 percent and rice added 5 percent.  Turmoil in oil-producing countries including  Libya  has
pushed crude above $100 a barrel. Higher crude prices make
biofuels produced from crops more competitive while raising the
cost of tractor fuel and fertilizer for farmers.  Global food prices probably will rise in the first half of
this century because of an expanding population and higher
incomes, slower crop-yield growth and the effect of climate
change,  Ross Garnaut , the Australian government’s climate-change
adviser, said last week at a conference in Canberra.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  