-- 
Rio Raises Riversdale Bid as Steel Mill Shareholders Resist

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-03-10T17:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/rio-tinto-raises-takeover-offer-for-riversdale-mining-3-to-3-9-billion.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-largest mining company, raised its bid for  Riversdale
Mining Ltd. (RIV)  by 3 percent to A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion) as
share purchases by steelmakers threaten to scuttle the deal.  “The choice for Riversdale shareholders is clear - accept
the $16 or $16.50 on offer or risk seeing their share price
return to pre-bid levels,” Doug Ritchie, Rio’s energy chief
executive officer, said in the statement. Rio will pay A$16.50 a
share, 9 percent more than Riversdale’s close yesterday, should
more than half its shareholders accept, Rio said.  Gaining control of Riversdale’s Mozambican projects would
boost Rio’s reserves of steelmaking coal as prices double. Rio
says it will settle for a controlling stake as Sydney-based
Riversdale’s two biggest holders, Mumbai-based  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) 
and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, increased their stakes to
strengthen their hand in negotiations for supply contracts.  “Rio are showing some goodwill to other parties who may be
less convinced about Rio entering the fray,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in Melbourne, adding that he expects Rio to get 50 percent.
“This is a sensible move without betting the company or paying
an extravagant price in the hope the major parties involved can
find a common ground.”  Riversdale shares gained 3.2 percent to A$15.61 at the
close in 4:10 p.m. Sydney time close on the Australian stock
exchange. That’s 5.4 percent less than Rio’s latest offer.  No Alternative  “What that’s telling us up to now is there is no competing
offer and we have had no indication of any alternative offer,”
Riversdale Chief Executive Officer Steve Mallyon told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia” program
today. “I believe Rio Tinto will be successful.”  Rio fell 3.8 percent to 3,931.5 pence in  London , the lowest
since Oct. 12. The company’s Sydney-traded shares earlier fell
2.4 percent to A$80.42.  At the increased offer, London-based Rio is paying 6.9
times the asset value of Riversdale, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with the 1.6 times median of 10
comparable industry deals globally in the past five years.  Global mining deals have had the best start to a year since
2008, with 261 deals worth $31.8 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There were 1,590 deals worth $144.8
billion last year, the highest level since 2007.  Alcan Acquisition  If successful, the deal would be Rio’s first acquisition
since it bought  Canada ’s Alcan Inc. That deal left the company
grappling with almost $40 billion of debt, forcing it to
undertake a $15.2 billion rights offer. Last month, Rio said
second-half profit tripled as the global economic recovery
boosted prices for  iron ore  and copper.  Rio extended its offer, recommended by the Riversdale
board, by two weeks to April 1. The company holds 17.5 percent
of Riversdale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tata
Steel holds 27.1 percent and CSN, as the Brazilian steelmaker is
known, has a 19.9 percent stake.  “We remain extremely skeptical about” Rio being
successful in winning 50 percent of Riversdale, Gregory Lafitte,
head of Asian merger arbitrage at Louis Capital Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mail.  “Rio tried to gain more time to negotiate with the two
parties, but we estimate that this improvement is not enough to
encourage” them to change their minds, he said.  Tata Talks  Tata Steel’s Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said on Feb.
21 his company wanted to retain its stake in Riversdale. He
didn’t answer two calls made today to his mobile phone. Tata
also owns 35 percent of Riversdale’s Benga coal project in  Mozambique . Flavia Ferreira, a spokeswoman at CSN didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails today seeking comment.  “We’ve had constant communication with our shareholders
such as Tata,” Riversdale’s Mallyon said today. “As an
expanding steel company they are extremely interested in the
potential to grow the Riversdale business in Mozambique and they
have been quite supportive. I believe the  Rio Tinto  proposal
will be something of enormous interest to Tata going forward.”  The price of coking coal has doubled in the past two years
to about $301 a metric ton, according to UBS AG data.  A successful takeover would add 13 billion tons of coking
coal to Rio’s resources, split between Riversdale’s Zambeze
project and the Benga development, according to the Australian
miner’s website. Riversdale said on Jan. 24 it would need an
extra A$400 million to fund its share of the development cost
for the Benga project’s stages 2 and 3 and “not less” than
$2.9 billion for the Zambeze project.  ‘Crucial Expertise  “There is no question that Rio Tinto’s expertise is
crucial to overcoming the development challenges of Riversdale’s
projects,” Rio’s Ritchie said.  Construction for the first stage of the Benga project is
targeted for completion during the second half of this year, for
production capacity of 5.3 million metric tons of coal that may
rise to 20 million tons. The Zambeze project is set to complete
a pre-feasibility study in the same period, and production won’t
start before 2014, Riversdale said.  Rio is being advised by Macquarie Group Ltd. and Riversdale
by UBS AG. Rio is the world’s second-largest mining company by
sales, behind BHP Billiton Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  