-- 
Russia’s RTS Stock-Index Futures Gain on Fed’s Recovery Outlook

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-03-15T22:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/russia-rts-stock-futures-fall-as-trading-resumes-after-holidays.html
  Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
climbed, signaling the nation’s equities may rebound, after the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  is gaining strength.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
gained 0.1 percent in New York yesterday. The Market Vectors
Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, sank
2.8 percent. The Micex Index fell 1.5 percent to 1,700.54 in
Moscow yesterday, the lowest level since Feb. 18. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index lost 2 percent.  “Russian futures moved higher, driven by Fed comments of
keeping easy money policy intact,” said Yan Gloukhovski, a
trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the New York branch of
Russia’s Alfa Bank.  U.S. stocks escaped the brunt of a global selloff, paring
losses as Japanese officials made progress in stabilizing
damaged nuclear reactors and the Fed said the economy is
improving.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing, and overall
conditions in the labor market appear to be improving
gradually,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said today in its
statement after a one-day meeting in  Washington . The statement
represents an upgrading of the outlook by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent yesterday,
rebounding from an intraday loss of as much as 2.7 percent.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  index had its deepest two-day drop since
1987, amid concern a nuclear accident outside of Tokyo may
cripple the global economy. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index fell 2.3
percent yesterday. Commodities slid.  Japanese Stocks Fall  Japanese officials are working to cool three quake-damaged
nuclear reactors in the northeast following the country’s worst
quake on record. Concern is mounting that unless the Fukushima
plant, 210 kilometers north of  Tokyo , is brought under control,
radiation will disrupt or endanger life in the country’s biggest
city.  Japanese stocks plunged yesterday after reports of the
explosion and fire at the plant.  Emerging-market stocks tumbled the most in eight months,
currencies sank and borrowing costs rose. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index declined 2.2 percent, the biggest drop since June.  “People are taking risk off the table,”  Luis Saenz , the
London-based director of international sales at brokerage
Otkritie Securities Ltd., said in a telephone interview.  Contracts on OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas company,
rose 0.2 percent.  OAO Gazprom Neft plunged 3.3 percent in Moscow. OAO Polyus
Gold, Russia’s biggest gold producer, slid 3.4 percent OAO
Sberbank, the country’s largest lender, fell 2.2 percent.  ‘Panic’  “People are panicking because of radiation levels in  Japan , because of overall uncertainty on the outcome of the
disaster,” Saenz said. “Oil came down and it’s now not only
because of North Africa, it’s about Japan on the top of that.”  Crude oil fell the most in almost five months on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, as concern that damage from Japan’s
earthquake will curb demand outweighed speculation of supply
disruptions in the Middle East. Oil is Russia’s major export
earner.  Crude oil for April delivery dropped $4.01 to $97.18 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement since Feb.
28. It fell the most since Oct. 19.  Japan was responsible for 5.2 percent of global oil demand
in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes its BP Statistical
Review of World Energy each June. Japan is the third-biggest
crude-consuming country after the U.S. and  China .  Bahrain declared a state of emergency yesterday as a second
contingent of troops from Gulf nations poured into the kingdom,
while Libyan government forces moved against rebels. Riots have
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  earlier this year and there
have been protests in Yemen and Saudi Arabia, the world’s
biggest crude exporter.  Libya’s oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and sanctions following a
rebellion against leader Muammar Qaddafi, the International
Energy Agency said in its monthly Oil Market Report on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  