-- 
Saudi Arabia Is Capable of Covering Oil Loss Amid Unrest, U.S. Envoy Says

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-09T18:04:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/saudi-arabia-is-capable-of-covering-oil-loss-amid-unrest-u-s-envoy-says.html
  Saudi Arabia  is capable of providing
additional oil production if needed to counter supply
disruptions caused by unrest in the Middle East, James Smith,
U.S. ambassador to the kingdom, said in an interview on
InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.  “We do not see, either with a combination of Libya and  Algeria , that there’ll be a break in the market such that the
Saudis would not be able to offset that loss with their spare
capacity,” Smith said.  Saudi Arabia has increased oil production by 1 million
barrels a day and has the capacity to pump an additional 3.5
million barrels a day, Smith said.  Saudi production in February averaged 8.425 million barrels
a day, according to a Bloomberg News survey of  oil companies ,
countries and analysts. The kingdom’s capacity is an estimated
11.5 million barrels a day.  Crude oil for April delivery fell 70 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $104.32 a barrel at 12:51 p.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract touched $106.95 on March 7, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 26, 2008, as civil strife spurred
concern that production in the Middle East may be disrupted.
Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  The U.S. doesn’t see any change in the stability of the
kingdom, Smith said.  “Here in Saudi Arabia, there is an ongoing dialogue
between the people and the al-Saud family,” he said.  Day of Rage  Postings on websites have called for a nationwide Saudi
“Day of Rage” on March 11 and March 20,  Human Rights Watch 
said on Feb. 28.  Regional unrest, which has so far toppled the leaders of
Tunisia and  Egypt , has reached Saudi Arabian neighbors Yemen,
Oman and Bahrain, the island-kingdom where a Sunni family rules
the majority Shiite population.  “The Saudi’s will look at what’s happening in Bahrain as a
Bahraini domestic issue for them to deal with,” Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 