-- 
Scene Last Night: Eli Broad, Jeff Koons Fete Glenn Ligon at Whitney Museum

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-09T16:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/scene-last-night-eli-broad-jeff-koons-fete-glenn-ligon-at-whitney-museum.html
“NUMBERS To dream of them denotes
wealth and happiness,” reads the text on a canvas early on in
Glenn Ligon’s retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American
Art.  The work was among the favorites last night from a cozy
first peek at the Ligon exhibition, titled “America,” which
opens tomorrow. Collectors Claudia Cisneros,  Eli Broad  and Peter S. Kraus, chairman and chief executive of AllianceBernstein
LP/USA, came to admire, as did artist  Jeff Koons .  The Whitney served pan-roasted red snapper, glazed Seckel
pears, and Brussels sprouts. Ligon sat with the museum’s
director, Adam Weinberg.  The artist wore a pin on his lapel featuring a photograph
of a nipple. The pin, by Yoko Ono, came from the party’s other
Glenn, Glenn Lowry, director of the Museum of  Modern Art .  After dinner, guests climbed up the stairs to the lobby,
turned into a lounge with royal-blue and hot-pink spotlights and
bouquets of red poppies. Broad, whose  art foundation  lent three
pieces to the show, took a seat on a black couch with his wife.
A white furry rug lay at their feet. Close at hand a two-tiered
silver dessert tray displayed pink macaroons and passion-fruit
marshmallows.  “It’s a great show,” Broad said in his signature
cheerleader lilt, which goes well with his California tan.  The New York-style cheerleader was Brooke Garber Neidich,
co-chairman of the Whitney. No tan, but a lot of sparkle, with
earrings she herself designed of titanium and diamonds.  “This is one of the most amazing nights,” Neidich said,
“one of the homiest and coolest.”  Poignant Portrait  Ligon’s dealer in  New York , Roland Augustine, advised a
guest to visit the room with the vertical paintings on doors and
another that features wood crates based on the life of a slave
who mailed himself to freedom. “It really is a poignant, tender
portrait of a man,” Augustine said.  For Scott Rothkopf, the curator of the show, this is his
first major solo at the museum. His mother was present.  “My goal is to show how incredibly beautiful Glenn’s work
is,” Rothkopf said. “People are used to seeing it in a critical
way. I want them to see the visceral, emotional, and formal
qualities.”  Neidich nailed the art in a line: “Glenn pushes you but he
doesn’t scold you,” Neidich said. “I’d like to meet his
mother.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 