-- 
Tottenham Overcomes Milan to Take Champions League Debut Run to Last Eight

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-03-10T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/schalke-tottenham-advance-to-quarterfinals-of-soccer-s-champions-league.html
Tottenham extended its Champions
League soccer debut into the quarterfinals following a 0-0 draw
with AC Milan, while Schalke advanced by beating Valencia 3-1.  The result at White Hart Lane in north  London  last night
was enough to send Spurs into the last eight after  Peter Crouch ’s goal sealed a 1-0 win in Milan to open the two-game
series three weeks ago.  “We worked our socks off and stayed with them,” Tottenham
coach  Harry Redknapp  told ITV. “It’s a great achievement for
this club to be in the final eight of the Champions League. It’s
amazing what the players have done.”  Jefferson Farfan scored two goals as Schalke defeated
Valencia in  Germany  to complete a 4-2 series win over the
Spanish team and reach its second quarterfinal in  Europe ’s elite
club competition.  Tottenham, which qualified for its first Champions League
campaign after finishing fourth in  England ’s Premier League last
season, repelled Milan’s attacks to become the third English
team in four years to oust the seven-time European champion in
the round of 16.  “Sometimes in the Champions League you come up against top
quality players and you have to dig in,” Crouch told ITV. “The
lads defended magnificently tonight.”  Tottenham’s  Rafael van der Vaart  shot wide in the second
minute and Spurs goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes dived to knock away
Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s free kick.  Milan had its best chance in the 25th minute as Gomes came
out to challenge Alexandre Pato, who went around the goalkeeper
and fed Robinho, whose deflected shot was cleared off the line
by  William Gallas .  Second Half  Tottenham started better in the second half as Crouch was
left alone at the far post in the opening minute, only to head
the ball back across the goal instead of at the target.  Gomes dived to stop a shot from Robinho, who poked the
rebound wide in the 66th minute, and Pato shot just wide with
about 13 minutes remaining. Milan’s final opportunity came in
injury time as Robinho exchanged passes with Ibrahimovic only to
have his shot deflected over the goal for a corner kick.  “It’s a difficult situation when you come home and you’ve
got that one-goal lead,” Redknapp said. “It’s not like you go
for broke. You’re always aware you want to hang onto that lead.
It was very difficult.”  Schalke came from behind against Valencia in Gelsenkirchen
to move into the quarterfinals for the first time since 2008,
when it lost to Barcelona.  Ricardo Costa scored with a header in the 17th minute at
the Arena AufSchalke to give Valencia the lead and a 2-1 overall
advantage following a 1-1 draw in  Spain .  Farfan Fare  Farfan tied the game in the 40th minute by curling a free
kick into the top corner. Mario Gavranovic then gave the German
team a 3-2 aggregate lead seven minutes into the second half
when he poked in a rebound that went off both goal posts before
crossing the line.  Valencia then had several chances to tie the match and
goalkeeper Manuel Neuer kept Schalke ahead with a save from
Aritz Aduriz. In the final 10 minutes, Gavranovic twice hit the
post before Farfan completed the scoring in the last of four
stoppage-time minutes.  “After we conceded it got better as we had nothing to
lose,” Schalke coach Felix Magath said in news-conference
comments on  UEFA ’s website. “Then we fought back, but the
situation was quite dicey and I would have liked Jefferson to
score the third goal earlier.”  Barcelona and Shakhtar Donetsk became the first teams to
reach the quarterfinals two nights ago. The remaining four
places will be filled next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  