-- 
Schapiro Says Lawyer’s Madoff Work Didn’t Seem a Conflict

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T22:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/schapiro-says-lawyer-s-madoff-work-didn-t-seem-a-conflict-1-.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said she didn’t believe her
former general counsel breached ethics rules by working on the
agency’s Bernard Madoff policies after inheriting profits from
his parents’ investment with the imprisoned money manager.  “The issue did not appear to me to present a financial
conflict of interest,” Schapiro wrote in a response to  House
Republicans  who raised questions about David M. Becker’s role in
the SEC’s Madoff work. Schapiro relied on Becker “to present
any ethics-related issues, including appearance issues” to the
agency’s ethics counsel, she said in a letter dated yesterday.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, and three other Republicans on the
panel asked Schapiro to describe Becker’s role after he was sued
by Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court trustee unwinding
Madoff’s business. Picard is trying to recover $1.5 million of
what he called fraudulent profit reaped by Becker, 63, and his
brothers when they liquidated their parents’ Madoff holdings.  Becker, who returned to the SEC in 2009 after having served
as general counsel from 2000 to 2002, stepped down last month.  In her response to the four House members and a separate
letter to two other lawmakers, Schapiro said she was relying on
her own memory because she was unable to review documents or
talk to “relevant witnesses” after putting the agency’s review
in the hands of the SEC inspector general H. David Kotz.  Becker’s Clearance  Schapiro told the lawmakers she didn’t recall what William Lenox, the SEC ethics counsel who gave Becker clearance to work
on Madoff policies, told the general counsel after he sought
approval to participate.  She directed the current ethics counsel “to review the
agency’s procedures for evaluating conflicts of interest and
disclosure-related issues,” according to the letter she sent to
Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, and Senator Charles E. Grassley,
senior Republican member of the Judiciary Committee.  “The SEC chairman says she relied heavily on the general
counsel and the ethics office to police potential conflicts in
this case,” said Grassley, in a statement. “The ethics office
gave only a cursory review of the matter, and details are
emerging that the general counsel might have argued for agency
policies that would have benefited his family.”  Initial Disclosure  Besides Becker’s initial disclosure of the Madoff link
after he returned to the agency, Schapiro recalled another
discussion with him “in the late fall of 2009” about SEC staff
testifying before a congressional panel “regarding legal issues
arising from the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff Securities
LLC,” she said in the letters. Becker’s connection was raised
in that discussion, Schapiro said without offering further
details.  Schapiro said she had meetings with her staff and
Securities Investor Protection Corp. representatives compiling
Madoff assets about the SEC’s position in Madoff litigation.  In late 2009 and 2010, the commission instructed the staff
to file legal briefs relating to the Securities Investor
Protection Act, and Schapiro participated in the decisions, she
wrote in the letter to Bachus. Becker was involved in those
briefs, having been given permission to participate in May 2009.  Becker, who left the agency after a two-year stint on Feb.
25, said his departure was unrelated to the lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 