-- 
Scott Says Florida's Government Must Shrink to Cut Deficit, Create Jobs

-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/scott-says-florida-s-government-must-shrink-to-cut-deficit-create-jobs.html
     March 9 (Bloomberg) -- Florida’s government must shrink to
eliminate a $3.6 billion budget gap and create jobs, Governor  Rick Scott  said in his first State of the State address.  “Floridians have been encouraged to believe that
government could take care of us,” the 58-year-old Republican
told the Legislature in Tallahassee yesterday. “But government
always takes more than it gives back.”  The former health-care executive and other U.S. governors
are urging spending restraint to close deficits  projected  at
$125 billion next fiscal year. Pennsylvania Republican Tom Corbett, 61, proposed a $27.3 billion budget that cuts outlays
by $850 million. Ohio Republican John Kasich, 58, who also gave
his first State of the State speech yesterday, wants to limit
collective-bargaining by public employees to lower costs.  Scott’s $65.9 billion  budget  for fiscal 2012, proposed Feb.
7, trims 8,681 jobs, makes employees contribute to pensions for
the first time and pares funds for Medicaid, the health-care
program for the poor, by almost $4 billion. It also reduces
property levies and the business-income tax,  Florida ’s second-
largest revenue source.  “These tax cuts put money back in the hands of families
and business owners who will grow private-sector jobs,” the
governor said yesterday after the Republican-controlled
 Legislature  concluded the opening day of its two-month session.  Hospital Creator  Scott founded Columbia Hospital Corp. in 1988 and merged it
with HCA Inc. in 1994 to create the largest U.S. for-profit
hospital chain. As governor, he’s sought to make Florida more
business-friendly to lessen its dependence on the federal
government and create jobs. The state’s 12 percent unemployment
rate in December was 2.6 percentage points higher than the
national rate at the time.  Scott’s  first order  after taking office in January was to
bar state departments from creating new regulations. Last month,
he turned down $2.4 billion of U.S. money for high-speed rail,
saying taxpayers could become responsible for cost overruns.  “Business people in Florida and around the world are
watching what we do,” Scott said. “They will be deciding
whether to invest in Florida, based, in part, on our ability to
work together to remove the obstacles to business success.”  During his speech, the governor introduced business
executives he said were expanding in the state. Among them was
Dean Minardi, chief financial officer of  Bing Energy Inc.,  a
California-based fuel-cell maker that chose Florida over other
states in December.  “The reason Florida won? Mr. Minardi said it was our plan
to eliminate the corporate tax,” Scott said.  Moody’s Warning  Moody’s Investors Service warned on Feb. 14 that Scott’s
proposed reduction in the corporate-tax rate to 3 percent from
5.5 percent may cause future deficits. It would lower revenue by
$459 million in fiscal 2012 and $1 billion in fiscal 2013,
Moody’s said.  The credit evaluator has a negative outlook on Florida’s
general-obligation bonds, partly because of the state’s reliance
on sales taxes, its largest revenue source. It rates Florida’s
GO bonds Aa1, its second-highest grade.  Scott’s proposal to trim 2012 spending by $4.6 billion
would be the most for Florida since at least 2002. The job cuts,
about 7 percent of the workforce, and reductions in education
spending sparked protests in the capital before his speech.  ‘Disastrous Things’  “These things are all disastrous,” said Summer Skye, 23,
who  drove from Orlando  to protest outside the Statehouse.
“Florida can’t afford these things.”  Tea Party members came to support Scott.  “What we really want is limited government,” said Henry
Kelley, 45, president of the Fort Walton Beach Tea Party.
“We’re here to remind the Legislature that we want them to
stand fast on limited government and some fiscally conservative
issues.”  Scott seeks to require participants in Florida’s $127
billion retirement fund, the nation’s fourth-largest, to
contribute 5 percent of their wages to their pensions.  “We will bring Florida’s retirement system in line with
other states,” he said in his speech.  The effort is supported by Mike Haridopolos, the Senate
majority leader, who called the current system “the dinosaur we
have nurtured” in remarks to lawmakers yesterday.  “We’re going to ask state employees to be in a similar
benefits package as the private sector,” Haridopolos said in an
interview after Scott spoke.  Needless Breaks  Making employees contribute to pensions allows the state to
give companies needless tax breaks, Senate Democratic Minority
Leader Nan Rich said in her party’s response to Scott’s address.  “Governor Scott wants to give large corporations and other
wealthy CEOs more of our tax dollars,” she said. “This is
after 12 years of Republican rule in Florida that gave these
same special interests $19 billion in tax loopholes. Large
corporations do not need more of our tax dollars.”  Scott also wants to expand a five-county pilot plan that
puts Medicaid recipients into HMO-style managed-care systems run
by companies paid fixed fees. He said that would cap costs for a
program that grew 36 percent in Florida in the last three years
to $20 billion, more than a quarter of annual outlays.  “Unfortunately, the federal government requires Florida to
get approval before expanding the use of these innovative, cost-
saving programs,” he said yesterday. “With or without the
cooperation of the federal government, we will find a way to
meet these health-care needs without jeopardizing other
priorities.”  Republican Representative James Frishe called Scott’s
message “right on point.”  “We’re going to try to provide the culture that develops
private-sector jobs like the governor said,” Frishe said. “We
have very common goals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at   jhart@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Tallahassee at   sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 