-- 
Senegal Gets B1 Sovereign Credit Rating From Moody's Before Eurobond Sale

-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-03-09T10:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/senegal-gets-b1-sovereign-credit-rating-from-moody-s-before-eurobond-sale.html
  Senegal  received its first sovereign
credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service before its planned
sale of $500 million of Eurobonds.  Moody’s rated the West African nation B1, or four levels
below investment grade, with a stable outlook, the company said
in an e-mailed statement from London today. The assessment is
the same as Lebanon’s on the Moody’s scale and equal to the B+
rating assigned to Senegal by  Standard & Poor’s  in 2000.  “Senegal’s low economic resilience, reflecting a low
income economy, is balanced against a long track record of
robust growth, currently fostered by sizeable infrastructure
investments,” Moody’s analysts wrote. “A moderate but rising
debt burden, additional revenue potential, strong support from
the international official community” and a “comparatively
long track record of political stability” support the rating.  Growth in Senegal is expected to accelerate to 4.4 percent
in this year, from 4 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in December. Senegal will sell dollar-denominated
bonds by April, Ousseynou Gueye, a spokesman for the  Finance
Ministry , said on Feb. 15. The country’s $200 million of 8.75
percent bonds due December 2014 rose a second day this week,
pushing the yield down by 3 basis points to 8.938 percent at
9:49 a.m. in Dakar.  Zambia, Nigeria, Kenya  Zambia, Africa’s biggest copper producer, obtained a B+
assessment from  Fitch Ratings  this month as it plans to sell its
first dollar-denominated debt this year. Nigeria, sub-Saharan
Africa’s biggest oil producer, raised $500 million selling 10-
year Eurobonds, its first offering of international debt, on
Jan. 21, attracting buyers from Europe, the U.S., Asia and  Africa .  Kenya, which more than two years ago halted a planned sale
of bonds on the international market, may issue a sovereign bond
by June 2013 or earlier if  interest rates  are “favorable” and
should “market conditions permit,” it said in a letter of
intent to the International Monetary Fund on Feb. 9.  Gueye had no immediate comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 