-- 
Southwest Fields Complaints After Loyalty Program Revamp

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-03-09T21:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/southwest-fields-complaints-a-week-after-loyalty-program-revamp.html
  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the largest
low-fare carrier, said it’s “very busy” with customers’
complaints over its revamped loyalty program  website  a week
after it was remodeled.  The Dallas-based airline is fielding calls using extra
employees brought in before the March 1 debut of its new
frequent-flier plan, Whitney Eichinger, a spokeswoman, said
today. The overhaul of the Rapid Rewards program was the first
since its debut in 1987.  Customers couldn’t access the website’s new features on that
first day, and a telecommunications failure affected some
airports and call centers, leading to flight delays. Gripes by
telephone, e-mail and  Facebook.com  postings persist, with
consumers saying they’re struggling to use credits, see bookings
and reach agents.  “Right now, unfortunately, Southwest looks like it has
stuck its head in the sand, put its fingers to its ears and is
saying, ‘La, la, la, we don’t want to hear any bad news,’”  Henry Harteveldt , vice president of Forrester Research Inc.,
said in an interview. “Even if they said, ‘We are aware of the
problem, here’s what you should expect,’ people would at least
know they are not ignoring this.”  Southwest blogged about the initial problem on March 2, and
that same day posted a  video  to help program members with issues
such as locating previous awards.  “For the past week, it’s been very busy,” said Eichinger,
the Southwest spokeswoman.  Navigating the Site  “There’s not one part of it we can say is consistently not
functioning,” Eichinger said of the website. “More of the
questions now are how to navigate the site. We’re taking
everything that’s coming in to us very seriously.”  All telephone calls go to the airline’s 800 number, where
customers can choose a Rapid Rewards option for expedited
service, Eichinger said. She couldn’t provide an average
customer wait time.  “There have been folks calling in, long hold times,”
Eichinger said.  The sheer number of calls likely is delaying customers
seeking help for other issues, Harteveldt said.  “All of this drives costs to Southwest while, at the same
time, having a negative effect on customer satisfaction,” he
said.  Southwest fell 35 cents to $12.31 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 5.2
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  