-- 
South Sudanese Army Says 60 Died in Clashes With Rebel Militia in Jonglei

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-09T15:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/south-sudanese-army-says-60-died-in-clashes-with-rebel-militia-in-jonglei.html
Southern Sudan ’s army said 60 people
died when it captured the headquarters of a rebel militia in
Jonglei state.  The fighting took place on March 7 between the army and
forces loyal to renegade General George Athor, army spokesman
Philip Aguer said by phone today from Juba, the capital of  Southern Sudan . Athor, a former chief of staff in Southern  Sudan ’s army, denied his forces were defeated.  “Around 60 people were killed from both sides,” Aguer said.
“Some civilians were killed.” Twenty army soldiers were injured
in the battle for Athor’s headquarters in the village of
Kurwuai, he said.  Athor, speaking today by satellite phone from Jonglei, said
his forces killed 159 army soldiers and lost 19.  “We withdrew our forces maybe only because we weren’t able
to supply our forces with reinforcements,” he said. “We have no
headquarters, we are a guerilla.”  Fighting against Athor’s militia has intensified since
Southern Sudanese voters chose in a January referendum to secede
from the rest of Sudan. The oil-rich region is due to become
independent in July.  Oil Exploration  Paris-based  Total SA (FP) , which owns 32.5 percent of a 118,000
square-kilometer (46,000 square-mile) concession in Jonglei and
Lakes states, hasn’t started exploration due in part to security
conditions in the region.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had 5 billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose
independence in the referendum that was the centerpiece of a
peace agreement ending a two-decade civil war with the north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 