-- 
Deutsche Bank Loses South Korea Pension Fund as a Client After Penalties

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-10T04:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/south-korea-s-nps-cancels-brokerage-orders-with-deutsche-bank.html
South  Korea ’s National Pension
Service halted stocks and derivatives orders through  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  for six months after financial regulators suspended the
German bank from proprietary trading for a similar period.  The freeze by South Korea’s biggest investor, which managed
324 trillion won ($289 billion) in assets as of December, on
dealings with Seoul-based Deutsche Securities Korea Co. started
on March 3, Kim Seok Joo, a spokesman at the pension fund, said
by phone today. He wouldn’t give the value of previous
transactions through the brokerage whose parent is based in  Frankfurt . Deutsche Bank has no comment, Hong Kong-based
spokesman  Michael West  said by e-mail.  “The pension fund tried to give a sort of warning that
every market participant should abide by local rules in order to
operate here,” said Chang In Whan, president of Seoul-based KTB
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $11
billion. “A string of measures taken in Korea against Deutsche
Bank has of course affected the company’s credibility.”  The Financial Services Commission on Feb. 23 said it banned
Deutsche Bank from so-called direct market access trading and
shares and derivatives trading for its own account for six
months starting April 1, the heaviest penalty ever levied on any
securities firm in  South Korea . The commission also asked
prosecutors to investigate five employees at Deutsche Bank and
its Korean brokerage after a selloff at the end of trading on
Nov. 11 erased $26 billion of stock market value.  Speculative Positions  The employees conspired to manipulate the market by selling
2.44 trillion won ($2.2 billion) worth of shares in the last
minutes of trading that day to make gains from “speculative”
derivatives positions built in advance, the FSC said on Feb. 23.
Deutsche Bank said yesterday it’s cooperating with a probe by
prosecutors, following a Yonhap News report that the lender’s
South Korean offices had been searched.  “We typically hold a meeting when a firm gets penalties by
financial regulators to determine whether we need to continue
transactions with the company,” National Pension’s Kim said.  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 2.7 percent on Nov.
11, which was also a day when options expired. Today is so-
called quadruple witching, when equity and index options, and
equity and index futures contracts, expire, Korea Exchange Inc.,
the nation’s bourse operator, said in an e-mail.  Annual Revenue  Korea Teachers Pension  hasn’t decided whether to take
similar steps, Chief Investment Officer Lee Yun Kyu said by
phone today. South Korea’s Military Mutual Aid Association, a
military welfare fund, has no transactions with the Deutsche
Bank unit, spokesman Yang Seung Kee said by phone.  Deutsche Securities Korea’s suspended businesses had annual
sales of 11.2 billion won in the year ending March 2010,
compared with total revenue of 120.5 billion won, the firm said
in a regulatory filing yesterday.    Korea Exchange  on Feb. 25 fined Deutsche Bank’s local unit
a record 1 billion won for violating exchange rules on Nov. 11.
Deutsche Securities Korea broke rules on the disclosure of
computer-driven trades by filing a report one minute late,
triggering confusion among investors,  Korea Exchange  said then.  National Pension is overseen by the  Ministry of Health and
Welfare  and covers private-sector employees and the self-
employed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  