-- 
Spain to Reveal Cajas' Capital Hole in Fight Against Contagion

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-03-10T11:04:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/spain-to-reveal-cajas-capital-hole-in-fight-against-contagion.html
The Bank of  Spain  will tell lenders
today how much capital they need to raise to meet new rules as
the nation tries to convince investors that the cost of rescuing
its banks won’t sink public finances.  The Bank of Spain will publish each lender’s capital
shortfall and the overall amount, which the regulator has
already estimated won’t exceed 20 billion euros ($28 billion),
or 2 percent of Spanish gross domestic product. The government
wants most of that to be raised privately even as central bank
Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said Feb. 21 that some
lenders will ask the state-rescue fund for help.  Spain, whose credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service today, is trying to stem contagion as investors increase
bets that Portugal will need a bailout and  Greece  lobbies to
renegotiate its rescue deal. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s government is seeking to show that Spanish lenders
can weather a fourth year of economic slump and a jobless rate
of 20 percent, as bond yields on peripheral euro-area nations
surged this week.  “It’s like a mini-stress test in the type of data we’ll
get and any greater transparency is to be welcomed,” said
Claire Kane, an analyst at MF Global in  London . “What will be
clearer is how they come to the 20 billion-euro estimate and
from there we can make our own assumptions.”  Moody’s Decision  Moody’s cut Spain’s credit rating one notch to Aa2 with a
negative outlook today, saying the costs of shoring up the
banking system will be greater than the government forecasts.
The overall amount, including funds that may be raised
privately, will be 40 billion euros to 50 billion euros, the
company estimates.  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs widened
to 223 basis points today, even as the 10-year yield fell to
5.484 percent from 5.511 percent yesterday.  Yields on other high-debt euro-area countries also eased
today after  Portugal ’s 10-year yield reached a record yesterday.
Portugal and Greece’s yields fell to 7.466 percent and 12.791
percent, respectively.  Moody’s yesterday cut its ratings on six Greek banks, two
days after it lowered Greece’s credit rating three levels on a
higher risk of default.  Standard & Poor’s  said on March 1 that
Portugal may need a bailout from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Risk Premium  While Spain’s public-debt burden is lower than that of
France or  Germany , the gap between Spanish and German borrowing
costs is 15 times as wide as it was in the first decade of
monetary union. The government needs to rein in the third-
largest  budget deficit  in the euro area and restore the economy
to growth as private debt built up during a decade-long housing
boom slows the recovery.  Spanish banks, mostly savings institutes called “cajas,”
have recognized losses equivalent to 9 percent of GDP since
2008, the Bank of Spain said on Feb. 21. Cajas’ exposure to the
real-estate and building industry amounts to 217 billion euros.
About 100 billion euros of that is already classified as
“potentially problematic,” of which 38 percent is covered with
provisions, the regulator said.  “At the moment, solutions are being found to many of the
problems in the financial system,” said Jose Nieto, chief
executive officer of Banca March, a bank controlled by the
billionaire March family that closed 2010 with a core capital
ratio above 22 percent. “All this is good and if it occurs
sooner rather than later, all the better.”  Rescue Fund  As part of efforts to rein in its borrowing costs, the
government approved the new  capital requirements  on Feb. 18 and
said lenders that fail to meet them risk partial nationalization
via the purchase of ordinary shares by the FROB bank-rescue
fund. That facility, created with 9 billion euros and the
capacity to take on as much as 90 billion euros of debt, has
already committed about 11 billion euros through the purchase of
preferred shares.  “The issue is, how much are the assets worth?” Javier
Diaz-Gimenez, a professor at IESE business school in  Madrid ,
said in a telephone interview. “Do you value them at market
value, or purchase value or something in between, which is fair
value: and what is fair value?”  Capital Targets  The new rules, which say an independent expert will value
the lenders that the FROB buys into, were approved by decree
last month and are due to be ratified by parliament today.
Listed banks must have core capital of 8 percent, while lenders
that aren’t at least 20 percent-owned by private shareholders
and depend on wholesale financing are required to reach 10
percent. They have until September to meet the new requirements
and can seek an extension until the first quarter of 2012 if
they commit to listing shares.  Spain’s two biggest savings banks,  La Caixa  and a merged
group led by  Caja Madrid , have already announced plans to become
listed lenders. The Caja Madrid group, which received FROB
funds, has created a bank and plans an initial public offering
this year. La Caixa will transfer its banking operations into
its listed investment unit,  Criteria CaixaCorp SA. (CRI)   Zapatero, a Socialist who has implemented the deepest
austerity measures in three decades since after last year’s
Greek crisis, said the financial system’s restructuring is on
“the right track” as the number of savings banks has been
reduced to 17 from 45.  “It is indispensible and should contribute decisively to
the economic recovery and the recovery of market confidence,”
he told parliament yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  