-- 
St. John's Resurgence From Scandals Boosts Red Storm's Basketball Tickets

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-09T14:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/st-john-s-resurgence-from-scandals-boosts-red-storm-s-basketball-tickets.html
Mike Repole said he couldn’t give
away tickets for a St. John’s University basketball game last
season. Now, the resurgent Red Storm are pushing up resale
prices for seats at the Big East tournament.  Repole, 42, a 1991 St. John’s sports management graduate
who has donated more than $1 million to the school, will be
wearing his alma mater’s sweatshirt today at Madison Square
Garden in  New York  when the team meets  Rutgers University  in the
second round of conference play.  St. John’s (20-10), based in the New York borough of
Queens, is having its best season since team scandals led to 47
games being forfeited from 2000-04. It is trying to reach the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament for the
first time since 2002, an appearance later wiped off the books
by the NCAA.  “St. John’s gives  New York City  a team to root for,”
Repole, who co-founded Glaceau Vitaminwater sport drink, said in
a telephone interview. “In New York, where everyone loves a
winner, winning is magnified by 20 times; losing is magnified by
100 times.”  St. John’s ranks seventh on the Division I list with 1,723
wins since it began playing men’s basketball in 1907. It has
made 26 NCAA tournament appearances, reaching the national
semifinals in 1952 and 1985. It has won the National Invitation
Tournament six times -- the last of those titles, in 2003, was
vacated due to the scandals.  The program made headlines off the court a decade ago,
leading to the firing of coach Mike Jarvis and school-imposed
sanctions.  Players Expelled  Six players were expelled or suspended after an incident at
a strip club. Two players were arrested for smoking marijuana. A
player said a coach had given him monthly payments, a violation
of NCAA rules.  This season, the Red Storm tied for third in the Big East
with a 12-6 conference record and upset four teams ranked at the
time in the Associated Press Top 10 --Pittsburgh,  Connecticut ,
Duke and  Notre Dame .  All four of those wins came at Madison Square Garden, which
first-year coach Steve Lavin said has been a key element in the
Red Storm’s resurgence.  “Clearly, the Garden has been electric for us this
season,” Lavin, 46, said in an e-mail. “The fact that we’ve
had St. John’s fans pulling for our team has made a big
difference in late-game situations, where you need that crowd to
jumper-cable your team with energy. We’re just trying to creep
back up that Big East ladder, to be viable again as a
competitor.”  Garden Home  St. John’s played eight of its 16 regular-season home games
at Madison Square Garden this year, and Athletic Director Chris
Monasch said there may be more games there next season if dates
are available. The arena also is home to the  National Basketball
Association ’s  New York Knicks  and the  National Hockey League ’s  New York Rangers .  The 93-78 victory against Duke on Jan. 30 was played before
a sellout of 19,353. Carnesecca Arena on the St. John’s campus
has 6,008 seats.  “There is way more upside at the Garden,” said Monasch,
51, a St. John’s graduate.  St. John received a first-round bye and enters the Big East
tournament having won nine of its last 11 games. It hasn’t lost
at Madison Square Garden since Jan. 12, a 76-59 defeat by
Syracuse. If St. John’s wins today, it will face Syracuse
tomorrow in the conference quarterfinals.  “This momentum is driven by an excellent coach, a really
good coaching staff, with hungry, motivated, talented seniors,”
CBS college basketball analystClark Kellogg told reporters
yesterday. “They’ll be a real problematic team.”  Driving Demand  Interest in a potential matchup tomorrow between the Red
Storm and Orange is driving ticket demand for the two games on
that afternoon session, according to Christian Anderson, a
spokesman for FanSnap.com, the  Palo Alto , California-based
Internet search engine that compares prices of ticket resellers.  The average price for a ticket to that quarterfinal session
-- which also will feature Georgetown against Connecticut -- is
$431, Anderson said in a telephone interview. During the
equivalent afternoon session last year, in which Syracuse took
on Georgetown and Villanova played Marquette, ticket prices
averaged $302.  “Clearly, the St. John’s and Syracuse fan bases are
energized,” Anderson said.  ‘Mike From Queens’  Repole, who said he will be at the game today as “just
Mike from Queens,” attributes his success to St. John’s.
Glaceau Vitaminwater was sold to Coca-Cola Co. for $4.1 billion
in 2007. Repole wouldn’t say how much money he has donated to
the school. He and his wife, Maria, were inducted last year into
the Founders Society, for $1 million-plus donors.  “I am so happy, so proud of the 10 seniors,” Repole said.
“They went 3 1/2 years with little notoriety, little success.
Now I see a swagger about them. Lavin and his staff brought it
out of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  