-- 
Stack Overflow Raises $12 Million From Index, Investors

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-03-09T06:32:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/stack-overflow-raises-12-million-from-investors-led-by-index.html
Stack Overflow Inc. , operator of the
most popular online forum for computer programmers, raised $12
million from investors led by  Index Ventures  to accelerate
growth in new markets like photography and cooking.  Spark Capital  joined the financing, as did  Union Square
Ventures , which first invested in the New York-based company
last year. Stack also is changing its name to Stack Exchange,
according to a statement today.  Investor appetite for Web forums surged in the past year as
users flocked to sites like Quora Inc. and  Formspring.me . Stack
said it has grown more than 60 percent since August, attracting
almost 20 million unique visitors in February. It runs 45
question-and-answer sites, with two-thirds of the traffic on its
primary site for developers. Stack is the dominant site for
computer experts, said Neil Rimer, a partner at Index.  “We can’t find a programmer who doesn’t love Stack
Overflow and doesn’t swear by it and use it all the time,” said
Geneva-based Rimer, who’s joining Stack’s board. “When you see
that kind of loyal behavior and engagement, you take notice and
track the company.”  Stack currently has 30 employees. It plans to use some of
the new capital for marketing and some to bolster its sites that
focus on attracting professionals, including photographers,
chefs, mathematicians and video-game developers, Chief Executive
Officer Joel Spolsky said in an interview.  Ads, Fees  Stack makes money by selling advertisements and charging
recruiters, who come to the site to find job seekers with
experience in particular programming languages. There are
currently about 500 jobs listed on the site, and recruiters pay
$5,000 for an annual subscription.  The company introduced Careers 2.0 last month, allowing
developers to create personal profiles highlighting their skills
and experience. This reduces the amount of work that recruiters
must do to find the right employees, Spolsky said.  “Mostly what we see is startups that need to hire a
developer or two,” said Spolsky, 45, who co-founded the company
in 2008. “We have some convincing to do to get the traditional
recruiters to understand the value proposition of prescreening,
based on work they’re doing in public, rather than the old
expectation that all you get is a cover letter and resume.”  Union Square Ventures led the previous round of funding in
May, which also included angel investors Ron Conway, Naval Ravikant and Chris Dixon.  Index Ventures’ other investments include Internet game
company Playfish Inc., which was purchased in 2009 by Electronic
Arts Inc., British online gaming site Betfair Group Plc, and e-
commerce company Etsy Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  