-- 
Standard Chartered's Rees Says Banks Blamed Disproportionately for Economy

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-03-09T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/standard-chartered-s-rees-says-banks-blamed-disproportionately.html
Anger toward Britain’s bankers may
grow as they get “disproportionately blamed” by politicians
and regulators, according to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s head of
corporate banking, Mike Rees.  “Politicians and regulators have a voice and they are not
about to blame themselves when they are confronted with social
unrest and unemployment,” Rees, 55, said in an interview in
London. “Banks as an industry have no voice in that debate, so
are they going to get disproportionately blamed? Absolutely.”  His comments follow the U.K. government’s decision to
impose a levy on banks’ balance sheets. The government-backed
Independent Commission on Banking is also weighing whether to
force banks to separate their investment and commercial-banking
operations.  Rees said his division, which contributes about three-
quarters of the bank’s profit and includes investment-banking
activities such as equities and merger-advisory services,
shouldn’t be classified as an investment bank. About 55 percent
of his operation is “core commercial banking” such as lending
and payment processing, he said.    Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King has also criticized
the financial industry, saying banks think it’s “perfectly
acceptable” to take money from “gullible” customers and pay
themselves bonuses because their firms are too big for the
government to let them fail, according to a March 5 interview in
the Daily Telegraph.  ‘Fundamentally Disagree’  “I really don’t want the culture of investment banking and
product-led structures because I fundamentally disagree with
them,” Rees said. “They only care about the transaction. They
don’t care about longevity and relationships with the client.
All they care about is the deal. I will have a conversation with
a client and if I don’t think the deal is right for them, I will
tell them, ‘Don’t do this deal.’”  Standard Chartered in November decided against joining a
pact between U.K. banks and the government to restrain bonuses
for 2010 because 97 percent of its employees work outside the
U.K.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said they will pay lower
bonuses to U.K. staff than last year, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne said Feb. 9.  A British government tax on bank balance sheets will cost
Standard Chartered $180 million after tax in 2011, the London-
based bank said March 3. Chief Executive Officer Peter Sands
said regulation was the “biggest external challenge” faced by
the bank this year. HSBC Chairman  Douglas Flint  told
parliamentarians last month said the levy is “a tax on being
headquartered here.” Both banks, which gain most of their
profits in Asia, threatened to leave London last year.  Record Profit  Standard Chartered last week reported its seventh
successive year of record profit. Net income at the bank, which
focuses on  Asia , the Middle East and  Africa , rose 28 percent to
$4.33 billion. Operating profit in the corporate-banking, or
“wholesale,” unit climbed 17 percent to $4.77 billion.  The shares have declined 2.6 percent this year, compared
with a 6.8 percent rise in the 48-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index.  Rees’s corporate-banking division has about 30,000 clients.
The bank “churns” about 800 to 900 clients a year among 20,000
that have annual revenue from $25 million to $100 million, he
said.  Asian Expansion  “You are trying to pick the people who are going to grow,
not the ones that are going to struggle,” Rees said. The bank
has only accepted 58 new clients with revenue of more than $100
million in the past 2 1/2 years, reducing the risk of bad loans
and “deepening relationships,” Rees said.  The bank has been building an equities operation in  Hong
Kong ,  Singapore  and  India  and will expand in  Korea  this year,
following its acquisition of Cazenove Asia Ltd. in 2008 to boost
corporate-banking services.  “We have 20,000 local corporates who all at some stage
will need an” initial public offering, Rees said. “We will
take these middle-market clients and do the heaving lifting for
them and if we don’t have an IPO capability then we lose all the
value of taking the risk of building them at the moment they are
about to break through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in  London  at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  