-- 
Study This to See Whether Harvard Pays Off: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/study-hard-to-find-if-harvard-pays-off-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
The notion that education pays and
that better education pays better is taken for granted by almost
everyone. For college professors like me, this is a very
convenient idea, providing a high and growing demand for our
services.  Unfortunately, the facts seem to disagree. A recent  study 
by economists Stacy Dale and Alan Krueger showed that going to
more selective colleges and universities makes little difference
to future income once one accounts for the underlying ability of
the student. Their work confirms other studies that find no
financial benefit to attending top-tier schools.  It’s good to know that Harvard applicants can safely attend  Boston University  (my employer), and that "better" higher
education doesn’t pay better. But does higher education pay in
the first place?  The answer seems obvious. On average, doctorate holders
earn more than those with master degrees, who earn more than
those with bachelor degrees, who earn more than high school
graduates. How can education not pay?  The answer is that education isn’t free. Top undergraduate
programs are now charging students $50,000 a year to eat, sleep
and, hopefully, attend class. But that’s just the direct cost.
Education’s hidden cost is the time spent learning rather than
earning.  Making School Pay  For education to pay it has to cover all its costs. It also
has to make up for the progressive  income tax , which taxes
annual earnings, not lifetime earnings. If person A earns the
same amount over her lifetime as person B, but does so in fewer
years, A’s annual earnings, in the years she works, will be
higher than B’s. This compressing of lifetime earnings into
fewer years can potentially land person A in higher tax brackets
during her working years.  Social Security’s payroll tax cuts the other way. It’s
regressive, thanks to its ceiling on taxable income. Earnings
bunching can lower lifetime payroll taxes provided the bunching
pushes annual earnings above the ceiling, now at $106,800.  Social Security’s benefits formula provides no reward for
paying taxes early. This too helps those who stay in school and
start their careers late. On the other hand, the formula doesn’t
credit earnings above the ceiling, which can penalize the better
educated.  But what’s the bottom line? Does education pay?  Not necessarily. Consider four equally talented 18 year-
olds -- Joe, Jill, Sue, and Matt. Joe takes a pass on attending
college. Instead, he decides to become a plumber.  Jill chooses medicine. She goes to an expensive private
college for four years, an  expensive medical school  for four
years, does a low-paying internship for two years followed by a
low-paying residency for one year, and finally, 11 years after
high school, gets a real job, as a general practitioner.  Teaching Education  Sue and Matt both get bachelor’s degrees in education at
the same expensive college Jill attends, but Matt spends an
extra two years after college getting his masters.  All four of these hypothetical kids settle down in  Ohio ,
remain single, and retire at 62. At age 50, the peak earnings
year for all four, Joe, the plumber, makes $71,685 (in today’s
dollars). Sue, the teacher, makes $89,584. Matt, the teacher
with the master degree, makes $103,250. And Jill, the doctor,
makes $185,895. All figures and others used in this analysis are
based on earnings data by age, state and occupation.  Earning Power  Who ends up with the higher lifetime spending power
assuming Sue, Matt, and Jill had to borrow, at high prevailing
interest rates, to pay tuition and cover living expenses while
in school?  To answer this question, I used ESPlanner, my company’s
financial planning software. The program figures out, in two
seconds, each kid’s sustainable spending, taking account of
educational costs, foregone earnings, annual federal and state
income taxes, annual payroll taxes, Social Security benefits,
and Medicare Part B premiums.  Jill, the doctor, has the highest living standard. She gets
to spend $33,666 year in and year out from age 19 through 100
This is after paying all her taxes and Medicare Part B premiums.
Age 100 is the maximum age to which the kids might live and,
thus, must plan.  Come again? Only $33,666? That’s a far cry from Jill’s peak
earnings of $185,895. Yes, but remember, Jill has only about 31
years of significant earnings to cover some 81 years of living.
And when Jill works, she gets nailed by the taxman. At age 50,
for example, Jill pays 36 percent of her earnings in federal and
state income taxes and payroll taxes.  Finally, Jill has a bucket load of  student loans  to repay
at an assumed 5 percent real interest rate, which exceeds the
assumed 3 percent real return she can safely earn on her
savings.  Plumber’s Pay  To add insult to Jill’s injury, Joe the plumber’s
sustainable spending is almost as high -- $33,243. All those
grueling years of study, exams, late-night emergency calls, and
Jill gets to spend a measly $423 more per year than a plumber.  What about Sue, the teacher? Sue has less spending power --
$27,608 -- than Joe.  And Matt, with his masters? His spending power is even
lower than Sue’s, at $26,503. Too bad he didn’t run the numbers
before sending in his graduate-school application.  These examples are a far cry from an exhaustive study of
the returns on investing in higher education. And they treat
higher education as purely a financial investment and ignore its
tremendous personal and social non-pecuniary rewards. Still, the
examples present a big red flag for those who pursue higher
education solely for the money. And they raise a major question
about government policy that promotes higher education as the
sure path to economic success.    Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at Boston
University, president of Economic Security Planning Inc. and
author of   Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu ;  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  