-- 
Sudanese Police Beat and Detain Anti-Government Protesters in Khartoum

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-09T11:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/sudanese-police-beat-and-detain-anti-government-protesters-in-khartoum.html
Sudanese  police officers arrested
about a dozen protesters in downtown Khartoum as they dispersed
scores of demonstrators calling for an end to President Umar al- Bashir’s 21-year rule.  Uniformed police and agents in civilian clothes beat some
protesters with sticks and rubber truncheons in the capital as
they moved to halt today’s demonstrations, which are calling for
the downfall of the government.  The protest was inspired by uprisings that forced the
presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  to step down, said Farouq Abu
Eissa, a spokesman for an opposition coalition known as the
National Consensus Forces. Police arrested two members of the
Communist party and one from the Baath party at their houses at
dawn, the spokeswoman of the Umma opposition party, Mariam al-
Mahdi, said by phone today from Khartoum.  “We will also demand to topple our own regime,” Abu Eissa
said March 7 in Khartoum. “It will be a gathering for all
forces wanting democracy.”  A-Bashir, who came to power in a 1989 coup, will not run
for another presidential term in 2015, his party said last
month. He retained power in Sudan’s first multiparty election in
24 years in April, winning 68 percent of the vote. Observers
from the Atlanta-based  Carter Center  and the European Union said
the elections failed to meet international standards.  Police Warning    Sudan ’s police warned against unauthorized protests and
said it would take measures against illegal gatherings, the pro-
government Akhbar al-Youm newspaper reported yesterday, citing
Mohamed al-Hafez, Khartoum’s police chief. Al-Hafez did not
answer calls to his mobile phone today seeking comment.  “We have notified the police that we are organizing this
gathering so they come and protect us, not asking for
permission,” al-Mahdi said by phone on March 7. “They refused
to take the notification, so we are telling the media that we
did our legal part.”  Police arrested about 30 women yesterday during a protest
in Khartoum against an alleged rape of a female activist by
policemen last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 