-- 
Swiss Stocks Fall as Credit Suisse Slips; Charles Voegele Rises

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-09T09:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/swiss-stocks-fall-as-credit-suisse-slips-charles-voegele-rises.html
Swiss stocks declined as yields on
Italian and Portuguese bonds climbed amid speculation that some
of  Europe ’s most indebted countries won’t be able to repay debt.  Credit Suisse Group Ltd.,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest
bank, dropped 0.9 percent.  Charles Voegele Holding AG (VCH) , a
clothing retailer, climbed 1.7 percent as analysts recommended
the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies slipped 0.2 percent to 6,498.66 at 10:21 a.m.
in Zurich, meaning the gauge has risen less than 1 percent this
year. The broader Swiss Performance Index also fell 0.2 percent
today.  The yield on Italian 10-year  government bonds  rose to 5
percent for the first time since Nov. 2008. The Portuguese 10-
year note yield increased to its highest since the euro was
introduced in 1999.  Moritz Kraemer, managing director of European sovereign
ratings at S&P, warned some countries may have their credit
ratings cut further while a Greek debt default is a
“possibility.”  Asked if the worst was over for the region’s sovereign
credit-rating outlook, Kraemer said: “I wish I could say yes,
but the answer is no.” Kraemer was speaking in an interview at
a EuroMoney conference in  London  yesterday.  Crude dropped as much as 0.8 percent to $104.21 a barrel in  New York  as speculation mounted that OPEC will consider boosting
output to compensate for disruptions in Libya and U.S. crude
inventories climbed.  Credit Suisse lost 0.9 percent to 40.10 Swiss francs, the
lowest in nearly two months.  Charles Voegele  Charles Voegele rallied 1.7 percent to 62.75 francs, its
sixth gain. The shares have surged 14 percent this month. Credit
Suisse raised its rating on the retailer to “outperform” from
“neutral” after the company published earnings yesterday
including a profit that trebled analysts’ estimates.  “The company’s restructuring measures have started to show
their first positive effects,” Patrick Jnglin, analyst at the
bank, wrote in a note to clients today. Vontobel AG, the Zurich-
based brokerage, also recommended the shares.    Schulthess Group (SGRN)  AG slid 2.9 percent to 48.50 francs,
trimming yesterday’s 7.7 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 