-- 
Swiss Franc Gains on Mideast Turmoil; Kiwi Falls as Central Bank Cuts Rate

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-03-09T22:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/swiss-franc-strengthens-as-surge-in-crude-oil-price-increases-haven-appeal.html
The Swiss franc rose against most of
its 16 most-traded counterparts as concern increased that
turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East will disrupt oil
supplies, encouraging investors to seek refuge.  The euro fell against most of its peers after  Portugal  was
forced to pay more at a debt auction than it has in the past,
indicating concern the region is struggling to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis. The franc was buoyed by a report showing
inflation accelerated in February, increasing speculation the
nation’s central bank will raise  interest rates  to quell growth.
New Zealand’s dollar fell after the central bank lowered its
lending rate by 50 basis points, citing last month’s earthquake.  “The economic data is supportive of the Swiss franc moving
into the rate-hike camp,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-
based analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. “It
helps make the case that the Swiss may start looking to
normalize.”  The franc rose 0.6 percent to 92.96 centimes per dollar at
5 p.m. in  New York , from 93.52 yesterday. It reached a record
high of 92.02 centimes on March 2. The Swiss currency gained 0.6
percent against the euro to 1.2929, from 1.3003.  Libyan President  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces carried out air
and artillery strikes on central oil ports to halt a rebel
advance along the coast, while stepping up attacks on towns in
the west that have risen up against him.  Oil Trends  Crude oil gained as much as 0.9 percent in New York. It
reached a two- and one-half year high of $106.95 earlier this
week.  “We’re seeing some pretty strong inflows getting back into
the Swiss franc,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director
for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York
Mellon, the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration. “There are some
undercurrents of  risk aversion .”  Swiss consumer prices increased 0.5 percent from a year
earlier after advancing 0.3 percent in January, the Federal
Statistics Office in Neuchatel said today.  Swiss National Bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said on
March 3 he sees a need to fight inflation risks during the
medium to longer term. The central bank’s target lending rate
has remained at 0.25 percent since 2009.  Portugal sold 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of securities
due September 2013. The bonds were issued at an average yield of
5.993 percent, the country’s debt management agency said. That
compares with an average yield of 4.086 percent at a previous
auction of the same-maturity debt on Sept. 8. The auction
attracted bids for 1.6 times the amount offered, compared with a
bid-to-cover ratio of 1.9 in September.  Peripheral View  “Against the euro, the franc’s gain is rather
pronounced,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The debt crisis that some
peripheral countries are going through doesn’t help the euro.”  The 17-nation currency rose earlier on speculation the  European Central Bank  asked for prices to purchase the
securities of the region’s most indebted nations. The central
bank inquired about prices for Irish bonds and didn’t buy,
according to two traders with knowledge of the matter.  The euro traded at $1.3909 against the dollar after
dropping as much as 0.4 percent and rising as much 0.3 percent.  Royal Bank of Canada increased its second-quarter outlook
for the euro against the dollar after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  last week signaled an increase in the region’s interest
rates.  Euro Forecast  The shared currency may fall to $1.36 in the second
quarter, from a previous forecast of $1.30, as Trichet said the
ECB may raise its benchmark rate next month for the first time
in almost three years to curb inflation, Elsa Lignos, a currency
strategist in London at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote today in a
research note.    New Zealand ’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 73.66 U.S. cents
after dropping as much as 0.8 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand cut the official cash rate
to 2.5 percent from 3 percent, the first reduction in almost two
years, to bolster an economy teetering near a recession after
the deadliest earthquake in 80 years. It was central bank
Governor Alan Bollard’s first policy meeting since a Feb. 22
temblor killed more than 160 and leveled parts of Christchurch,
the nation’s second-biggest city.  Aussie Drop    Australia ’s dollar earlier dropped after a report showed
home-loan approvals fell in January by the most in a year. The
number of loans granted to build or buy houses and apartments
fell 4.5 percent from December, when they increased 2.1 percent,
the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.  The currency rebounded after Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens said he isn’t “terribly troubled” by
increases in  house prices  and data indicate the market is under
control. The Aussie added 0.1 percent to $1.0108.  The British pound strengthened against the euro and the
dollar after a report showed the nation’s trade deficit narrowed
more than economists forecast in January as exports rose to a
record. The deficit shrank to 7.06 billion pounds ($11.4
billion), the smallest in 11 months, from 9.69 billion pounds in
December, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to 85.84 pence per euro
after reaching 85.65, the strongest since March 3. Sterling
gained 0.3 percent to $1.6203.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  