-- 
U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Accelerates as BOE Policy Makers Begin Meeting

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-k-shop-price-inflation-accelerates-as-boe-policy-makers-begin-meeting.html
U.K. shop prices rose at the fastest
annual pace in more than two years in February, signaling
increasing price pressures as  Bank of England  policy makers meet
to set  interest rates .  Prices charged by retailers rose 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, up from 2.5 percent in January, as non-food stores
passed on the government’s increase in  sales tax , the  British
Retail Consortium  in  London  said in a report today. The February
reading is the highest since November 2008.  Retailers are under pressure to raise prices after the
government increase value-added tax and the cost of commodities
including oil, cotton and wheat surged. The Bank of England
Monetary Policy Committee will begin its monthly two-day policy
meeting today after three of the nine-member panel voted to
raise interest rates last month to tame above-target inflation.  “January’s VAT rise is starting to have an impact on non-
food prices, pushing up overall inflation,” BRC Director
General  Stephen Robertson  said in the report. While “food
inflation appears to have stabilized for now despite on-going
pressure from soaring global commodity costs,” rising fuel and
energy costs “are eating into household budgets,” he said.  Food-price inflation slowed to 4.5 percent in February from
4.6 percent, the BRC said. Non-food price gains accelerated to
1.6 percent, a nine-month high, from 1.3 percent.  U.K. consumer-price inflation accelerated to 4 percent in
January, twice the Bank of England’s target. The MPC will hold
the key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent when it announces
its decision tomorrow, according to all 61 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. It will also keep its bond-stimulus plan
at 200 billion pounds ($323 billion).  A separate report by KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation today indicated that the pace of job
growth accelerated last month. Their gauge of full-time job
placements reported by employment consultancies rose to 62.7
from 58.2 in January, the highest in 10 months. Readings above
50 indicate an increase in hiring.  A measure of demand for temporary staff climbed to its
highest since May 2007, the report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  