-- 
U.K. Plans to End Display, Promotion of Tobacco in Stores

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-03-09T11:52:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-k-plans-to-end-display-promotion-of-tobacco-in-stores.html
The U.K. government will legislate
to ban the promotion and display of tobacco in stores in  England 
and consider whether to require tobacco products be sold in
plain packaging as part of a  plan to reduce smoking .  Tobacco products will have to be placed out of sight in
shops, the  Department of Health  in  London  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The rules will come into force on April 6,
2012, for large stores and in April 2015 for all other shops to
allow smaller retailers time to adapt to the regulations.  “Over 8 million people in England still smoke and it
causes more than 80,000 deaths each year,” Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley said in the statement. “My ambition is to reduce
smoking rates faster over the next five years than has been
achieved in the past five years.”  The regulations are particularly aimed at stopping children
taking up smoking and helping young people who smoke to give
up, Lansley said. The government aims to cut smoking rates among
15-year-olds to 12 percent or less by 2015 from 15 percent today
and among adults to 18.5 percent from 21.2 percent.  “On plain packaging, the government has an open mind and
wants to hear views,” the health department said. “The
government will consult on options to reduce the promotional
impact of tobacco packaging, including plain packaging, and an
assessment of the impact of these options, before the end of
2011.”  BAT, Imperial    British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s largest cigarette
maker, fell as much as 10 pence, or 0.4 percent, to 2,416 pence
in London trading today. It was up 0.1 percent at 2,429 pence as
of 11:45 a.m.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , the maker of Davidoff
cigarettes, rose 23 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 1,935 pence.  “It’s important to make clear that there is no evidence to
suggest that plain packaging would have any impact on smoking
uptake by young people,” British American Tobacco said in an e-
mailed statement.  “If the government insists cigarettes are
sold in plain packs, it would be like Christmas for
counterfeiters and the criminal gangs who smuggle cigarettes
into the U.K.”  The move follows similar measures in  Australia , which last
year announced it would ban branding on cigarette packs, and  Canada , which said in December health warnings should cover 75
percent of their surface. In 2007, the previous Labour
government in the U.K. banned smoking in enclosed public spaces.  ‘Cannot Ignore’  “Nearly all adult smokers started smoking before they
turned 18 and every year, over 300,000 children under 16 try
smoking,” Sally Davies, the chief medical officer for England,
said in the statement. “I strongly support the ending of
tobacco displays in shops. We cannot ignore the targeting of
young people through these displays that encourage and recruit
them to start smoking at an age when they are less able to make
an informed choice.”  Doctors welcomed the government’s plans and said they would
prefer the new rules to be brought in more quickly.  “We are disappointed that he has said he will delay
introducing the display ban until April 2012 for large shops and
April 2015 for smaller ones,” Vivienne Nathanson, the  British
Medical Association ’s director of professional activities, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Smoking is one of the biggest causes
of premature death and it is essential that action is taken to
help people quit and discourage young people from starting to
smoke in the first place.”  The smokers’ lobby group,  Forest , said the legislation
would damage retailers.  “If the government’s tobacco control plan goes ahead,
Britain will become a smugglers’ paradise,” Forest’s director,
Simon Clark, said in an e-mailed statement. “The sale of
tobacco will move from responsible, legitimate retailers selling
to law-abiding consumers, to irresponsible criminals who won’t
think twice about selling cigarettes to children.”  The legislation will not apply to  Scotland ,  Wales  and  Northern Ireland , whose governments run their own health
policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 