-- 
U.S. Treasury Says Electronic Transactions to Save $600 Million

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-03-09T14:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-s-treasury-says-electronic-transactions-to-save-600-million.html
The U.S. government expects to save
about $600 million in the next five years by increasing the use
of electronic payments for Social Security benefits, savings
bonds and other transactions, a  Treasury Department  official
said today.  The Treasury also is working with other government agencies
to collect more delinquent debt, an effort expected to bring in
“more than $5 billion over the next 10 years,” said Richard Gregg, the Treasury’s fiscal assistant secretary, in testimony
to a panel of the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform.  Gregg was speaking to the panel about the financial report
of the U.S. government, which is intended to provide a
comprehensive assessment of federal finances. The 2010 report
was previously released and covered the fiscal year that ended
Sept 30. The 2010  budget deficit  was $1.3 trillion.  Last year, the government recorded total assets of $2.7
trillion and total liabilities of $16 trillion, primarily debt
held by the public and benefits owed to veterans and federal
workers. The U.S. also estimates that Social Security and
Medicare face a shortfall of $31 trillion over the next 75
years, compared to $46 trillion in the 2009 projection.  The Government Accountability Office, the watchdog arm of
Congress, reviewed the report and was unable to offer an opinion
on the financial statements, said U.S. Comptroller Gene Dodaro
in testimony for today’s hearing. He cited financial management
problems at the Defense Department, government accounting
problems and an “ineffective process for preparing the
consolidated financial statements.”  Dodaro also said GAO has not expressed an opinion on the
2010 estimates for Social Security and Medicare because of
“significant uncertainties” related to projected Medicare cost
savings.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  