-- 
Best Buy Credit-Default Swaps Tumble After $1 Billion Bond Sale

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-03-09T22:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-s-credit-swaps-index-reverses-drop-as-libya-violence-drives-oil-higher.html
The cost to protect bonds from Best
Buy Co. dropped the most in 10 months after the world’s largest
consumer electronics retailer issued $1 billion of the debt
yesterday.  Its credit-default swaps fell 18.2 basis points to 135,
according to data provider CMA. That’s down from 177.5 basis
points on Feb. 2 and the biggest drop since May 10.  “You could argue that being able to issue $1 billion in
bonds before reporting its critical fourth-quarter results and
given its business challenges demonstrates good financial
flexibility and capital markets access,” Carol Levenson, an
analyst with Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago , wrote in an e-mail.
Proceeds will probably be used to fund a share repurchase,
according to Levenson.  The bonds rallied for their “scarcity value” because the
Richfield, Minnesota-based company infrequently issues debt,
though the timing for the latest sale was unusual, according to
Levenson.  “We’re all in the dark about the fourth quarter and what
the cash movements were like or what the balance sheet position
is,” Levenson wrote. Best Buy is expected to announce earnings
on March 25. It’s “an odd time to float a big  bond issue .”  The $650 million of 10-year, 5.5 percent bonds rose 1.9
cents to 101.6 cents on the dollar since issuance, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The $350 million of five-year, 3.75
percent bonds climbed 0.9 cent since issue to 100.5 cents on the
dollar.  CDX Index Rises  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
rose as stocks declined on escalating violence in  Libya . Oil for
April delivery reached a 29-month high this week and traded as
high as $105.92 today. U.S. stocks fell, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lower a third time in four days.  Libya’s Ras Lanuf refinery, the country’s largest crude-
processing plant, was shut amid fighting between government
forces and rebels, an official with the Libyan Emirates Oil
Refining Co. said. Oil tanks at the nearby Es Sider terminal
were damaged by bombings today, according to Al Jazeera
television.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.1 basis points to a
mid-price of 84.9 basis points as of 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Earlier it
fell as much as 0.3 basis point.  ‘There Goes Our Recovery’  If “oil’s going to 200 bucks a barrel, there goes our
recovery,” Bonnie Baha, a money manager and head of the global
developed-credit group at DoubleLine Capital LP, said in an
interview.  Disruption in Libyan supplies has cut output by as much as
1 million barrels a day, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  “Hence the heightened Middle East and North Africa risk is
causing a widening of swap spreads,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-
income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New
York, said in an e-mail.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined from as high
as 88.2 basis points on Feb. 24.  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which climbs
as investor confidence improves, fell 0.2 percentage point to
103.5 percent of face value, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  The investment-grade CDX index will roll to a new series on
March 21 and the High Yield Index on March 28. New versions of
the index are created every six months. Companies are replaced
if they no longer have appropriate credit grades, are no longer
among the most actively traded in the $25 trillion credit swaps
market, or fail to meet other index criteria.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  