-- 
U.S. Navy Sees 20-Year, $333 Billion Plan Missing Ship Goals

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-09T22:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-s-navy-sees-20-year-333-billion-plan-missing-ship-goals.html
The U.S. Navy’s 20-year plan to
spend about $333 billion on new ships may mean fewer vessels
built each year because of the high cost of replacing the Ohio-
class nuclear-powered submarines, the service’s top acquisition
official told Congress today.  “Yearly shipbuilding expenditures during the second
decade” from 2022 through 2031 “is projected to average about
$17.5 billion” in current dollars, Sean Stackley, assistant
Navy secretary for acquisitions, told the House Armed Services
Committee’s subcommittee on seapower and projection forces in
prepared remarks today.  “Even at this elevated funding level, however, the total
number of ships built per year will inevitably fall” because of
the procurement of the SSBN(X) submarines that will replace the
current Ohio-class nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines,
Stackley said. From 2012 through 2021, the Navy plans to spend
an average of $15.8 billion a year for ships, he said.  The Navy’s long-range shipbuilding forecast released in
February 2010 shows annual production dropping from 12 vessels
in 2015 to about 7 or 8 a year starting in 2024. Navy officials
have been sounding warnings about the cost of the Ohio-class
submarine replacement program eating into the service’s ship
construction.  Examining the Navy’s proposals “there are many things to
be concerned about,” Missouri Republican Representative Todd Akin, the subcommittee’s chairman, said in prepared remarks.
“Probably the most worrisome aspect of the Navy’s budget is
that it will require near-perfect execution” on cost, schedule
and management of risk, he said.  ‘Put a Dent’  “Right now we are at about $5.4 billion per boat” in
projected costs for the Ohio-class submarine’s replacement, Navy
Secretary Ray Mabus said yesterday in congressional testimony.
That number “needs to start with a four in some way,” he said.  Even if one submarine costs $4.9 billion, paying for 12 of
them out of the Navy’s own budget “would put a dent in the rest
of the shipbuilding programs,” Mabus said.  The current Ohio-class submarines will begin retiring in
2027 and the first of their replacements should be operational
in 2029, Stackley said.  The Navy also is upgrading its fleet of aircraft carriers
with the new Ford-class that will feature an electro-magnetic
aircraft launch system in place of a steam catapult. Other ship
classes undergoing modernization include the new Littoral Combat
Ship, amphibious vessels, DDG-51 destroyers, oilers and the
Joint High Speed Vessels to carry sailors and Marines within a
theater.    Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , of  Los Angeles , is the largest U.S.
shipbuilder, followed by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , of  Falls
Church , Virginia.  Northrop’s Divestiture  Northrop’s plans to spin off its shipbuilding unit into a
separate entity called Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. is
being closely monitored, Stackley said in his testimony today.  The Pentagon wants to ensure “strong shipbuilding yards
are available to compete for future Navy work” once Northrop
completes its divestiture, Stackley said.  Wes Bush, chief executive officer of Northrop, has said
separating the unit would allow the company to focus on its
electronics, aerospace and information-systems businesses that
offer better profit margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  