-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for March 4 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-03-09T15:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-march-4-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 13.9 million barrels per
day during the week ending March 4, 145 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 82.0
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased last week, averaging about 9.0 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging about 4.1 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.3 million barrels per day last
week, up by 290 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged about
8.2 million barrels per day, 669 thousand barrels per day below
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 761 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 252 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.5 million barrels
from the previous week. At 348.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
5.5 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 4.0 million barrels and are above
the upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 1.4 million barrels
last week and are below the lower limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 6.3 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged about 19.5 million barrels per day, up by 0.6 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about 9.1
million barrels per day, up by 2.3 percent from the same period
last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged nearly
3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 4.1
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 6.6 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  