-- 
U.S. Wholesale Inventories Climb More-Than-Forecast 1.1% Amid Sales Growth

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-09T15:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/u-s-wholesale-inventories-increased-more-than-forecast-1-1-in-january.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in January as distributors tried to keep pace
with sales that rose by the most since November 2009.  The 1.1 percent increase in stockpiles followed a revised
1.3 percent gain in December that was bigger than initially
estimated, the Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.9
percent rise. Sales jumped 3.4 percent in January, led by cars,
computers and commodities.  The amount of goods in inventory compared with purchases
matched a record low in January, pointing to further gains in
manufacturing, the mainstay of the expansion. Stockpiles may add
to growth this quarter as businesses try to keep more on shelves.  “It’s a sign of strength in the economy,” said  Eric Green ,
chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York , who
projected a 1 percent gain in January. “You saw a big correction
in the pace of inventory growth last quarter, and now it’s going
to be very supportive of growth.”  Estimates of 35 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from increases of 0.2 percent to 1.5 percent. December
inventories were revised from a previously reported 1 percent
gain.  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
for the third time in four days. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.4 percent
to 1,316.87 at 10:10 a.m. in New York. Treasuries rose, pushing
down the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 3.53 percent from
3.55 percent late yesterday.  January Imports  The rise in wholesale inventories signals that imports in
January probably also increased. The Commerce Department will
issue trade balance figures tomorrow. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for a $41.5 billion deficit
compared with $40.6 billion a month earlier.  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, slowed in the fourth quarter as sales
jumped. Stockpiling subtracted 3.7 percentage points from the 2.8
percent gain in gross domestic product, according to the Commerce
Department.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.13 months in January, matching the record low that
was reached in April 2010.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1.1 percent in January, led by
automobiles, computers and hardware, today’s report showed.
Durable goods sales rose 2.3 percent.  Non-Durable Goods  The value of non-durable goods inventories, which may
reflect increased commodities costs, climbed 1.2 percent as
purchases surged 4.4 percent.  Companies like  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  the world’s largest toymaker,
are adjusting inventories to meet increasing demand this year
after the jobless rate fell to a near two-year low, presaging a
jump in  consumer spending , the largest part of the economy.  “This year, we’re going to start with inventories in pretty
good shape,” Robert Eckert, chief executive officer at Mattel,
said on a Feb. 2 teleconference. “We’re committed to building
inventories more in the first half of the year relative to the
second half in order to run the supply chain more efficiently
than we did last year.”  The El Segundo, California-based company said higher sales
of its Barbie brand boosted fourth-quarter profit above analysts’
estimates.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, grew 1.3 percent in January, the Commerce
Department said March 4. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the March 11 business inventories
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  