-- 
Ugandan Police Use Teargas to Disperse Opposition Protesters in Kampala

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-03-09T13:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ugandan-police-use-teargas-to-disperse-opposition-protesters-in-kampala.html
Ugandan police dispersed tens of
demonstrators who gathered in the capital, Kampala, to protest
the alleged rigging of the country’s presidential election.  Eight people were arrested for leading “a riot in which
they were caning people,” deputy police spokesman Vincent
Ssekate said by phone from the city. The demonstration had been
ruled unlawful by the authorities.  Further protests are planned, said Asuman Basalirwa, the
leader of the Justice Forum. “Our demonstration was dispersed,
but we going to announce a strategy for further demonstration
across the country,” he said.  President Yoweri Museveni secured a fourth consecutive term
in office after winning 68.38 percent of the vote in the
election. Four opposition leaders rejected the poll results on
Feb. 24 and urged their supporters to protest to back demands
for a fresh vote. The group includes Kizza Besigye of the Forum
for Democratic Change, who won 26 percent of the vote.  Today’s protest was organized by the opposition Justice
Forum, the Uganda People’s Congress and former independent
presidential candidate Samuel Lubega, the Ugandan police said in
an e-mailed statement earlier today.  European Union observers said the February election was
“marred by avoidable and logistical failures, which led to an
unacceptable number of Ugandan citizens being disenfranchised.”
Commonwealth election monitors had “serious concerns” that there
wasn’t a level playing field in the run-up to the vote, mission
leader Dame Billie Miller told reporters on Feb. 20.  Uganda is set to become  Africa ’s newest oil producer next
when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K.-based energy company, is expected
to start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin. The
country has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil, without
about 1 billion barrels already proven, according to Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 