-- 
Ugandan Opposition Protest Over Election Results Ruled Unlawful by Police

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-03-09T09:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/ugandan-opposition-protest-over-election-results-ruled-unlawful-by-police.html
  Uganda ’s police force said it won’t
allow a protest planned by opposition supporters today against
the alleged rigging of a Feb. 18 presidential election because
it may spark a riot.  The state has “reliable information” that the opposition
wants to cause “widespread and sustained violence and
destruction” at the protests, police chief Kale Kayihura said
today in an e-mailed statement from the capital, Kampala. Any
planned demonstration or procession “is therefore unlawful and
shall not be allowed to take place.”  President Yoweri Museveni secured a fourth consecutive term
in office after winning 68.38 percent of the vote in the
election. Four opposition leaders rejected the poll results on
Feb. 24 and urged their supporters to protest in support of
demands for a fresh vote. The group includes Kizza Besigye of
the Forum for Democratic Change, who won 26 percent of the vote.  Today’s planned protest had been called to demand a new
election, Asuman Basalirwa, leader of the opposition Justice
Forum, said yesterday. Basalirwa didn’t answer his mobile phone
today when called for comment about police announcement.  The European Union observers said the February election was
“marred by avoidable and logistical failures, which led to an
unacceptable number of Ugandan citizens being disenfranchised.”
Commonwealth election monitors had “serious concerns” that
there wasn’t a level playing field in the run-up to the vote,
mission leader Dame Billie Miller told reporters on Feb. 20.  Uganda is set to become  Africa ’s newest oil producer next
when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K.-based energy company, is expected
to start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin. The
country has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil, without
about 1 billion barrels already proven, according to Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 