-- 
Lukoil's Alekperov Looking for Partners to Invest in U.S. Shale Gas Fields

-- B y   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/lukoil-s-alekperov-looking-for-partners-to-invest-in-u-s-shale-gas-fields.html
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest non-
state-controlled oil company, is scouting for oil and natural-
gas investments in U.S. shale fields, President Vagit Alekperov
said.  “If we are lucky in identifying a good partner, we are
ready to be actively involved in the U.S.,” Alekperov said in
an interview yesterday at CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by
IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  Alekperov joins a line of companies looking at the North
American shale industry, as much to get the drilling technology
as the oil and gas.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  bought shale gas producer
XTO Energy Inc. for $34.8 billion last June and PetroChina Co.
last month made its biggest overseas investment of $5.4 billion
for a stake in Encana Corp.’s Canada shale field.  Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken
apart to release trapped oil and gas. Advances in directional
drilling and so-called hydraulic fracturing techniques have
increased production from shale fields. Hydraulic fracturing
injects water, sand and chemicals into the rock to crack it.  Alekperov said he wants to be able to apply those
techniques to oil-rich shale deposits in Russia. Lukoil already
is experimenting in the Bazhenov formation in West Siberia,
which has “huge resources of liquid hydrocarbons,” he said.  Siberian Shale  Lukoil is hunting for new ways to recover oil as the
Russian oil industry is at “a crossroads,” according to Thane
Gustafson, a Russia specialist for energy consultants IHS CERA.  Russia raised production to more than 10 million barrels a
day from about 6.2 million barrels a day in 1999 by applying
techniques such as water flooding and directional drilling to
old Soviet-era fields. Now the payoff from such techniques is
declining in mature areas such as West Siberia, Alekperov said.  Russia needs an infusion of Western technology and capital
to explore for and develop resources in the Arctic and East
Siberia, Alekperov said.  After a lull of several years, Russia has seen a burst of
transactions this year.    BP Plc (BP/)  agreed a $7.8 billion stock swap with state-
controlled  Rosneft Oil Co. (ROSN) , though it’s being challenged by BP’s
Russian partners in TNK-BP. On March 3, France’s Total SA agreed
to pay $4 billion for 12 percent of Russia’s NovaTek OAO. Both
groups aim to develop fields in the Russian arctic.  Lukoil pioneered such transactions, with  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
taking a stake that at one point reached 20 percent.
ConocoPhillips has since sold out as part of a larger asset-
disposal program. Alekperov said he didn’t need a new partner to
replace ConocoPhillips, saying Lukoil obtained the know-how it
needed from service companies such as  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)   Joint Ventures  Joint ventures will continue to be used by international
oil and gas companies wanting to acquire shale acreage in the
U.S.,  Michael Wang , a research director for IHS Herold, said
yesterday at the CERAWeek conference.  Meantime, the deals keep coming. Last month,  Australia ’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, agreed to
buy  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s Arkansas shale gas assets for
$4.75 billion.  In the same month,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  completed its $3.58
billion purchase of  Atlas Energy Inc. (ATLS)  to add acreage in the gas-
rich Marcellus Shale in the U.S. East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley Reed in Houston at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  