-- 
Tullow Oil Drops on Ugandan Delay; Profit Trails Estimates

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-03-09T16:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/tullow-total-expect-clearance-for-ugandan-joint-venture-during-first-half.html
  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  fell the most in
almost two months in London after the Africa-focused explorer
reported “slower progress” in resolving a tax dispute in
Uganda and full-year profit missed analyst estimates.  Tullow retreated 3.2 percent, the steepest decline since
Jan. 20, to 1,413 pence. Today’s drop pared the gain for 2011 to
12 percent.  Last year’s pretax profit of $152 million missed the $210
million mean estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company said it made “slower progress’ in getting approval from
the Ugandan government to start a joint venture with  Total SA (FP) 
and China National Offshore Oil Corp.  “We are still very pessimistic that we will see any
traction in the short term and feel there is a real possibility
that Tullow’s partners may exit the joint venture should the
situation not be resolved favorably,” said  Dougie Youngson , an
analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London.  Tullow said in a statement today that it expects to receive
approval for the proposed deal in the first half of this year.  “All the main points have been agreed at this stage,”
Chief Executive Officer Aidan Heavey said in a telephone
interview. “We are in the process of finalizing the memorandum
of understanding and that’s the priority right now.”  Ugandan Delay  London-based Tullow paid about $1.5 billion in July to  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  for interests in Block 1 and 3A in the  Lake
Albert basin . Uganda withheld the final approval of the deal
amid a tax dispute, an issue that has to be resolved before
Cnooc and Total can be brought in as partners. Last month’s
elections in  Uganda  delayed a resolution, Tullow said.  “It will be Tullow, Cnooc and Total, one third each,”
Heavey said. “We are liable for our taxes and Heritage are
liable for their taxes and these are the basic principles.”  The partners plan to tap fields in the Lake Albert basin
that may be able to pump more than 200,000 barrels of oil a day
in 2015.  Write-offs almost doubled to $154.7 million last year from
$82.7 million in 2009 following exploration failures in Gabon,
Ghana and Tanzania and after Tullow gave up some licenses in
Gabon and  Angola .  “We review our licenses and periodically relinquish
them,” Chief Financial Officer Ian Springett said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  