-- 
Human Penises Evolved to Promote Longer Sex, Monogamy, Researchers Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-09T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/human-penises-evolved-to-promote-longer-sex-researchers-say.html
The human penis lost the sensitive
ridges common to many animals more than 800,000 years ago in an
evolutionary move that promoted longer sex and monogamy, U.S.
researchers said.  Men are missing a sequence of DNA that indirectly leads to
the development of penile spines in animals including macaques,
chimpanzees and mice, researchers from  Pennsylvania State
University  said today in the journal Nature. The missing DNA is
one of 510 such deletions that distinguish humans from other
animals, the scientists said. The spines in primates are made of
keratin, the same substance in fingernails, feathers and hair.  A spineless penis means more time is needed for copulation,
which may be why humans have sex for longer periods than related
primates like chimpanzees that have the spines. Longer sex
increases the chance of humans  bonding  in pairs to raise
children, the researchers said. Chimpanzees are more promiscuous
in the race to impregnate females, and having ridged penises may
increase the odds of success by enhancing rapid copulation, the
scientists said.  “We often think of brain size and bipedalism as key
characteristics of what makes us human,” said  Philip Reno , an
assistant professor at Penn State in  University Park ,  Pennsylvania , who was one of the study’s three lead authors, in
a statement. “But another difference is our sexual behavior.”  The absence of the DNA sequence was noted in Neanderthals,
suggesting that the human penis lost its spine somewhere between
7 million and 800,000 years ago, according to the statement. The
so-called  silent DNA  may have affected the nearby human  androgen
receptor gene , which helps produce male sex characteristics.
While silent DNA, also referred to as junk DNA because its
purpose isn’t always clear, doesn’t code proteins, it can change
how a gene is expressed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 