-- 
Mumbai Homes May Cost 20% Less in Six Months on Prices, Merrill Lynch Says

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-03-09T05:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/mumbai-home-prices-may-decline-20-percent-in-6-months-merrill-lynch-says.html
  Mumbai  home prices may decline as
much as 20 percent over the next six months as record prices and
high  interest rates  deter buyers and developers slash asking
prices, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Mumbai’s residential property market will perform poorly as
sales stall and fewer new projects come to market, Mumbai-based
analyst Gagan Agarwal at Merrill Lynch said. Developers haven’t
started reducing prices yet, even after home sales have declined
sharply since November, according to the note. Sales will climb
after prices correct, he said.  “We expect a challenging six months with low volumes
followed by a 15 percent to 20 percent correction in prices,”
Agarwal said in a note to clients yesterday.  Home registrations in Mumbai,  India ’s most expensive real
estate market, fell to their lowest in 20 months in November,
according to brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. Property prices
in some markets have surpassed their 2007 peaks, Mahesh Nandurkar, a real-estate analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Mumbai, said in November.  India’s central bank increased the benchmark interest rate
to a two-year high in January and signaled further gains in
borrowing costs as it raised the inflation forecast.  “With banks reluctant to lend to developers and rising
mortgage rates, we expect some of the smaller developers will be
forced to sell their inventory at lower prices to generate
liquidity, forcing an all-round correction in Mumbai,” Agarwal
said.  Offices to Outperform  The office and retail segment will outperform residential
assets this year, Agarwal said. Rental and capital values near
their 2009 lows and growing demand from businesses and retailers
make them attractive. Merrill doesn’t expect a decline in
rentals over the next 12 to 18 months as demand remains robust.
Rentals in Mumbai, which are almost 25 percent to 30 percent
below their 2007 peak, may climb in 2012 when demand is expected
to exceed supply. Malls may see a 10 percent to 15 percent
increase in rent renewals, according to the note.  Merrill initiated coverage on  Oberoi Realty Ltd. (OBER)  with a
“buy” rating and a price estimate of 290 rupees a share, a 22
percent increase from yesterday’s closing price. It reiterated
its “buy” rating on  Indiabulls Real Estate Ltd. (IBREL) , citing the
stocks of Mumbai-based developers looking attractive after the
sharp sell-off since November. It cut its rating on  Housing
Development & Infrastructure Ltd. (HDIL)  to “neutral” on expectation
of delays in redevelopment projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  