-- 
Iran Continues its `Drive to Enrich Uranium,' Defense Agency's Chief Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/un-sanctions-aren-t-stopping-iran-s-nuclear-enrichment-dia-says.html
  Iran  has produced “more than
enough” low-enriched uranium for a nuclear weapon if it were
to further enrich and process the material for bomb use,
according to the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency.  United Nations sanctions “are not stopping Iran’s drive to
enrich uranium” for potential nuclear weapons, says Army
Lieutenant General  Ronald Burgess , director of the DIA.  Sanctions haven’t slowed operation of Iran’s heavy water
nuclear reactor or the installation at its Natanz facility of
more centrifuges that could enrich uranium to weapons-grade
levels, Burgess says in a statement prepared for the Senate
Armed Services Committee.  “Iran has installed nearly 9,000 centrifuges at Natanz and
accumulated more than enough” 3.5 percent enriched uranium for
a nuclear weapon, if it further enriches and processes the
material to higher levels, Burgess says.  Fissile material for nuclear warheads requires 90 percent
enriched uranium.  The number of centrifuges is up from 3,000 in late 2007,
according to U.S. intelligence estimates. Centrifuges are
machines that can enrich uranium for use in nuclear  power plants 
or to fuel nuclear weapons.  Burgess is scheduled to appear before the armed services
panel today to deliver a 34-page statement on world threats
facing the U.S. His remarks on Iran comprise the latest U.S.
government public assessment on the effectiveness of Iranian
sanctions.  Iran’s Plans  The statement doesn’t assess whether Iran is actually
intent on pursuing nuclear weapons. In his own remarks prepared
for the hearing, James Clapper, President  Barack Obama ’s
director of national intelligence, repeats an assessment
delivered last month that while the U.S. doesn’t know if Iran
will ultimately build weapons, its programs “position it” to
do so.  “Iran’s nuclear decision-making is guided by a cost-
benefit approach, which offers the international community
opportunities to influence Tehran,” Clapper says.  The DIA assessment is that Iran is “unlikely to initiate
or intentionally provoke” a conflict or make a preemptive
attack, Burgess says.  Overall, Iran increased its supply of 20 percent enriched
uranium to 43.6 kilograms (96.1 pounds), compared with 33
kilograms in November, at the Pilot Fuel Enrichment Plant in
Natanz, the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency  said
Feb. 25.  Iran in mid-2010 came under a fourth set of United Nations
sanctions, which were supported by  Russia , as well as tougher
U.S. and European Union measures.  Underground Facilities  Burgess says in his statement that Iran is following the
lead of China and Russia in protecting its Natanz and Qom
nuclear installations underground.  “Buried, hardened facilities and improved air defenses are
key elements of Iran’s extensive program to protect its nuclear
infrastructure from destruction,” Burgess says.  Iran’s construction is in keeping with a transnational
tunneling trend where potential adversaries “conceal and
protect their most vital national security activities,” Burgess
says.  “The spread of western tunneling technology and equipment
is contributing to a rise in construction by countries and
organizations that have not previously used modern techniques,”
he says.  The U.S.  Air Force  is developing a 30,000-pound satellite-
guided bomb that would be able to penetrate hardened bunkers.
The Pentagon Defense Threat Reduction Agency last year completed
development and passed the bomb to the Air Force. The weapon,
for the B-2 stealth bomber, would be the largest conventional
weapon in the U.S. inventory.  Advanced Missiles  Iran’s plans to defend its facilities was dealt a setback
when Russian officials in September prohibited delivery of
advanced surface-to-air missiles that Iran seeks “to protect
senior leaders, industrial facilities, in addition to its
nuclear facilities,” Burgess says.  Iran’s air-defense capability would have been
“significantly” improved if Russia had delivered advanced
anti-aircraft missiles, Army General David Petraeus, who then
led U.S. Central Command, told the Senate armed services panel
in March 2010.  Separately, the DIA assessment says that Iran “funds,
instigates and coordinates most anti  Israel  activity in the
region,’” Burgess says. “Israel is concerned that Iran is
giving increasingly sophisticated weapons to its enemies,
including Hizballah, Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad,”
he says. “These actions could offset its traditional military
superiority, erode its deterrent and lead to war.”  Iran is “making progress in developing ballistic missiles
that can strike regional adversaries and  Central Europe ” and
its Simorgh satellite launch vehicle “shows the country’s
progress toward developing an intercontinental ballistic
missiles,” Burgess says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  