-- 
University of Southern California Receives $200 Million Donation

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-03-09T19:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/university-of-southern-california-receives-200-million-donation.html
The University of  Southern
California  will receive a $200 million gift, the largest in its
history, from Dana and David Dornsife to expand support for
undergraduate programs.  The donation will also fund research and Ph.D. programs in
the College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, the university in  Los
Angeles  announced in a  statement  today. Nicole Malec, a USC
spokeswoman, declined to say whether the donation is an outright
gift or a pledge to be paid over time.  The College of Letters, Arts and Sciences on March 23 will
be renamed for David Dornsife, 67, an alumnus, trustee and
chairman of Herrick Corp., a Stockton, California-based closely
held steel fabricator and contractor, and his wife Dana, 49. The
gift is unrestricted and will allow undergraduates to do more
research in the humanities with faculty members, said Howard
Gillman, dean of the college.  “A naming gift for a college of arts and sciences reflects
a deep understanding of the role of scholarly inquiry in the
humanities and social sciences and sciences at a time when some
of these core disciplines feel beleaguered in higher
education,” Gillman said in an interview. “Their appreciation
of the foundation of human progress and enlightenment deserves a
lot of credit.”  USC, founded in 1880, has about 35,000 students and is the
largest private, not-for-profit university on the U.S. West
Coast. Among the students who attended USC are  Neil Armstrong ,
the first person to walk on the moon, and  John Wayne , the late
actor.  In this academic year, USC received two $50 million gifts
to fund cancer research and construct a journalism building,
according to the university.  George Lucas , the movie producer
and director who graduated in 1966, donated $175 million in
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 