-- 
Buy DirecTV Options to Bet on Potential Acquisition, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-09T20:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/use-directv-options-to-bet-on-possible-acquisition-goldman-says.html
Investors should use options to bet
on a potential increase in  DirecTV (DTV) ’s stock price, as the largest
U.S. satellite-television provider has “high potential” to be
acquired, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Derivatives strategists Katherine Fogertey and John Marshall recommended buying June $48 calls, while selling
January $40 puts and January $60 calls in a strategy known as a
strangle. Short-dated options prices are at “decade lows,” and
the annual general meeting in April as well as the first-quarter
earnings report in May could boost the share price, the note
also said. El Segundo, California-based DirecTV dropped 0.8
percent to $46.38 as of 3 p.m. in New York.  “Owning June calls, which capture earnings, is attractive
in our view,” the strategists wrote in a note today. Jason Armstrong, an analyst who upgraded DirecTV to a “buy” on Feb.
27 and has a price forecast of $55, “sees the company as a
strategic fit for large-cap telcos,” the note said. “DTV
options are not pricing in takeout potential.”  Mergers and acquisitions are rebounding as the global
economy recovers from the worst recession since the Great
Depression. There were $2.47 trillion of deals announced
worldwide last year, up from $1.9 trillion in 2009. The 1,000
biggest companies worldwide, excluding financial-services
industries, have amassed more than $3 trillion in cash and
equivalents based on their latest filings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyout Candidates    Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, on Feb. 10 rose the most in almost a year
after Credit Suisse Group AG said AT&T Inc. may make a bid to
buy the company. Analyst Jonathan Chaplin said Dish is an
appealing buyout candidate to large phone companies because
consumers increasingly want video and broadband from the same
provider. Englewood, Colorado-based Dish rose 0.7 percent to
$23.83.  Dish Network spokeswoman Francie Bauer and DirecTV
spokesman Darris Gringeri both declined to comment.  DirecTV has advanced 33 percent in the past year, compared
with a 23 percent increase for companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index that are dependent on discretionary spending by
consumers. Dish has gained 11 percent.  The New York-based company in January recommended buying
DirecTV March $45 calls as well as selling January $40 puts and
selling January $55 calls, and in December recommended selling
January $35 puts and January $55 calls. Fogertey and Marshall
said to close those trade recommendations now, at a profit.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  