-- 
TV Azteca Climbs to Three-Month High, Pares Gains After Antitrust Filing

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-03-09T21:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/tv-azteca-climbs-to-three-month-high-as-credit-suisse-raises-price-target.html
TV Azteca SAB, owner of  Mexico ’s
second-largest television network, rose to a three-month high
after Credit Suisse increased its price target, then pared gains
when Telefonos de Mexico SAB filed an antitrust complaint.  Shares ended Mexico City trading 3.1 percent higher at 8.74
pesos. They earlier reached 8.9 pesos, the strongest level since
Dec. 9.  Telmex’s complaint charging “monopolistic practices in the
market of advertising on open television” was the latest salvo
in a battle over telephone connection fees.  Carlos Slim ’s
companies, including Telefonos de Mexico and America Movil SAB,
stopped buying advertising from TV Azteca last month after
Ricardo Salinas Pliego, who controls Azteca, sought lower fees
for customers of Grupo Iusacell SA, the mobile-telephone 
provider he also controls.  “We’re heating up to a real arm wrestling match that’s
been going on here behind the scenes for a while, but is getting
more and more public,” said Eric Conrads, who helps manage $12
billion in emerging-market stocks at ING Investment Management
in  New York , in a phone interview. “These issues of fees and
licenses are going to be more important for the next four to
five months than short-term operations.”  Telmex, as Slim’s company is known, has also pursued a
license to offer pay television services, setting up a potential
turf war with TV Azteca and Grupo Televisa SA.  Price Target  TV Azteca gained in early trading after Credit Suisse
raised its forecast for the company’s 2011 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 4.9 billion
pesos ($410.7 million) from 4.3 billion pesos. The 12-month
price target on TV Azteca was raised to 9.50 pesos from 7.50
pesos.  The increases were due to “stronger than expected” 16
percent revenue growth in 2010 at its Mexican operations, said
Credit Suisse analyst Andrew Campbell. Azteca’s shares may rise
if the company can win back advertising from Slim’s companies,
Campbell said.  Slim’s companies represent 3 percent of TV Azteca’s sales.
TV Azteca also operates a broadcast television network in the
U.S. as well as an  Internet company  targeted at Spanish
speakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  