-- 
Vevo to Provide Bonnaroo Festival Concerts Live on Website

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-09T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/vevo-to-provide-bonnaroo-festival-concerts-live-on-website.html
Vevo.com , a provider of advertising-
supported music videos in the U.S., will carry concerts from the
upcoming Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival live on its website.  The website, which is backed by investors including  Universal Music Group , will provide exclusive live and on-demand
performances and interviews from the festival to be held in
Manchester, Tennessee, June 9-12, New York-based Vevo said today
in an e-mailed statement.  The live video stream will be available at the website and
through its mobile applications for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and on
devices including Google TV. On-demand programs from the
festival will also be provided on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, AOL
Inc., and CBS Corp.’s Last.fm, the company said.  The ad-supported site, owned by the music labels, opens new
revenue possibilities for an industry whose traditional
businesses are in decline. U.S. music sales fell 2.4 percent
last year as consumers continued to abandon physical CDs,
researcher Nielsen SoundScan reported in January.  Vevo and the festival organizers Superfly Presents and A.C.
Entertainment are also creating online programs for a newly
created Bonnaroo section of the website. The programs will let
fans view Bonnaroo and offer artists and advertisers a way to
reach consumers, Vevo said.  Vevo, which also counts among its investors  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
music business and Abu Dhabi Media Co., drew 56.2 million
visitors in January, according to ComScore Inc., a Reston,
Virginia-based Internet researcher. The website provides
advertising-supported music videos from its investors and
London-based EMI Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  