-- 
Vicar’s Daughter Trades Books for Bombs in Baader-Meinhof Film

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/vicar-s-daughter-trades-books-for-bombs-in-baader-meinhof-film.html
A pretty, bookish vicar’s daughter
fell in love with a hot-headed, left-wing drifter in 1967. If
that explosive coupling had never happened,  Germany  might have
been a lot more peaceful in the latter part of the 20th century.  The terrorist group they founded became known as the
Baader-Meinhof gang, yet it could just as well be named Baader-
Ensslin. A German film opening in cinemas tomorrow chronicles
Gudrun Ensslin’s marriage and fateful decision to leave her
publisher husband, Bernward Vesper, for Andreas Baader and a
career of bank holdups, bombings, murder and prison.  “Wer Wenn Nicht Wir” (“If Not Us, Who”) is the first
feature film by documentary director Andres Veiel.
Unsurprisingly, his treatment is based on thorough research. For
a feature, it’s too didactic. Newsreel clips of the era break
the flow of the narrative and at times seem patronizing.  Yet his focus on the family backgrounds and private lives
of the protagonists offers insight into the birth of the
fanaticism. Where Uli Edel’s action-packed 2008 movie, “The
Baader-Meinhof Complex,” tried to cover the gang’s whole blood-
soaked history, Veiel’s story ends where the killing starts.  He spotlights the contradictions of the still-peaceful,
war-traumatized German society of the early 1960s. While Vesper,
played by August Diehl, championed left-wing writers, he also
published the poetry of his father, an enthusiastic Nazi.  “If it weren’t for the Fuehrer, you wouldn’t exist,”
Vesper’s mother tells him. It was only  Adolf Hitler ’s
exhortations to Germans to reproduce that persuaded his
reluctant father to have a child, she explains.  Self-Mutilation  Vesper and Ensslin meet at  Tuebingen University , where they
together found a publishing company. Vesper’s infidelity drives
her to self-mutilation in a disturbing scene in an Alpine cabin
involving a broken glass. They move to Berlin to make a new
start in 1964.  Without much ceremony, Ensslin abandons Vesper with their
son to go underground with Baader and fight what she perceives
as the dark forces of fascism in German society. “We have
different missions,” she tells Vesper.  The movie ends with the bombing of a Frankfurt department
store: The Red Army Faction, or Baader-Meinhof gang, went on to
claim more than 60 lives from 1970 to 1993, including those of
Ensslin and Baader, who committed suicide in jail.  Diehl, one of Germany’s best young actors, plays the
unfaithful Vesper as an idealist who lacks the guts for violence
and prefers to stick with his books. He descends into drug abuse
and madness after Ensslin leaves. He committed suicide at the
age of 32.  Lena Lauzemis’s performance as the willowy Ensslin has the
right blend of passion and idealism, sharp wit and fanaticism.
Alexander Fehling is too effeminate to possess Baader’s
dangerous magnetism. Moritz Bleibtreu was much more charismatic
and unpredictable in “The Baader-Meinhof Complex.”  Rating: **½.  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 