-- 
Vietnam’s Government Bonds Decline on Weak Demand From Banks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T08:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/vietnam-s-government-bonds-decline-on-weak-demand-from-banks.html
  Vietnam ’s benchmark five-year bonds
dropped for the fourth straight day on speculation commercial
banks held off buying in expectation of higher yields after the
central bank raised  interest rates . The dong was little changed.  The yield on the notes gained 3 basis points, to 11.867
percent, the highest since May 14, according to a daily fixing
price from banks compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.    Government bonds  are not catching banks’ eyes anymore
because they are expecting that the yields will rise further
after the central bank raised some interest rates,” said Tran
Thi Ngoc Thanh, deputy manager of the investment banking
division at Sacombank Securities Joint-Stock Co.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam yesterday lifted the refinancing
rate, one of the main policy tools, to 12 percent from 11
percent as part of tightening measures to curb inflation and
stabilize the economy. The bank also raised the discount rate to
12 percent from 7 percent. Consumer prices rose 12.31 percent in
February from a year earlier, the highest since February 2009,
according to a government report on Feb. 23.  The dong traded at 20,870 per dollar as of 3:36 p.m. in
Hanoi, from 20,865 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The State Bank of Vietnam fixed the  reference rate  at
20,668 today, compared with 20,663 yesterday, its website showed.
The currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side
of that rate.  A telephone-information service run by the state-owned
Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications said it didn’t have a dong-
dollar exchange rate for money changers and gold shops today.  Vietnam’s central bank and other authorities will
strengthen measures to deal with illegal dollar transactions,
Tuoi Tre newspaper reported today, citing Nguyen Hoang Minh,
deputy director of the State Bank of Vietnam in  Ho Chi Minh City .  Gold shops that engage in illegal dollar transactions will
be fined 57.5 million dong for one violation and may face
seizure of the dollars, the report cited Minh as saying.  --Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi. Editor: Alan Soughley  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  