-- 
Wal-Mart to Break Ground on Small Stores Next Week in Arkansas

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-03-09T21:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/wal-mart-will-break-ground-on-express-small-stores-in-arkansas-next-week.html
  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will next week
start building its first Express stores, a format less than a
tenth the size of an average supercenter, according to building
permits obtained by Bloomberg News.  The world’s largest retailer will begin construction March
16 on a 14,400-square-foot store in Gentry,  Arkansas , a town of
3,158 about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southwest of the company’s
Bentonville headquarters, according to the permits.  While Wal-Mart has kept details of the new stores a closely
guarded secret, Steve Restivo, a company spokesman, confirmed
the location of the store openings and the timing in an e-mail.
Work on similar stores in nearby Prairie Grove and Gravette will
also start over the next two weeks, said town officials. The new
stores will feature a pharmacy and groceries section.  “Wal-Mart’s U.S. store fleet is designed for yesterday’s
retail wars,”  Craig Johnson , president of Customer Growth
Partners in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , said in an interview. “If
they want to capture their rightful share of today’s shopping
trips they have to have a smaller format. God bless
supercenters, but they are not designed to get in and out of
within five minutes.”  Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke is seeking new avenues
for growth in the U.S. as comparable-store sales in Wal-Mart’s
namesake stores have fallen for seven straight quarters. The
retailer plans to open as many as 40 smaller units this year in
rural and urban areas, and executives said last month that the
first Express store would open as early as May.  ‘Thousands of Opportunities’  U.S. chief  Bill Simon  has said that “there are hundreds,
if not thousands of opportunities in the U.S.” for stores
smaller than the retailer’s supercenters, which accounted for 76
percent of Wal-Mart’s U.S. locations as of Jan. 31.  The Express stores, concrete square boxes with metal roofs,
will cost $1.2 million to build and sit on lots just under 5
acres, according to building permits filed in Gentry and Prairie
Grove, which has a population of 4,380. The stores will have 75
parking spaces, a pharmacy and three or four checkout counters,
said Jackie Baker, Prairie Grove’s building and planning
director.  Wal-Mart supercenters average 185,000 square feet with
about 142,000 items, according to the company website.
Supercenters typically have as many as 800 parking spaces,
according to research from UBS AG.  Dozen Aisles  Sections for fresh produce, refrigerated foods and frozen
items will go down one side and along the back of the Express
store, Baker said in an interview. The store will have about a
dozen aisles, according to Gentry city superintendent David
McNair.  It’s not clear from the planning materials how much of the
product assortment will be groceries compared with general
merchandise. Groceries accounted for 51 percent of Wal-Mart’s
$258 billion in sales in the U.S. in fiscal 2010, according to
company filings.  McNair said that when he first saw the layout earlier this
year, Wal-Mart’s sponsorship of the project was not disclosed,
with the plans calling the project simply a “Retail Store.”  “I only learned two weeks ago that it was Wal-Mart,”
McNair said in an interview. “People said it may be a Target,
or Wal-Mart, or Walgreen’s. Everyone had their own pet theory.”  Wal-Mart has tried smaller stores before. In 1998, the
company launched Neighborhood Market, a 42,000-square-foot food-
and-drugstore combination that did not deliver the return on
investment provided by its supercenters, according to Maggie Gilliam, president of retail consulting firm Gilliam & Co.  Greatest Retail Concept  “Large stores are inherently more profitable than small
ones,” said Gilliam, who is based in New York. “The
supercenter is one of the greatest retail concepts ever created
by mankind.”  In 2008, Wal-Mart rolled out the Marketside concept in  Arizona , stores of 15,000 square feet that focused on fresh food
and prepared meals. In 2009, the company converted two
Neighborhood Market stores in Houston and Phoenix into Hispanic-
themed grocery stores called Supermercado de Walmart, offering
sweet breads and fresh corn tortillas.  As of Jan. 31, Wal-Mart had two Supermercados, four
Marketside stores and 182 Neighborhood Markets. Internationally,
Wal-Mart operates a broad range of smaller stores, particularly
in Latin America. Simon has said that Wal-Mart’s smaller U.S.
stores will draw upon what the retailer has learned abroad.  Wal-Mart rose 60 cents to $52.67 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 2.6
percent over the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  