-- 
Walgreen to Sell Pharmacy Benefit Manager for $525 Million

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-03-09T15:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/walgreen-to-sell-pharmacy-benefit-manager-for-525-million.html
  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, agreed to sell its pharmacy-benefit management
business for $525 million to  Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI)  to
focus on its network of stores.  Transition costs for the deal, scheduled to occur by June,
will be about $40 million, the Deerfield, Illinois-based chain
said today in a statement. Walgreen’s PBM unit, begun in 1995,
negotiates drug prices for corporate and government insurance
plans and manages employee pharmacy claims.  Walgreen, led by Chief Executive Officer Greg Wasson, plans
to expand  health services  like flu shots at more than 7,700
stores. The chain began looking to sell its PBM unit last year,
people with knowledge of the matter said then. At the time, the
people said the sale might fetch $500 million to $1 billion,
depending on the assets sold.  “Walgreen had become a bit player in the PBM industry,”
Kemp Dolliver, a managing director for Avondale Partners LLC,
said in a telephone interview from Boston. “Success is heavily
dependent on scale.” The PBM business Walgreen did in a year
was about what rival  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  does in a month, Kemp
said. Walgreen will shed its entire PBM unit in the sale to
Catalyst, Tiffani  Washington , a Walgreen spokeswoman, said
today.  Share Performance  Walgreen rose 28 cents to $42.67 at 9:58 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading. Rockville, Maryland-based Catalyst
advanced $6.42, or 14 percent, to $50.95 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  The move will help Catalyst, helmed by CEO David Blair,
increase membership in its pharmacy-benefits management unit to
more than 18 million, according to the statement. The company’s
Catalyst RX pharmacy benefits manager currently serves more than
7 million people in the U.S. and  Puerto Rico .  Bank of America Merrill Lynch provided financial advice to
Walgreen, while Sidley Austin LLP and Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP
gave legal counsel. Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Jefferies & Co. advised Catalyst, and Latham & Watkins LLP and
Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky and Popeo provided legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  