-- 
Warner Starts Movie Service on Facebook, Pressuring Netflix

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-03-09T01:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/warner-starts-movie-service-on-facebook-pressuring-netflix.html
Warner Bros. is offering an online
rental service on Facebook Inc., giving the studio a new way to
distribute films amid concerns by parent  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  that  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  devalues movies and TV shows.  The studio is testing the service with rentals of “The  Dark Knight ,” according to a statement today from Burbank,
California-based Warner Bros. Users can click a “rent” icon
and pay a $3 fee with Facebook Credits, giving the social-
networking service a slice of the revenue.  Facebook’s website, with more than 500 million users,
offers a large base to help studios reach potential customers
directly. Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes has
said Netflix’s subscription for DVDs and unlimited streaming
starting at $7.99 a month reduces the value of premium
programming, and that he is considering making the company wait
longer and pay more for TV shows and movies.  “Facebook is a force to be reckoned with,” Youssef Squali, an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a
research note. “We expect the test will pick up steam as more
titles become available, and given the higher profitability of
digital distribution for film studios, we expect more film
studios to sign on as well.”  Under the program, selected movies will be available on
each film’s  official Facebook page , starting today with “The
Dark Knight,” Warner Bros. said in the statement. With the
test, Warner Bros. joins a group that includes  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
which introduced a movie-download service in February through
its Prime business,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s TV Everywhere initiative and
Time Warner’s HBO Go.  Post Comments  Facebook subscribers using the Warner Bros. service will
have traditional social-network features connected to the movie,
including the ability to post comments and update their status.  “This is exactly what Netflix and others haven’t been able
to do very well -- integrate video with social,” said Elizabeth
Shaw, an analyst with Forrester Research Inc. in  San Francisco .
“This has the potential of being very big.”  The Warner Bros. service isn’t an immediate threat to
Netflix’s mail-order and online service because it offers only
pay-per-view, isn’t available at a centralized storefront and
can’t easily be viewed on larger-screen televisions, James Mitchell, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co., said in a research
note today. On a longer-term basis, Facebook could become a
“credible threat.”    Steve Swasey , a spokesman for Netflix, declined to comment
on the announcement.  Until now, social games have been a big driver of Facebook
Credits, which help users buy items on games such as
“FarmVille,” Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst with eMarketer
Inc., said in an e-mailed statement. Facebook gets 30 percent of
the fees for items such as virtual houses and tractors.  Facebook Credits  “More than 400 games and applications use Facebook Credits
to give people a convenient and safe way to buy virtual and
digital goods on Facebook,” the  Palo Alto , California-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. “Facebook Credits is a
program open to all developers, and we’re looking forward to
seeing the new and interesting ways that developers and partners
use credits to offer virtual and digital goods in the future.”  Renting a movie through Facebook costs 30 Facebook Credits,
or $3. Viewers have 48 hours to watch the films.  “Facebook has become a daily destination for hundreds of
millions of people,” Thomas Gewecke, president of Warner Bros.
Digital Distribution, said in the statement. “Making our films
available through Facebook is a natural extension of our digital
distribution efforts.”  Netflix fell $11.95 to $195.45 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained 11 percent
this year and more than tripled in 2010. Time Warner declined 35
cents to $36.43 on the New York Stock Exchange.  By Mail, Streaming  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , ships DVDs to
subscribers by mail and streams older titles from Hollywood
studios. It has agreements to obtain films from the premium
cable channels Starz and Epix, and struck a deal in July with
Relativity Media LLC for exclusive streaming rights to first-run
movies, including “The Fighter.” Its subscribers topped 20
million at year-end.  Warner’s test program with Facebook extends to all devices
that offer the social network, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products.  In choosing Facebook as a platform, Warner also gains
broader global distribution of its titles, including in  China ,  Russia  and  Portugal , Laura Aguilera, broadband media analyst for
IHS Screen Digest, said in a research note today.  Netflix offers its streaming service in the U.S. and  Canada . The company is looking to expand internationally this
year, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clifford Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  