-- 
ECB's Axel Weber Says Governments Must Push Through Revamp of Euro Area

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-09T19:46:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/weber-says-governments-must-push-through-euro-area-revamp.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Axel Weber said it’s up to governments and not
monetary policy makers to carry out fiscal and structural
revamps needed to overcome divergences in the 17-member euro-
area.  “Policies other than monetary policy are required to
remove existing deficiencies and to ensure the ability of member
states to respond to asymmetric shocks,” Weber said in a speech
to economists in  London  today, adding that monetary policy is
aimed at the currency-zone’s average and not individual
countries.  Even though the euro-area economy as a whole has emerged
from the recession, growth is still uneven. While exporting
nations like  Germany  are booming, the periphery countries like  Greece ,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland are struggling to pull out
of the slump as governments grapple with budget deficits, high
borrowing costs and banking systems dependent on ECB funds.  Weber said that “fiscal consolidation to restore
confidence in public finances, thereby creating fiscal room for
maneuver, structural reforms to improve the flexibility of
product and labor markets, and better financial regulation to
enhance the resilience of financial systems,” are essential.  It is “vital that European leaders take the right
decisions during the next few weeks when it comes to overhauling
the governance of the European monetary union,” Weber said.  Role Model  Weber, who will remain the head of Bundesbank until the end
of April, said that the German economy,  Europe ’s largest, could
serve as a “role model” for states facing structural
adjustment.  A growth rate of 2.5 percent is a “realistic” projection
for the German economy in 2011, Weber said, while warning that
emerging inflation risks may damp consumers’ willingness to
spend. Still, the first quarter should be “rather favorable,”
he said as production and consumption rebounded from a harsh
winter.  At the same time, Weber said “we should not overestimate
Germany’s economic strength over the medium term. The economic
crisis has subdued the potential growth of the German economy.
We assume that potential growth will go up again slightly to no
more than 1 percent by 2012.  Weber said that while the German upswing would benefit
European Union partner countries, the effect of greater imports
from neighbors was limited.  Strong German import demand is “insufficient to compensate
for the structural problems in the countries concerned, where
painful adjustment processes have to take place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in London at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net . 