-- 
What a Waste Trying to Root Out Government Waste: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/what-a-waste-trying-to-find-government-waste-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Everyone who wants to eliminate
waste, fraud and abuse in government, raise your hand.  Lots of hands. Good.  Next question: If everyone is in favor of streamlining the
federal bureaucracy, why are we still creating committees and
ordering up reports instead of talking about the problem in the
past tense?  Here’s the quick answer: All those overlapping government
programs have oversight committees looking after them and
constituencies behind them; constituencies with money and votes.  That’s why I wouldn’t get too excited about the latest 345-
page report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office,
“Opportunities to Reduce Potential Duplication in Government
Programs, Save Tax Dollars, and Enhance Revenue.”  The March 1  GAO report  may be the first pursuant to a new
statutory requirement, but it is hardly the first to identify
unnecessary duplication in federal programs. Every section
contains references to recommendations “GAO made in 1994” or
in prior reports. Surely Congress’s watchdog has better things
to do than hear itself make the same case year after year.  History offers little reason for optimism that waste, once
identified, will be eliminated. No fewer than 13 presidents,
starting with  Theodore Roosevelt  and his 1905 “Keep
Commission,” have taken up the gauntlet of rooting out
 government waste .  History of Commissions    Franklin Delano Roosevelt  had his Brownlow Committee. The
Hoover Commission had two incarnations, the first under  Harry
Truman  and the second during  Dwight D. Eisenhower ’s
administration.  Ronald Reagan  appointed the Grace Commission to
eliminate inefficiency. And  Bill Clinton  tried to reinvent
government with his National Performance Review.  While the thrust may have  shifted  over the years from
expanding executive authority to shrinking the size of
government, according to  Peri E. Arnold , professor of political
science at University of  Notre Dame , the outcomes have been
equally mediocre. A century after TR first tried to centralize
administrative procedures and with the public fully on board, we
are still looking for the Holy Grail.  In its latest report, the GAO identified 82 distinct
programs to help improve teacher quality; 80 programs to provide
transportation for low-income and disabled persons; 100
programs, each with separate funding streams, for road and rail
safety; and 20 different agencies with 56 programs on financial
literacy -- all at a time when “the government is on the verge
of bankruptcy,” says Tom Schatz, president of Citizens Against
Government Waste, a private, non-partisan group.  Libertarian View  No, you can’t make this stuff up.  Libertarians view the crusade to eliminate waste, like the
focus on earmarks, as a distraction.  “Earmarks and waste appeal to the average citizen,” says
Tad DeHaven, a budget analyst at the libertarian  Cato Institute 
in Washington. The real issue is “the fundamental nature of
these programs and whether the government should be involved in
them in the first place,” he says.  No wonder we focus on waste, fraud and abuse. Determining
the proper role for the federal government is too important to
be left to legislators. It’s much easier to focus on the  $100
billion  that could be saved annually from greater efficiency,
according to Senator  Tom Coburn , Republican of  Oklahoma , who
offered an amendment last year that made the GAO report a
statutory requirement.  Entrenched Constituencies  The hurdle to eliminating government programs, or even some
of the redundancy, is Congress as well as you and me. For every
redundant or overlapping program, there’s a  congressional
subcommittee  with oversight responsibility. None of them want to
lose power and control.  “It’s about more than the achievement of the goal of the
program,” Schatz says. “No one wants to be the first to give
up control.”  Then there are the recipients of government largesse, who
favor duplication in programs, especially if it results in
duplicate dollars received. The public speaks with its votes and
its dollars. The programs live on. Reagan was right when he said
the nearest thing to eternal life we will ever see on this earth
is a government program.  Yet the effort, real or feigned, to cut out government
waste continues. Last year, President  Barack Obama  signed the
Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act to do what the
law’s name implies. In 2009, paying benefits to dead folks and
reimbursing providers for fraudulent medical claims came to a
record $110 billion.  Cato’s DeHaven wishes the government would cease and desist
in its efforts to make government more efficient.  “I don’t want these programs to be efficient,” he says.
“I want them not to perform and citizens to wonder why they are
sending tax money to  Washington  for such terrible service.”  Now there’s a new angle -- and just one more reason
streamlining government remains an unfulfilled wish and far-
flung promise.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  