-- 
Woori Finance Agrees to Take Over Samhwa Mutual’s Assets

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-09T07:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/woori-finance-agrees-to-take-over-samhwa-mutual-s-assets-1-.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co.,  South
Korea ’s third-largest financial company by market value, agreed
to take over the assets of Samhwa Mutual Savings Bank as the
company seeks to diversify its customer base.  Seoul-based Woori will spend about 100 billion won ($90
million) as equity capital to create a savings bank unit and
acquire some Samhwa Mutual assets from state-run  Korea Deposit
Insurance Corp. , Woori’s managing director Jung Ki Hwa said by
telephone today in Seoul.  The deal would help Woori expand into the market for lower-
credit customers as commercial lending growth in South Korea
slows, according to Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer at
Midas International Asset Management Ltd. The Financial Services
Commission suspended Samhwa Mutual for six months in January
after the lender’s debt soared and caused a capital shortage,
making it the first of eight savings banks halted this year.  “It could be positive for Woori and other big lenders to
get a new business arm that has access to lower credit-profile
customers,” said Heo, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.8
billion. “I don’t think the cost or the potential risk from
taking over bad assets at a savings bank will hurt Woori’s
business fundamentals, given the small size.”  Woori shares rose 3.5 percent to 14,650 won at the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul trading, more than the key Kospi index’s 0.3
percent advance.  Debt Exceeds Assets  Debt at Samhwa surpassed its assets and its capital-
adequacy ratio slipped to minus 1.42 percent at the end of June,
below the Financial Services Commission’s requirement of 5
percent, the regulator said in a statement on Jan. 14. Korea
Deposit chose Woori as a preferred bidder on Feb. 18, ahead of
Shinhan Financial Group Co. and  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)   Samhwa had 1.4 trillion won in assets as of June 30, the
regulator said in January. Woori and Korea Deposit will discuss
further how much of Samhwa’s assets will be transferred to Woori,
according to Jung. The savings bank may resume business as early
as this month, he said.  Credit ratings on Woori Finance and its Woori Bank unit
would be “unaffected” by the potential acquisition of Samhwa
Mutual, given the relatively small asset size of the savings
bank, Standard & Poor’s analyst YuMee Oh wrote in a report on
Feb. 18.  The financial regulator imposed a six-month business ban on
seven more savings banks last month, after the first suspension
at Samhwa Mutual triggered a bank run among lenders whose
financials were already weak after loans to builders and
developers failed amid a real-estate slump.  ‘Reputation Risk’  The FSC today announced measures to tighten supervision of
savings banks. The plans include increasing restrictions on
lending by relatively better-capitalized savings banks and
imposing limits on high-risk assets and excessive expansion.  The regulator also said it will also increase the deposit
insurance rate to 0.4 percent from 0.35 percent and create a
restructuring account. Last month it pledged to support savings
banks to avoid an industry crisis.  “The big lenders couldn’t really enter into the savings
bank business before for fear of reputation risk, when in
reality it’s an attractive market that creates higher profit and
no overlap with their current customers,” said Hwang Seok Kyu,
a banking analyst at Kyobo Securities Co. “The ongoing crisis
would help justify national lenders’ entry into savings banks.”  Combined assets at South Korea’s 105 savings banks totaled
87 trillion won at the end of 2010, accounting for 4.7 percent
of total assets in the country’s commercial banking industry,
according to FSC data.  The savings banks had a combined net loss of 533.3 billion
won last year and a non-performing loan ratio of 10.6 percent,
according to the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  