-- 
Wuhan, Angang Turn to Niche Steel, Overseas Expansion Due to Domestic Glut

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-10T06:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/wuhan-angang-turn-to-niche-steels-overseas-plants-on-china-supply-glut.html
Wuhan Iron & Steel Group, Angang
New Co. and rival Chinese mills are expanding overseas and
turning to specialty products to battle overcapacity in  China ,
the world’s biggest producer of the metal.  Wuhan Steel, the nation’s fourth-biggest mill, is in talks
to build plants or buy rivals in other countries, General
Manager Deng Qilin said in Beijing while at the National
People’s Congress. Angang may develop its specialty steel
product business, General Manager  Zhang Xiaogang  said.  Overcapacity and rising costs have depressed the average
profit margins of Chinese steelmakers to just 3.5 percent in
2010, the lowest of any industry, according to the government.
The nation’s new five-year building program will need more high-
grade alloy for railroads and nuclear  power plants , China Iron
and Steel Association said.  ‘Every steelmaker is trying to diversify their business,”
said Hu Yanping, a Beijing-based analyst with researcher
UC361.com. “But they aren’t all going to succeed.”  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of  Wuhan Steel , has
fallen 30 percent in Shanghai trading in the past year, compared
with a 1.7 percent drop in the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index. Angang Steel Co., Angang’s unit, is down 34 percent in
the past year in Shenzhen.  The government plans to invest 800 billion yuan ($121
billion) to build 6,000 kilometers (3,700 miles) of high-speed
rail lines by 2012 to carry its industrial expansion inland.  Going Overseas  Magang (Group) Holding Co., China’s biggest maker of train
wheels, plans to expand its steel cutting and equipment
manufacturing business, Chairman Gu Jianguo said in an interview
at the congress.  The nation’s steel demand may increase 3.5 percent this
year, compared with a projected 13.6 percent growth in  India  and
9.1 percent in the Central and South American regions, according
to World Steel Association estimates in October.  “The government is encouraging the shift of surplus steel
production capacity overseas,” Wuhan General Manager Deng said
March 7, without giving details on his overseas expansion plans.  Baosteel Group Corp., supplier of half the sheets used by
carmakers in China, will consider building plants in developing
regions outside of China, Chairman  Xu Lejiang  said in an
interview today while attending the congress.  ‘Reduce Friction’    Delong Holdings Ltd. (DLNG)  a Singapore-listed Chinese steelmaker,
is looking to build plants in  Mexico  and other countries,
Chairman Ding Liguo said in an interview while attending the
congress. Angang in 2010 signed an agreement to jointly build a
$168 million reinforcing bar plant in Mississippi in the U.S.  Building plants overseas is “a way to reduce global steel
trade frictions,” said Xu Xiangchun, chief analyst with Mysteel
Research Institute. Also, it “will be welcomed as a boost to
local employment and taxes.”  China’s steel-product exports gained 73 percent last year
to 42.6 million metric tons, customs data show. Apparent steel
use in the U.S. will likely advance 9.4 percent this year, the
World Steel Association said.  Asian steelmakers face rising costs. Mills in the region
may be forced to pay as much as 44 percent more for hard coking
coal in the three months starting April 1 after rain shut mines
in  Australia , according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Iron ore prices have jumped 29
percent in the past year, according to the Steel Index.  Specialty Products  The nation’s largest steelmakers, including Angang and
Wuhan Steel, focus primarily on the production of ordinary steel.
By moving into specialty products, the larger mills will compete
against companies like  Xining Special Steel Co. (600117)  and Shandong
Jinling Mining Co.  Xining Special had gross profit margin of 14.65 percent in
2009, compared with 9.68 percent for Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,
the biggest-listed Chinese steelmaker, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re studying to improve our product mix during the 12th
Five-Year Plan,” which starts this year, Angang’s Zhang told
reporters on March 5 at the congress. “We have been struggling
to make profit at the home market. This five-year period will be
our last chance to survive.”  --Helen Yuan, with assistance by Xiao Yu and Tian Ying. Editors: Tan Hwee Ann,
Indranil Ghosh, Peter Langan.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  