-- 
Wynn Resorts, Pinnacle Form Las Vegas Strip Casino Alliance

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-09T22:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/wynn-resorts-pinnacle-form-las-vegas-strip-casino-alliance.html
  Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. (PNK) , owner
of seven U.S. casinos, formed an alliance with  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
that lets customers use their loyalty points at the Wynn and
Encore resorts on the  Las Vegas  Strip.  Pinnacle, which doesn’t have a Strip casino, and Wynn,
which doesn’t have other U.S. casinos, negotiated a deal that
lets big spenders at Pinnacle’s Louisiana, Missouri, Indiana and
Nevada properties use rewards to stay at Wynn resorts.  Casino companies view loyalty programs as a potential
source of growth. Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s
largest casino company, has led the industry in attracting
gamblers to its Strip casinos by using its Total Rewards program
to draw customers from its U.S. properties outside Las Vegas.
Pinnacle Chief Executive Officer Anthony Sanfilippo said last
month he was mulling such an agreement, without naming the ally.  Pinnacle rose 12 cents, or 1 percent, to $12.63 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Wynn gained $1.03
to $128.09 in Nasdaq Stock Exchange trading. Both are based in
Las Vegas.    MGM Resorts International (MGM) , owner of 10 Las Vegas Strip
properties, is negotiating marketing alliances with other
casinos, including American Indian operators, Jim Murren,
chairman and CEO, said in a January interview. MGM also owns
resorts in New Jersey, Mississippi and Michigan.    Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  said in October its Venetian and
Palazzo casino resorts in Las Vegas will join InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc’s database and loyalty program, gaining access
to travelers who can help fill the properties’ 7,000 suites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  