-- 
Yuan-Linked Bonds Reduce Powerlong Costs by 14%: China Credit

-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-10T05:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/yuan-linked-bonds-reduce-powerlong-costs-by-14-china-credit.html
  Powerlong Real Estate Holdings Ltd. (1238) 
saved 14 percent selling yuan-linked bonds as investors seek to
profit from gains in  China ’s currency even as the government
clamps down on the property sector.  The company sold 750 million yuan ($114 million) of three-
year bonds settled in U.S. dollars to yield 11.75 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about 4.75
percentage points higher than the average yield paid by U.S.
companies rated below investment-grade, according to Bank of
America Corp. indexes. It’s still less than the 13.98 percent
yield on Shanghai-based Powerlong’s dollar bonds due September
2015, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook on the company
last month, warning that “higher-than-expected” land purchases
would increase debt. Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to press ahead
with controls on the  property market  to curb speculation, after
China raised interest rises three times in four months and
increased minimum down payments for second-home purchases.  These issuers have “done their math,” said Vijay Chander,
Hong Kong-based head of credit strategy at Standard Chartered
Plc. Using the synthetic structure Powerlong has attracted
investors expecting currency appreciation that “does seem like
a reasonable bet because there is pressure on the Chinese
authorities to appreciate the yuan.”  Yuan Appreciation  So-called synthetic bonds, such as those Powerlong sold,
allow international investors to profit from appreciation in the
currency of the world’s fastest growing major economy.  China’s yuan may rise the most this year among the
currencies of the so-called BRIC group of emerging economies,
with a median forecast for a 4.2 percent gain against the dollar
according to the median estimate of 24 strategists and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with a 2.9
percent advance for  India ’s rupee, and declines for  Russia ’s
ruble and  Brazil ’s real, separate polls show.  The yuan touched 6.5628 per dollar on March 7, its
strongest level since China unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993. The currency slipped 0.03 percent to
6.5740 as of 12:49 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System, after strengthening by as much as
0.04 percent amid interest-rate increases in  Thailand  and  South
Korea  that fanned speculation China will also boost borrowing
costs in its fight to tame inflation.  ‘Reasonable Level’  While the 11.75 percent yield on Powerlong’s notes are
about 2.23 percentage points lower than its similar-maturity
dollar-denominated bonds, it’s still the highest paid in the
yuan synthetic market. The rate exceeds the previous record of
10.5 percent that  China SCE Property Holdings Ltd. (1966)  paid for its
January 2016 bonds.  The bonds were “priced at a reasonable level,” Lawrence
Leung, an investor relations director at Powerlong, said in a
telephone interview from  Hong Kong  yesterday. Proceeds will be
used to buy land, he said.  Powerlong’s stock plunged almost 10 percent in the six days
after Moody’s gave the company’s debt a “negative” outlook on
Feb. 18. Moody’s, which ranks Powerlong’s senior unsecured debt
at B1, or four levels below investment-grade, cited “higher-
than-expected” debt-funded land acquisition for its concern.
Standard & Poor’s grades Powerlong’s debt an equivalent B+.  Land purchases of about 4 billion yuan in 2010 will
pressure Powerlong’s liquidity, Kai Hu, a Moody’s analyst, wrote
in the Feb. 18 report. Moody’s took into account greater risks
stemming from Powerlong’s expansion into new markets where it
will meet stiffer competition and tightened property purchase
restrictions imposed by the government, according to Hu.  ‘Caught Out’  Powerlong fell 10 percent in Hong Kong trading last month,
its biggest monthly loss since it plunged almost 17 percent in
January 2010. The shares declined 1.65 percent to HK$2.39 (31
U.S. cents) as of 12:59 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese property developers “may be tempted to use funds
to bolster their liquidity” and “war chests to make
acquisitions while conditions are favorable,” Bei Fu, a credit
analyst at S&P, said last month in a podcast. “Several issuers
could be caught out if the current resilient market conditions
turn quickly, and that could lead to downgrades.”  While companies have sold convertible yuan synthetic
securities before, billionaire Vincent Lo’s Shanghai-based  Shui
On Land Ltd. (272)  was the first to issue them without equity features
when it raised 3 billion yuan from 6.875 percent, three-year
notes in December. Most borrowers have been Chinese property
companies, according to Bloomberg data.  Shui On, Evergrande    Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s biggest
developer by sales, raised 9.25 billion yuan by selling three-
year synthetic bonds priced to yield 7.5 percent and five-year
notes yielding 9.25 percent in January, Bloomberg data show. The
company’s dollar-denominated January 2015 bonds yielded almost
10.5 percent at the time the yuan notes were issued, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  Speculative-grade corporate debt yields in the U.S. have
averaged 7.04 percent this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index, which tracks
the performance of more than 2,000 dollar-denominated securities.
Speculative-grade, or junk, bonds are rated below BBB- by S&P
and less than Baa3 at Moody’s.  Five-year credit default swaps on Chinese government debt
are 4 1/2 basis points higher this year on concern anti-
inflation measures will threaten economic growth. The central
bank raised  reserve requirements  for lenders on Feb. 18 just 10
days after boosting rates. The contracts fell one basis point to
72 basis points yesterday, CMA prices in New York show. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Sovereign Risk  Credit-default swaps insure debt against default, and
traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . An increase
suggests deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and a
drop shows improvement. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The yield on China’s 2.68 percent government bond due in
November 2013 fell seven basis points to 3.24 percent yesterday,
Chinabond prices show. One-year interest-rate swaps, or the
fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase
rate, rose two basis points to 3.44 percent as of 1.08 p.m. in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money that’s raised in international capital markets faces
restrictions when brought back into China. Transferring funds
requires approvals from the nation’s State Administration of
Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and is vetted on a case-by-case basis.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged on March 5 to check excessive
gains in housing prices, as prices gained for a 19th month in
December. The government extended curbs in January, including
raising the minimum down payment for second-home purchases,
telling local governments to set price targets on new properties,
and introducing taxes for homes in Shanghai and Chongqing.  “For the synthetic markets, most of that yield is credit
risk,” said Bryan Collins, a portfolio manager at Fidelity
International Ltd., which manages $231.6 billion of assets
globally. “You really need to be looking at the underlying
companies very closely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  