-- 
Yuan Slips as PBOC Adviser Says Wage Rises Curb Need for Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T03:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/yuan-slips-as-pboc-adviser-says-wage-rises-curb-need-for-gains.html
  China ’s yuan weakened for a second
day after a central bank adviser said wage increases are helping
alleviate the need for appreciation.  Higher salaries are more important for restructuring  China’s economy  than yuan gains and a shrinking trade surplus
may reduce the amount of “political attention” commanded by
the currency,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, said yesterday in Beijing after attending a meeting with
lawmakers. The central bank set its  reference rate  for yuan
trading weaker for a second day.  “Chinese officials may want to slow down the pace of
tightening,” said Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign-exchange
at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . The need for a stronger
yuan to rein in inflation may be easing as policies introduced
to stem increases in consumer prices are working, he added.  The yuan slipped 0.02 percent to 6.5700 per dollar as of
10:50 a.m. in  Shanghai , after weakening 0.08 percent yesterday,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.5628 on March 7, the strongest level since China unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The central bank set the reference rate 0.09 percent
weaker at 6.5748, the weakest level this month. The currency is
allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the
official rate.  Trade Gap  China may deflect international pressure for faster yuan
appreciation by reporting the smallest trade surplus in 10
months tomorrow. The excess narrowed to $4.9 billion in February,
from $6.5 billion in January, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists.  A shrinking surplus may support China’s contention that the
world’s second-largest economy is moving toward balanced trade
as imports climb. Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said March 7
that it’s “totally unreasonable” to say the yuan is
undervalued, rejecting renewed calls by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  for faster gains.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.09 percent to
6.4130 per dollar, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen
2.4 percent in a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Obviously, foreign investors continue to expect the yuan
will stay on an appreciation course in the long-run, regardless
of recent official comments,” BWC Capital’s Law said.  --Fion Li. Editors: James Regan, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  