-- 
Yule Catto Declines on Concern About Higher Raw-Material Costs

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-03-09T13:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-09/yule-catto-declines-on-concern-about-higher-raw-material-costs.html
Yule Catto & Co., the British
chemical maker that’s purchasing a rival for $600 million,
declined the most in almost four months in  London  trading on
concern that rising raw-material costs will squeeze margins.  The maker of latex, polymers and drug ingredients slid
as much as 8.2 percent, the most since Nov. 17, to 209 pence
as investors focused on the ballooning cost of oil derivates.
Full-year pretax profit and sales announced today surpassed
analyst estimates.  “We do get a bit of margin squeeze as it always takes one
to three months to pass costs on,” Chief Executive Officer
Adrian Whitfield said in an interview today. “They’ve been
going up now for 21 months and we have passed them on
successfully.”  The manufacturer is on course to complete its acquisition
of a German latex maker from TowerBrook Capital Partners this
month, said Whitfield, who became CEO of Harlow, England-based
Yule Catto in 2006. The company has earmarked a potential
20 million pounds ($32 million) in cost savings as it integrates
PolymerLatex. That’s before getting the “keys to the door”
and gaining deeper access to data, Whitfield said.  The purchase will reduce the importance of drug
ingredients, which account for 10 percent of Yule Catto’s
revenue. Though pharmaceutical products are a “good little
business,” Yule Catto would consider a sale of the division at
the right price, Finance Director David Blackwood said in an
interview.  For Sale  William Blythe, a supplier of materials based on copper and
iodine to the electronics industry, also remains slated for
sale, Blackwood said.  Pretax profit advanced to 57.8 million pounds last year
from 7.1 million pounds. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimated earnings of 47.2 million pounds. Revenue climbed
20 percent to 651.5 million pounds, also topping estimates.  “But for events in North Africa, it is probable that a
considerably more positive stance would be justified given the
merits of the acquisition,” Charles Pick, an analyst at Numis
Securities, said in a note today. Pick downgraded his
recommendation on the stock to “hold” from “add.”  The stock traded 16.9 pence lower, or 7.4 percent, at 210.8
pence as of 12:33 p.m. in the U.K. capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  