-- H.K. Lawmakers Vote Down Motion for Probe of Leader
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-01-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/h-k-lawmakers-vote-down-motion-for-probe-of-leader.html
Hong Kong opposition lawmakers
failed to win support for a motion to start an investigation of
city Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying over claims he lied about
illegal construction at his property.  The motion, introduced by 27 opposition lawmakers on the
city’s 70-seat Legislative Council, was declared unsuccessful at
about 10 p.m. yesterday after eight hours of debate. While the
motion was approved by directly elected lawmakers, it was
blocked by members chosen by trade and professional groups.  An uproar over illegal housing additions has sent Leung’s
popularity falling and led opposition lawmakers to demand that
he resign or face possible impeachment hearings. The motion’s
defeat may offer respite to Leung, allowing him to focus on his
first policy address on January 16 as the city’s economy slows.  “There are a lot of voices in the community saying that
the government and the legislature should not waste valuable
time on this issue,” Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief secretary,
told lawmakers. “Instead, we should focus on important policy
matters and livelihood issues.”  Leung presides over an economy estimated to see growth of
1.2 percent in 2012, its weakest annual expansion since the
global financial crisis. Housing prices surged 23 percent in the
year to October, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said Dec. 19,
leading to concerns about affordability.  The motion said Leung intentionally gave “false statements
and answers” to the legislature when asked about illegal
structures found at his home in the city’s Peak district.  China Backing  Leung has repeatedly apologized for being “negligent” in
dealing with the unauthorized modifications, which include a
trellis, a basement, and a cover over a parking space. The
basement existed before he bought the property, he said in
November.  “Leung Chun-ying has acted in dereliction of his
constitutional duty,” Leung Kwok-hung, a lawmaker from the
League of Social Democrats, said as he read out the  motion . The
lawmaker said the chief executive had “undermined the
integrity” and betrayed people’s trust.  The former property surveyor survived a no-confidence
motion on Dec. 12 over his handling of the controversy over the
structures. China’s Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping
gave his backing to Leung during a Beijing visit last month,
saying his team had been “progressive” and “pragmatic” since
taking over on July 1.  Leung’s main opponent in the Hong Kong leadership race last
year, Henry Tang, saw his candidacy undone after admitting he
knew that his wife had built a basement with a wine cellar and
movie theater without government approval.  The Basic Law , Hong Kong’s de facto constitution, allows
the legislature to pass a motion with two-third majority to
impeach the chief executive should an investigation by the chief
justice find evidence the law was broken.  China ’s government
would then decide whether to carry out the impeachment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  