-- H&M Plans Simultaneous Web Release for ‘& Other Stories’
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-09T16:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/h-m-plans-simultaneous-online-introduction-for-other-stories-.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest clothing retailer, will start selling its newest brand
in stores and online simultaneously for the first time in the
company’s history.  The “& Other Stories” brand of women’s shoes, bags and
accessories will go on sale in the spring, the Stockholm-based
retailer said today. It will be available at seven new stores
dedicated to the label in European cities such as  London , Paris
and Milan, as well as online in 10 European countries, H&M said.  “The key difference is that & Other Stories is online from
the outset, which in theory brings it to a wider audience,”
 Anne Critchlow , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London,
said in an e-mail. In terms of stores, it is a similar approach
to the introduction of the retailer’s COS brand, she said.  The Swedish retailer is diversifying with a sixth brand
after falling behind larger competitor  Inditex SA (ITX)  in the race
for the price-sensitive fashionista’s euro. Inditex, the world’s
largest clothing retailer, has been pushing online business for
brands including Zara. Last year, Inditex shares gained 67
percent, while H&M rose 1.5 percent.  “This diversification into other brands is nothing new for
a lot of retailers and H&M is following in the footsteps of
Inditex, which has diversified a lot,” said Isabel Cavill, a
London-based analyst at  Planet Retail . “They’ve needed to do
this for some time because it was over-reliant on the H&M brand.
They need to extend their reach to different shopper groups and
create buzz and interest.”  Chelsea Boots  Prices for “& Other Stories” clothes will start where H&M
store prices end, Chief Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson
said in September.  H&M, which opened its first store in 1947, introduced the
higher-priced COS chain in 2007. COS sells jacquard trousers for
79 euros ($103.3) and heeled Chelsea boots for 150 euros.  “They’re looking for a different angle to the COS price
range,” said Cavill. “COS has a very distinct look and doesn’t
necessarily appeal to everybody.”  H&M, which also owns the Monki, Weekday and Cheap Monday
brands, is looking for more locations in major European cities
to open “& Other Stories” stores, Kristina Stenvinkel, a
spokeswoman for the clothing retailer, said today.  H&M delayed the start of its online operations in the U.S.
in September last year after adapting to the market took longer
than expected, Persson said at the time.  Zara Online  “It’s beyond me why they haven’t launched online
operations in the U.S. yet,” Cavill said. “In Europe, the
service they offer online still doesn’t compare” to services
offered by companies such as Web retailer  Asos Plc, (ASC)  she said.  Inditex introduced Chinese  Internet sales  for Zara in
September last year and started online operations in the U.S.
for Zara Home and Massimo Dutti in October. The Spanish retailer
gets more than 35 percent of revenue from non-Zara brands, which
also include Bershka, Pull & Bear and Stradivarius.  H&M fell 1.3 percent to 221.80 kronor in  Stockholm . Inditex
slipped 0.1 percent to 105.55 euros in  Madrid .  “Multi-brand strategy is definitely going to be a key
point for H&M if they want to close the gap with Inditex,”
Ashma Kunde, an apparel analyst at  Euromonitor  in London, said
in a phone interview. “It’s quite interesting that they have
chosen to invest in an entirely new brand rather than pushing
existing brands further. ‘& Other Stories’ seems to focus a lot
on details and craftsmanship and really showing a more artistic
approach to fashion, which is a complete paradox to H&M, which
is all about fast fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  