-- 4 Million Word Tax Code Tops Problem List, Report Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-01-09T16:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/4-million-word-tax-code-tops-problem-list-report-says.html
The U.S. tax system’s most serious
problem is the 4-million-word code’s excessive complexity that
makes it tough for taxpayers to comply with and difficult for
the government to administer, National Taxpayer Advocate  Nina Olson  wrote in an annual report to Congress.  The  tax code  cost taxpayers and businesses $168 billion in
compliance in 2010, or about 15 percent of income-tax receipts,
the report said.  “Lowering rates in exchange for broadening the tax base
would be an excellent bargain,” says the report, released today
in  Washington . “We are confident that in the end, public
support for a simpler code will be strong and deep.”  The report calls for an overhaul of the U.S. tax code that
would streamline incentives for education and retirement,
discourage temporary tax breaks and simplify or end income-based
phase-outs of tax provisions.  Among the other problems Olson identifies in the report are
the complexity of the alternative minimum tax, the underfunding
of the  Internal Revenue Service  and the IRS’s difficulty in
helping victims of tax-related identity theft and return
preparer fraud.  Olson’s office is an independent organization within the
IRS that acts as an advocate for taxpayers.  The IRS, which Olson compares to the accounts receivable
department of a company, should be fenced off from more budget
cuts by Congress, she writes in the report.  Needed ‘Resources’  “If the chief executive officer of a Fortune 500 company
were told that each dollar allocated to his company’s accounts
receivable department would generate seven dollars in return,”
the report said, “it is difficult to see how the CEO would keep
his job if he chose not to provide the department with the
resources it needed.”  On  identity theft , Olson writes that the IRS takes too long
to resolve tax-fraud victims’ accounts. The cases, largely
involving those in which criminals falsely claim refunds with a
legitimate taxpayer’s name, have increased.  Olson’s office handled almost 55,000 cases in fiscal year
2012, up from about 7,100 four years earlier. That includes only
the cases that reach her office, which usually happens when
taxpayers are unsatisfied with the IRS’s response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  