-- A Drone War Is Still a War
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2013-01-09T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/a-drone-war-is-still-a-war.html
The most famous painting of the 20th
century,  Pablo Picasso ’s “ Guernica ,” commemorates the bombing of
the small Spanish town on April 26, 1937, by the German  air
force , in support of General  Francisco Franco ’s fascists in the
Spanish Civil War. Hard to believe, but this was history’s first
extensive bombing of a civilian population.  In his book “ Postwar ,” the late historian Tony Judt pointed
out that more civilians died in World War II, of various causes,
than did soldiers. That was not true of World War I or most
earlier conflicts.  Guernica was a German dress rehearsal for the London blitz,
the destruction of Warsaw, and so on. Soon to come on the
Allies’ side were the destruction of Dresden, the firebombing of
 Tokyo  and, of course, the nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and
Nagasaki. Today when we think of war, bombing from the sky is
one of the first images that come to mind.  One consequence of this and other developments in warfare
has been a blurring of the distinction between soldiers and
noncombatants. Wars used to be conducted on battlefields,
between soldiers in uniforms lined up in rows, bayonets ready.
People famously  took picnic baskets  to watch the first battle of
Manassas, thinking that the U.S. Civil War would be like that.
It wasn’t.  Unmanned, Unnoticed  The War on Terrorism’s contribution to this unfortunate
history has been the drone: an unmanned plane that can aim at
and hit a target with enormous precision. And, as with earlier
developments, we’re getting used to it. The eye passes right
over headlines such as “ Yemen: Drone Strike Kills 2 ” buried
inside the newspaper. Right now, we have more or less a monopoly
on drones, which won’t last any longer than our monopoly on
nukes did.  The advantages of using drones are obvious. No American
lives are put at risk, and the precision minimizes collateral
damage, including the deaths of innocents who happen to be
nearby.  The disadvantages follow from advantages. When a military
option seems less painful, it is more likely to be resorted to.
The ability to strike at the enemy with absolutely zero risk to
your own people must be especially appealing to politicians such
as President  Barack Obama , for whom the decision to put
Americans in harm’s way is surely the toughest one to make.  But drones also highlight a terrible anomaly of civil-
libertarian societies: the contrast between how we treat killing
-- state-sponsored killing -- in battle, and how we treat
killing in civilian life. There are no  Miranda warnings  in the
trenches. In fact, the entire edifice of protections against
convicting the innocent is irrelevant in battle. You kill the
other guy because he’s trying to kill you, and unless you’re
raping women or slaying babies, you’re going to get a medal, not
criticism. Collateral damage -- including the deaths of complete
innocents -- comes with the territory.  Once upon a time, these two spheres were separate, with one
set of rules -- if that -- for the battlefield, and one for
normal times and places. Now every place is the battlefield. The
World Trade Center, for example.  Why is it not only OK but praiseworthy for the U.S.
government to aim at Anwar al-Awlaki and kill him because he is
an al-Qaeda “operative” who may not actually have killed anyone
directly (though no doubt he would have liked to), while Adam
Lanza, who shot and killed 20 schoolchildren and seven adults,
including his mother, before killing himself, could have had a
trial that lasted weeks and cost millions of taxpayer dollars?  What about the other person riding in Awlaki’s car who was
killed with him? What about Awlaki’s 16-year-old son, who died
in a drone attack two weeks later? Awlaki was a U.S. citizen and
his child was born in  Colorado , if that makes any difference.  Legal, Secret  The Obama administration’s position is that it has looked
at this carefully, and there’s no legal problem with drone
assassinations for reasons that regrettably must remain secret.
U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon ’s wonderfully acerbic
 decision , issued last week, reluctantly acknowledges the
administration’s right to maintain this absurd position.  A “thicket of laws and precedents,” she wrote, “effectively
allow the Executive Branch of our Government to proclaim as
perfectly lawful certain actions that seem on their face
incompatible with our Constitution and laws, while keeping the
reasons for their conclusions a secret.”  As is so often the case, Stalin may have said it best (if,
indeed, he really said it): “One death is a tragedy, a million
deaths is a statistic.” The deaths of Awlaki and Lanza may not
be tragedies, but the differences in how we think about them
deserve better than a “because we said so” -- especially from a
liberal Democratic administration led by a former president of
the Harvard Law Review.  I wonder especially about the teenage son killed in a
separate drone attack, and the two killed just before New Year’s
Eve because,  according to Reuters , they were “suspected of being
insurgents linked to al-Qaeda.” Is that good enough for you?  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net  or  @michaelkinsley  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 