-- Thailand Holds Key Rate a Second Time as Outlook Improves
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-01-09T09:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/thailand-holds-interest-rate-a-second-time-as-outlook-improves.html
Thailand  kept its policy interest
rate unchanged for a second straight meeting on signs of an
improving outlook for exports and strengthening domestic demand.  The Bank of Thailand held its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 2.75 percent, it said in Bangkok today, as predicted by all
22 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The decision was unanimous,
and forecasts for growth last year and this year will be revised
upward after a better-than-expected expansion in the fourth
quarter, the monetary policy committee said.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government has
extended subsidies, raised minimum wages and increased
infrastructure investments to shield growth after the floods of
2011. While weakness in  Europe  and Japan persist, there is a
broad-based recovery in Thai exports and the performance of
Asian economies has turned positive, the central bank said today.  “The unanimous decision confirms our view that the easing
cycle in Thailand has drawn to an end,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “There seems to
be no change in their view on the strong domestic demand and
benign inflation. The BOT’s focus in the near-term will be on
the potential impact of volatile capital flows.”  The  Thai baht  rose 0.2 percent to 30.38 per dollar as of
3:01 p.m. in Bangkok today, approaching a 10-month high. The
benchmark Stock Exchange of Thailand index gained 0.6 percent,
having surged 36 percent in 2012.  Below Target  Thai  inflation  accelerated to a 13-month high in December
as subsidies failed to counter rising prices of food and fuel.
The central bank, which unexpectedly reduced borrowing costs in
October, uses  core inflation  to guide policy and expects price
gains will stay below its target of 3 percent this year.  Exports increased the most in 15 months in November and
manufacturing output climbed 83 percent from a year earlier as
demand improved and factories returned to full capacity.
Automakers Nissan Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. stepped up
production as tax incentives for first-time buyers boosted sales.  Asian nations loosened fiscal or monetary policies last
year to shield growth from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, with
 China  lowering borrowing costs, while the  Philippines  and
 Malaysia  increased spending.  Bank Indonesia  will probably hold
rates for an 11th meeting tomorrow, a Bloomberg  survey  showed.  “With remaining uncertainties in the global economy and
inflation forecast within target, the current monetary policy
stance is appropriate in supporting domestic demand to sustain
growth momentum,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan
said today. The central bank said it will monitor the impact of
a second round of increases in the minimum wage and financial-
stability risks that may arise from “persistently high credit
growth, rising household debt and volatile capital flows.”  Gross domestic product likely rose “more than previously
assessed” in the fourth quarter, and the central bank will
announce higher forecasts for last year and this year on Jan. 18,
it said. The  Finance Ministry ’s estimate for 2013 is 5 percent.  “Going into the second half, price pressures may become
more apparent,” said Eugene Leow at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
 Singapore . “We have one 25 basis-point rate hike penciled in
for the fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  