-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Steady as Stocks Rebound After Outflows
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-01-09T08:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/taiwan-dollar-forwards-steady-as-stocks-rebound-after-outflows.html
Taiwan  dollar forwards were little
changed as the island’s stocks rose the first time in four days,
rebounding after overseas investors cut their holdings of the
securities. Government bonds were also steady.  Global funds sold $12.4 million more Taiwanese stocks than
they bought today, after net sales of $200 million or more on
each of the last three trading days, exchange data show. The
Dollar Index rose for a second day while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index advanced for the first time in three days. Taiwan’s
exports expanded 9 percent from a year earlier in December,
following a 0.9 percent gain in November, data showed Jan. 7.  “Sentiment is a bit risk-off; there’s been demand for the
greenback,” said Albert Lee, a fixed-income trader in Taipei at
Cathay United Bank Co. “It’s still too early to tell whether
Taiwan’s economy has fully recovered.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed at
NT$28.98 per dollar as of 4:11 p.m. in Taipei, having fluctuated
a maximum 0.1 percent either side of yesterday’s close,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts are at a
0.4 percent premium to the spot rate, which climbed 0.06 percent
to NT$29.11, based on Taipei Forex Inc. prices.  The monetary authority has bought the greenback to counter
appreciation in the island’s currency during the final minutes
of trading on most days in the past nine months, according to
traders who asked not to be identified. The central bank’s
mandate is to keep relative exchange-rate stability and to
intervene in the event of abnormal moves, Governor Perng Fai-Nan
said Dec. 19.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options,
climbed five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.03
percent.  The yield on the 1.125 percent bonds due September 2022 was
1.169 percent, little changed from 1.17 percent yesterday,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The  overnight interbank
lending  rate was steady at 0.387 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  