-- Alabama Is Favored in Vegas to Win Third Straight Football Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/alabama-is-favored-in-vegas-to-win-third-straight-football-title.html
University of  Alabama  football coach
Nick Saban said he’d celebrate his latest national championship
for two days before looking ahead to next season.  Las Vegas oddsmakers didn’t wait that long, installing the
Crimson Tide as 5-2 favorites yesterday to become the first
school to win three straight titles since the Associated Press
media poll began in 1936. Alabama also won championships after
the 2009 and 2011 college football seasons.  “I think that you may be more committed to what you need
to do in the future to continue to be successful,” Saban told
reporters yesterday. “Every opponent that we play next year
we’ll certainly have it targeted on their schedule to beat us,
so we’ll have a lot of challenges.”  The University of Oregon is the second choice at 5-1,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, followed by Ohio
State at 6-1. No other team has odds better than 12-1. Next
season’s Bowl Championship Series title game is scheduled for
Jan. 6, 2014, at the  Rose Bowl  in Pasadena,  California .  “People pounce on these futures much earlier than they did
quite a while ago,” Jimmy Vaccaro, a spokesman for William Hill
U.S., which represents 150 sports books in  Nevada , said in a
telephone interview. “They like to have these long-term tickets
in their pocket.”  Vaccaro said Alabama’s 42-14 rout of the  University of
Notre Dame  two days ago probably drew more bets in Las Vegas
than any other college football game in history, estimating
William Hill took in $12 million to $15 million in wagers.  With the victory in Miami, Alabama became the third team in
the poll era to claim three titles in a four-year span, joining
the University of Nebraska (1994-95, 1997) and  Notre Dame 
(1946-47, 1949).  Three Straight  The next challenge for Saban and the Crimson Tide is a
three-peat. Alabama will lose two key members of its offensive
line and possibly starting running back Eddie Lacy to the
 National Football League . AJ McCarron, who threw four touchdown
passes against Notre Dame in becoming the first quarterback to
win consecutive BCS titles, is expected to return.  “We certainly have to build the team around him,” Saban
said. “AJ can be a really good player, maybe the best
quarterback in the country next year.”  Also returning are running back T.J. Yeldon, who rushed for
1,131 yards and 12 touchdowns this season, and wide receiver
Amari Cooper, who scored two touchdowns against Notre Dame after
leading the team with 1,000 yards receiving during the regular
season. Yeldon and Cooper are freshmen.  Saban, 61, will be back too, saying he’s not interested in
any overtures from the NFL after going 15-17 in two seasons with
the  Miami Dolphins  in 2005-06.  Coaching Impact  “I didn’t feel like I could impact the team the same way
that I can as a college coach in terms of affecting people’s
lives personally,” Saban said. “There’s a lot of gratification
in all that, all right. So I kind of learned through that
experience that maybe this is where I belong, and I’m really
happy and at peace with all that.”  In addition, the Crimson Tide have a favorable schedule, as
they don’t play Southeastern Conference rivals Florida,  Georgia 
or  South Carolina  during the regular season. Georgia and South
Carolina are tied with  Texas A&M  for the fourth-best BCS
championship odds at 12-1, with Florida at 20-1.  Alabama’s biggest game may be Sept. 14 in  College Station ,
 Texas , against Texas A&M and Heisman Trophy winner Johnny
Manziel. The Aggies and Manziel handed the Crimson Tide their
only defeat this season, 29-24 in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, on Nov.
10. Alabama also plays Louisiana State, which has 15-1 odds of
winning the BCS title, at home on Nov. 9.  “They’ll be favored in every game they play next season,”
said  Jeff Sherman , the assistant manager at the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book.  Saban cautioned that nothing is a given in the SEC,
especially with every opponent gunning to knock off the nation’s
No. 1 team.  “Almost every game that you play in the SEC is a game that
you could lose,” Saban said. “You have to be very well
prepared and play with consistency. You can’t play up and down,
or you’re going to have problems. All those things really help
the consistency and the players to understand and appreciate
what it takes to be successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  