-- Alcoa Sees Aluminum Use Climbing on China Recovery: Commodities
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-01-09T21:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/alcoa-sees-aluminum-use-climbing-on-china-recovery-commodities.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, sees global demand growth for the commodity recovering
to 7 percent in 2013 as China’s economic rebound drives demand
for cans, transport and office buildings.  Aerospace demand will increase by as much as 10 percent as
planemakers face record backlogs, the company said yesterday in
its fourth-quarter earnings presentation. It also predicted
aluminum consumption may climb 19 percent in China’s heavy-truck
and trailer industry, while U.S. commercial building and
construction expands for the first time in four years.  “The fundamentals are pretty positive,” Chief Executive
Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said on a conference call. “We will
absolutely see the rebound” in aluminum prices.  Demand in China, the world’s largest aluminum user, will
grow 11 percent this year to 23 million metric tons as stimulus
spending announced by the country’s new leadership begins to
show its effect, Kleinfeld said. He also forecast an
acceleration of consumption in Brazil,  India  and  Russia . Global
demand advanced 6 percent last year, according to Alcoa.  China’s economic growth probably quickened to 7.8 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a three-year
low in the previous period, according to a Bloomberg News survey
last month. The government will release quarterly gross domestic
product data as well as December industrial production, retail
sales and fixed-asset investment on Jan. 18.  Rising Prices  Aluminum for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange averaged $2,021 a ton in 2012. The metal will average
$2,125 this year, according to the median of 19 analyst
estimates, and keep rising for at least three years. The price
is seen advancing to $2,292 in 2014 and to $2,400 in 2015, the
estimates show.  “Every commodity six months from now will be higher than
today because  China ’s on an upturn,” said Lloyd O’Carroll, a
Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at Davenport & Co. who
recommends buying Alcoa shares. “LME prices have rebounded and
that should continue.”  Alcoa said yesterday that fourth-quarter sales fell to $5.9
billion from $5.99 billion, beating the $5.6 billion average of
11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income was $242 million, or 21 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $191 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier. Profit
excluding a gain on the sale of a power plant and other one-time
items was 6 cents a share, matching the average of 20  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Volumes  Alcoa fell 0.2 percent to $9.08 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 3.7 percent in the past 12 months,
while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 8.1 percent. Alcoa
is the first company in the index to report earnings.  The company said it achieved $1.3 billion in productivity
and overhead savings in 2012, surpassing its $850 million
target. Alcoa saw better prices and volumes at its global
rolled-products division, which produces aluminum sheets for
airplane wings, beverage cans and car parts. The unit’s
shipments rose 10 percent to 448,000 tons and third-party sales
gained 4.7 percent to $1.77 billion.  Still, worldwide aluminum supply will exceed demand by
535,000 tons this year, the New York-based company said. Global
inventories of aluminum held in warehouses monitored by the LME
are 5.2 million tons, little changed from the record level
recorded in December.  Global Stockpiles  Kleinfeld said Alcoa estimates total worldwide stockpiles
are about 10 million tons. Most of that metal is tied up in
financing deals, the CEO said.  The LME price is “largely influenced by large-scale
investors” who mostly base their decisions on macroeconomic
news,’’ he said. “There’s a strong correlation of metal price
and general economic news.”  Demand in  Brazil  will grow by 9 percent and North American
usage will climb by 4 percent, as India and Russia grow by 7
percent and 6 percent, Alcoa said.  “They continue to see consistent growth going forward,”
said Kuni Chen, an analyst at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “That’s a good indicator for other sectors that
are reliant on those end-markets as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  