-- Algerian Calm in Arab Tumult Threatened as Oil Largesse Dwindles
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/algerian-calm-in-arab-tumult-threatened-as-oil-largesse-dwindles.html
Ait Allaoua, a 22-year-old Algerian
medical student, rattles off why he’s angry with his country:
rigged elections, sclerotic politicians, corruption, high
unemployment, and a quagmire of bureaucracy.  Yet there’s a reason why  Algeria  hasn’t been engulfed by
the uprisings that started in neighboring  Tunisia  more than two
years ago and spread across the Arab world, he said.  “There is oil here, and every time the people aren’t happy
the government gives them money,” Allaoua said in an interview
in the capital, Algiers.  The risk for the country of 37 million people is that its
ability to buy off discontent is waning. The ruling National
Liberation Front is faced with diminishing oil exports,
inflation, and presidential elections in 2014 where for the
first time its candidate won’t carry the aura of having fought
for independence against the French.  While Algeria exported $73 billion of petroleum products in
2011, according to the country’s central bank, figures from the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries show  oil
production  declined for a fourth straight year.  “Pacification through finance can’t go on forever,” said
Azzedine Layachi, a professor of international and Middle East
affairs at  St. John’s University  in  New York  and  Rome .
“Everything is in shutdown mode until 2014 and that’s when
we’ll see what direction Algeria takes.”  War Weary  Memories of conflict in the 1990s between Islamic militants
and the army deter Algerians from following the rebellions in
countries like  Libya , another oil producer, where leader  Muammar Qaddafi  was deposed and killed in a bloody civil war in 2011.
In the Syrian uprising, at least 60,000 people have been killed
in the fighting, the  United Nations  said last week.  “What you see in  Syria  now, they had every day here, it’s
just that it was hidden from the world,” said Benjamin Stora,
an Algerian-born historian. “This is an exhausted country that
went through 10 years of civil war and 100,000 deaths.”  Angry youths rioted across Algeria in early 2011. The
government responded first with riot police, then with higher
wages and subsidies that have kept the country largely quiet
ever since and left President Abdelaziz Bouteflika’s National
Liberation Front firmly in power.  Buying Favor  The government raised the minimum wage by 20 percent to 180
euros ($236) a month. To relieve a housing shortage, the
government plans to spend 40 billion euros on 2.4 million new
homes by 2017. It will also build 2,500 kilometers (1,550 miles)
of new roads and upgrade 8,000 kilometers over next three years.  About 12 percent of the state budget goes toward subsidies
for basic foodstuff. Gasoline costs between 13 and 23 euro cents
a liter, about a 10th of its price in most European countries.  “Paying people off isn’t much of a policy, and it only
works until people realize that it hasn’t made them better
off,” said  Kader Abderrahim , a researcher at the Paris-based
Institute of International and Strategic Studies.  The  International Monetary Fund  said on Nov. 12 that higher
spending is causing fiscal “vulnerability” and rising prices.
The official  inflation rate  is 7.3 percent. The real rate
exceeds 10 percent, Layachi at St. John’s University said.
Official joblessness also runs at around 10 percent.  Bouteflika, who came to office in 1999, is now the
country’s longest-serving president, following the 13-year
stints by his two predecessors.  New Leaders  “We need to have clearer elections, we need to allow the
emergence of a new generation of leaders,” said Allaoua, the
student, as he waited in the crowd along the Algiers waterfront
to greet French President  Francois Hollande  on Dec. 19. “If
Algeria was better managed, we wouldn’t be talking about
unemployment. There is the money here.”  Bouteflika, 75, isn’t expected to run in 2014 because of
poor health, Layachi said, making him the last Algerian
president to have fought in the War of Independence.  France , which annexed Algeria in 1830, largely crushed the
1954-1958 revolt, though civilian massacres and the use of
torture undercut support for the war at home, leading President
 Charles de Gaulle  to open negotiations with the rebels and grant
the country independence in 1962.  The National Liberation Front took 17 percent of the vote
in the May 2012 parliamentary elections, though won more than 40
percent of seats as smaller parties were disqualified because
they didn’t reach the 5 percent threshold.  “These fraudulent elections will just be an inside game of
the ruling parties,” said Abderrazak Mokri, vice-president of
Movement for Society and Peace, an opposition Islamic party.  Mixed Freedom  Freedom House, which monitors democracy, lists Algeria in
its bottom group as “Not Free,” unlike Morocco and Tunisia,
which are “partly free.” The government limits which parties
can run in elections and the president has more power than
parliament, it said in its 2012 annual report.  While Algeria allowed some press freedom and lifted a 19-
year state of emergency in February 2011, Mokri said the policy
is: “We can say what we want; they can do what they want.”  Mokri says the crunch will come after 2018 when declining
oil production and rising domestic demand will deprive the
government of export revenue. Oil product sales boosted
Algeria’s foreign currency reserves to $180 billion in 2011,
according to the central bank.  Yet crude production declined to 1.16 million barrels a day
in 2011 from 1.37 million in 2007,  OPEC figures  show. And
there’s little else to rely on. Non-energy exports were just $1
billion, and without oil the trade deficit would have been $43.7
billion in 2011, the central bank numbers show.  Social Pressure  “Buying social peace is not durable because it would just
take a decline in  oil prices ,” said Nourredine Benissad,
president of the  Algerian League for the Defense of Human Rights 
in Algiers. “We wouldn’t be able to contain social pressure.”  The World Bank places Algeria 152nd out of 185 countries in
 ease of doing business  in 2012, a drop from 136th place in 2011.
Tunisia, where street vendor Mohamed Bouazizi set himself on
fire in December 2010 and triggered the wave of unrest, ranked
50th.  Transparency International  puts Algeria at 105 out of 174
in its latest corruption index. While that’s better than Libya
or  Egypt , it’s behind Morocco and Tunisia.  For Allaoua in the crowd in Algiers, it just reflects the
hurdles facing his countrymen.  “It takes a full day to register the birth of your child,
if you bother,” the medical student said. “Imagine what it’s
like to start up a business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Algiers, through the Paris bureau at 
   gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  