-- Americans Die Sooner Than Peers in Affluent Countries
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-01-09T20:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/americans-die-sooner-than-peers-in-affluent-countries.html
People in the U.S. are sicker and
more likely to die earlier than peers in high-income countries,
a gap that bedevils even the wealthy, the insured and those with
healthy behaviors, according to a government-sponsored study.  The U.S., the world’s richest nation by household assets,
is close to last in key areas of health that include infant
mortality, HIV, drug-related deaths and obesity, according to
the  study  issued today by the National Research Council and the
 Institute of Medicine . The study compared the U.S. with affluent
countries such as Australia, Canada and  Japan .  The health gap has worsened for three decades, especially
for women, and disproportionately affects children and teens,
who die at higher rates from traffic accidents and homicide. For
males, almost two-thirds of the  life expectancy  difference can
be attributed to deaths before age 50, and those who reach that
age arrive in poorer health than in other wealthy nations.  “The pervasiveness of the problem was really staggering,”
Steven Woolf, a family medicine professor at Virginia
Commonwealth University in Richmond and chairman of the panel
that wrote the report, said in an interview. “I don’t think
American parents know their children will live a shorter life
with greater disease rates than other countries.”  The gap in health conditions exists from birth -- the U.S.
has the highest  infant mortality rate  of any high-income country
-- to age 75. The leading contributors include unintentional
injuries such as car wrecks and poisonings, as well as non-
communicable ailments such as  heart disease  and diabetes,
according to the study. The report also cited drug abuse and a
negative physical environment that centers on automobiles.  Falling Behind  The panel analyzed U.S. health conditions against 16
nations: Australia, Austria, Canada,  Denmark , Finland, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, the Netherlands and the U.K.  The U.S. life expectancy for men is about 76 and ranks last
in the 17 countries studied. For women, the life expectancy is
about 81 years and ranked 16, followed by Denmark.  “Why are we falling behind leads to broader, complex
questions,” Woolf said. “We were not surprised there was a
health disadvantage, but by how big and pervasive it was.”  The disadvantage exists even though the U.S. spends more
per capita on health care than any other nation, partly because
of a large uninsured population and inaccessible or unaffordable
medical care, according to the study. Americans also have
riskier health behaviors, including being involved in more
traffic accidents that involve alcohol and using firearms in
acts of violence. Americans who don’t smoke and are not
overweight also appear to have higher rates of disease.  The U.S. also has higher levels of poverty than other
countries, based on the report.  The nation’s large population of recent immigrants is
generally in better health than native-born Americans, according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  