-- Manchester United Targeting Chelsea’s Lampard: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-01-09T09:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/manchester-united-targeting-chelsea-s-lampard-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Qatari Star  David Beckham  got an offer of a two-year contract to join
the Qatar Stars League,  the Sun said .  The 37-year-old wants to continue playing after leaving the
 Los Angeles Galaxy  following five years in the U.S., and may be
attracted by a Qatari offer of a job as a representative for the
2022  World Cup , the newspaper said.  The former England and Manchester United player has been
linked to West Ham United and Queens Park Rangers, the Sun said.  Done Deal?  Manchester United looks ready to sign Crystal Palace winger
Wilfried Zaha after Tottenham said it wasn’t going to try to
contract the 20-year-old,  the Daily Telegraph said .  Palace wants to keep the player until the end of the
season, but United may be willing to sign him and loan him back
to the London club, the newspaper said.  Spurs were among several Premier League clubs that were
interested in signing Zaha that have now backed away because of
United’s interest, the Telegraph said.  Theo Offer  Arsenal is confident of keeping striker Theo Walcott by
offering him a five-year, 25 million pound ($40 million)
contract,  the Daily Mail said .  Walcott’s deal ends this season and the north London club
will offer him 88,000 pounds a week to persuade him to stay, the
newspaper said. The England player rejected an opening offer of
75,000 pounds a week, the newspaper said.  Rio’s Future  Rio Ferdinand  will ignore offers of 10 million pounds from
teams in  China  and the U.S. to remain at  Manchester United , the
 Daily Star said .  The 34-year-old will open contract talks later this month
with his current deal set to expire at the end of the season,
the newspaper said.  He could get offers of 300,000 pounds a week in a foreign
league, but wants to stay at Old Trafford, the Star said.  Ince Return  Liverpool is preparing to bring back winger Tom Ince from
Blackpool for 6 million pounds, the  Daily Mail  said.  The under-21 England player left Liverpool last season for
500,000 pounds, and Blackpool was demanding as much as 7 million
pounds to send him back, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  