-- Hanergy Buys ArcelorMittal-Backed Thin-Film Panel Maker MiaSole
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-09T09:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/hanergy-buys-arcelormittal-backed-thin-film-panel-maker-miasole.html
Hanergy Holding Group Ltd. bought
MiaSole Inc., a California-based thin-film panel maker backed by
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , to increase
capacity in anticipation of a solar industry revival.  The acquisition by the Beijing-based renewable-energy
producer is its second in a less than a year after it bought the
Solibro unit of  Germany ’s Q-Cells SE in June, Hanergy said in a
statement today. Financial terms of the purchase weren’t
disclosed.  Hanergy “has been actively expanding production capacity
as we expect a rebound in the second half of this year” or in
the first six months of 2014, Chairman Li Hejun said at a press
conference in Beijing today. The company, which will continue to
seek technology acquisitions, expects to produce 2.5 gigawatts
of panels this year, compared with “several hundred megawatts”
last year, Li said.  Chinese renewable-energy companies, including solar-wafer
maker  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , are buying companies in the west, where
slowing demand and rising supply have trimmed profit margins.
The purchases also give Hanergy technology to compete with  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker of thin-film panels by shipments.  A thin-film solar cell is made by placing layers of
photovoltaic material on a semiconductor wafer. MiaSole’s
products are made using copper, indium, gallium and selenium,
instead of silicon, and are designed for large rooftop and
ground-mounted industrial deployment, according to its website.  MiaSole and Solibro “can share patents, technology, supply
chains and commercial synergies,” John Carrington, chief
executive officer at MiaSole, told reporters today.  The Santa Clara-based company’s other investors include
VantagePoint Venture Partners, Firelake Capital Management and
Passport Capital, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  