-- Anglo American Miners May Seek $117,000 Each in Disease Suit
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-09T13:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/anglo-harmony-workers-may-seek-117-000-each-in-silicosis-suit.html
Workers who contracted silicosis
after working on mines that were owned by companies including
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  may seek at least 1 million rand ($117,000)
each in damages, a lawyer representing them said.  The amount could be reached “quite easily” for each
person who got the lung disease, said Richard Spoor, the lawyer
who filed an  application  against 30 companies including  Anglo
American (AGL)  South Africa Ltd., a unit of Anglo American for class
certification of an action for damages in a South African court
last month. The petition was made on behalf of workers and
dependents of those who died from the illness. There may be more
than 200,000 former miners with silicosis throughout southern
Africa, he said.  “Whether we are able to bring Anglo American and other
parent companies to the table or not will have a significant
impact on the size of any final award or settlement,” Spoor
said by phone yesterday. “The question of the parent company
liability is a very difficult area of law because of the
principle of limited liability.”  Spoor won a 490 million-rand settlement from Gencor Ltd. in
2003 after the company was sued by workers from asbestos mines
it controlled. Exposure to the fibers can cause respiratory
disease, asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma, a cancer.
South  Africa ’s highest court in March 2011 cleared the way for
him to seek damages from gold companies by ruling that former
miner Thembekile Mankayi could pursue a 2.7 million-rand claim
against  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , a company whose predecessor was
formed in 1997 when Anglo American merged its gold mines.  Ownership Changes  Spoor’s application names 30 gold-mining companies that
owned or operated 78 gold mines from 1965 to present.  Mergers, acquisitions and delistings over the years have
left former workers with nowhere to go to seek compensation,
Spoor said. Gold Fields Ltd. was created in 1998 by combining
the assets of Gencor and Gold Fields of South Africa Ltd.
AngloGold was formed when Anglo American’s South African
business bought out minority shareholders of its gold units in
1997.  Anglo American ceded control of AngloGold in April 2004
when the gold miner bought  Ghana ’s Ashanti Goldfields Ltd.,
creating AngloGold Ashanti.  Gold companies including AngloGold deny liability.  “The application raises a number of complex legal and
factual issues, and AngloGold Ashanti plans to respond through
the appropriate court procedures to defend the case on its
merits,” Alan Fine, a spokesman for the gold company, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  African Rainbow  Gold Fields spokesman Sven Lunsche declined to comment.  African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) , the diversified South
African mining company controlled by billionaire Patrice Motsepe, bought Anglovaal Mining, one of the respondents in the
application, in 2004.  “It’s too soon to discuss the outcome of the matter as
none of the merits of the matter has yet been established, let
alone tested in court,” Pieter Coetzee, the legal executive for
African Rainbow, said in an e-mail.  Anglo American South Africa has been served with papers
issued out of the South Gauteng High Court, Johannesburg, and is
one of 30 companies named as a respondent party, spokesman
 Pranill Ramchander  wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  The number of gold miners in South Africa peaked at 489,000
in 1983, according to the Department of Mineral Resources. The
mines employed 145,561 people in 2011, according to the Chamber
of Mines, which represents mining companies.  Silicosis Causes  Silicosis is caused by prolonged exposure to dust in mines,
leaving irreversible scar tissue in lungs and making it hard to
breathe. It also heightens the risk of contracting tuberculosis.  South Africa’s gold mines caused about 1,140 new cases of
silicosis annually from 1980 to 1990, David Davis, a
Johannesburg-based mining analyst at SBG Securities Ltd., wrote
in a 2011 report on the possible accountability of such cases.  The potential liability for the gold-mining industry could
be as much as $146 million, he wrote.  An increased public exposure may raise the amount of
liability to gold companies and it seems like the lawyer is
recruiting, Davis said in an e-mail yesterday. The “likely
result is an out-of-court settlement as per the asbestos case,”
he said.  President Steyn  Lawyer Richard Meeran of law firm Leigh Day & Co. is suing
mining companies on behalf of former workers who contracted
silicosis separately. The firm brought a case against AngloGold
in October, and represents miners who are involved in a court
battle for compensation for former workers at the President
Steyn mine since 2004.  Anglo American had varying amounts of shares in the
operation in the Free State province between 1960 and 1980.
Pamodzi Gold Ltd. bought President Steyn from Thistle Mining
Inc. in 2007, and and Harmony Gold Mining Co. purchased
Pamodzi’s Free State assets in 2009.  Abrahams Kiewitz Attorneys, based in Cape Town, in August
filed a suit in the South Gauteng High Court on behalf of about
3,000 miners seeking compensation from AngloGold, Gold Fields
and Harmony.  “We know that between 20 and 30 percent of the miners have
silicosis, but we don’t know how many are alive,” Spoor said.  The mines depended on migrant labor from countries
including Lesotho and  Mozambique .  “While progress has been made, we recognize that
silicosis-related compensation must be reviewed to address
inadequacies in the system as identified by the Constitutional
Court,” South Africa’s highest court, AngloGold’s Fine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  