-- Hanlong Said to Talk to Wuhan on $4.7 Billion Sundance Mine
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-01-09T07:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/hanlong-said-in-talks-with-wuhan-on-4-7-billion-sundance-mine.html
Sichuan Hanlong Group, an investor in
highways and power projects, is in talks with  Wuhan Iron & Steel
Co. (600005)  to help develop an iron ore project in West Africa owned by
Australia’s  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL) , two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  Hanlong is seeking an investment from Wuhan Steel for the
Mbalam project and is also in discussions with other Chinese
state-owned companies, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the information is private. Perth-based Sundance
has agreed to a takeover offer from Hanlong and estimates it
needs $4.7 billion for Mbalam.  China  is urging its companies to buy assets overseas and
secure energy and commodity resources to meet domestic demand.
The Mbalam iron ore project, straddling the border between
Cameroon and Republic of Congo, has a planned annual capacity of
35 million metric tons of the steelmaking raw material.  Hanlong, which owns about 14 percent of Sundance and plans
to buy the rest for A$1.14 billion ($1.2 billion), said last
month it was considering partnerships with Chinese state-owned
enterprises to develop Mbalam. Government-controlled  Wuhan Steel 
is China’s fourth-largest steelmaker.  Port Development  Sundance also plans to build a 510-kilometer (317-mile)
railway line linking the Mbarga mine in Cameroon and the Nabeba
mine in Congo to a deep-water export terminal on the coast of
Cameroon, according to its website.  Hanlong has discussed construction of the railway link and
port, mine development and offtake sales contracts with Chinese
state-owned companies, it said in the Dec. 27 statement.  The Chengdu, China-based company’s takeover of Sundance was
first agreed to in October 2011, before a plunge in iron ore
prices prompted Hanlong to lower the bid. The companies last
month extended the deadline for the acquisition after  China
Development Bank  failed to agree on terms for a loan in time.  Sundance ended trading today at 37 cents in Sydney, 22
percent below Hanlong’s bid of  45 cents a share . Wuhan rose 0.4
percent to 2.81  yuan  in Shanghai today.  Xiao Jinfa, a vice president of resource development at
Wuhan Steel, declined to comment on a potential agreement, as
did Hanlong’s press office and  Paul Armstrong , an external
spokesman for Sundance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  