-- Hanmi Said to Seek Sale
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-09T21:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/hanmi-said-to-seek-sale.html
Hanmi Financial Corp. (HAFC) , the second-
largest  U.S. bank  catering to Korean-Americans, is looking for a
buyer and hired DelMorgan & Co. to advise on a sale, said three
people with knowledge of the matter.  The lender may attract interest from  BBCN Bancorp Inc. (BBCN)  and
 Wilshire Bancorp Inc. (WIBC) , which like Hanmi are based in  Los Angeles 
and target Korean-Americans, said two of the people, who asked
not to be named because the process is private. Hanmi rose more
than 8 percent today, giving the firm a market value of about
$481 million. It has assets of about $2.8 billion.  Hanmi, led by Chief Executive Officer Jay Yoo, is pursuing
a sale less than two years after its takeover by South Korean
lender Woori Finance Holdings Co. collapsed. Hanmi may draw
interest again from Woori, as well as  South Korea ’s Hana Bank,
both seeking expansion in the U.S., the people said. The lender
was founded more than 30 years ago and operates in areas such as
San Diego, San Francisco and Orange County.  Hanmi shares rose 8.1 percent to $15.26 as of 4 p.m. in New
York.  Woori Finance agreed in May 2010 to buy Hanmi for as much
as $240 million. That deal was  terminated  in June 2011, when the
firms agreed to a business alliance instead. Officials at Woori
and Hana declined to comment, while representatives at Wilshire
and BBCN didn’t return calls seeking comment.  David Yang, Hanmi’s corporate strategy officer, didn’t
return a call seeking comment. Rob Delgado, co-founder of
DelMorgan, declined to comment. Delgado helped found the Santa
Monica, California-based investment-banking boutique in 2011.  Enforcement Actions  Hanmi has 27 branches in  California . Its shares had gained
76 percent in the year through yesterday as the company
recovered from steep commercial loan losses in 2009 and 2010.  BBCN is the largest Korean-American-focused bank, with $5.3
billion in assets as of Sept. 30, according to SNL Financial, a
bank-research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia. Wilshire is the
third-largest with $2.6 billion in assets.  The California Department of Financial Institutions and
 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  lifted late in 2012 two
enforcement actions placed on Hanmi in 2009. The actions had
required Hanmi to maintain certain capital levels and restricted
the bank from paying dividends, increasing debt and changing its
businesses plan without regulatory permission.  Hanmi also last year began to draw down a nearly $80
million deferred tax allowance, or pool of money that represents
a tax benefit a company can’t recognize unless it is healthy.  The drawdown sharply enhanced the company’s book value,
which was $364 million as of Sept. 30, up almost 80 percent from
a year earlier, according to the company’s third-quarter
earnings report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  