-- ArcelorMittal Sells $3.5 Billion in Stock, Notes to Cut Debt
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-01-09T17:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/arcelormittal-to-sell-3-5-billion-in-shares-notes-to-cut-debt.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the biggest
steelmaker, is seeking about $3.5 billion through a sale of
shares and bonds that automatically become stock to reduce debt.
It also announced a bid for a  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  plant in  Alabama .  “ArcelorMittal intends to use the net proceeds from the
combined offering to reduce existing indebtedness,” the company
said in a statement today. The Luxembourg-based steelmaker said
the sale, along with other initiatives, will help cut debt to
about $17 billion by the end of June.  ArcelorMittal is offering $1.75 billion in common shares
and another $1.75 billion in mandatory convertible subordinated
notes, according to a copy of the term sheet obtained by
 Bloomberg News . It’s the biggest share sale by the company since
it sold $3.2 billion in stock in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The transaction adds to ArcelorMittal’s efforts to improve
its finances after the producer’s credit rating was cut to below
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service,  Standard & Poor’s (SPY) 
and Fitch Ratings. The company has reduced its dividend,
disposed of assets and is moving output to cheaper sites to pare
$23.2 billion of debt. European steel stocks gained 11 percent
last month and last week rose to the highest since April.  “It’s a positive move, opportunistic with the recent
momentum in the sector,” said  Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E
Davy Holdings Ltd. in Dublin. “Their recent moves of cutting
the dividend, selling the iron ore unit and now this shows real
intent to sort out the balance sheet. They’ll have around $17
billion debt by June, which could be a game changer for the
stock.”  Alabama Steel  ArcelorMittal has prepared a bid for ThyssenKrupp’s Alabama
steel plant, Chief Financial Officer  Aditya Mittal  said on a
conference call. A purchase wouldn’t increase the company’s debt
target, he said.  “It’s clearly a world class asset,” the CFO said. “We
believe we’ve structured a bid which will allow us to
participate, which does not detract from us achieving a net debt
target of $17 billion by June end.”  ArcelorMittal fell 2.5 percent to 13.08 euros in Amsterdam
trading, the steepest decline since Oct. 31. ThyssenKrupp rose 3
percent to 18.50 euros in  Frankfurt .  ThyssenKrupp is seeking to dispose of assets in  Brazil  and
the U.S., where it has spent 12 billion euros ($16 billion) on
Steel Americas plants, according to CFO Guido Kerkhoff. A sale
would help execute Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger ’s
plans to transform the Essen-based company into a diversified
industrial group by building up its technologies division.  ThyssenKrupp Writedowns  The company wrote the two plants down by 2.1 billion euros
in fiscal 2010-11 and by a further 3.6 billion euros in the year
ended September 2012 to 3.9 billion euros now.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker by output, offered about $3 billion to buy the two
ThyssenKrupp AG plants in the Americas, two people familiar with
the matter said at the end of November.  ThyssenKrupp declined to comment on details such as
timetables for the sale of the assets, names of bidders or
valuations, Stefan Ettwig, a spokesman, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Steel-industry earnings have slumped as  Europe ’s economic
crisis saps demand and slower Chinese growth weighs on commodity
prices. European steelmakers are grappling with excess capacity
that’s eroding prices, while they can’t cut operating costs. The
region has capacity to make about 210 million metric tons of
steel a year, while demand in a “normal market” is 150 million
to 160 million tons, according to industry lobby group Eurofer.  Mittal’s Priority  “We have consistently said that reducing net debt is a
priority for the company,” Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in the statement. “This transaction, supplemented
by proceeds from ongoing asset disposals, the announced
reduction in dividends and continued cost-saving initiatives,
will significantly lower our net debt.”  ArcelorMittal reported the lowest quarterly profit in
almost three years on Oct. 31 and cut its 2013 dividend by 73
percent to save about $1 billion. The company said last week it
will sell 15 percent of its ArcelorMittal Mines Canada Inc. unit
for $1.1 billion to a group led by  China Steel Corp. (2002)  and Posco.  The transaction announced today will move ArcelorMittal
toward a “medium term” debt target of $15 billion, it said.
The Mittal family, which owns about 41 percent of the company,
plans to participate in the deals for a total of $600 million,
the company said.  Earnings Forecast  ArcelorMittal reiterated its full-year forecast that
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will be about $7 billion and net debt will be about $22 billion.  The bonds will pay a coupon of 5.875 percent to 6.375
percent and convert into stock after three years, it said. The
minimum conversion price will be the level used in the stock
placement that’s running alongside the sale of bonds, while the
maximum will be 20 percent to 25 percent higher.  The minimum price guarantees the company at least receives
the money it would have got had it sold the underlying shares in
a stock sale, while the maximum price limits dilution if the
shares perform. Investors deciding to convert prior to maturity
will receive the shares indicated by using the maximum price,
according to the company.  The company has retained the right to defer coupon payments
on the subordinated bonds, which will be issued at par.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will be the sole global
coordinator of the offering, while Goldman, BofA Merrill Lynch,
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , and Deutsche Bank AG will serve as joint
bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  