-- Asia Dollar Bonds See Busiest Week in 3 Months as Hopson Sells
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-09T05:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/asia-dollar-bonds-see-busiest-week-in-3-months-as-hopson-sells.html
Companies from  Hong Kong  to the
 Philippines  and  Australia  are seeking to sell dollar-denominated
debt, adding to what is already the busiest week for Asia-
Pacific offerings in almost three months. Bond risk rose.  Hopson Development Holdings Ltd. is offering five-year
notes yielding about 10.5 percent, while Hysan Development Co.,
another Hong Kong-based developer, is seeking to issue 10-year
debt at about 170 basis points more than Treasuries, said people
familiar with the deals. International Container Terminal
Services Inc., a Manila-based port operator, is marketing 10-
year securities at 5.25 percent, according to another person.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  plans to sell covered notes.  Borrowers are locking in funding as investor appetite
drives down borrowing costs, with  yield premiums  on dollar bonds
from  Asia  tumbling to a 20-month low on Jan. 7, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The deals announced today will add
to $6.2 billion of completed offerings from Asia-Pacific
borrowers this week, already the most since issuers priced $8.9
billion of notes in the five days ended Oct. 12, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “The deal pipeline is thick and fast as we expected,”
said Owen Gallimore, a fixed-income analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “High-yield issuers
are keen to tap strong investor demand at these tight yields,
and high-grade issuers’ plans have been given a sense of urgency
with Treasury yields increasing quickly.”  Rates Rise  Yields on benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasuries touched 1.97
percent on Jan. 4, the highest since April, after the world’s
largest economy avoided the so-called fiscal cliff and Federal
Reserve minutes showed some policy makers had urged for curbs on
asset purchases before the end of 2013.  Hopson’s proposed notes are rated Caa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and the equivalent CCC+ by  Standard & Poor’s . The
company paid in January 2011 an 11.75 percent coupon when it
sold $300 million of five-year bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Westpac Banking Corp. led issuance from the Asia-Pacific
region this week, raising $2.25 billion, followed by Toyota
Motor Credit Corp. and Shimao Property Holdings Ltd., according
to the data.  Indo Energy Finance II B.V., a unit of PT Indika Energy
Tbk, hired Citigroup Inc., Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG for
a proposed dollar bond sale, three people familiar with the
matter said today.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan gained 1 basis point to 104.5 as of 8:18
a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The gauge is set for its highest close since Jan. 3, according
to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the private market.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 1 basis point to 113
basis points as of 11:08 a.m. in Sydney, according to Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. The index is on course for its
highest close since Jan. 4, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index climbed 1 1/2 basis points to
143 basis points as of 9:09 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The index is on track for its first increase this year,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  