-- Asian Stocks Climb on U.S. Earnings; Alumina, Nufarm Rise
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-09T09:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/asian-stocks-decline-as-japanese-exporters-fall-on-yen.html
Asian  stocks  climbed, halting a two-
day retreat, as Japanese exporters gained on a weaker yen and
 Alumina Ltd. (AWC)  jumped as partner Alcoa Inc. posted sales that beat
estimates to start U.S. earnings season.  Alumina rose 4.6 percent in Sydney. Pesticide-maker  Nufarm
Ltd. (NUF)  rallied 6.2 percent in Sydney after Monsanto Co., the
world’s biggest seed company, raised its profit forecast. Honda
Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. climbed more than 1 percent as
the yen fell against all of its major peers.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.4 percent to 131.28
as of 6:25 p.m. Tokyo time, erasing earlier losses of as much
0.3 percent. The benchmark posted its seventh weekly advance
last week, the longest winning streak since March, after the
 U.S. Congress  approved a budget deal and Japanese shares rallied
on expectations the new government would call for more stimulus.  “I am cautiously optimistic,” said  Tim Schroeders , who
helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“We are at a juncture with the earnings season just kicking off
in  North America . People will want to assess the lay of the
land, in particular any forward-looking comments that companies
make.”  Nikkei, Kospi  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  increased 0.7 percent. The gauge climbed 22
percent from Nov. 14 when Japanese elections were announced,
driving the measure into a  bull market  on expectations the
Liberal Democratic Party would press the Bank of Japan for more
monetary easing.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 0.7 percent to
a record close. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.4 percent.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.5 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index was little changed. South Korea’s Kospi
Index lost 0.3 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 14 percent in 2012 as
central banks from the U.S., Europe, Japan and China took action
to spur economic growth. The regional benchmark traded at 14
times estimated earnings, compared with 13.1 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a multiple of 11.9 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500  added 0.2 percent today. The gauge
lost 0.3 percent yesterday as investors awaited earnings from
Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to post quarterly results.  Alumina Rallies  Shares of Alcoa climbed in after-hours trading after the
largest U.S. aluminum producer reported fourth-quarter sales of
$5.9 billion, beating the $5.6 billion average of 11 estimates.  Alumina, a supplier of the material used to make aluminum,
rallied 4.6 percent to a seven-month high of A$1.025 in Sydney.
The company today said it got fully franked dividends of $20
million from Alcoa World Alumina & Chemicals for the fourth
quarter.  Nufarm, Australia’s biggest supplier of farm chemicals,
advanced 6.2 percent to A$6.32 in Sydney after Monsanto boosted
its full-year forecast and reported first-quarter earnings that
surpassed analysts’ estimates.  Honda led Japanese exporters higher as the yen fell against
all of its major counterparts on expectations the  Bank of Japan 
will accede to government pressure to expand monetary easing. A
weaker currency boosts the value of overseas earnings for
Japanese companies when repatriated.  Honda, which gets about 80 percent of its sales outside of
the country, rose 1.6 percent to 3,250 yen. Toyota, Japan’s
biggest carmaker, gained 1.6 percent to 4,165 yen.  Chinese Automakers  Chinese automakers advanced after Credit Suisse Group AG
forecast demand for cars in the world’s second-largest economy
will increase between 8 percent and 10 percent annually in the
next three to five years.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238) , a partner of Toyota, jumped
7.4 percent to HK$7.38 in Hong Kong. Dongfeng Motor Group Co.
gained 2.3 percent to HK$12.24. BYD Co., partly owned by Warren
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., surged 9.2 percent to $HK26
in Hong Kong.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  paced a sell-off in Australian
retailers, falling 2.7 percent to A$2.16 after data today showed
the country’s retail sales unexpectedly fell.  Harvey Norman
Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , Australia’s largest electronics chain, lost 2.3
percent to A$1.905.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., China’s
second-biggest construction-equipment maker, sank 6.4 percent to
HK$11.04 in Hong Kong after Ming Pao Daily newspaper said it had
received an anonymous letter questioning the company’s sales.  The company issued statements yesterday saying it doesn’t
exaggerate earnings and that allegations about its financial
information are “false, groundless and misleading.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  