-- Atlas Revenue Hit as Economy Converges With Troop Cuts: Freight
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/atlas-revenue-hit-as-economy-converges-with-troop-cuts-freight.html
Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW) ,
which did almost one-quarter of its flying for the armed forces
in 2003, is seeking new customers to counter a drop in military
shipments as the longest combat operation in U.S. history winds
down. A weaker global economy just makes it harder.  In an air-freight industry in which available aircraft has
exceeded demand for 21 of the past 22 months, Atlas has had
trouble signing private customers to long-term contracts while
 Europe  remains in a recession and Asian economies struggle.  The transportation of military equipment and soldiers,
about 15 percent of all the hours Atlas spent flying in the
third quarter,  amounted  to almost 30 percent of operating
revenue in that period. Hours flown for the military may dwindle
to about 7 percent, the Purchase, New York-based carrier said,
as operations wrap up in  Afghanistan .  “People need to be cognizant of the fact that the military
drawdown will have a negative effect on Atlas’s earnings at the
same time the company is challenged by overall soft economic
conditions,” said Jack Atkins, an analyst at Stephens Inc., who
downgraded the company to a hold in November. “All those things
together made us say: ‘Let’s just pump the brakes.’”  Two Atlas competitors had trouble staying afloat amid the
dwindling of the Afghanistan war. Norwalk, Connecticut-based
Southern Air Holdings Inc. blamed its September bankruptcy
filing on the drawdown and shrinking defense budgets. Privately
owned Global Aviation Holdings Inc., which provides the largest
share of civil-reserve service, is emerging from bankruptcy
reorganization.  More Crews  Atlas will offset fewer military charters by attracting
private business to its fleet of modern, more fuel-efficient
Boeing Co. 747-8s, which are replacing aging 747-400s, and by
providing more flight crews, Dan Loh, director of investor
relations, said in a phone interview.  Together with aircraft maintenance and insurance, those
services make up more than 70 percent of Atlas’s business, as
measured in block hours, or the time aircraft spend traveling.  Other companies involved in military transportation have
also tried to reposition their revenue streams as the war effort
lessens. Miami-based  World Fuel Services Corp. (INT) , which brokers
aviation fuel in Afghanistan, bought  Denmark ’s Nordic Camp
Supply ApS in 2011 to capitalize on that company’s relationship
with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Atlas receives military charters as a member of the  Civil
Reserve Air Fleet , which aids the Department of Defense when its
demand exceeds capacity. Atlas’s contract entitles it to about
one-third of all military requests. Carriers including United
Continental Holdings Inc. and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  also work for the
armed forces.  In fiscal year 2012, commercial aircraft flew 85 percent of
troops and 37 percent of cargo around the globe for the
military, according to  U.S. Transportation Command  figures.  Earnings Guidance  Weak private demand has prevailed so far, leading Atlas to
trim earnings guidance. Industry-wide global air freight volumes
fell 2 percent in the first 10 months of 2012 compared with the
year-earlier period, according to the most recent International
Air Transport Association data. Atlas secured 20 long-term
aircraft contracts instead of a projected 23 by the end of 2012,
and it cut estimates for total block hours flown last year to
153,000 from an earlier expectation of 160,000.  Atlas shares have  slumped  about 37 percent after peaking on
Feb. 18, 2011. While the stock partly recovered last year, it
dropped 17 percent on Nov. 1 when the company posted third-
quarter profit trailing analysts’ estimates and reduced its
forecasts for 2012 earnings. Shares declined further on Nov. 27
when RBC Capital Markets analyst John Barnes lowered his Atlas
rating to “sector perform” from “outperform.”  Fewer Troops  Shrinking military business presents further risk. The
number of troops on commercial flights fell to 1.2 million in
fiscal 2012 from 1.4 million in 2009, the government figures
show. Airlines hauled 176,818 tons of cargo last year, down from
a peak of 243,345 tons in 2010.  At Atlas, military charter revenue dropped 4 percent in the
third quarter from the same period a year before, the first
decrease in more than a year. The carrier was more often booked
for one-way missions that paid two-way fares during the Middle
East buildups.  “Military volumes certainly have declined and will continue
to decline, just absolutely,” Bill Flynn, president and chief
executive officer of Atlas, said during a Nov. 14 investor
conference. “Our business model is not built on military.”  The total hours Atlas will fly for the military should drop
to about 18,000 this year from 23,000 in 2012, Stephens’s Atkins
said. It flew almost 35,000 hours for the armed forces in 2003.  Afghanistan Drawdown  While the government has yet to announce a detailed plan
for leaving Afghanistan, the number of U.S. soldiers there
 peaked  at about 100,000 in May 2011, according to data compiled
by the Brookings Institution. As of November, there were 68,000
stationed there.  Finding more military passengers elsewhere probably won’t
be a viable option for Atlas either. The number of troops in
foreign countries averaged about 536,000 from 1950 to 2000 and
was declining throughout that period, according to a 2006 study
from the Heritage Foundation. There were about 203,000 troops
abroad in 2002, the year before the invasion of  Iraq .  “There are going to be a heck of a lot less people
deployed overseas than there are right now,” said Steven Bucci,
director of foreign policy studies for the Washington-based
foundation. “I’d be surprised if we had much of anything left
in Europe by the end of President Obama’s term. In the Middle
East, South Asia theater, you’ll definitely see a retraction
from the high points that we hit in the past and where we are
right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  