-- ATP Seeks Court Permission to Sell Gulf of Mexico Wells
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-09T21:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/atp-seeks-court-permission-to-sell-gulf-of-mexico-wells.html
ATP Oil & Gas Corp. asked the judge
overseeing the company’s bankruptcy for permission to hold an
auction for a group of shallow-water  oil wells  in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  The company was required to start looking for buyers last
year by the lenders funding ATP’s bankruptcy, according to court
documents filed yesterday in federal court in Houston.  Under
the bankruptcy loan terms, the company was required file
proposed auction rules for the so-called shelf properties.  The rules “are designed to encourage all entities to put
their best bids forward and to maximize the value of the shelf
assets,” the company said.  ATP filed for bankruptcy Aug. 17, blaming its insolvency on
the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion in the Gulf of
Mexico and the drilling moratorium that followed. Last month,
equity holders asked a judge to appoint an examiner to
investigate the value of oil producer’s petroleum reserves.  Seven parties have signed confidentiality agreements with
the company in order to get enough information about the shelf
properties to potentially bid.  Of the 18 properties that may be sold, seven are pumping
oil and gas. The company must spend about $34 million to plug
and abandon some of the properties, according to court
documents.  Should U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marvin Isgur approve the
auction rules, initial letters of interest will be due Feb. 5 to
the company’s investment bank, Jefferies & Co. Binding bids will
be due Feb. 19 and should more than one offer come in, an
auction would be held Feb. 26 in Houston.  The company’s 11.875 percent bonds due in 2015 fell almost
4 percent to 8.5 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The case is In re ATP Oil & Gas Corp., 12-36187,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  