-- Accused Aurora Shooter’s Hearing Ends Without Ruling
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/aurora-shooting-prosecution-questions-last-witness-in-hearing.html
James Holmes’s preliminary hearing
for the July shooting rampage in a  Colorado  movie theater that
left 12 dead ended with the judge saying he will rule by
tomorrow on whether to send the case to trial.  Arapahoe County District Judge William Sylvester in state
court in Centennial, Colorado, yesterday said there may be an
arraignment Jan. 11. Holmes is charged with first-degree murder,
which can carry the death penalty, and more than 100 counts of
attempted murder. He hasn’t entered a plea.  The hearing began Jan. 7, with prosecutors presenting
eyewitnesses and experts in weapons and explosives to describe
the July 20 attack and how Holmes allegedly prepared for it.
They also played calls to 911 and showed the judge pictures
Holmes allegedly took of himself before the attack during a
midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises.”  Sylvester set a hearing for tomorrow morning and indicated
he would rule at or before that hearing whether there is enough
evidence to proceed to trial. Sylvester also indicated that if
he sends the case to trial, he would ask Holmes to enter a plea
tomorrow.  At the hearing yesterday, prosecutors continued presenting
evidence to show that Holmes planned the attack beforehand. The
judge was shown photos of Holmes found on his mobile phone.  ‘Didn’t Care’  “He intended to kill,” prosecutor Karen Pearson said in
her closing statement. “He didn’t care who he killed.”  While the defense didn’t call any witnesses, Holmes’s
lawyers again raised the issue of mental illness.  Defense attorney Daniel King said he was limited in
presenting evidence “relevant to Mr. Holmes’ mental illness, or
rather, mental state.”  King said that because the issue at the hearing is whether
there is probable cause to believe a crime was committed, “this
is neither the proper venue, nor the time” to “put on a show
or some truncated defense.”  Four photos found on Holmes’s iPhone appeared to be of the
interior and exterior of the movie theater, Aurora police
sergeant Matthew Fyles testified. They were taken on June 29,
July 5 and July 11, Fyles said.  When the prosecution moved to introduce as evidence a batch
of photos that included Holmes himself, the defense objected.  ‘Extreme Indifference’  “Your honor, they go to identity and deliberation and
extreme indifference,” Pearson said.  The judge allowed the photos. In one, Holmes wore black
 contact lenses  and stuck his tongue out. He also had on a black
skullcap with a lick of hair peeking out on each side of his
head. Fyles said that photo was taken on July 19 at about 6:30
p.m., a few hours before the shooting.  Other photos showed Holmes posing with guns, tactical gear
and improvised explosives like the items that police said they
later found on him, at the theater and at his apartment.  Pearson said all the evidence, including Holmes’s photos of
the theater and blood in police cars from transporting the
injured to the hospital, showed that the defendant deliberated
over the shooting and intended to kill everyone in theater No.
9.  The prosecutor also said that Holmes could have been
charged with attempted murder on everyone in theater No. 8
because some people there were also injured by gunfire. He could
have faced as many as 1,500 counts of attempted murder, she
said.  ‘Enough Ambulances’  “There weren’t ever going to be enough ambulances,”
Pearson told the judge.  Craig Silverman, a former prosecutor who is now a Denver
criminal-defense attorney, said in an interview after watching
some of the preliminary hearing that the judge will move the
case to trial.  “The prosecution is going to win,” he said. “I doubt
that a single charge will be thrown out.”  While the defense can ask for a delay if asked to enter a
plea this week, Silverman said, he expects the eventual plea to
be not guilty by reason of insanity based in part on some of the
issues the defense raised during the preliminary hearing.  “This is not the hardest thing in the world to predict,”
he said.  An insanity plea could be difficult for prosecutors because
in Colorado they have to disprove it beyond a reasonable doubt,
Silverman said.  “It’s tougher in Colorado to deal with an insanity
defense,” he said. “At the same time, jurors generally don’t
like an insanity defense.”  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  