-- Australian Rugby Hires Bill Pulver as CEO to Kick Off Lions Year
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/australian-rugby-union-hires-pulver-as-ceo-to-replace-o-neill.html
The Australian Rugby Union hired Bill Pulver as its chief executive officer, ending its three-month
search to find a replacement for John O’Neill as the nation
prepares to host the British and Irish Lions.  Pulver, who has served as an executive of companies in
 Australia ,  Japan , the U.K. and the U.S. including a six-year
stint as CEO of market research company NetRatings Inc., will
start the job Feb. 1, the ARU said. O’Neill stepped down in
October after filling the role for 14 of the past 17 years.  “I’m 53 years old and I think I’ve finally discovered what
I wanted to do with my life,” Pulver said at a news conference
in Sydney. “I have for the last 20 years been a chief executive
working in a very diverse range of industries and now I feel
incredibly privileged to be able to take those CEO skills and
apply them to the game I love.”  Pulver, whose son Angus played on the Australian Schoolboys
team last year, takes over as the country’s top rugby
administrator as the sport gears up for its biggest exposure
outside of a  World Cup  year with the Lions scheduled to tour in
June and July. The combined team, which is typically accompanied
by tens of thousands of touring fans, last visited Australia in
2001, when the Wallabies won the series 2-1.  Pulver said he plans to collaborate “relentlessly” to
ensure the sport achieves its objectives including Australia
becoming the No. 1-ranked team in the world.  Common Goal  “The game’s an international game,” ARU Chairman Michael
Hawker told reporters. “It’s also a game which is becoming more
complex and there’s a lot of stakeholders involved. He’ll bring
rugby together and it’s critical that we have everyone working
towards a common goal.”  The Wallabies, world champions in 1991 and 1999, are
currently third in the International Rugby Board’s rankings
behind the world champion All Blacks and  South Africa .  “Frankly, I think it’s probably where we deserve to be,”
Pulver said. “ New Zealand  have set the benchmark for
international rugby over the last couple of years. We clearly
aspire to that No. 1 position and there will be a real sense of
urgency about achieving that.”  Robbie Deans , whom O’Neill hired as the Wallabies’ first
non-native coach in 2007, will continue in the role until at
least the end of this year, Pulver said. The New Zealander’s
position has been the subject of speculation in the Australian
media after the team lost four of its 10 Tests in 2012,
including a first home defeat to  Scotland  in 30 years.  “Robbie will be coaching the Wallabies right through 2013
and at that point we’ll then be considering the responsibilities
for the coach through to the World Cup in 2015,” Pulver said.  Currently the CEO of linguistics technology company Appen
Butler Hill, Pulver made national headlines in 2011 when his
then-18-year-old daughter Madeleine was held as a hostage with a
fake collar bomb at the family’s Sydney home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  