-- Australia Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fall on Weak Household Goods
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-09T00:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/australia-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fall-on-weak-household-goods.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
declined for the first time in four months in November as
consumers spent less on household goods and clothing in an
economy with a weaker employment outlook.  Sales dropped 0.1 percent to A$21.5 billion ($22.6 billion)
from a month earlier, when they were unchanged, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast for a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg News
survey of 15 economists, none of whom predicted a decline.  The data underpins  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s decision to make five rate reductions -- totaling 1.75
percentage points from November 2011 to December -- as he seeks
to buttress a slowing economy. The benchmark rate is at 3
percent, matching a half-century low, as policy makers seek to
stimulate industries outside of mining, where investment is
expected to peak this year.  “This is a worry because it suggests that the Reserve
Bank’s rate cuts aren’t yet getting traction with households,”
said  Joshua Williamson , Citigroup Inc.’s senior economist in
Sydney. “It suggests the central bank has some further work to
do despite the fact that the global backdrop has improved.”  Spending on household goods fell 0.9 percent, and consumers
spent 0.6 percent less on clothing and footwear, today’s report
showed, while food retailing was unchanged. They spent 1 percent
more at other retailing outlets, a category that includes news
agents and florists, it showed.  Market Reaction  The local dollar traded at $1.0489 at 11:41 a.m. in Sydney
from $1.0517 before the release. The yield on 10-year Australian
government debt slipped to 3.38 percent from 3.42 percent
yesterday.  A separate government report today showed job vacancies in
the three months to November declined 6.9 percent.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit said in November it will
cut about one in 13 jobs at its main plant in Adelaide,  South
Australia , as the strong local currency and increased car
imports crimp sales.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said in July that it would offer as many as
440 severance payouts at its Australian division, while Toyota
Motor Corp. said in January 2012 it would cut 350 jobs, about 10
percent of the workforce at its main plant.  Metcash Ltd., Australia’s largest grocery wholesaler, in
November cut its full-year earnings forecast amid a price war
with larger supermarket chains.  Grocery Wars  Metcash has been squeezed as competition between
Australia’s two largest supermarket chains,  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and
 Wesfarmers Ltd (WES) .-owned Coles, has driven grocery discounts. A
push to sell milk at A$1 a liter contributed to a 27 percent
profit fall at the dairy and drinks division of Kirin Holdings
Co.’s Lion unit, the company said in August.  “Households are pessimistic about the prospects for the
economy, jobs and  house prices , which is prompting them to shut
their wallets,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney, said before the release. “Lower  interest
rates  have failed to boost  consumer confidence .”  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late in 2011 and a further 125 basis points in May,
June, October and December to help stimulate the economy as a
mining investment boom crests.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
nation’s currency, which has stayed above parity with the U.S.
currency for more than six months, its longest stretch above
that threshold on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  