-- Axmin Delays Mine as War in Central African Republic Resumes
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-09T16:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/axmin-delays-mine-as-war-in-central-african-republic-resumes-1-.html
Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer,
delayed plans to open a mine in the Central African Republic by
at least a year as rebel fighters started a push toward the
capital, Bangui.  Progress in securing financing for the Passendro Gold
project near Bambari, about 280 kilometers (174 miles) northeast
of Bangui, stalled after the insurgents overran the site last
month, said Chief Executive Officer George Roach. The government
and rebels are scheduled to hold peace talks Jan. 10 in Gabon.  “This is a setback of probably at least a year,” Roach
said by phone. “It’s going to take time, knowing the country
and the region, to get proper safety and stability; it’s going
to take time to re-establish investor confidence in the country
and it’s going to take time for banks to be prepared to lend.”  An alliance of insurgent groups, known as Seleka, began an
offensive in the Central African nation last month and on Jan. 7
moved to within 12 kilometers of Demara, the last major town on
the road to Bangui. A multinational force from neighboring Congo
Republic,  France  and Gabon has been deployed in the country,
which is about the size of  Texas . South Africa also sent troops.  Seleka says it began its rebellion after President Francois Bozize, 66, failed to honor the terms of a 2008 peace deal. The
United Nations Security Council in a Jan. 3 statement expressed
concern that the rebels were advancing and said the situation
couldn’t be resolved militarily.  No Protection  Axmin has invested C$95 million ($96 million) in the gold
project, which began development in the late 1990s, Roach said.  “The state is aware of the fact that our camp has been
attacked, that we can’t occupy the camp,” which is a 1,200-
square-kilometer site that has been staffed with as many as 50
workers, Roach said Jan. 7 from  London . “There’s no one who can
give us protection in that area and under those circumstances we
can’t enter the region.”  Axmin had expected the Passendro mine to produce more than
200,000 ounces of gold in its first year, Roach said. In August,
the company reported progress in obtaining $100 million of
project financing arranged by Standard Bank Group Ltd.  Shares in Axmin have dropped 84 percent since February on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. No shares have changed hands today.  Diamond Production  As well as gold, the Central African Republic also mines
rough diamonds and was ranked 12th among the top producers of
the gems in 2010, according to a  U.S. Geological Survey  report.
Axmin was granted a 25-year license to develop Passendro that
year. The nation also has undeveloped deposits of copper,
uranium and iron, the report shows.  Areva SA (AREVA) , a French developer of nuclear reactors, started
removing employees from its Bakouma uranium mine in the Central
African Republic after an attack last year, Patricia Marie, a
company spokeswoman, said yesterday. The Paris-based company
closed the site following declines in uranium prices and now has
only three subcontracted people in Bangui, she said.  At Passendro, just one local worker remained in the camp
with communication equipment and generators as the rebels
approached, Roach said. He wasn’t harmed, according to the CEO.  “I did not anticipate this because frankly, historically
the state militia has been quite good in providing security, but
in this instance were unable to do so,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  