-- Babylon Gains Most in Four Months as CEO Sees Online Ads Rising
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-09T16:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/babylon-gains-most-in-four-months-as-ceo-sees-online-ads-rising.html
  Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  gained the most in four
months after the maker of translation software said it’s set to
release a new product next week and expects to continue to
benefit from a surge in online advertising.  Shares of Babylon, based in Or Yehuda,  Israel , added 9.7
percent to 26.94 shekels, the most since Sept. 9 at the close in
Tel Aviv. The stock has gained 15 percent in the last three
days. The rally comes after the shares fell to 21.12 shekels on
Dec. 24, the lowest level since April, on concern that revenue
from its partnership with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will fall and plans to
list on the Nasdaq Stock Market will be delayed.  “As long as online advertising budgets are growing,
together with growth in downloads of web applications, we expect
Babylon to continue to benefit from this global trend,” Babylon
Chief Executive Officer Alon Carmeli said today in a phone
interview. Babylon plans to release its new free translation
software next week, he added.  Global online advertising may rise 15 percent to exceed
$100 billion in 2013, according to Bloomberg Industries. Mobile
advertising will surge 62 percent surpass $13.5 billion, it
said.  Babylon’s stock has slumped 15 percent since the company
said Nov. 25 it planned to start a roadshow for a potential U.S.
initial public offering in early 2013, later than some investors
anticipated. The company said earlier in that month that it will
seek to raise $115 million in equity.  Carmeli said he could not comment on the company’s IPO
plans. Still, like “other companies awaiting to hold an IPO on
the Nasdaq, we are very happy with the positive solution that
avoided the fiscal cliff in the U.S.”  U.S. lawmakers passed a budget on Jan. 1, averting spending
cuts and tax increases threatening a recovery in the world’s
biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  