-- Beazley Advances as Analysts Favor Insurer’s Stock: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-09T11:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/beazley-advances-as-analysts-favor-insurer-s-stock-london-mover.html
Beazley Plc (BEZ) , a Lloyd’s of London
insurer, rose to a record as it gained for a fifth day in six
after analysts at Westhouse Securities and Canaccord Genuity
recommended that investors buy the stock.  The  shares  advanced 1.1 percent to 187.4 pence at 11 a.m.,
the highest since Beazley began trading in 2002. The Dublin-
based company has surged 32 percent in six months, making it the
best performer among the nine companies in the FTSE 350 Nonlife
Insurance Index, which  returned  13 percent over the period.  “We expect Beazley to continue to deliver strong profits
through 2012-2014,” Joanna Parsons, an analyst at Westhouse,
said in a note to clients. The company is “especially well-
positioned to benefit from the slowly improving U.S. rating
climate.”  Insurers such as Beazley,  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  and  Novae Group
Plc (NVA)  have risen in the last two months as forecast losses from
 Hurricane Sandy  are within their reserves. The disaster will
cost insurers $20 billion to $25 billion, according to Risk
Management Solutions, a catastrophe modelling firm.  Beazley said in December it expects to pay $90 million in
claims related to the hurricane that flooded parts of New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut in October. The firm expects to pay
out 90 cents to 95 cents in claims for every $1 it took in
premiums in 2012.  Hurricane Sandy was the only major natural disaster last
year, helping insurers recover from 2011, when earthquakes in
Japan and  New Zealand , windstorms in the U.S. and flooding in
Thailand cost the industry $105 billion, the most on record for
a single year.  Higher Premiums  Beazley’s premiums will rise an estimated 6 percent this
year, with the main benefit seen in 2014 pretax profit, said
Parsons, who predicted the shares will rise to 220 pence in 12
months as she initiated coverage with a buy  recommendation .
That’s the highest price target among the 10 analysts covering
the stock tracked by Bloomberg. The average target is 195 pence,
implying a potential return of about 4 percent.  Beazley is Westhouse’s top pick among non-life insurers
because of expected returns on equity and a prospective
special dividend this year, Parsons said. She also recommended
that investors add to holdings in  Amlin Plc (AML)  and  Lancashire
Holdings Ltd. (LRE)   Ben Cohen , an analyst at Canaccord, raised his rating on
Beazley yesterday to buy from hold and increased his 12-month
price target to 205 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  