-- Berkshire Venture Buys Hendricks in Buffett Apartment Bet
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-09T16:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/berkshire-venture-buys-hendricks-in-buffett-apartment-bet.html
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, the
real estate venture backed by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , acquired closely held Hendricks & Partners to
expand in apartment sales and research.  Hendricks advises clients on the sale, purchase and
financing of multifamily real estate through more than 30
offices in states including California, Texas and  Florida . The
deal adds to Berkadia’s loan servicing, mortgage origination and
proprietary lending operations, the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company said in a statement today.  Buffett and  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  formed Berkadia in
2009, betting that the U.S. commercial real estate market would
rebound. Apartment vacancies declined to an 11-year low in the
fourth quarter after millions of people forced out of their
houses by foreclosure switched to renting and stricter lending
standards made it harder for potential homebuyers to get loans.  “Berkadia has been able to steadily grow its strength and
presence in the commercial real estate industry,” Buffett, 82,
said in the statement. The deal is “another significant step in
the growth of their multifamily expertise and services.”  Apartment deals probably totaled more than $75 billion in
2012, an increase of as much as 40 percent from the year before,
according to a December report from data provider Real Capital
Analytics Inc. The sector is poised to record more sales than
the office market for the first time in more than a decade, the
New York-based company said.  Vacancy Rates  The national apartment vacancy rate dropped to 4.5 percent
from 4.7 percent in the third quarter and 5.2 percent a year
earlier, Reis Inc., a New York-based real estate research firm
said yesterday. It was the lowest since the third quarter of
2001, when the rate was 3.9 percent.  Construction of multifamily buildings rose for a third
straight quarter as strong demand and rising  rents  encouraged
building, Reis said. A total of 24,614 units were completed in
the fourth quarter, compared with 10,145 units a year earlier.
The average U.S. asking rent rose to $1,097 a month from $1,064
a year earlier, the firm said.  Buffett, the chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire,
has been betting on real estate by buying a portfolio of home
loans, partnering with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. on a
brokerage business, and investing in  Wells Fargo & Co ., the
largest U.S. mortgage lender.  Hendricks CEO Don Hendricks will join Berkadia’s executive
committee and will continue to lead the Phoenix-based unit,
which was renamed Hendricks-Berkadia, according to the
statement, which didn’t disclose terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  