-- Berlusconi Meets Reporter He Ousted as Comeback Demands Exposure
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/berlusconi-meets-reporter-he-ousted-as-comeback-demands-exposure.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , trailing in opinion polls and standing trial on
charges of paying an underage woman for sex, is turning to a
journalist he once fired to help rebuild his image.  Berlusconi, 76, will give a televised interview tonight to
Michele Santoro, who in 2002 was ousted from state broadcaster
 RAI  by the then head of government. Santoro, now appearing on
television station La 7, is a former European politician who has
aired shows critical of Berlusconi.  “Having Berlusconi with Santoro will mean half of the
country will watch,” said Giovanni Orsina, a professor at Luiss
Guido Carli University in Rome, who is writing a book about
Berlusconi’s political appeal. “And they might converge and
show the voters once again that it is left versus right, and
there is no room for the center.”  Berlusconi is seeking to recapture his constituency of
entrepreneurs and conservative Italians after a year in which he
mostly withdrew from public. His absence gave relative newcomers
like Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and entertainer Beppe Grillo
space to gain footholds. With the comeback, Berlusconi is
squeezing the upstarts to retake his place as one half of
 Italy ’s traditional left-right political split.  Santoro’s show was cancelled a decade ago after Berlusconi
accused him and two other presenters of making criminal use of
state television. He did not broadcast again for four years and
was elected with a center-left party to the European Parliament.
In the 1990s, Santoro worked for Berlusconi at the billionaire’s
Milan-based  Mediaset SpA. (MS)   Third Interview  The interview will be at least the third on television for
the three-time premier this week and the crescendo of a
publicity blitz begun one month ago. The most successful Italian
politician of the last two decades, Berlusconi has portrayed
himself as an unwilling candidate needed to save Italy from
left-leaning politicians he calls communists.  “We are condemned to win, and that’s why I’m here,”
Berlusconi told Lilli Gruber Jan. 8 on La 7’s Otto e Mezzo
program.  Berlusconi’s popularity has held up even as his criminal
trials proceed. The ex-premier was convicted of  tax fraud  in
October and sentenced to four years in prison. The prostitution
trial includes an abuse-of-power charge tied to a phone call
Berlusconi is accused of having made as premier to police on
behalf of a jailed night-club dancer. He has denied the charges
and remains free as he appeals the tax conviction.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party has gained in opinion
polls since the billionaire’s media onslaught began. He has had
friendly interviewers, like Paolo del Debbio, a reporter at one
of his Mediaset channels, who didn’t ask a follow-up question
when Berlusconi said he was disgusted by corrupt politicians.
More contentious was his appearance with Gruber.  Berlusconi’s divorce judges are “feminists and
communists,” the ex-premier said in response to Gruber’s
question about his 200,000-euro-a-day ($260,000) alimony order.
Berlusconi accused Gruber of attacking him and said he relished
a fight.  “Know where I’m going on Thursday?” Berlusconi said.
“I’m actually going to Santoro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  