-- Bill Ackman’s Short Sale Puts Herbalife in Cross Hairs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-09T23:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/bill-ackman-s-short-sale-puts-herbalife-in-cross-hairs.html
As Wall Street theater goes, hedge-
fund manager  Bill Ackman ’s broadside last month aimed at
 Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  was about as entertaining as it gets.  Herbalife, a seller of fitness and weight-loss supplements,
is a pyramid scheme, Ackman claimed in a three-hour PowerPoint
presentation. The bulk of its revenue, he said, comes from
customers who pay to join the Herbalife marketing network along
with the supplies they are obligated to buy. When the company
runs out of people willing to become distributors, he argued, it
will fail.  Herbalife is staging its own show Jan. 10, telling
investors that Ackman doesn’t know what he’s talking about. Other
investors are  betting  against Ackman.  The real issue is why there’s a debate in the first place.
For that, we can thank the Federal Trade Commission, which for
three decades has punted on regulating businesses known as
multilevel marketers.  Companies such as Herbalife, Amway Corp., Nu Skin
Enterprise Inc. and hundreds of others don’t necessarily deserve
to be lumped together with the likes of  Bernard Madoff . Madoff’s
operation was a  Ponzi scheme , plain and simple: Early investors
were paid outsized returns from the money of later investors.
When the pipeline of new customers dried up, the edifice
collapsed. Madoff is spending the rest of his life in prison.  Multilevel Income  Multilevel marketers start with a product, whether beauty
aids, home decorations or, in the case of Herbalife, vitamins
and dietary aids. Distributors make money both by selling
products to consumers and by receiving commissions based on
sales by the other distributors they recruit -- often friends
and family.  These commissions are the main reason so many multilevel
marketers tout themselves as “unlimited  business opportunities ,”
or words to that effect. The more distributors there are in a
network, the more money those higher up the chain can make in
the form of commissions.  Those at the very top -- usually the founders -- can make
millions. Most of those further down don’t fare so well. The
industry doesn’t supply loss estimates, but  Jon Taylor , a
consumer advocate, says he has studied roughly 500 multilevel
marketers and estimates that 99 percent of participants lose
money.  So what distinguishes a legitimate company from a pyramid
scheme? In a 1979 administrative  ruling  that has guided much of
the FTC’s subsequent enforcement and regulatory actions, the
agency said only companies that pay for recruiting new
distributors are illegal scams. To avoid getting tagged as an
outlaw, the FTC said, a company also must prove that the
majority of its sales consists of products sold to consumers
outside the network and that each distributor makes 10
verifiable sales a month to such consumers.  One hitch: Companies often don’t bother with the required
documentation, and the FTC doesn’t do the needed checking.  The agency seems to lack the will even to try. Figuring out
if a company is a pyramid “entails a complex economic analysis,”
according to a 2010 FTC  staff report . “There is no bright line
disclosure that would help consumers identify a fraudulent
pyramid scheme from a legitimate business opportunity.”  After thus throwing up its hands, the agency exempted the
industry from disclosures that might help consumers better
discern the line between legitimate and shady operators.  That was a serious mistake. The agency should require
multilevel marketers to say how long the average distributor
stays in a network, how much distributors earn on average after
expenses, and the status of any lawsuits that distributors file
against the company.  Ackman’s Bet  As for Ackman, he said the stock will fall to zero and has
sold Herbalife’s  shares short , a way to profit should the stock
decline. His bet seems to be based on the assumption that the
32-year-old company will soon either be shut by the FTC or will
run out of potential new distributors.  A quick check of Herbalife’s  financial statements , however,
shows that as of last year it operated in 79 countries. Its
biggest markets now are  China  and other Asia-Pacific countries.
No shortage of opportunities for growth there.  As for the FTC, its job should be to ensure that consumers
have access to the information they need to make smart
decisions. That may not aid Ackman’s cause or Herbalife’s. But
at least it might help those who join a multilevel marketer to
understand why the promised riches always seem just out of
reach.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  