-- Boeing Defective Part Caused F-15 Breakup, Pentagon Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-09T19:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/boeing-defective-part-caused-f-15-breakup-pentagon-finds.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  agreed to provide $1
million in replacement parts for its F-15 fighters in a
confidential settlement over a jet that broke apart in midair in
2007, according to the Pentagon’s inspector general.  A joint investigation for the inspector general and the Air
Force found that Boeing provided “defective” or
“nonconforming” parts.  The agreement reached almost five years after the accident
was disclosed in a passage in the inspector general’s semi-
annual  report  to Congress last month. The Air Force Office of
Special Investigations and Pentagon Defense Criminal
Investigative Service conducted the probe.  “Nonconforming products not only disrupt readiness and
waste economic resources but also threaten the safety of
military and government personnel,” the inspector general
report said in a section on “Product Substitution” that
summarized the Boeing case.  The pilot in the Nov. 2, 2007, accident, a member of the
Missouri Air National Guard, dislocated a shoulder and injured
an arm while ejecting after the front section of the jet snapped
from the rest of the fuselage.  The joint investigation “disclosed that the Boeing Co.
provided defective or nonconforming parts to the  Air Force  for
the F-15,” according to the report to Congress.  Settlement Criticized  The $1 million settlement “doesn’t go nearly far enough
towards holding Boeing accountable for the defective parts,”
Ben Freeman, a defense investigator for the Project on
Government Oversight, an independent watchdog group in
Washington, said in a statement. “One million dollars is just a
fraction of the cost of the F-15 that crashed.”  A longeron -- a thin strip of material to which the
aircraft’s skin is fastened -- failed, causing the “in-flight
break-up” during a basic flight-training mission, according to
the report.  “The agreement that Boeing and the Air Force reached on
this longeron issue is covered by confidentiality provisions
that prevent us from commenting, beyond saying that it doesn’t
include an admission of liability by Boeing,” Patricia Frost, a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based Boeing, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Citing the confidentiality agreement, Frost declined to say
whether the replacement parts have been delivered. Each F-15 has
two upper and two lower longerons, support structures that run
along the length and side of the aircraft.  Air Force spokesman Charles Gulick didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Flights Resumed  All 441 of the F-15 fighter interceptors were grounded
after the jet breakup, and 182 were found to have major
structural components that didn’t meet original manufacturing
specifications, service officials told reporters in a January
2008 press conference.  Most of the F-15s grounded were cleared to return to flight
by February 2008 after undergoing additional inspections as the
investigation was begun.  “The cause of the accident was determined to be failure of
the upper-right longeron,” according to the inspector general’s
summary of the investigation.  The contract specification required the longeron to be 0.10
inches (0.25 centimeters) thick, according to the report.  “The investigation revealed that the Boeing-supplied
longerons varied in thickness from 0.039 to 0.073,” the
inspector general said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  