-- Boeing, GE Update House Donations After Backing Losers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/boeing-ge-update-house-donations-after-backing-losers.html
The political action committee of
 Boeing Co. (BA)  last year donated $3,000 to then-Representative Larry Kissell’s bid for re-election. Thirteen days after the North
Carolina Democrat lost, the PAC cut a $1,000 check to Richard Hudson, the Republican who ousted him.  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s PAC made five separate $1,000
donations to Republican Chip Cravaack during the Minnesotan’s
first term in Congress. Two weeks after Cravaack lost, GE’s PAC
gave $1,000 to Rick Nolan, the Democrat who defeated him.  Corporate PACs that bet wrong on the congressional
elections wasted no time placing their money on the winners. At
least eight corporate PACs that contributed to the losing
candidate gave to the victor in the month following the 2012
elections, Federal Election Commission records show.  “Corporations tend to be very pragmatic in their political
giving,” said Viveca Novak, editorial and communications
director at the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group that tracks campaign donations. “They were
giving to somebody who was in power and now they’re again giving
to the new occupant of that seat. They’re not going to be helped
by the loser.”  Former Senator  Russ Feingold , a Wisconsin Democrat who co-
authored the 2002 campaign-finance law that stopped corporations
and unions from using their treasuries to aid political parties,
said companies don’t care who prevails in elections as long as
they’re with the winners when votes are being cast in the House
and Senate.  “There’s a misconception that corporate money cares which
party wins elections,” Feingold said. “The truth is, corporate
money’s only loyalty is to its own benefit.”  High Impact  Such contributions have an even greater impact at a time
when others have closed their checkbooks for a while, said  Bill Allison , editorial director of the Sunlight Foundation, a
Washington-based watchdog group.  “If you want to get noticed, now is the time when
everybody has donor fatigue and there’s not another election for
two years,” Allison said. “Being the first to have your foot
in the door is one way to stand out.”  Chicago-based Boeing received $22.1 billion in federal
contracts during the 12 months ending Sept. 30, 2011, second
only to Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  at $42.9
billion, according to BGOV200 Rankings, which lists companies
based on the value of their federal contracts.  Beyond donating to incumbent re-election coffers, Boeing
spent $12 million through Sept. 30 to lobby on federal spending
bills, the automatic spending cuts known as sequestration,
relations with foreign countries, and other issues.  Texas Race  In addition to Hudson, Boeing’s PAC opened its checkbook
for Texas Democrat Pete Gallego, giving him $2,000 on Nov. 19
after he defeated freshman Republican Quico Canseco. Canseco had
received two $1,000 checks during the campaign.  Hudson also received $5,000 from the  American Crystal Sugar
Co. (ASCS)  PAC on Nov. 27. Moorhead, Minnesota-based American Crystal’s
PAC had given two $5,000 checks to Kissell earlier in 2012, the
maximum donation to his campaign.  “When your goal is to have access and influence with
elected officials, you have to give to the folks who are in the
position to help you out,” said Lisa Gilbert, director of
Public Citizen’s Congress Watch, a Washington-based advocacy
group that supports stronger campaign-finance laws.  Boeing’s Marcellus Rolle said the company PAC “supports
legislators who share our views on issues of importance to the
company.”  Lobbying Presence  As does Boeing, General Electric augments its donations
with a strong lobbying presence in  Washington . Through Sept. 30,
the company spent $15.6 million on lobbying, more than any other
corporation, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
The 23rd biggest federal contractor, receiving $2.8 billion, GE
weighed in on issues such as defense spending and rules
governing patents, renewable energy and pollution.  Spokesman Seth Martin said Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE’s political contributions are determined by a PAC board.  Other companies also placed their bets on the winner after
the race had been run.  Transportation giant  CSX Corp. (CSX) , a Jacksonville, Florida-
based company, gave $1,000 to Democrat Kathy Hochul of  New York 
during the campaign, and then contributed $1,000 nine days after
the election to the Republican who defeated her,  Chris Collins .  “I presume it is normal practice,” said Hochul.  Gary Sease of CSX said its PAC backs “candidates who share
our views of the important economic and environmental role of
railroads.”  Exxon Donations  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s PAC, which gave $6,000 to Democratic
incumbent Mark Critz during the campaign, contributed $5,000
last month to victorious Republican Keith Rothfus in
 Pennsylvania . Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil, the largest U.S.
oil company, spent $9.9 million to lobby during the first nine
months of 2012 on issues such as taxes and the Keystone
pipeline. Exxon Mobil is the 176th largest federal contractor,
receiving $335 million.  “Exxon Mobil’s political action committee provides
financial assistance to qualified candidates who support the
common interest of Exxon Mobil employees and retirees as well as
the corporation,” said  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman.  Verizon Giving  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s PAC also followed the
pattern, giving $2,000 to Rothfus after first giving $1,000 to
Critz, federal records show. The PAC contributed $7,000 to
Hochul before her loss, and $5,000 to Collins after his win.
Likewise, Verizon’s PAC donated $2,000 to victorious Democrat
John Delaney of  Maryland  on Nov. 16, the same amount it gave
Republican incumbent Roscoe Bartlett during the campaign.  The 72nd largest U.S. contractor, Verizon received $967
million during the 12 months ending Sept. 30. The second-largest
U.S. telephone company has spent $11.7 million through Sept. 30
to lobby on issues such as cybersecurity, privacy and health
effects of wireless phones. A Verizon spokesman, Ed McFadden,
declined to comment.  The Republican nominee for  U.S. Senate  from  North Dakota ,
then-Representative Rick Berg, received $6,000 from  Southern
Co. (SO) ’s PAC and $1,000 from the PAC of Delta Air Lines, both based
in Atlanta, as well as $9,000 from Verizon’s PAC. Berg lost to
former Democratic Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp. Within a
month after the election, Heitkamp got $5,000 from Southern’s
PAC, $1,000 from Delta’s and $2,500 from Verizon’s.  Southern Co. spent $10.5 million to lobby during the first
nine months of 2012, more than any other utility company, on
topics including nuclear power legislation, tariffs and
derivatives trading. Delta spent $2.1 million on issues such as
airline customer service,  aviation security  and a European Union
proposal to tax airplane emissions of foreign carriers.  Steve Higginbottom of Southern Co. had no immediate
comment. A Delta spokesman, Trebor Banstetter, had no comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 