-- Bonds Wall Street Said Don’t Buy in ’12 Reaped 15%: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-09T01:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/bonds-wall-street-said-don-t-buy-in-12-reaped-15-muni-credit.html
Debt of a  Florida  hospital rated
three steps above junk bucked looming Medicare cuts to earn 15
percent tax-free in 2012, about seven times the gain on
Treasuries and double the broader municipal market.  Twelve months ago, this was the type of security that
investors such as Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs
the world’s largest bond fund, and UBS AG said to avoid in favor
of higher-rated health-care credits. Hospital bonds ranked BBB,
the second-lowest investment grade, are coming off their best
annual performance in three years, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  Obligations of BBB health-care providers wound up earning
13.9 percent in 2012, after the U.S. Supreme Court in June
upheld President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul. The law
mandates that Americans obtain health insurance and also
includes cuts to Medicare reimbursements.  “A lot of people just saw headline risk and moved away,”
Daniel Solender, who helps manage $17 billion of munis at Lord
Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said about hospital
bonds. “A lot of hospitals are well positioned and well managed
and they’re there for the long term.”  Risk Year  Martin Memorial Medical Center serves the Port St. Lucie
area on Florida’s east coast, about 112 miles (180 kilometers)
north of Miami. It’s rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
three levels above speculative grade.  The hospital’s bonds benefitted last year from investors
taking more risk in return for higher yields as municipal
 interest rates  sank, said Solender, who holds Martin Memorial
debt. Yields on 20-year general obligations set a 47-year low of
3.27 percent Dec. 6, according to a Bond Buyer  index .  Martin Memorial bonds issued in January 2012 and due in
November 2042 earned 15 percent last year, based on BVAL prices
and assuming no reinvestment yield. The obligations were among
BBB credits highlighted for their 2012 gains in a November
report by JPMorgan Securities LLC.  Treasuries gained 2.2 percent last year and the $3.7
trillion muni market earned 7.3 percent, Bank of America data
show.  Spread Narrows  The extra yield investors demand to hold BBB munis compared
with top-rated securities shrank to as little as  1.66 percentage
points  last year, the least since 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The high-yield muni market is so thin,” said Phil Condon, who helps oversee about $26 billion, including Martin
Memorial bonds, as head of munis for Boston-based DWS
Investments. “When demand picks up, investors start looking
around and there’s not much to choose from, so they tend to bid
up the price of these deals.”  Yet not all investors participated in buying lower-rated
health-care debt because the segment faces potential federal
reimbursement changes. Moody’s Investors Service has had a
negative outlook on health-care since November 2008, according
to Lisa Goldstein, an analyst at the company.  “Reimbursement will remain under pressure from all
sources, and revenue growth will remain low by historical
standards,” Moody’s analysts wrote in an August report.  Pimco Preference  Before the start of 2012, Pimco upgraded its hospital-bond
holdings by buying debt rated at least A1, which is fifth-
highest, and selling lower-rated credits,  Joe Deane , head of
munis for the asset manager in New York, said in February. The
company manages $66 billion of munis. He didn’t immediately
respond to a call and e-mail yesterday.  UBS Global Asset Management Inc. by February had limited
holdings of hospital bonds to 4 percent, Ebby Gerry, the
company’s head of munis in New York, said at the time.  Gerry said yesterday that UBS Global still holds about the
same amount, and prefers health-care debt graded A and AA. He
oversees $15 billion of munis. Hospital debt rated AA earned 9.8
percent last year, also beating the broader market, Bank of
America data show.  U.S. analysts at UBS AG, the biggest Swiss bank, also opted
for fiscally stronger and larger health-care systems in research
a year ago.  “We advise extra caution when making direct investments in
hospital bonds, favoring highly rated issuers and large
multistate systems over single-site facilities,” UBS analysts
led by Thomas McLoughlin said in a January 2012 report.  The bank repeated the view in October research, and in a
November report said it was “cautious on the outlook for
smaller single-site hospitals.”  Expansion Plan  Martin Memorial has a combined 344 beds at two hospitals
and is building another 90-bed facility, according to its
website. It has a 73 percent share of its primary service area,
according to a Moody’s report.  Yet Medicare accounted for 60 percent of gross patient
revenue in 2012, one of the highest among credits Moody’s rates.  “This is one that is on the low end of the investment-
grade sector, so there’s a lot of uncertainty, but they have a
strong market share,” Solender said.  In trading yesterday, benchmark 10-year munis yielded 1.81
percent, the lowest since Dec. 31, Bloomberg Valuation  data 
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  