-- Bovespa Stock Index Advances as Cesp Leads Power Utility Rebound
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-09T20:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/bovespa-index-futures-rise-as-inflation-slows-more-than-forecast.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index snapped a
three-day losing streak as  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo  led a
rally among utilities on speculation that investors overreacted
to reports that Brazil is considering energy rationing.  Cesp, as the company is known, led gains on the index.
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  rebounded after dropping the
most in six weeks yesterday on concern low water levels at
reservoirs feeding hydropower dams may prompt the government to
ration electricity. Retailer Lojas Americanas SA led gains by
companies that sell in the local market after a report showed
that inflation slowed more than economists forecast.  The Bovespa advanced 0.7 percent to 61,578.58 at the close
of trading in  Sao Paulo . Fifty stocks rose on the measure while
19 fell. The real was little changed at 2.0408 per dollar. Swap
rates on the contract expiring in January 2014 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.14 percent.  “The chances of electricity rationing exist but are low,
and investors may have overreacted a little yesterday,” Gustavo Mendonca, an economist at Oren Investimentos, said by phone from
 Rio de Janeiro . “The market will be watching this issue very
closely. The supply of energy is linked to the amount of rain we
see near the reservoirs, so things can change very quickly
depending on the weather.”  Folha de S.Paulo reported on Jan. 7 that President  Dilma Rousseff  called an emergency meeting to discuss the level of
water reservoirs, and O Estado de S.Paulo said yesterday that
the government is considering the risk of energy rationing.  Reservoir Levels  Reservoirs in northeastern Brazil on average were 32
percent full last month, less than the 34 percent minimum the
government considers safe for the region’s dams, according to
data on the national power grid operator’s  website . Government
officials convene today in Brasilia to discuss the outlook for
 energy supply .  Cesp rose 6.7 percent to 18.90 reais. Eletrobras, as
Centrais Eletricas is also known, gained 4.3 percent to 10.11
reais after plunging 9.4 percent yesterday.  To offset the low reservoir levels, power distributors are
spending an extra 800 million reais a month to purchase
electricity from natural-gas fired plants, which amounts to half
their earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, said Nelson Leite, president of the power
distributors association Abradee.  Brazil  may grant loans to help
utilities weather the rising costs through the BNDES development
bank, he said.  “The risk of a debt default or investment interruption is
real,” Leite said in a telephone interview from Brasilia today.
“The government has signaled to us that they will probably
create credit lines from the BNDES to meet our cash flow
needs.”  IGP-M Report  Lojas Americanas jumped 4.4 percent to 18.33 reais. Online
retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  rose 3.1 percent to 15.50
reais.  The IGP-M index of wholesale, construction and consumer
prices rose 0.41 percent in the 10-day period ending Dec. 31
after climbing 0.69 percent in the previous reading, according
to a report from the Getulio Vargas Foundation today. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had expected an increase of 0.50 percent.  Oil company  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  gained 1.2
percent to 5.12 reais after saying in a regulatory filing that
tests showed gas potential in a well in Amazon’s Solimoes Basin.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its gain to 17
percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index  trades  at 11.3 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters, which
compares with a ratio of 10.9 for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.08 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.25 billion reais in 2012,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  