-- Box Demand as Economic Gauge Shows U.S. Output Gains: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/box-demand-as-economic-gauge-shows-u-s-output-gains-ecopulse.html
Makers of corrugated boxes will
probably see a pick-up in demand for their products as recent
gains in manufacturing indicate the U.S. expansion will be
sustained in 2013.  Investors can look to companies such as  International Paper (IP) 
Co. and Rock Tenn Co. for a gauge on “economic momentum” when
they report quarterly earnings later this month and next,
according to  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management, which oversees about $47 billion. “These 
industry statistics help to provide really valuable color" to
supplement broader economic indicators, he said.  The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index
rose to 50.7 in December from a three-year low of 49.5 the prior
month, based on figures from the Tempe, Arizona-based group. The
index has been above 50 for three of the past four months.
Readings below 50 signal a contraction.  This index has a “good relationship” with information on
industry box shipments from the Fibre Box Association in Elk
Grove Village,  Illinois , said Steve Chercover, senior vice
president and senior research analyst in Lake Oswego,  Oregon , at
D.A. Davidson & Co. That’s because the ISM’s “broad” survey is
a leading indicator of items that end up in such containers --
including consumer nondurables such as food and paper products.  Rising Index  The strengthening ISM index may signal a reversal in
slumping demand for corrugated containers.  Box shipments fell 1.2 percent on an average-week basis in
November from a year earlier, following a 2.1 percent decline
the prior month, based on data from the association. December
numbers will be released later this month.  Norcross, Georgia-based  Rock Tenn (RKT)  and  Packaging Corp. of
America  plan to announce earnings Jan. 22, followed by
International Paper, in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , on Jan. 29. The
consensus estimate for Lake Forest, Illinois-based Packaging
Corp. is about  62 cents a share  on an adjusted basis, up 54
percent from a year ago.  Fibre Box figures have been “hovering around zero” in its
past six reports, while the ISM index has averaged 50.5 -- a
reflection of the “sluggish” economy, Chercover said. Still,
he’s optimistic that shipments will “pick back up.”  Manufacturing Barometers  These “barometers of manufacturing activity” began to
weaken in June as concern increased about the so-called fiscal
cliff: tax increases and federal spending cuts due to take
effect early this year, said  Malcolm Polley , who manages $1.1
billion as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital Advisors
LLC in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . As investors look for more clarity
about the strength of the U.S. recovery, “data from companies
on the ground help to build a mosaic.”  While the most recent ISM survey was encouraging, investors
also should pay close attention to comments from executives,
“which have often been prescient, or at least very indicative
of what’s going on,” Chercover said.  Along with “seasonally softer demand” in International
Paper’s corrugated-box business, the company saw “overall slow
growth in North America and a lot of the markets we compete in
around the world,” John Faraci, chairman and chief executive
officer, said on an Oct. 25 conference call. As a result, “our
packaging businesses were a little slower.”  Beneficiaries, Victims  “These companies have their fingers on the pulse of
manufacturing in the U.S. and abroad” because, as the primary
producers of new boxes worldwide, they’re “beneficiaries or
victims of an economic recovery or contraction,” said
Chercover, who maintains “buy” recommendations on
International Paper and Rock Tenn. “They don’t tell you what
you want to hear, they tell you what they’re seeing.”  The compromise budget Congress passed and President  Barack Obama  signed into law last week may not be enough to engender
confidence, Polley said. The deal, which averted income-tax
increases on most Americans and delayed automatic spending cuts
until March 1, “kicked the expenses down the road,” making it
“difficult for businesses to make plans when they don’t know
what the rules will be.”  In addition, “broader indicators of factory output, such
as the diffusion indexes of new orders from the national and
regional manufacturing surveys, continued to be subdued at
levels consistent with only small gains in production in the
near term,” according to the minutes for the December meeting
of the Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee released Jan. 3.  Increased Demand  Still, there’s potential for “increased industry
corrugated-products demand” from general population growth,
Internet shopping and a resurgence in U.S. manufacturing,
according to a presentation that Packaging Corp. executives made
at a Nov. 28 conference hosted by Citigroup Inc.  Rock Tenn implemented a $50 per ton increase in domestic
containerboard during the three months ended Sept. 30 and plans
to follow with higher box rates, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Jim Rubright said in a Nov. 1 statement. Packaging Corp.
and  KapStone Paper and Packaging Corp . also added $50 a ton to
containerboard prices last year.  These companies appeal to investors because “it’s
difficult to find a substitute,” so their ability to raise
prices “very well could continue,” Gayle said.  As a “first-line monitoring element,” their results also
help to shape sentiment about the recovery, he added. “In an
economy that’s growing at a sub-par pace, you have to go
granular to get the whole story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  