-- California Cities Sue Banks Over Libor Rates, Law Firm Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-09T22:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/california-cities-sue-banks-over-libor-rates-law-firm-says-1-.html
Eight  California  counties and public
entities sued  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and 20 other banks alleging
they lost millions of dollars because the financial institutions
manipulated the benchmark Libor rate.  The plaintiffs claim they were cheated out of higher
interest payments on investments such as  interest-rate swaps  and
corporate bonds tied to Libor.  Complaints were filed today in federal court in Los
Angeles,  San Francisco  and San Diego on behalf of the counties
of San Diego and San Mateo, the city of Riverside and five other
entities against 20 current and former banks that set Libor
rates, law firm Cotchett Pitre & McCarthy LLP said in an e-
mailed statement.  Banks already face 30 lawsuits by U.S. homeowners and other
plaintiffs seeking to hold them responsible for alleged
manipulation of the rate used as a borrowing-cost benchmark. A
class-action lawsuit filed in Manhattan in October by homeowners
alleges a conspiracy among financial institutions drove up the
cost of  mortgage loans .  The lawsuits filed today allege violations of antitrust
laws, negligence and unjust enrichment and seek to recover
losses and triple damages.  Different Currencies  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is based on a
British Bankers’ Association-commissioned daily survey that asks
lenders to estimate how much it would cost to borrow money from
each other for various periods in 10 different currencies. The
figures are used to set  interest rates  for more than $300
trillion of securities and loans worldwide, including interest
rate swaps, which counties such as San Mateo use to hedge
interest rate payments to investors on variable-rate municipal
bonds.  Banks altered their estimates to the survey to artificially
suppress Libor, increasing their own profits and creating the
illusion of financial strength by underreporting the interest
rates that they were being charged to borrow money, lawyers for
San Mateo county said in a complaint filed today in federal
court in San Francisco.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, agreed to pay $1.5 billion
last month to U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for trying to rig
the rates. Barclays was fined $450 million in June by U.S. and
U.K. regulators for submitting false answers to the daily
canvass. Regulators investigating Libor manipulation have sought
information from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the
U.S., Europe and  Japan .  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman, had no immediate comment
via e-mail. Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to
comment in an e-mail.  The case is San Mateo County v. Bank of America, 13-108,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  