-- Cameron’s Audit of Achievements Fails to Mention Deficit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-09T16:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/cameron-s-audit-of-achievements-fails-to-mention-deficit.html
An  audit of the U.K. government’s
performance  produced by  David Cameron ’s ministers and civil
servants doesn’t mention that it’s on course to miss the
deficit-reduction targets it set itself in 2010.  The 122-page document notes that the premier’s coalition of
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats was committed to setting
such goals in its first budget after taking power in May 2010,
calling deficit reduction a matter of “urgency.”  While the aim Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
set himself at the time was to be reducing debt by 2015, the
Treasury said last month it will take until 2018 to eradicate
the structural deficit. Today’s document, published by Cameron’s
office in London, is even less clear-cut.  “In the past two years it has fallen by a quarter,” the
audit assessment of the deficit said. “It is currently forecast
to continue to fall further in every year of this Parliament,”
which runs until 2015.  “The primary reason given for the coalition government in
2010 was to reduce the deficit,”  Steven Fielding , professor of
politics at Nottingham University, said in a telephone
interview. “It says everything you need to know about this
exercise that they don’t mention they’re behind target. This
document is the sort of thing companies leave in their foyers
that no one reads.”  Cameron told lawmakers in Parliament in London today before
the document was released that it would deliver a “full, frank
and completely unvarnished” assessment of how the coalition has
performed, adding it was “a record to be proud of.”  ‘Broken Promises’  The opposition  Labour Party  released its own “audit of
broken promises,” identifying 40 areas in which the government
had not met pledges.  On deficit reduction, Labour said Cameron failed “to
balance the books” as promised in a speech to the Confederation
of British Industry in 2010.  The joint Tory-Liberal Democrat document, entitled
“Program for Government Update,” was produced as an annex to
the coalition’s Mid-Term Review, marked by a joint news
conference between Cameron and Clegg two days ago.  The audit published today first came to public attention
when photographers outside Cameron’s office spotted an aide
carrying it yesterday.  “The aim of the document is to go through one by one each
of the commitments that were in the program for government and
that’s what it has done,” Cameron’s spokesman Jean-Christophe Gray told reporters in  London . “A reading of the document
allows you to get an update on each of the commitments in the
coalition agreement. We have either achieved or are making
progress on the vast majority of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  