-- Canada Dollar Close to 3-Week High Versus Euro Before ECB
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-09T22:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/canadian-dollar-falls-second-day-before-housing-report.html
The Canadian dollar traded at almost
a three-week high against the euro on speculation the European
Central Bank will show a bias toward lower interest rates at a
meeting of policy makers tomorrow.  ECB President Mario Draghi is projected to maintain the
bank’s rate target at 0.75 percent, where it’s been since July
2012, according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of
55 economists, while the Bank of Canada has a bias toward
raising its target rate. Canada’s dollar was little changed
against its U.S. counterpart after a report showed the nation’s
 housing market  slowed in December, signaling the country may
avoid a housing bubble.  “Most likely what we’ll see tomorrow is that rates are on
hold, but the attention turns towards President Draghi’s press
conference where he’s likely to sound particularly dovish,
particularly as we have unemployment at new record highs in
 Europe  and inflation that’s still fairly contained,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia
by phone from Toronto. “So I expect we hear a fairly dovish ECB
president and that does weigh on the euro overall.”  The Canadian dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to C$1.2903 per
euro at 5:10 p.m. in Toronto, close to its highest level since
Dec. 13. The loonie fell 0.1 percent to 98.76 cents per U.S.
dollar. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0126.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.1 percent to
$93.25 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent.  Bond Trades  The country’s long-term bonds were little changed with
yields on the  benchmark 10-year  note at 1.91 percent. The 2.75
percent security due in June 2022 fell four cents to C$107.19.  The Bank of Canada auctioned C$3.4 billion ($3.5 billion)
of five-year notes at an average yield of 1.494 percent. The
1.25 percent notes due in March 2018 drew bids totaling $9.09
billion.  The bank will release details tomorrow about an auction of
two-year notes on Jan. 16.  The loonie erased earlier losses against the U.S. dollar
after data showed construction starts were 198,000 at a
seasonally adjusted annual pace last month, down from a revised
201,400 in November, according to Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp. The Bank of Canada has called drops in house
prices caused by oversupply a threat to the economy, prompting
the government to tighten mortgage rules in June.  Economic Conditions  “In terms of the long-term fundamentals for the Canadian
dollar, it’s good for the Canadian economy,” David Doyle, a
strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets, said by phone from
Toronto. “It’s better if our housing market slows and new
construction slows. It means the Bank of  Canada  won’t be forced
to tighten policy too aggressively, which is positive for the
overall economy.”  The Bank of Canada has warned it would increase interest
rates as the economy returned to full capacity in every policy
statement since April, and governor Mark Carney cited the rising
consumer debt load for things like mortgages, which a hit a
record in the third quarter, as another sign rates were too low.  Trading in overnight index swaps show a 31.5 percent chance
of the Bank of Canada raising interest rates at its September
meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central
bank has kept the benchmark rate at 1 percent since September
2010, the longest pause since the 1950s.  Technical Levels  The currency has strengthened since the U.S. passed a
budget deal last week to avoid automatic austerity measures and
trades above its 50-, 100- and 200-day moving averages. The U.S.
still faces a political battle over increasing its debt limit to
avoid default, which Republican members of the House of
Representatives have promised to block unless there are
sufficient spending cuts.  “It has the potential to be more catastrophic than the
actual fiscal cliff in itself, just because it would really hurt
confidence,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities by phone from Toronto.
“With another hurdle that needs to be dealt with in the next
month, month and a half, the prospect of any moves in the
Canadian dollar is quite low.”  Canada’s currency has gained 1 percent this month versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  