-- Cemig, Light, Santher, Santo Antonio, Tegma: Brazil Bond Alert
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-01-09T11:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/cemig-light-santher-santo-antonio-tegma-brazil-bond-alert.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais (CMIG4) ,
Light SA, Santher-Fabrica de Papel Santa Therezinha SA, Santo
Antonio Energia SA and Tegma Gestao Logistica SA are among
issuers that plan to sell bonds in  Brazil ’s debt markets.  CIA. ENERGETICA DE MINAS GERAIS: The power generator also
known as Cemig plans to issue 1.6 billion reais ($784 million)
of local bonds in three tranches, maturing in 2018, 2021 and
2025, according to a Jan. 7 regulatory filing. Chief Financial
Officer Luiz Fernando Rolla said in October that Cemig might
issue as much as 2 billion reais of local bonds tied to
infrastructure. (Updated Jan. 9)  BROOKFIELD INCORPORACOES SA: The real estate developer may
sell as much as 300 million reais of local bonds in two
tranches, according to a Jan. 7 company filing. (Added Jan. 8)  FLEURY SA: The provider of medical testing services plans
to sell 500 million reais of local bonds with a seven-year
maturity. The bonds may pay as much as 1 percentage point above
the overnight rate, according to a Jan. 7 filing. (Added Jan. 8)  IGUATEMI EMPRESA DE SHOPPING CENTERS SA: The mall operator
plans to sell 400 million reais of debentures, according to a
regulatory filing. The sale will be split between seven-year
bonds that may pay 100 basis points more than the overnight rate
and eight-year debt adjusted for inflation that may pay 100
basis points. Bradesco BBI is arranging the sale. (Updated Jan.
8)  VIGOR ALIMENTOS SA (VIGR3) : The food producer is considering
selling local bonds to refinance short-term debt, Mauricio
Hasson, the company’s chief financial officer, told reporters in
Sao Paulo. (Updated Dec. 20)  SANTHER-FABRICA DE PAPEL SANTA THEREZINHA SA: The paper-
products manufacturer plans to sell 125 million reais of local
bonds due in 2016, reducing the size for a second time,
according to a regulatory filing. Itau BBA is arranging the
sale. (Updated Dec. 14)  CCR SA: The highway manager may issue as much as 1 billion
reais of tax-exempt infrastructure bonds this year through three
of its units, Arthur Piotto, the company’s finance director,
said in a telephone interview. (Added Dec. 10)  TEGMA GESTAO LOGISTICA SA: The automobile logistics company
approved a plan to sell as much as 200 million reais of five-
and six-year bonds to qualified investors, according to a
regulatory filing. Banco BTG Pactual SA will arrange the sale.
(Added Dec. 10)  USINAS SIDERURGICAS DE MINAS GERAIS SA: The steel producer
said in a regulatory filing that its board approved the sale of
as much as 1 billion reais of local bonds to qualified
investors. The bonds, to mature in four and six years, will be
sold in the first half of 2013. (Added Nov. 30)  CIA. CATARINENSE DE AGUAS E SANEAMENTO (CASN3) : The sewage and
water company also known as Casan said in a regulatory filing
that it plans to sell 100 million reais of IPCA-linked 10-year
local bonds with a maximum yield of 9.5 percent. (Added Nov. 30)  TRIANGULO DO SOL AUTO-ESTRADAS SA: The builder and operator
of roads plans to sell 620 million reais of domestic bonds,
which are scheduled to price Feb. 6, according to a regulatory
filing. BTG Pactual SA, Bradesco BBI SA, Banco Itau BBA SA and
Banco Santander SA will manage the sale. The first tranche will
pay the DI rate plus as much as 300 basis points, and the second
is to offer a maximum 8 percent, according to a prospectus of
the public offering. (Updated Nov. 29)  NORTE ENERGIA SA: The company that won a 35-year concession
to build the world’s third-biggest hydroelectric dam has been
approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-exempt
infrastructure bonds for the project known as Belo Monte,
according to the official gazette. The company will sell as much
as 500 million reais worth of bonds by 2015, Joao Pimentel, the
director of institutional relations, said in a telephone
interview. (Updated Nov. 28)  SIFCO SA: The auto-parts maker plans to sell 200 million
reais of IPCA-linked bonds maturing in 2019 and paying 7.2
percent, Valor Economico reported, without saying where it
obtained the information. A company official didn’t respond to
requests seeking comment. (Added Nov. 19)  CIA. DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO: The water
treatment and distribution company for the state of Sao Paulo,
also known as Sabesp, said in a regulatory filing its board has
approved plans to sell 1 billion reais of local bonds in three
tranches: five-year bonds to pay the interbank rate plus 0.85
percentage point; seven-year IPCA-linked bonds to pay a maximum
rate of 5.7 percent; and 10-year IPCA-linked bonds to pay a
maximum 6.15 percent. BB Banco de Investimento is lead
coordinator. (Added Nov. 16)  CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS SA (ELET6) : Brazil’s largest utility
by market value, also known as Eletrobras, has postponed an
offering of 2 billion reais of local bonds until 2013, according
to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been made public. Banco
Santander Brasil SA and Banco BTG Pactual SA are the managers,
according to a regulatory filing. (Updated Nov. 6)  INTERLIGACAO ELETRICA DO MADEIRA SA : The joint venture of
Cia. de Transmissao de Energia Eletrica Paulista, Cia. Hidro
Eletrica do Sao Francisco and Furnas Centrais Eletricas SA may
issue 350 million reais of tax-exempt infrastructure bonds,
Brazil’s state development bank said in an e-mailed statement.
The funds would help finance a transmission line and two
substations, according to the statement. (Added Oct. 22)  SANTO ANTONIO ENERGIA SA : The energy company has received
approval from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure bonds for a hydroelectric project. The
company plans to issue the bonds in the first half of 2013,
Chief Financial Officer Luiz Pereira said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. (Updated Oct. 19)  TRANSNORTE ENERGIA SA : The joint venture of Alupar
Investimento SA and Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil SA has
been approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure debentures to finance two transmission
lines and substations in the states of Amazonas and Roraima,
according to the official gazette. (Added Oct. 8)  CONCESSIONARIA ROTA DAS BANDEIRAS SA: The road company has
been approved by the Ministry of Transportation to issue tax-
exempt infrastructure bonds to finance road pavements and other
improvements. (Added Oct. 5)  EMPRESA DE TRANSMISSAO TIMOTEO-MESQUITA LTDA. : The
electricity company has been approved by the Ministry of Energy
and Mines to issue tax-exempt infrastructure bonds to finance a
transmission line and substation. (Added Oct. 5)  FERREIRA GOMES ENERGIA SA: The utility service provider
unit of Alupar Investimento SA has received approval from the
Ministry of Energy and Mines to issue infrastructure debentures,
according to a regulatory filing. (Added Sept. 21)  LIGHT SERVICOS DE ELETRICIDADE SA: The Light SA subsidiary
plans to sell 470 million reais of local bonds maturing in 2026,
according to a regulatory filing. The debt may pay 1.18
percentage points more than the interbank rate. The company is
considering sharing guarantees with Brazil’s state development
bank, known as BNDES, according to a separate filing. (Updated
Sept. 14)  CONTAX PARTICIPACOES SA: The call center operator said its
board has approved the sale of 253.4 million reais of six-year
bonds in two series to the company’s shareholders. Brazil’s
state development bank has committed to purchasing securities
not bought by the other shareholders. The first series of bonds
is tied to inflation and may pay 6.5 percent and the second
series may pay 150 basis points more than the benchmark TJLP
rate. (Updated Sept. 3)  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES:
The homebuilder said in a statement its board approved the sale
of 400 million reais of five-year bonds. A share buyback plan
will be suspended until the sale is concluded. (Added Aug. 17)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  