-- Chilean Traders See Rate Rise Next Year on Faster Inflation
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-01-09T11:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/chilean-traders-see-rate-rise-next-year-on-faster-inflation-1-.html
Chilean traders and investors expect
policy makers to raise the  benchmark interest rate  by January
next year as economic growth boosts inflation rates in the
Andean nation.  Policy makers will keep borrowing costs unchanged at
today’s 5 percent through at least July this year before raising
them to 5.25 percent by January 2014, according to a bi-weekly
survey of traders and investors posted on the central bank
website today. Traders and investors forecast annual inflation
of 3 percent in 12 months, compared with the 2.9 percent
estimate in the Dec. 24 survey.  Since the previous poll was published, economic growth
exceeded estimates made by analysts for a fourth consecutive
month. Still, policy makers are under little pressure to raise
interest rates to cool gains in the economy after the inflation
rate ended 2012 at its lowest point in two-and-a-half years.  “There are even more reasons for the central bank to keep
the monetary policy rate on hold in the next meeting,” Banchile
Inversiones analysts including chief economist  Rodrigo Aravena 
wrote in a report e-mailed to investors yesterday.
“Nevertheless, we believe there are elements both local and
external that might justify a more restrictive tone.”  The peso rose by less than 0.1 percent to 471.95 per  U.S.
dollar  at 8:37 a.m. local time today. Chile’s currency will
trade at 470 per dollar in seven days, according to the median
estimate of 57 traders and investors in today’s poll.  The economy of the world’s largest copper miner probably
expanded 5.4 percent last year, which would be the fastest gain
among major South American economies behind  Peru , according to
analysts in a separate survey conducted by Bloomberg.  Inflation in Chile eased to 1.5 percent in December from
2.1 percent in November, the lowest rate among Latin American
nations tracked by Bloomberg. Policy makers in  Chile  target 3
percent inflation, plus or minus 1 percentage point over two
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 