-- Chile Peso Rises to Three-Month High as Short Positions Lowered
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-09T15:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/chile-peso-rises-to-three-month-high-as-short-positions-lowered.html
Chile ’s peso, the best-performing
emerging-market currency this year, rallied to a three-month
high as international investors in the forwards market cut net
bets against the currency amid signs of economic strength.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 471.08 per  U.S. dollar 
at 11:15 a.m. in Santiago, the strongest level on a closing
basis since Sept. 26. Foreign investors cut their net short peso
position to $3.3 billion on Jan. 7, the lowest level in 15
months, from $6.7 billion a month earlier, according to central
bank data published today.  The currency rallied after a Jan. 7 report showed the
 economy grew  5.5 percent in November from a year earlier,
beating economists’ expectations for a fourth straight month.  More offshore investors are betting on the appreciation of
the peso, and “there’s still a bit of swing left before the
central bank intervenes,” said Mauricio Olivares, a currency
trader at the Chilean unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Santiago.  The peso dropped from a three-month intraday high after
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said the government was
concerned about the currency.  The central bank gathers information on the market
positions of banks and five brokers and publishes them daily, on
a two-day lag.  A short position is a bet that the currency will fall. A
net short position is when the amount of bets against the
currency is greater than the amount wagered on an increase.  Foreign investors typically have a net short position
because the figure includes hedging by mining companies and
others of their long-term investments in Chile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  