-- China Shipyards Set to Spark Price War Among Rigmakers
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-01-10T10:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/china-shipyards-set-to-spark-price-war-among-rigmakers.html
China ’s shipbuilders are set to
spark a price war in the oil-rig market.  With orders for new ships plunging to an eight-year low in
2012,  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  and
its local rivals are foraying into the offshore business, lured
by a market that will reach about $328 billion in 2017. The new
entrants are lowering prices to grab contracts, hurting margins
at Singapore-based  Keppel Corp. (KEP)  and  Sembcorp (SMM)  Marine Ltd., the
world’s two-biggest rig makers.  “It’s like moving from one bottomless pit to another,”
said Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Co. in
Seoul. “Chinese shipyards are competitively trying to get into
what they see as a lucrative business. But the consequence of
that is they could end up distorting the whole market.”  China Rongsheng, the nation’s biggest yard outside state
control, announced in October its first order to make a tender
barge and rival  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ)  got its
first rig contract last month. Shanghai-based China Rongsheng
warned in December of posting a loss in 2012 after three
straight years of profits.  Jinhai Heavy Industry Co., based in Zhejiang province,
China, also secured its first offshore equipment contract last
month.  “Whether or not the Chinese yards can earn money from the
current orders is pretty much in the air,” said Vincent Fernando, an analyst at Religare Capital Markets in  Singapore .
“There’s a steep learning curve.”  Drill Ships  Rongsheng rose 2.5 percent to close at HK$1.64 in  Hong
Kong . The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.6 percent.
Yangzijiang gained 5.4 percent to S$1.08 in Singapore trading.
Sembcorp rose 1 percent to S$4.84 and Keppel advanced 0.7
percent to S$11.25. The city-state’s benchmark Straits Times
Index rose 0.2 percent.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Ltd. (009540) , the world’s biggest
shipmaker, and other South Korean yards are also seeking to win
more orders for drill ships and floating production units amid
rising energy demand.  Shipyards are boosting offshore equipment business as
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and other energy
companies develop new fields amid depleting oil reserves at
existing wells.  Price Decline  The global onshore and offshore plant construction market
is expected to rise to $1.26 trillion in 2017 from $989 billion
in 2012, according to  South Korea ’s Ministry of Knowledge. The
offshore oil and gas market may account for 26 percent of that,
the ministry said in a Jan. 7 statement.  While demand for rigs has been booming, ship orders have
plummeted because of excess fleet capacity and global economic
uncertainties. Vessel prices have fallen as much as 27 percent
in the past two years, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
biggest shipbroker.  About 464 shipyards in China won 18.7 million deadweight
tons of orders worth $14.3 billion last year, the lowest since
2004, according to Clarkson. That compares with contracts for
14.6 million tons worth $29.6 billion received by 88 yards in
South Korea, the world’s second-biggest shipbuilding nation.  Thirty-eight percent of yards in China didn’t get contracts
for new vessels in 2012, and 10 percent had no deliveries
scheduled beyond the end of that year, the London-based
shipbroking unit of ICAP Plc said in a report sent by e-mail on
Dec. 24.  That’s prompting Chinese shipyards’ diversification into
rigs at cut-rate prices.  China Rongsheng said it has set up an offshore unit in
Singapore, where the company has hired engineers with more than
20 years of experience. That “will help compensate Rongsheng
China’s lack of experience in building rigs and drill ships and
shorten the company’s learning curve,” it said in an e-mail.  Lower Margins  Yangzijiang, based in Jiangyin, China, announced last month
it got a $170 million order for a jack-up rig, lower than the
$205 million contract Keppel got in April for a similar product.
It’s an indicator of lower margins in the future, Keppel Chief
Executive Officer Choo Chiau Beng said in a December interview.  Yangzijiang said in an e-mail it doesn’t expect prices to
drop because of the competition, while Jinhai said Chinese
yards’ lack of experience in building offshore equipment
wouldn’t lead to lower prices.  Complex Vessels  Cosco Corp. Singapore Ltd. (COS) , the shipbuilding unit of
China’s biggest shipping company, said in August it expects to
incur higher costs as it worked on offshore projects it had
never done before. That includes a contract to build a semi-
submersible accommodation rig.  Net income at Cosco Singapore fell for six straight
quarters partly because of costs for building the offshore
projects. In 2011, the company set aside S$150.4 million ($123
million) on expected losses from these contracts, more than
double the loss a year earlier.  Shipyards in China are the world’s biggest builders of bulk
ships, used to haul  iron ore , grain and coal. Only a handful of
companies in the country have built more complex vessels such as
liquefied natural gas carriers and  container ships  that are
longer than the Eiffel Tower.  “Yards that were making medium to smaller dry bulk ships
aren’t simply going to wake up one day and be able to do jackup
rigs,” said  Jon Windham , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Barclays
Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  