-- China Repo Touches Three-Week Low as Cash Returns After Holiday
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-01-09T02:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/china-repo-touches-three-week-low-as-cash-returns-after-holiday.html
China ’s money-market rate touched the
lowest level in almost three weeks as cash returned to the
financial system after the New Year holidays.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand today for a sale
of seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase contracts tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The monetary authority offered five-day reverse repos
on Jan. 5 at a yield of 3.3 percent. Markets were closed for
three days from Jan. 1.  “After the New Year, liquidity has come back,” said
Weisheng He, a Shanghai-based strategist at Citigroup Inc. “The
PBOC will come to the rescue” whenever there’s a lack of funds,
he said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability in the banking system, decreased seven basis points
to 3.03 percent as of 10:25 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It earlier dropped as much as 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 2.80 percent, the lowest since Dec. 20.  China’s economic growth is likely to exceed 8 percent this
year, with inflation becoming a potential concern in the second
half, Chen Yulu, president of Renmin University of China and a
central bank academic adviser, said this week in Beijing.  Chen’s forecast compares with the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey for 8.1 percent growth in 2013
and 7.7 percent last year, which would mark the slowest pace
since 1999.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, was little changed at 3.35 percent in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  