-- Chrysler Says United Auto Workers’ Trust Pressing for IPO Filing
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-09T23:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/chrysler-says-united-auto-workers-trust-pressing-for-ipo-filing.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker majority owned by  Fiat (F)  SpA, said its minority
shareholder demanded a registration for its holdings in a step
toward a possible public stock offering.  Chrysler will comply with the demand by the United Auto
Workers Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, which owns 41.5 percent
of the automaker, according to a statement yesterday. While
registration is a first step in preparing to a public offering
of stock, it doesn’t mean there will be an IPO, Chrysler said.  Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive officer of both Fiat
and Chrysler, plans to merge the two companies by 2015 after
striking an alliance through Chrysler’s U.S.-backed bankruptcy
more than three years ago. Fiat, mired in the Europe auto
market’s slump, faces restrictions in accessing Chrysler’s cash
as part of conditions set by the government’s rescue.  “This will provide a clearer price for what Fiat will need
to pay to pick up the remaining shares beyond the call
options,” Richard Hilgert, an analyst for Morningstar Equity
Research in  Chicago , said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“It’s more probable that Fiat will wind up buying the shares
before it goes to an IPO, and this gives VEBA a bit of
negotiating leverage to say here’s what the market would pay for
this chunk of stock right now.”  Fiat has become increasingly dependent on Chrysler as
demand in the Turin, Italy-based carmaker’s home market plunged
in 2012 to the lowest in 34 years, according to LMC Automotive.
Chrysler, by contrast, has gained market share by recording a
33-month streak of sales gains in the U.S., where the broader
market has climbed for three straight years.  The trust, which is a voluntary employee beneficiary
association, or VEBA, wants to register 16.6 percent of the
shares in Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler, the company
said.  Legal Dispute  Fiat owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler. The Italian automaker
is in a legal dispute with the UAW trust over the price it must
pay to exercise an initial call option that would boost its
ownership stake to almost 62 percent.  The UAW trust said in a November court filing that it’s
owed $342 million, more than double the $139.7 million that Fiat
has said the shares should be worth. Fiat said Jan. 3 that it
plans to exercise a second call option that would increase its
stake to about 65 percent.  U.S.’s Rescue  Marchionne, 60, obtained control of Chrysler without paying
any cash in 2009 by pledging Fiat’s vehicles, technology and
managerial expertise. Fiat has built its Chrysler ownership from
20 percent in part by achieving performance-related
requirements, including production of a more fuel-efficient
engine and a car that could get 40 miles (64 kilometers) per
gallon.  The U.S. exited its Chrysler holdings in June 2011 when
Fiat paid $500 million for the government’s remaining 6 percent
stake. The U.S. has said Chrysler returned more than $11.2
billion of the $12.5 billion committed to the company and that
it’s unlikely to fully recover the remaining $1.3 billion.  The UAW created VEBA trusts in 2007 in a concession that
removed retiree health-care liabilities from U.S. automakers’
balance sheets.  The Chrysler VEBA had 63,171 participants as of the end of
2011, a number that doesn’t include dependents, the trust said
in its November court filing. The plan had net assets of about
$8.8 billion and total benefit obligations of about $13.8
billion, according to the filing.  Fiat’s proposed exercise price for its initial call option
would “exacerbate the Chrysler plan’s existing underfunding and
might, over time, impact the level and/or duration of benefits
that the Chrysler plan would be able to provide to participants
and beneficiaries,” the VEBA said in its filing.  Patty McCarthy, a spokeswoman for the VEBA, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  