-- Chrysler: Health-Care Trust Demands Share Registration
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-09T21:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/chrysler-health-care-trust-demands-share-registration.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker majority owned by  Fiat (F)  SpA, said its minority
shareholder demanded a registration for its holdings in a step
toward a possible public stock offering.  Chrysler will comply with the demand by the United Auto
Workers Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, which owns 41.5 percent
of the automaker, according to a statement. The trust, which is
a voluntary employee beneficiary association, or VEBA, wants to
register 16.6 percent of the shares in  Auburn Hills , Michigan-
based Chrysler, the company said.  “Registration is a first step in preparing to sell those
interests through a public offering of stock,” Chrysler said in
an e-mailed statement. “Chrysler Group will make reasonable
best efforts to register those shares as requested. Registration
does not mean there will be an IPO.”  Sergio Marchionne , the chief executive officer of both Fiat
and Chrysler, plans to merge the two companies by 2015 after
striking an initial alliance through the U.S. automaker’s
bankruptcy more than three years ago. Fiat, mired in the Europe
auto market’s slump, faces restrictions in accessing Chrysler’s
cash as part of conditions set by the U.S. government’s rescue.  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler.
The Italian automaker is in a legal dispute with the UAW trust
over the price it must pay to exercise an initial call option
that would boost its ownership stake to almost 62 percent.  The UAW trust said in a November court filing that it’s
owed $342 million, more than double the $139.7 million that Fiat
has said the shares should be worth. Fiat said Jan. 3 that it
plans to exercise a second call option that would increase its
stake to about 65 percent.  ‘Clearer Price’  “This will provide a clearer price for what Fiat will need
to pay to pick up the remaining shares beyond the  call
options ,” Richard Hilgert, an analyst for Morningstar Equity
Research in  Chicago , said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
more probable that Fiat will wind up buying the shares before it
goes to an IPO, and this gives VEBA a bit of negotiating
leverage to say here’s what the market would pay for this chunk
of stock right now.”  Patty McCarthy, a spokeswoman for the VEBA, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  