-- Clemens, Bonds Rejected in Steroid-Stained Hall of Fame Vote
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-09T21:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/clemens-bonds-rejected-in-steroid-stained-hall-of-fame-voting.html
Roger Clemens  and Barry Bonds were
snubbed in voting for baseball’s Hall of Fame, adding the game’s
two most-decorated players to the list of retired stars bypassed
because of links to performance-enhancing drugs.  Each received about half of the vote percentage needed for
induction.  “After what has been written and said over the last few
years, I’m not overly surprised,” Clemens said in a statement
as reported by the MLB Network.  None of the 37 candidates on this year’s ballot received
the necessary 75 percent of the vote, the first time since 1996
that the Baseball Writers Association of America didn’t elect
anyone. It’s the eighth time since voting began in 1936 that no
candidates earned induction.  It also means that this year’s induction class won’t have
any living members, the first time that’s happened since 1965,
when Pud Galvin was inducted posthumously in front of 22 of the
30 living Hall of Famers.  Longtime umpire Hank O’Day, former  New York  Yankees owner
Jacob Ruppert and 19th-century player Deacon White -- all of
whom died in the 1930s -- will be inducted at this year’s
ceremony on July 28. They were chosen last year by a special
panel that reviewed baseball’s pre-integration era.  First-time candidate Craig Biggio came the closest to
making the Hall of Fame of those on this year’s BBWAA ballot,
receiving 68.2 percent of the vote. Biggio, one of 28 players in
the sport’s history to reach the 3,000-hit milestone, fell 39
votes short of induction.  Ballot Debate  Clemens and Bonds were also among 24 former players on the
ballot for the first time and their eligibility created one of
the sport’s most highly debated and scrutinized votes.  Some baseball writers, fans, players and Hall of Fame
members such as  Reggie Jackson  have argued that those tainted by
performance-enhancing drug use should be kept out of the shrine
in Cooperstown, New York, while others maintain the 1980s and
1990s was simply an era of widespread steroid use in baseball.  “There’s a very strong sentiment in that fraternity that
integrity, credibility, sportsmanship is a big part of being a
Hall of Famer,” Barry Larkin, the only player inducted last
year, said on ESPN. “These guys feel very strongly about
integrity of the Hall of Fame members. It would be devastating
and traumatic to the institution if there is a divide among the
Hall of Famers.”  Most Honored  Clemens won a record seven Cy Young Awards as the best
pitcher in his league and ranks ninth in major-league history
with 354 wins with the  Boston Red Sox ,  Toronto Blue Jays ,
Yankees and  Houston Astros . Bonds won a record seven Most
Valuable Player awards and is baseball’s all-time home-run
leader with 762 with the Pittsburgh Pirates and  San Francisco
Giants .  Their unmatched on-field accomplishments weren’t enough to
earn them a spot among the 44 first-ballot Hall of Fame members,
the last being Rickey Henderson in 2009. Clemens, 50, received
37.6 percent of the vote, while Bonds, 48, was named on 36.2
percent of ballots from the BBWAA.  Michael Weiner , executive director of the MLB Players
Association, said failing to elect anyone to the Hall was
“unfortunate, if not sad.”  ‘Denied Access’  “To ignore the historic accomplishments of  Barry Bonds  and
Roger Clemens, for example, is hard to justify,” Weiner said in
a statement. “Moreover, to penalize players exonerated in legal
proceedings -- and others never even implicated -- is simply
unfair.”  Sammy Sosa , who ranks eighth in major-league history with
609 career homers, also fell well short of election in his debut
on the ballot at 12.5 percent. The New York Times reported that
Sosa failed a drug test.  Former pitcher Jack Morris, who received 67 percent of the
vote in 2012, again fell short at 67.7 percent this year, his
14th on the ballot. Jeff Bagwell earned 59.6 percent of the vote
in his third time on the ballot, while former New York Mets
catcher  Mike Piazza  -- another first-time candidate -- got 57.8
percent. Tim Raines was the only other former player named on
more than 50 percent of ballots.  ‘Rightful Place’  “We hope in the not too distant future that Mike Piazza
will take his rightful place in the Baseball Hall of Fame,”
Mets Chief Operating Officer  Jeff Wilpon  said in a statement.
“The statistics he compiled during his career as a catcher were
unmatched by anyone in the history of the game.”  Phil Niekro, Tony Perez and Don Sutton were the top three-
vote getters the last time the writers’ vote didn’t produce a
Hall of Famer in 1996. All three were subsequently elected;
Niekro in 1997, Sutton in 1998 and Perez in 2000.  The other BBWAA elections without a Hall of Fame member
were in 1945, 1946, 1950, 1958, 1960 and 1971.  Voters previously kept out candidates such as  Mark McGwire , 
who admitted using steroids, and  Rafael Palmeiro , who failed a
drug test. They’ve now done the same with Clemens, Bonds and
Sosa, who all have denied drug use. McGwire got 16.9 percent of
the vote this year, with Palmeiro at 8.8 percent.  The BBWAA ballot includes the sentence: “Voting shall be
based upon the player’s record, playing ability, integrity,
sportsmanship, character, and contributions to the team(s) on
which the player played.”  Strong Opinions  “The legends of the game of baseball, they have some very
strong opinions about guys who cheated,” Larkin said. “The
problem is we don’t know if they cheated.”  A Dec. 13, 2007, report by former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  accused Clemens of using steroids and human growth
hormone in 1998, 2000 and 2001. Clemens’s name was mentioned in
the Mitchell report 82 times.  In June 2012, he was acquitted of lying to Congress about
his use of performance-enhancing drugs. Clemens’s first
prosecution ended in a mistrial in July 2011 after government
lawyers showed jurors evidence the judge had excluded.  Bonds, also identified by the Mitchell Report as a steroid
user, was convicted in April 2010 by a federal jury in  San
Francisco  of obstructing a U.S. probe of drug use by
professional athletes. Jurors couldn’t agree whether Bonds lied
when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly take
steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone and didn’t receive
injections from his trainer. A mistrial was declared on those
counts.  Bonds’ Probation  Bonds was sentenced to two years’ probation and 30 days of
house arrest, and appealed the ruling in December 2011.  Sosa, 44, tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs
in 2003, according to a 2009 Times report. He told a U.S.
congressional committee in 2005 that he never used banned
muscle-building substances.  Clemens and Bonds are the most accomplished players to fail
to gain election to the Baseball Hall of Fame since the Mitchell
Report’s release.  Clemens, known as “the Rocket” for his fastball, pitched
in the major leagues until he was 44. He left the game after the
2007 season with a 354-184 record, a 3.12 earned run average and
4,672 strikeouts, third in history behind  Nolan Ryan  and  Randy Johnson .  Bonds hit 73 home runs in 2001 to break McGwire’s single-
season record. He finished his 22-year career with a .298
batting average, 1,996 runs batted in and 514 stolen bases while
winning eight Gold Glove awards for his defense in the outfield.  Four-time Cy Young Award winner Greg Maddux, who had 355
wins, heads the players who will be eligible for the Hall of
Fame for the first time next year. Other first-time candidates
next year will include two-time MVP Frank Thomas and two-time Cy
Young winner Tom Glavine.  Players remain on the BBWAA ballot for 15 years as long as
they receive at least 5 percent of the vote each year. Among
players failing to reach that level this year were former
Yankees  Bernie Williams  and  David Wells .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at  msillup@bloomberg.net  