-- Clinton Leaving ‘Very Fast Track for a Little While’
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-01-09T17:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/clinton-leaving-very-fast-track-for-a-little-while-.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
may have fueled speculation about her future political ambitions
by saying she’s getting “off the very fast track for a little
while.”  Clinton has said she plans to rest and then serve as an
advocate for women and children. That hasn’t stopped some of her
fellow Democrats as well as Republicans such as former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  from predicting she may run for president
in 2016.  Asked during an event today at the State Department about
her approaching “retirement” as secretary of state, Clinton
said, “I don’t know if that is a word I would use, but
certainly stepping off the very fast track for a little while.”  The event with departing U.S. Ambassador to Ireland Dan Rooney was Clinton’s first public appearance since she was
sidelined by health problems last month. She said she was
“thrilled to be back.”  “I am also incredibly grateful for this fabulous team that
I have here at the State Department who never missed a beat
during the time I was away,” she said. “We are focused on
continuing our work, finishing up everything that we can and
helping Senator Kerry with his transition.”  President  Barack Obama  has chosen Senator  John Kerry , the
Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, to succeed Clinton.  Clinton, a former first lady, U.S. senator and presidential
candidate, is one of the world’s best-known figures and ranks in
polls as the early Democratic favorite for president in 2016 if
she chooses to run again. In a Gallup poll of Americans released
Dec. 31, she ranked as the most-admired woman in the world for
the 11th consecutive year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  