-- Cold Weather to Boost India Wheat to Record for Seventh Year
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-01-09T12:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/cold-weather-to-aid-india-wheat-crop-to-record-for-seventh-year.html
Wheat output in  India , the world’s
second-biggest producer, may reach a record for a  seventh  year
as cold weather boosts yield prospects and record domestic
prices spur planting, potentially boosting exports. Futures in
India fell for a seventh day.  Better soil moisture and below-average temperatures in the
main growing states of Punjab and Haryana in the past three
weeks have been beneficial for the crop, said Indu Sharma,
director at the state-owned  Directorate of Wheat Research . The
harvest starting from April may climb from an all-time high of
93.9 million metric tons in 2011-2012, she said.  A bigger harvest may force the government to pare
stockpiles through exports and vacate warehouses for the new
crop, pressuring futures in Chicago which fell to a six-month
low last week. Rising supplies from India may help partly make
up for the potential crop losses from the U.S. to  Argentina  and
 Australia  to dry weather and cap global food costs tracked by
the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  “With elections scheduled for next year, the government
will like to buy more of the new crop,” said Faiyaz Hudani, a
senior analyst at Mumbai-based Kotak Commodity Services Ltd.
“It will have to liquidate the old crop to create space. When
the purchase is going to be high, the government’s only option
is to export.”  Australia, Argentina  India may find it easier to export after drought reduced
wheat output in Australia and Argentina, while Russia and  China 
were set for smaller crops, Hudani said. The country may ship
more than 5 million tons in the year from April, he said.
Exports have surged to 5.2 million tons, including 1.23 million
tons from state stockpiles, since a ban on sales was scrapped in
September 2011, according to data from India’s food ministry.  Global production may drop 5.9 percent to 655.11 million
tons in the year ending May 31, according to the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture . Inventories are declining for a third year and
seen at the lowest level relative to consumption since 2008,
when wheat prices surged to a record $13.495 a bushel. Futures
advanced 19 percent to $7.78 in 2012 on the Chicago Board of
Trade, having risen as high as $9.4725 in July.  Prices in India jumped 29 percent last year after exports
rose and the government increased the minimum price paid to
farmers to a record. The contract for delivery in February
closed 0.5 percent lower at 1,495 rupees ($27) per 100 kilograms
on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai
today. The contract for delivery in March traded 0.2 percent
higher at $7.5175 a bushel in  Chicago .  Crop Development  Farmers planted wheat in 28.6 million hectares (70.7
million acres) as of Jan. 4 compared with 28.2 million hectares
a year earlier, according to the farm ministry. Weather is set
to remain favorable for crop development in the coming weeks,
said L.S. Rathore, director general of the  India Meteorological
Department .  “The wheat crop is likely to be good this year,” Rathore
said in an interview. “There is no signal of abnormal weather
prevailing until March. If the area goes up, the output will
increase.”  The crop is in good conditions in the main producing states
of Punjab, Haryana and western parts of  Uttar Pradesh , according
to the wheat directorate’s Sharma. The climate during the grain
formation stage from the second half of February will be key to
boosting yields, she said.  State  inventories  of wheat totaled 34.4 million tons as of
Jan. 1, more than the minimum 11.2 million tons required to be
held for emergencies and strategic reserves, according to the
Food Corp. of India. The government  bought  38.1 million tons of
wheat from farmers in 2012-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  