-- Court Questions Forced Blood Tests in Drunk Driving Cases
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-09T18:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/court-questions-forced-blood-tests-in-drunk-driving-cases.html
The U.S. Supreme Court considered
requiring police to get a search warrant before forcing drunken
driving suspects to have blood drawn, in a case that will shape
 privacy rights  on the road.  The justices today weighed Missouri’s contention that
police need not take the time to get judicial approval, given
how quickly alcohol dissipates in the bloodstream.  The hour-long argument session produced no clear consensus,
as the court sought to balance the needs of police against what
Chief Justice  John Roberts  called the “pretty scary image” of
a handcuffed person being stuck with a needle. The case turns on
the U.S. Constitution’s  Fourth Amendment , which bars
unreasonable searches.  The dispute may have day-to-day implications across the
country. More than 1.4 million people are arrested each year in
the U.S. for driving under the influence, according to FBI
statistics. About half the 50 states wouldn’t be directly
affected because they have laws barring nonconsensual blood
draws in the absence of a warrant, according to court papers
filed by Tyler G. McNeely, the defendant in the case.  McNeely was pulled over for speeding in 2010 by a state
highway patrolman in southeast Missouri, failed field sobriety
tests and refused to take a breath test. The officer then took
McNeely to a nearby hospital, where a technician drew blood over
the handcuffed suspect’s objection.  Two Hours  Missouri  argues that getting a nighttime warrant in Cape
Girardeau County, where McNeely was arrested, takes an average
of two hours, by which point a person’s blood alcohol level may
have dropped below the legal limit. The Obama administration
backs Missouri in the case.  The state says alcohol typically dissipates in the
bloodstream at a rate of 0.015 to 0.020 percentage points an
hour. The limit in Missouri is 0.08 percent.  “The evidence is being lost at a significant rate with
every minute that passes,” the state’s attorney, John Koester,
argued today. Missouri is seeking to exempt drunken driving
cases from the normal rule that police must get a warrant for
intrusive bodily searches.  Koester drew skeptical questions from across the court’s
ideological spectrum. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  questioned whether
the Constitution guarantees a state access to “the very best
evidence it can.”  Serious Intrusion  Sotomayor, a diabetic who regularly gives herself insulin
injections, said that a blood draw was a much more serious
intrusion into privacy rights than a breath test.  “Breathalyzers, in my mind, have a much different
intrusion level,” she said. “They don’t intrude into your
body.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  pointed to the track record of the
states that require a warrant, saying they “make it work very
well.”  McNeely’s lawyers say police in Cape Girardeau County often
get warrants in less than half an hour. McNeely’s team also
contends that modern technology expedites the process in much of
the country, as officers file telephone or electronic
applications with a judge.  His lead attorney, Steven Shapiro of the  American Civil
Liberties Union , argued that Missouri was seeking a “free
pass” for the jurisdictions with the “slowest and most
cumbersome” warrant processes.  Practical Impact  Justice  Antonin Scalia  questioned whether a warrant
requirement would have any practical effect. He said judges
would virtually always issue a warrant when asked.  “Are any of these warrants ever turned down?” Scalia
asked. When Shapiro said he didn’t know, the justice continued,
“I bet you they’re not.”  Shapiro said that “there is value to making sure that the
prosecutor and the police have checked off all the right boxes
before they engage in a process as intrusive as putting a needle
in somebody’s arm.”  Several justices, including  Samuel Alito , questioned
whether rural counties should be required to have systems for
issuing warrants quickly in the middle of the night, an approach
that might require prosecutors and judges to be on call. Alito
asked whether “the whole country has to operate like  New York 
City.”  Justice Elena Kagan floated a potential compromise, asking
Koester and Justice Department attorney Nicole Saharsky whether
police at least should be required to try to get a warrant,
perhaps as they drive to the hospital.  “You always have some delay” before blood can be drawn,
Kagan said. “Why can’t you use that amount of time, if you can,
to try to get a warrant?”  Implied Consent  McNeely’s lawyers, in court papers, pointed to Missouri’s
“implied consent” law, which says drivers who refuse a blood
or breath test automatically lose their license for a year.
McNeely contends that law suggests that drivers have the right
to refuse a blood test. All 50 states have implied-consent laws
in some form.  McNeely, who had been convicted of drunken driving twice
before, was charged with a felony that might have subjected him
to four years in prison.  The blood test showed McNeely had a 0.154 percent blood
alcohol level. The Missouri  Supreme Court  ruled that prosecutors
couldn’t use the test at trial, saying officers typically must
seek a warrant before forcing a suspect to have blood drawn.  The Supreme Court last ruled on the issue in 1966. In that
decision, the court said the warrant requirement didn’t apply in
the case of a man whose blood was drawn in a hospital about two
hours after he was involved in an automobile accident. The court
said that case involved “special facts.”  The high court in other rulings has said police don’t need
a warrant in situations of “exigent circumstances,” as when
evidence is about to be destroyed.  The justices will rule by June in the case, Missouri v.
McNeely, 11-1425.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  