-- Cuomo Proposes Lower Carbon Cap for Northeast Cap-and-Trade Plan
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-01-09T22:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/cuomo-proposes-lower-carbon-cap-for-northeast-cap-and-trade-plan.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
proposed lowering the total amount of carbon dioxide that
companies may emit under a regional cap-and-trade program to
regulate air pollution.  The nine states participating in the  Regional Greenhouse
Gas Initiative  must “make a real difference on climate change
by reducing the CO2 cap,” Cuomo said during his State of the
State address in Albany today. The cap is currently 165 million
tons a year and he didn’t say by how much it should be cut.  That’s 81 percent more than the 91 million tons of the
greenhouse gas that were emitted last year in the six New
England states along with New York, Delaware and  Maryland . RGGI,
which holds quarterly auctions for carbon-emission permits, said
yesterday it’s reviewing its policies after allowances at last
month’s event sold at the minimum bid.  “First thing we have to learn is to accept the fact, and I
believe it is a fact, that  climate change  is real,” Cuomo said.
“It’s inarguable that the sea is warmer and that there is a
changing weather pattern, and the time to act is now.”  Cuomo’s wide-ranging speech also addressed other issues
including stricter gun-control policies, a higher  minimum wage 
and looser drug laws.  Permits at the December RGGI auction sold for $1.93. About
half of the allowances offered -- 19.8 million of 37.6 million -
- were purchased, the fewest since  September 2011 . Each permit
gives a company the right to emit one ton of carbon dioxide.
Emissions have declined about 30 percent from 2005 in the nine
RGGI states.  The auction raised $38.1 million. The proceeds fund state
renewable-energy efforts and programs that help low-income
people pay utility bills, or go into their general funds.  New Jersey  exited RGGI in 2011, after the state’s
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  called it a failure because
the permits never sold near their projected costs of $20 to $30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  