-- Czech Inflation Slows to Year-Low as Central Bank Mulls Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-09T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/czech-inflation-slows-to-year-low-as-central-bank-mulls-easing.html
Czech December inflation decelerated
to the slowest pace in a year, bolstering the case for a more
relaxed monetary-policy stance as the central bank debates
whether to start selling the koruna.  The  inflation  rate dropped to 2.4 percent, from 2.7 percent
in November, the Czech Statistics Office in Prague said in a
statement on its website today. The reading matched the median
forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  of 15 analysts and was below the
central bank’s 2.8 percent estimate for the month. Consumer
prices rose 0.1 percent in December.  The Czech economy is showing weak domestic demand as
households and businesses cut spending due to government
austerity programs and the euro area’s debt crisis. The central
bank is in uncharted territory after cutting the benchmark rate
to effectively zero, while several policy makers have mentioned
selling the koruna as a way to to further relax conditions as
the economic  recession  risks stretching into the longest ever.  Data should be “significantly anti-inflationary, and we
can expect more pressure on the koruna,” Jana Malickova, an
analyst at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, said by e-mail
yesterday.  Gross domestic product shrank for a third three-month
period from July to September, matching the longest quarterly
declines recorded three years ago and in 1997, according to the
latest data from the statistics office.  Zero Rates  The Ceska Narodni Banka held the main two-week repurchase
 rate  at 0.05 percent, almost three-quarters of a percentage
point less than the euro-area benchmark, at a board meeting Dec.
19. The bank will keep rates at a “technical zero” until it
sees a significant increase in inflationary pressures, Vice-
Governor Vladimir Tomsik said last week.  Selling the currency is the next preferred policy tool
because of the “proven and quick reaction by the economy to a
depreciation of the koruna exchange rate,” Tomas Holub, the
head of the central bank’s monetary and statistics department,
wrote in a column for the Euro magazine posted on the central
bank’s website on Dec. 3.  The koruna has lost 4 percent against the euro since Sept.
17, one day before Governor Miroslav Singer first said the
central bank may use sales of the currency to ease monetary
conditions. That’s the third-worst performance among major
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period.  The koruna is now weaker than the central bank’s forecast
and the monetary authority probably won’t start selling the
currency around current levels, according to CSOB AS.  “It wouldn’t be an easy transition for the CNB from verbal
interventions to real action,” CSOB said in a Jan. 8 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  