-- DLA Piper, Appleby, Crowell & Moring: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/dla-piper-appleby-crowell-moring-business-of-law.html
DLA Piper LLP opened a  Seoul  office
yesterday, headed by  Daniel Lee , the country managing partner.  “Opening an office in  Korea  brings us a step closer to a
full business service offering in every major economic hub
across  Asia  Pacific,” Bob Charlton, DLA Piper’s managing
director for Asia Pacific, said in a statement.  Lee has led the Korean practice from  Tokyo  for four years
and advised on more than $2.5 billion worth of deals by Korean
corporations, according to his firm biography. He has handled
foreign investments, cross-border mergers and acquisitions,
private-equity transactions and joint ventures, as well as
general corporate matters.  He was previously at Kim & Chang in Seoul, where he headed
that firm’s overseas investment practice.  Among DLA Piper’s Korean matters in the past few years was
raising $600 million for liquid-crystal display maker LG Display
Co.  DLA Piper has more than 700 lawyers in 12 Asia-Pacific
offices, in cities including Bangkok, Beijing, Hong Kong,
 Singapore , Sydney and Tokyo. The firm has a total of about 4,200
lawyers in more than 30 countries.  Schiff Hardin Expands Energy Regulation Practice With Bruder  Schiff Hardin LLP acquired 10-lawyer  Washington   law firm 
Bruder, Gentile & Marcoux LLP on Jan. 1.  The boutique firm focuses on regulatory issues affecting
the electric and natural gas industries and represents clients
before the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , the North
American Electric Reliability Corp. and other federal agencies
and courts.  “We are a national law firm and it is imperative that we
continue to grow in regions and industries where we recognize
and anticipate client needs,” Ronald S. Safer, Schiff Hardin’s
managing partner, said in a statement.  Schiff Hardin established its Washington office in 1977.
Bruder, Gentile was established in 1976.  Schiff Hardin has almost 400 attorneys in nine U.S.
offices.  Appleby Names Hong Kong-Based Woo New Chairman  Appleby said Hong Kong-based managing partner Frances Woo
will become group chairman, succeeding Peter Bubenzer, who will
retire from Appleby on March 31 after more than 32 years at the
firm.  Woo, who also heads both the corporate and commercial and
private client and trusts practice groups for the Asia region,
became a partner at Appleby in 1997. She was appointed managing
partner of the  Hong Kong  office in 2000.  “Frances comes with a wealth of experience and
understanding of our business and the offshore market,” Michael
O’Connell, Appleby group managing partner, said in a statement.  The firm also announced the appointment of Cameron Adderley
as global head of its corporate and commercial practice.
Adderley will succeed Judith Collis, who held the post for seven
years. She will retire from the firm on March 31 after 27 years.  The firm also elected Sean Dowling and Timothy Faries as
group management committee board members.  Appleby has about 800 people, including 80 partners,
operating from 12 offices worldwide.  Moves  New York Federal Prosecutor Joins Crowell & Moring  Crowell & Moring LLP hired federal prosecutor Glen G. McGorty in the white-collar and regulatory enforcement group in
the firm’s  New York  office.  McGorty was a senior assistant U.S. attorney in the
criminal division of the U.S. attorney’s office in  Manhattan  and
senior trial counsel in the public corruption unit. He has been
lead counsel in 15 federal jury trials, the firm said, including
the prosecution of New York State Senator Carl Kruger and his
co-conspirators.  In 14 years, McGorty has handled white-collar matters that
include  securities fraud , public corruption, wire and mail
fraud,  money laundering , tax violations and  insider trading .  Crowell & Moring has more than 500 lawyers at 11 offices in
the U.S.,  Europe  and the Middle East.  King & Wood Partner and Four Lawyers Join DLA Piper  DLA Piper LLP hired Carolyn Dong as a partner in its
Greater  China  practice. She will join the finance and projects
group along with a team of four other lawyers.  Dong joins from King & Wood Mallesons, where she was a
partner in the energy, resources and projects group. A team of
four energy-sector lawyers, who will be based across DLA Piper’s
Hong Kong and Beijing offices, will also join the firm with
Dong.  Dong has experience acting for China’s state-owned
enterprises and financial institutions, as well as U.S. and
European companies, in project and structured financings in the
energy and resources sector, the firm said.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries worldwide.  China Mergers and Acquisitions Partner Joins Weil Gotshal  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP said Li Li joined its Beijing
office as a partner in the mergers and acquisitions practice
group. She was previously with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP .  “Li Li will play a key role in our outbound China M&A
practice,” Akiko Mikumo, managing partner for Asia, said in a
statement. “Chinese outbound M&A transactions have grown from
$30 billion in 2007 to nearly $80 billion in 2011 and we expect
our China M&A practice to be engaged by an increasing number of
Chinese companies doing deals outside of China.”  Weil, Gotshal has about 1,200 lawyers in offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Chicago Litigation Partner Joins Edwards Wildman  Jeffrey E. Crane, formerly a partner at Sidley Austin LLP,
joined Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP as a partner in the litigation
department in  Chicago .  Crane’s principal areas of practice include commercial
litigation, class actions, and insurance and financial services
litigation.  Edwards Wildman has 650 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S.,
 London  and Asia.  Environmental Lawyer Don Elliott Joins Covington  E. Donald Elliott, former chairman of the worldwide
environment, health and safety department at Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP, has joined Covington & Burling LLP as senior of
counsel.  Elliott, who was general counsel of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency from 1989 to 1991, has more than 30 years of
experience in environmental law, administrative law and product
liability and toxic torts.  Covington & Burling has more than 800 lawyers at nine
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  SEC’s Window for Fraud Suits May Be Narrowed by High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court signaled it may tighten the time
limits that apply when the Securities and Exchange Commission
and other government agencies seek to impose fines on people and
companies accused of fraud.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, justices across
the court’s ideological divide voiced doubt about the Obama
administration’s position in a case involving market timing, the
practice of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of
other investors.  The issue is whether the five-year window for suits had
expired by the time the SEC sued two Gabelli Funds LLC
officials, saying they secretly allowed market timing by a
client. The Obama administration says the window opens only
after the government has reason to know about a fraud -- an
approach several justices said would reverse hundreds of years
of practice and give federal enforcers too much power.  A federal appeals court in New York said the suit against
Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert could go forward, agreeing with
the Obama administration’s approach.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  called the five-year window
“generous” and asked the government lawyer, Jeffrey Wall, why
the SEC took so long to sue Gabelli and Alpert.  Wall told Ginsburg that the SEC was seeking documents and
engaging in settlement discussions during that period.  Gabelli and Alpert’s lawyer, Lewis Liman, a lawyer at
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, told the justices that the
issue might be different had the SEC accused his clients of
taking steps to conceal their activities.  “There’s no allegation whatsoever that anything was hidden
from the government,” Liman said.  The case, which the court will decide by June, is Gabelli
v. SEC, 11-1274.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 