-- Dubai Plans Regulatory Council to Push Islamic Finance
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-01-09T13:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/dubai-plans-regulatory-council-to-push-islamic-finance-industry.html
Dubai, the second-biggest member of
the United Arab Emirates, plans to create an  Islamic finance 
council to regulate Shariah-compliant equity and fixed-income
products to boost the industry’s role in the economy.  Dubai, which derives about 11 percent of economic output
from financial services, wants to make Islamic finance a “core
industry,” Sami Al Qamzi, director general of the Dubai
Department of Economic Development, said at a conference in the
emirate today.  “The addition of Islamic industry is a priority to turn
Dubai into the capital for the Islamic economy,” Al Qamzi said.
The emirate will seek to encourage the development of a market
for Islamic products including funds, sukuk and loans, he said.  Dubai became a regional hub for finance when it opened a
financial center in 2004 to attract international banks, asset
managers and insurers with promises of a zero-tax environment
for 50 years. Global Islamic financial assets may double to as
much as $3 trillion by 2015, Standard & Poor’s said in
September. Governments and companies in the Gulf Cooperation
Council are taking steps to boost their share in the business.  “We want to focus on several core issues such as Islamic
finance, Islamic insurance, the arbitration of Islamic
contracts” and marketing Muslim food products, known as halal,
Al Qamzi said. Dubai also wants to establish Islamic standards
“for trade and industry and product quality,” he said.  Economic Recovery  Shariah-compliant bond sales in the six-nation GCC tripled
to $21 billion last year as yields dropped to all-time lows,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s economy is recovering from a property market crash,
triggered by the 2008 global credit crisis, which sent home
prices tumbling more than 65 percent. The city, which was on the
verge of defaulting in 2009, witnessed a pickup in tourism last
year, with hotel and restaurant industries expanding 16 percent
in the first half, set for the fastest annual growth since at
least 2007.  Financial industries grew 4.6 percent in 2011 after
contracting 1.3 percent a year earlier, according to the latest
data on the Dubai Statistics Center website. In 2007, the
industry had expanded 29 percent.  The government’s initiative “will create an environment
that encourages Islamic investment in essential sectors not just
the financial sector,” Hussain Al Qemzi, chief executive
officer of Noor Islamic Bank, said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  