-- Duke to Offer Certificates for Fee in Free Online Courses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-01-09T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/duke-to-offer-certificates-for-fee-in-free-online-courses.html
Duke University  and the  University of
California ,  San Francisco  will begin offering certificates for a
fee for some classes offered through Coursera Inc., an online
provider of free courseware.  The schools will charge as much as $100 for certificates,
Coursera said today in a statement. Students who pay the fee
will receive a certificate with a verification Web link proving
they took the course, according to Andrew Ng, 36, a co-founder 
of Coursera who teaches computer science at  Stanford University .  “This is about making sure students have a way to show off
their work,” Ng, who is also director of Stanford’s Artificial
Intelligence Lab, said in a telephone interview. “They want to
prove to employers they’ve completed the courses.”  Coursera is a for-profit educational technology company
based in  Mountain View ,  California , that has 33 university
partners, including Stanford near Palo Alto, California, and
Duke in Durham, North Carolina, to offer more than 200 free
online courses. The company, founded in 2011, has more than 2
million users, most of whom aren’t enrolled on a college campus,
Ng said. Students who don’t want a certificate can still take
the courses for free.  While students don’t earn credits toward a degree by taking
the courses through Coursera, the so-called verified
certificates will bear the stamp of both the company and the
university, Ng said.  Work Enhancement?  “We hope that these credentials, while they will not
contribute directly toward a degree, will afford students around
the world, of all ages, backgrounds and resources an opportunity
to have a legitimate credential for their work in order to
advance their career or fulfill themselves personally,” Peter Lange, Duke’s provost, said in a statement released by Coursera.  While some universities have teamed up with Coursera and
other online educational providers, many remain skeptical about
the potential of offering free courses that provide access to
top U.S. professors. Only 2.6 percent of U.S. colleges offer
such courses, while an additional 9.4 percent plan to, according
to a survey released yesterday by Babson College in Wellesley,
Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  