-- Duke Takeover of Progress Appealed by Conservation Group
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-01-09T21:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/duke-takeover-of-progress-appealed-by-conservation-group.html
A  North Carolina  conservation group
will appeal the approval by state regulators of  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ’s $17.8 billion purchase of  Progress Energy  Inc.  The North Carolina Waste Awareness & Reduction Network, in
a notice of appeal filed today with the state utilities
commission, said regulators made “numerous errors” in the
approval process.  “In ignoring key merger costs, the North Carolina
Utilities Commission helped lock in Duke’s business plan for
serial rate hikes to build dirty and dangerous power plants
North Carolina does not even need,” Jim Warren, the group’s
executive director, said in a statement.  Duke, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, said in a
statement that the appeal lacks merit.  In November, the commission closed an investigation into
Duke’s takeover of Progress Energy after the company agreed to
replace Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  and guaranteed
$25 million in additional fuel-related cost savings to customers
in the state.  The commission erred in approving the settlement and
denying the conservation group’s request to intervene in the
case, the group said in its filing with the commission giving
its notice of appeal. The group, known as NC Warn, said it filed
a notice with the appellate court earlier today, which couldn’t
be immediately confirmed in court records.  ‘Statutory Authority’  The commission’s order approving the settlement was beyond
its “statutory authority and jurisdiction,” NC Warn said in
the notice of appeal it gave the commission. The decision
violates constitutional provisions, is legally flawed and isn’t
in the public interest, the group said. The commission also
failed to address new and relevant information regarding
significant costs to ratepayers, according to the filing.  “Seventeen confidential settlements with Duke’s big
customers bought support for the merger and could cost small
North Carolina customers billions of dollars over time,” NC
Warn said in its statement.  The six-month-old merger makes “good sense” for Duke’s
customers, Dave Scanzoni, a spokesman for Duke, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Lower Costs  “Since the merger was consummated in July 2012, Duke
Energy’s North Carolina and South Carolina customers have been
benefiting from lower plant fuel costs and a larger, combined
fleet of  power plants  that ensure operational efficiency,”
Scanzoni said.  The takeover by Duke was announced in January 2011 and
created the largest owner of U.S. electric utilities. The deal
closed in July after receiving approval from North Carolina and
South Carolina regulators.  The utilities commission case is In the Matter of
Investigation Regarding the Approval and Closing of the Business
Combination of Duke Energy Corporation and Progress Energy Inc.,
E-7, SUB 1017, State of North Carolina Utilities Commission
(Raleigh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 