-- Lead Traded in London Seen by Credit Suisse Lagging Behind China
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-09T08:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/lead-traded-in-london-seen-by-credit-suisse-lagging-behind-china.html
Lead prices on the  London  Metal
Exchange will underperform  Shanghai  prices that were under
pressure from slumping battery demand in China, the biggest user
of the metal, Credit Suisse Group AG says.  Lead for immediate delivery on the LME jumped 15 percent
since Oct. 26 while prices on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
declined 0.8 percent. The attached chart shows the Shanghai
discount to the LME prices widened to 3,484 yuan ($559.76) a
metric ton on Jan. 2, the most since July 26, 2011.  “Prices in London should start to reflect developments in
China,” Ivan Szpakowski, an analyst at Credit Suisse in
 Singapore , said by phone today. “On a three-month horizon, we
think LME will underperform.”  Inventories of the metal monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange are at a record high of 78,328 metric tons, bourse data
showed last week.  The Shanghai discount to the LME price is calculated
including the 17 percent value-added tax on the metal imported
into  China , plus a 5 percent import duty.  Prices in Shanghai missed the LME rally because demand for
batteries in cars and e-bikes in China slowed, Szpakowski said.
LME prices climbed as investors bought metal on limited supply
in the U.S. and forecasts for global demand to exceed production
next year, according to Szpakowski. “We think the market in the
U.S., while it remains structurally tight, is not quite as bad
right now as it was six months ago. It’s eased slightly in the
U.S.”  Shortage Outlook  Lead is still poised to rise by the end of this year as
demand in China improves and in anticipation of demand exceeding
supply in 2014, Szpakowski said. Lead for delivery in three
months on the LME traded at $2,332 a ton by 8:25 a.m. today,
while the Shanghai price for January delivery settled at 14,995
 yuan  a ton. The LME metal will rise to an average $2,450 a ton
in the fourth quarter from $2,300 a ton in the second quarter,
Credit Suisse forecasts.  “Relatively speaking, compared with other metals, lead has
outperformed in recent months and it’s probably gone to some
degree ahead of its fundamental story,” Szpakowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  