-- East Europe’s GDP Edge on West Wanes in Crisis: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-01-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/east-europe-s-gdp-edge-on-west-wanes-in-crisis-chart-of-the-day.html
Eastern  Europe ’s economic growth
advantage over its western neighbors is narrowing as the
continent’s sovereign debt crisis torpedoes credit and puts a
strain on trade ties.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the gap between eastern and
western European growth rates has plunged from 5.1 percentage
points when nations including  Poland  joined the European Union
in 2004 and will stabilize at about 2 percentage points next
year, according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  Eastern European countries such as the Czech Republic and
 Hungary  rely on markets in the west to buy more than half of
their exports, while the credit dearth plaguing western lenders
spills into the east, where they own about three-quarters of the
region’s banking assets. The euro area will contract this year
and next before posting growth of 1.2 percent in 2014, the
 European Central Bank  predicted on Dec. 6.  “It’s particularly noticeable how the regional growth
forecast is much lower across the region as compared to the
halcyon days” before the 2008 global financial crisis, Tim Ash,
the chief emerging-markets strategist at  Standard Bank  in
London, said by e-mail. “Emerging Europe is clearly facing a
new normal of much lower growth, a reflection of slow growth in
key western European markets, weak banks, lower levels of
foreign investment, fiscal consolidation and efforts at much-
needed structural reform.”  Austerity measures pursued by European governments are
adding to growth concern in the east as tax increases and
spending cuts hurt purchasing power in the west. The economies
of the  Czech Republic , Hungary and Slovenia probably shrank last
year, the European Commission estimates.  Growth in Poland, the largest eastern EU economy, is set to
slow to 1.8 percent this year from 5.1 percent five years ago,
while the three Baltic nations of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia,
will be the fastest growing in Europe in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  