-- Egypt Cuts Size of Dollar Auction After Getting Qatar Cash
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-09T15:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/egypt-cuts-offering-in-dollar-auction-after-qatar-cash-injection.html
Egypt  sold $49.6 million in its
latest foreign currency auction, reducing the amount made
available to banks after it received $2.5 billion from Qatar to
help shore up finances.  The central bank offered $50 million at the sale, down from
$60 million yesterday and as much as $75 million in earlier
sales. Banks could place bids for as much as $7 million each
today, down from $9 million yesterday, according to a central
bank announcement on Bloomberg.  The auctions were introduced Dec. 30 to halt the decline in
Egypt’s  foreign reserves  which left authorities struggling to
avert a run on the currency. The Egyptian pound has fallen 5
percent since then, reaching a record 6.5121 per dollar today.
Central bank management had capped the currency’s losses during
the revolt against  Hosni Mubarak  that began two years ago and
the political turmoil that followed.  The government is seeking to restart talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  on a $4.8 billion loan that it says
will revive investment and encourage other donors. An IMF team
will be back in the country in two or three weeks, President
Mohamed Mursi’s spokesman said yesterday. Mursi delayed the
accord last month when he suspended tax increases linked to an
IMF-backed plan proposed by the government, which is preparing
for parliamentary elections later in the year.  ‘Societal Support’  During an IMF visit this month, Egyptian officials stressed
to the fund the government’s “commitment to an economic and
fiscal reform plan” and to an economic program that enjoys
“societal support,” the prime minister’s office said in a
statement today.  Qatar’s premier Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani said
yesterday that his nation had doubled its deposits in Egypt’s
central bank to $4 billion and raised its grants to Egypt by
another $500 million, bringing its total support for Mursi’s
government to $5 billion.  With Gulf reserves of more than $1 trillion and Qatar’s
interest in the success of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood
administration, “it would be surprising to see Egypt run out of
dollars,” Emad Mostaque, a strategist with Noah Capital Markets
in the U.K., said in an e-mailed note. “Egypt can now
comfortably make it through elections in a couple of months,
after which the increasingly Islamist government will introduce
economic reform through subsidy cuts and tax increases.”  Political Commitment  Mursi’s spokesman Yasser Ali said negotiations with the IMF
would pick up from where they left off and that no change was
expected in the government’s economic program, which had been
presented to the IMF before. The organization has repeatedly
said the program needs broad public support.  The IMF needs “the commitment of the political authorities
that can actually endorse the program, own it and propose it to
the population as theirs,” Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said yesterday.  Mursi’s critics, including secularists and youth activist
groups such as the April 6 movement, say the program offers
little that is concrete. Some have vowed to stage a mass protest
on Jan. 25, the second anniversary of the 2011 uprising, to seek
the repeal of the constitution they say was forced through in a
hastily organized referendum last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  