-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Alcoa Forecast Fuels China View
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-09T22:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/emerging-stocks-rise-as-alcoa-forecast-fuels-china-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days as utilities rebounded and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
predicted stronger demand in the biggest developing nations.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal, rose in Hong Kong as Alcoa’s sales beat estimates.
 Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238) , a Chinese partner of  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , surged the most in 18 months after Credit Suisse
Group AG forecast growth in  China ’s car market. Cia. Energetica
de Sao Paulo, Brazil’s second-biggest power generator, rose the
most in a month to lead gains on the Bovespa.  Vakiflar Bankasi
TAO (VAKBN)  rose to the highest level since 2005 after UBS AG upgraded
the Turkish lender.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.3 percent to
1,073.03 in New York, led by utilities as Brazilian power
producers recovered on speculation yesterday’s slump was
overdone. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, said
yesterday that growth in global demand for the commodity will
recover to 7 percent in 2013 as  China’s economy  rebounds. Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  also forecast increased
consumption in Brazil, India and Russia. The  iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded fund climbed 0.4 percent.  “Most people are comfortable with the story that China is
starting to stabilize and turn up, which is supportive for
emerging markets,”  Win Thin , the global head of emerging-
markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
said by phone today. “Between now and the end of the week we’ll
have some pretty supportive China data that can keep the
emerging markets story going.”  China Expansion  China will report tomorrow that  exports  probably rose 5
percent in December, according to the median of 40 economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shipments from the world’s
biggest exporting nation climbed 2.9 percent in November on an
annual basis. Asia’s biggest economy probably expanded 7.8
percent in the fourth quarter, the median of 29 estimates
collated last month showed, from 7.4 percent in the three months
to Sept. 30. Gross domestic product data is scheduled to be
released next week.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose to $44.44,
the biggest gain in a week. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, dropped 2.2
percent, falling for a second day.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.9 percent, the biggest gain in a
week, while the Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 0.7
percent to close at a record.  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  added 0.4
percent, the highest close since July 1995, while the baht
climbed for a third day. The  Bank of Thailand  kept its policy
interest rate unchanged for a second straight meeting.  ‘Growing Optimism’  “There is growing optimism that China’s economy has
bottomed out and will become the main driver for the global
economy,” Jintana Mekintharanggur, who helps oversee about $164
million as the director of equities investment at Manulife Asset
Management Co. in Bangkok, said by phone. “This should benefit
 developing countries , which have relied on demand from China to
boost exports of their commodity products.”  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 1.2 percent, the first advance
this week, led by solar stocks. China plans to add 10 gigawatts
of solar power capacity this year, more than double its current
level, the National Energy Administration said in a statement on
its website Jan. 8.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest solar-panel
maker, surged 13 percent, while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the nation’s
third-biggest maker of solar panels, rallied to the highest
level in five months.  Ration Electricity  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index added 0.7 percent as the MSCI
Brazil/Utilities Index climbed 2.9 percent, the most since Nov.
23. The Ministry of Energy meet today to discuss reservoir
levels and the risk of energy rationing, while the government is
also considering granting loans to help utilities weather the
rising costs through the BNDES development bank, said Nelson
Leite, president of power distributors association Abradee.  Cesp, as Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo is known, rose 6.7
percent after falling yesterday the most in six weeks amid
concern that water levels at hydropower dams may lead Brazil to
ration electricity. Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, known as
Eletrobras, jumped 4.3 percent, the most in a week.  A gauge of  utility  stocks was the best performer among the
10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , rising
1.3 percent to erase its drop for the week.  China Longyuan Power
Group Corp. (916)  was the biggest gainer on the broader emerging
market gauge, adding 9.6 percent after Deutsche Bank AG named
the company as its top pick in  wind energy  on project
diversification and liquidity in a report dated Jan. 7.  Doubled Deposits  The Mexican IPC index rose 0.7 percent, the most in a week.
Mexican inflation slowed to within the central bank’s target
range in December for the first month since May, supporting
economists’ expectations that policy makers will refrain from
increasing  interest rates  this year.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index advanced 1.1 percent to the highest
level since October. Qatar said yesterday it doubled deposits at
Egypt’s central bank, helping ease a currency crisis. Russia’s
 Micex (INDEXCF)  Index added 0.1 percent following yesterday’s 2.7 percent
rally.  Indonesia’s rupiah rebounded, rallying 1.7 percent against
the dollar after touching a three-year low yesterday as the
government said its failure to reach its spending target last
year crimped economic growth. The Polish zloty strengthened
against the euro, appreciating 0.8 percent to lead gains among
eastern European currencies.  Marek Belka , Narodowy Bank Polski
governor, said the central bank may pause in its easing cycle
after lowering interest rates today for a third month.  Carmakers Gain  MSCI’s developing-nations measure has climbed 1.7 percent
this month, trailing a 2.1 percent increase by the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed-country equities. The emerging-markets index
trades for 11 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit Suisse initiated coverage of Chinese carmakers with
an overweight rating, predicting in a report today that the
passenger vehicle segment will grow between 8 percent and 10
percent in the next three-to-five years.  Guangzhou Automobile jumped 7.4 percent in Hong Kong, its
biggest increase since June 2011.  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) ,
which makes cars with  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , climbed 2.3 percent,
while  BYD Co. (1211) , a Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., surged 9.2 percent to the
highest level since February 13, 2012. BYD’s American depositary
 receipts  rose 9.8 percent over the counter. One receipt equals
two ordinary shares.  Zoomlion’s Earnings  Aluminum Corp. (2600)  rose 1.1 percent in Hong Kong. Shares of
Alcoa fell 0.2 percent in New York today, earlier rallying as
much as 2.5 percent, after the U.S. aluminum producer reported
fourth-quarter sales of $5.9 billion, beating the $5.6 billion
average of 11 estimates.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., China’s
second-biggest construction-equipment maker, slid 6.4 percent in
Hong Kong, the biggest loser in MSCI developing-nation stock
measure. Shares were suspended from trading yesterday.
Zoomlion’s American depositary receipts  fell  3.3 percent today
after falling by the same amount yesterday in U.S. trading. One
receipt equals 10 ordinary shares.  The Changsha, China-based company said yesterday that it
doesn’t exaggerate earnings and that allegations about its
financial information are “false, groundless and misleading.”
The statement was in response to a Ming Pao Daily report based
on an anonymous letter.  Stock Upgrades  Vakifbank climbed 3.6 percent in Istanbul. UBS raised its
recommendation to neutral from sell and increased its price
estimate for the shares to 5.7 liras from 4.45 liras.  OAO Mechel, Russia’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers, slid 2.3 percent, paring yesterday’s 7.1 percent
rally. OAO Magnit, the largest food retailer by market value,
lost 2.2 percent after climbing 3.9 percent yesterday.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  rose 4.2 percent in Mumbai to a record
after Credit Suisse upgraded the stock to outperform, the
equivalent of buy, from underperform.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 261, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  