-- Ending 40-Year Hiatus, Artist Survives Sandy in N.Y. Show
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ending-40-year-hiatus-artist-survives-sandy-in-n-y-show.html
Giorgio Griffa’s first  New York 
exhibition since 1970 opened just four days before  Hurricane
Sandy  flooded  Manhattan ’s Chelsea art district last October.  A five-foot water surge hit the  Casey Kaplan gallery , where
Griffa’s show, “Fragments 1968-2012,” was on view. The deluge
stained Kaplan’s ground-floor space on West 21st Street and
Griffa’s canvases, whose prices range from $17,000 to $80,000.  Most of the paintings need to be restored, a lengthy and
costly process that averages $8,000 per work.  Now the gallery is preparing to reopen its doors tomorrow,
with a new selection of Griffa’s paintings spanning four
decades. The minimal, poetic canvases are pinned, unframed,
directly to the walls with tiny, delicate nails.  “Of course I was going to open with Giorgio’s show,” said
Casey Kaplan. “I owed him that. The guy had waited for 42 years
to have a show in New York.”  Griffa, 76, was born in Turin,  Italy , where he still lives
and works. He hasn’t been represented by a gallery since the
1970s, Kaplan said. Yet he has continued to paint every day,
creating a large body of work. Much of it has never been
exhibited or sold.  His last New York exhibition was with Ileana Sonnabend;
eight years later, in 1978, his work was included in the
international pavilion of the Venice Biennale.  He uses acrylic watercolor on unprimed canvas, applying a
series of vertical and horizontal lines, garlands, zigzags,
blotches and tiny dots that allude to writing and evoke works by
 Cy Twombly , Agnes Martin and Daniel Buren.  Different Light  “The light is different in watercolor than in oil,” said
Griffa in a telephone interview from his studio. “In my work,
there’s memory of Italian painting. The canvas is nude on a
wall. My idea of painting is that it’s never finished.”  When the painting is dry, Griffa folds the canvas as if it
were a blanket or a garment, and stores it away on a shelf.  “There are pieces here that have never been unfolded,”
said Kaplan, pointing at the vertical and horizontal creases
that form as the work ages.  “His work had a tremendous impact in the 1970s, and he’s
been carrying out his research into the relationship between
painting, writing and mark-making ever since,” said Francesco
Manacorda, artistic director of  Tate Liverpool , in a phone
interview. He went to school with Griffa’s son in Turin. “His
investigation looks completely contemporary and fresh.”  ‘Different Project’  A week after the flood, Kaplan flew to Turin to break the
news to Griffa. While there, Kaplan also sold three paintings to
the local museum,  Castello di Rivoli , its first holdings by
Griffa.  “Giorgio was generous and patient,” Kaplan said. “It was
also part of the healing because we started planning a new show
right away.”  The two selected a completely new group of paintings,
spanning more than four decades through 2012.  “The first exhibition was nice but the second is even
better,” Griffa said. “You see, the works need people. Without
people, the work is asleep.”  “Fragments 1968-2012” is on view Jan. 10 through March 2
at 525 W. 21st St.; +1-212-645-7335;
 http://caseykaplangallery.com/ .  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 