-- Lenovo to Begin Selling Smartphone Based on Intel Mobile Chip
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/lenovo-to-begin-selling-smartphone-based-on-intel-mobile-chip.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, is seeking to extend its push
into the smartphone market by becoming first to sell a handset
based on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s latest chip design.  The K900 will work on a new Intel dual-core version of its
Atom processor, the company said. The phone will be sold in
Asia, part of Lenovo’s effort to capture the attention of
consumers there who are upgrading to their first smartphones.  “Like our PCs, we’re going to grow in faster-growing
markets first,” said Nick Reynolds, a Lenovo director of
marketing and strategy. “In 2013, we’re going to bring new
markets online. We’re going to do it with a new phone.”  Lenovo, the second-largest smartphone seller in  China ,
behind  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , more than doubled sales at its
mobile Internet and digital-home unit in the first half of 2012.
The decision by the Chinese company to use Intel is a step
forward in the chipmaker’s effort to gain a foothold in phones,
a market that’s growing faster than PCs, where its technology
dominates.  Santa Clara , California-based Intel has less than 1 percent
of the market for phone processors, compared with more than 80
percent share in chips for PCs, a market that shrank last year
for the first time in more than a decade. In addition to
Beijing-based Lenovo, Intel has recruited  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola
Mobility, China’s  ZTE Corp. (000063) , India’s  Lava International Ltd.  and
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange as phone-chip customers.  The new Lenovo K900 phone, based on a design by Intel,
sports a 5.5-inch screen and has a 13-megapixel camera.  -- Editors: Jillian Ward, Reed Stevenson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 