-- Merkel’s Party Climbs in Poll as FDP Coalition Partner Plunges
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-01-09T08:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/merkel-s-party-climbs-in-poll-as-fdp-coalition-partner-plunges.html
Support for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union-led bloc jumped to the
highest level since she took office in 2005, while her pro-
business Free Democratic coalition partner plunged to 2 percent,
a  voter poll  showed.  Merkel’s CDU and its Bavarian sister party, the CSU,
climbed one percentage point to 42 percent, while the FDP slid 2
points in today’s survey by Forsa GmbH for Stern magazine and
broadcaster RTL. The opposition Social Democrats, seeking to
oust Merkel under former Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck , fell
2 points to 25 percent, the poll showed.  Merkel’s bounce comes as Steinbrueck confronts criticism
over comments that the chancellor’s salary is too low and the
FDP becomes entangled in a leadership battle. While the German
leader has extended her lead over the opposition, the FDP’s
languishing popularity would make her unable to continue her
current government coalition with the election nine months away.
The FDP would miss the five percent threshold needed to enter
parliament going by today’s result.  With the  Green Party ’s support at 15 percent, Merkel could
forge a coalition with the environmental party or be forced back
into a so-called Grand Coalition with the SPD that she oversaw
from 2005 to 2009 with Steinbrueck as her finance minister. Her
bloc has benefited from the decline of the FDP, Forsa director
Manfred Guellner said.  Leadership Crisis  Almost half of the 15 percent of voters who backed the FDP
four years ago now support Merkel’s CDU and the Bavarian
 Christian Social Union , Guellner said in Stern.  The leadership crisis with the FDP under Chairman Philipp Roesler,  Germany ’s economy minister, deepened at a Jan. 6 party
meeting, when top party member Dirk Niebel suggested a
leadership reshuffle should take place before a Jan. 20 state
election in  Lower Saxony .  “We must make our decisions swiftly and we cannot make
them on the basis of state elections,” Niebel, Germany’s
development minister, told party delegates. “Germany needs a
strong FDP now.”  Meanwhile the SPD’s Steinbrueck, under fire for paid
speeches to business associations and banks, compounded the ire
by telling the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  on Dec. 30
that some bank directors earn more than the German chancellor.  “The people view him more negatively at this point,”
Guellner said of Steinbrueck. The poll surveyed 1,503 German
voters between Jan. 2-4 and has a 2.5 percent margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  