-- EU Carbon Permits Drop to One-Week Low as Auction Volumes Rise
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-09T17:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/eu-carbon-permits-drop-to-one-week-low-as-auction-volumes-rise.html
European Union carbon allowances fell
to the lowest in a week as German power dropped to a record and
nations boosted the number of permits sold in auctions.  EU permits for delivery in December declined 4 percent to
close at 6.21 euros ($8.11) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London.  German baseload power for next year lost 0.4 percent to
44.75 euros a megawatt-hour, broker data show. Lower prices can
reduce the incentive to sell electricity forward, trimming need
for allowances.  Carbon has dropped 16 percent in the past year and the EU
commission in Brussels, which regulates the market, proposed in
November to temporarily reduce the volume sold in auctions
planned for the next three years. The amount offloaded will rise
to 18.8 million tons next week from 14.7 million tons this week,
according to data from exchange websites. That’s the biggest
weekly volume scheduled to be sold in 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Auctions held Jan. 7 and Jan. 8 attracted 14 bidders each,
according to data from the website of the European Energy
Exchange AG in Leipzig,  Germany .  “There are lots of auctions going on,” said Matteo Mazzoni, a NE Nomisma Energia Srl analyst in Bologna,  Italy .
“There weren’t many people participating,” he said today in a
phone interview.  Carbon may not fall much more over the next couple of weeks
and then will probably drop below 5 euros next month when
factories receive confirmation of the volume of allowances they
will receive for free for the year, Mazzoni said.  In past years factories have sold after getting granted
permits, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  