-- EU Lawmaker Seeks Clear Rules on Aviation Carbon Curbs Freeze
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-09T13:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/eu-lawmaker-seeks-clear-rules-on-aviation-carbon-curbs-freeze.html
The European Union must not prolong a
freeze on emissions-trading obligations on foreign flights
beyond 2013 to keep pressure on countries worldwide to impose
pollution curbs on the industry, according to an EU lawmaker.  The EU should clarify in draft legislation that it expects
the United Nations International Civil Aviation Organization to
agree this year on “a global market-based measure with a
realistic timetable for implementation,” Peter Liese, a German
member of the European Parliament, said in a report. Countries
in ICAO should also agree on national and regional systems
before a global deal is enacted, said Liese, who oversees the
measure in the EU parliament.  The assembly’s environment committee is considering a
proposal by the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, to
defer by a year compliance with the bloc’s carbon rules for
flights into and out of the region. The freeze proposed in
November is intended to facilitate international talks about
emission curbs on airlines.  “The commission proposal gives the opportunity to make
unambiguously clear that it is not the EU which stands in the
way of an international agreement,” Liese said in the draft
 report  published on the parliament’s website. He recommended a
“quick” adoption on the measure with seven amendments aimed at
ensuring legal security.  The 27-nation EU decided in 2008 that flights to and from
European airports should be included within the bloc’s emissions
trading system, the world’s largest, from 2012 after airline
emissions in the region doubled over two decades. The
enlargement of the European cap-and-trade program triggered
opposition from countries including the U.S.,  China  and  Russia ,
who said ICAO is the forum to decide about pollution curbs.  EU Expectations  Should negotiators worldwide fail to reach a deal this
year, the EU ETS requirements for all flights will automatically
resume, obliging carriers to submit permits to cover all their
2013 carbon discharges by April 30, 2014, under the commission’s
proposal last year. The measure should include an amendment to
clearly define EU expectations regarding the outcome of the ICAO
meeting, Liese said in his report.  “It has to be clarified that a global agreement that
satisfactorily covers airlines’ emissions will not be in place
by the end of 2013,” according to the document. “That is why
in the meantime a framework for regional and national schemes
needs to be adopted. However, the EU should not accept a
situation where the current legislation is just abolished in the
light of an only potential agreement under ICAO.”  Draft Measure  The draft measure proposed by the commission will need
support from member states and the parliament in a process that
can take several months. A delay in approval beyond the
compliance deadline of April 30 should not impact the proposed
freeze as national governments don’t act against a proposal
tabled by the commission in such situations, the EU has said.  The parliament has set April 15 as an indicative date for a
plenary vote, according to its website.  The EU ETS is the cornerstone of the bloc’s plan to cut
 greenhouse gases  that scientists blame for global warming. It
imposes pollution limits on about 12,000 manufacturers and power
companies, leading to a cap in 2020 that will be 21 percent
below 2005 discharges. Emitters have to submit one emission
permit for every metric ton of CO2 they discharge or pay a fine
of 100 euros per ton.  The annual limit for the aviation industry began at 97
percent of average discharges from 2004 to 2006 and will fall to
95 percent in 2013. Under the region’s law, the commission
should consider whether changes to the emissions  program  are
necessary in the light of a global agreement.  Airlines that joined the ETS this year were given emission
permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap for free and
will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at auctions. They can
also trade among themselves. The proposed freeze would affect
around two-thirds of flights, the EU has said.  To enable the auctioning of a reduced number of allowances
Liese proposed member states sell 15 percent of “the overall
amount of aviation allowances in circulation in the year 2012,”
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  