-- Ex-Barclays Trader Ek Hires Mancebo for Europe Hedge Fund
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-01-09T08:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ex-barclays-trader-ek-hires-mancebo-for-europe-power-hedge-fund.html
Ulf Ek, a former power trader at
Barclays Plc and Amaranth Advisors LLC, has made his first hire
at hedge fund Northlander Commodity Advisors LLC.  Luis Adrian Mancebo Lomeli joined Northlander in London
this month, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the appointment
hasn’t been made public. Mancebo was a power and energy trader
at Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s biggest utility,
Constellation Energy Group Inc. and  Sempra Energy (SRE) , and most
recently a property developer in  South America , one of the
people said.  Northlander has received  seed capital  from a private source
and is yet to market the fund to outside investors, one of the
people said. Ek, a 41-year-old Swedish national, also traded
power at Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, the $39 billion
fund co-founded by  Alan Howard , and Enron Corp. He left Barclays
in September 2011 as part of an exodus that saw the bank lose
the majority of a team of the most successful gas and power
traders in Europe in less than 16 months.  Northlander starts after a year in which some of the
biggest commodity hedge funds stopped trading. BlueGold Capital
Management LLP, the $1 billion energy hedge fund co-founded by
 Pierre Andurand , liquidated after losing 34 percent in 2011 and
Fortress Investment Group LLC shut a $500 million commodities
fund after it lost almost 13 percent in four months.  Northlander has been registered with the U.K. Financial
Services Authority since January 2012 and incorporated at
Companies House since December 2011, records show.  German power  for 2013 delivery, the European benchmark,
slumped 4.3 percent in December, the biggest monthly decline
since June 2011, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.
It dropped to a record 44 euros a megawatt-hour on Dec. 27 as
day-ahead prices turned negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  