-- Ex-SAC Analyst Gets Two Years’ Probation in Insider Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-09T23:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ex-sac-analyst-gets-two-years-probation-in-insider-case-1-.html
Wesley Wang, a former analyst for SAC
Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma Capital unit who cooperated with the
government’s investigation of  insider trading , was sentenced to
two years’ probation.  Wang recorded phone calls and wore a body wire,
incriminating about 20 people in insider trading, some of whom
haven’t yet been charged, prosecutors said. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, citing Wang’s cooperation, today sentenced him to
probation, instead of as many as 37 months in prison called for
in federal sentencing guidelines.  “I apologize to the court and the public for breaking the
insider trading laws,” Wang, 39, told Rakoff in a hearing in
 Manhattan  federal court. “I’ve tried to make up for all the
mistakes I’ve made. I hope your honor can see that I’ve left my
former life behind and have started on a new path.”  Wang pleaded guilty last year to passing illegal tips to
former Sigma Capital portfolio manager Dipak Patel and to
Whitman Capital LLC hedge fund founder Doug Whitman. Wang’s
testimony at Whitman’s criminal trial helped lead to his
conviction on charges of conspiracy and securities fraud,
prosecutors said.  ‘Truthful’ Witness  “I found Mr. Wang to be a totally truthful witness,” said
Rakoff, who presided over Whitman’s trial.  Patel, who ran a five-person team investigating technology
stocks before leaving SAC in 2011, hasn’t been charged with a
crime.  Wang is one of eight current or former SAC employees linked
by government prosecutors and regulators to insider trading
while at the firm. They include Mathew Martoma, a former SAC
portfolio manager who is charged with using inside information
about the clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s drug to help SAC make
$276 million in profits and averted losses. Prosecutors have
called it the largest insider-trading scheme in history.  Martoma is charged with passing inside information on the
drug trial to  Steven Cohen , SAC’s founder, who allegedly used it
to liquidate a $700 million position in the companies promoting
the drug. Cohen hasn’t been charged.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, has said that Cohen and SAC did nothing wrong.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 12-cr-541, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  