-- Ex-SAC Analyst Wang Seeks Leniency for Cooperation
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-09T13:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ex-sac-analyst-wang-seeks-leniency-for-cooperation.html
Wesley Wang, a former analyst for SAC
Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma Capital unit, will ask for probation
and prosecutors will seek leniency at his sentencing for
 insider-trading  crimes because he identified about 20 people who
allegedly traded on illicit tips.  Wang, 39, who worked as a semiconductor analyst at Sigma
Capital from 2002 to 2005, is set to be sentenced today in
 Manhattan  federal court by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff. Wang
faces as long as 10 years in prison for two counts of conspiracy
under federal statutes.  He pleaded guilty last year to passing illegal tips to
former Sigma Capital portfolio manager Dipak Patel and to
Whitman Capital LLC hedge fund founder Doug Whitman. According
to a letter to Rakoff from U.S. prosecutors, Wang gave federal
agents the names of about 20 people he said had traded on
illegal inside information, some of whom are uncharged targets
of the government’s investigation.  Wang’s testimony at Whitman’s criminal trial helped lead to
his conviction on charges of conspiracy and securities fraud,
prosecutors said in the letter, dated Jan. 2. Patel, who ran a
five-person team investigating technology stocks before leaving
SAC in 2011, hasn’t been charged with a crime.  “Wang has also identified a number of individuals involved
in insider trading whom the FBI has not yet approached and/or
whom the government has not yet charged,” Assistant U.S.
Attorneys Christopher LaVigne and Jillian Berman said in the
letter, parts of which were redacted. “These individuals have
been identified as subjects of criminal investigations,” they
wrote.  ‘Full Extent’  “The full extent of Wang’s information and cooperation
remains to be realized,” LaVigne and Berman said in the letter.  Steven Cohen  is the founder of SAC Capital. He hasn’t been
charged with any wrongdoing.  Wang is one of eight current or former SAC employees linked
by government prosecutors and regulators to insider trading
while at the firm. They include Mathew Martoma, a former SAC
portfolio manager who is charged with using inside information
about the clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s drug to help SAC make
$276 million in profits and averted losses. Prosecutors have
called it the largest insider-trading scheme in history.  Martoma is charged with passing inside information on the
drug trial to Cohen, who allegedly used it to liquidate a
$700 million position in the companies promoting the drug.  Nothing Wrong  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on the prosecutors’ letter.  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC has $14 billion under management. Gasthalter has said Cohen
and SAC did nothing wrong.  Wang was an intern for Whitman’s firm before leaving to
work for SAC in 2002. He told jurors that he and Whitman, whom
he called a friend and mentor, exchanged tips on  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   Prosecutors said Wang also admitted sharing illegal tips
with his bosses at Trellus Management Co., where he worked as a
consultant from 2005 to 2008. Wang’s Trellus bosses weren’t
named in the letter.  Adam Usdan, a spokesman for New York-based Trellus, didn’t
return a phone message seeking comment.  In the letter, LaVigne and Berman said agents with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  learned from an unnamed
cooperating source in 2008 that Wang was involved in insider
trading. The source recorded incriminating telephone calls and
meetings with Wang, they said.  Tapped Phones  From November 2008 to January 2009, the FBI tapped Wang’s
phones, the prosecutors said. He later agreed to cooperate with
the government’s insider-trading investigation, using recorded
phone calls and meetings to gather incriminating evidence on
people with whom he had exchanged inside information, according
to the letter.  “Wang’s information and consensually recorded telephone
calls and meetings enabled the FBI to pursue various avenues in
insider trading investigations, which yielded tremendous
success,” LaVigne and Berman said in the letter. “The
importance of Wang’s information in this regard cannot be
overstated.”  At Whitman’s trial, prosecutors played wiretapped
recordings and displayed instant messages in which Wang and
Whitman discussed stocks and their sources of confidential
information about companies.  “Please stay quiet about it,” Wang said in a series of
instant messages to Whitman about information Wang testified he
had provided about  Cisco Systems . “I’m getting paranoid. OK?
Just do what you need to do but don’t tell anyone.”  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 12-cr-541, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  