-- Mexican Inflation Slows to Within its Target in December
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-01-09T17:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/mexico-inflation-slows-to-target-range-for-first-time-since-may.html
Mexican  inflation  slowed to within
its target range in December for the first time in seven months,
supporting economists’ forecast that the central bank will keep
 interest rates  at a record low this year.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.57 percent, below the 4
percent top end of the bank’s goal, Mexico’s statistics agency
said today. Prices rose 0.23 percent from a month earlier, less
than the 0.34 percent median estimate of 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Inflation has eased from a 30-month high of 4.77 percent in
September as economic growth slows and food-price gains weaken
after jumps caused by drought and an outbreak of bird flu.
Concern that growth in the U.S.,  Mexico ’s biggest trading
partner, will slow may also prevent policy makers from raising
rates, said Rafael de la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG.  “There’s no reason why you shouldn’t continue to see low
prints on inflation,” de la Fuente said in a telephone
interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The base scenario has to
be one where the central bank remains on hold.”  The cost of mobile phone service tumbled 20 percent in
December after regulators moved to increase competition, Inegi
said. Core prices excluding energy and food costs rose 0.12
percent.  Key Rate  Economists forecast the central bank will keep its
benchmark lending rate at 4.5 percent until March 2014, when it
will raise it to 4.75 percent, according to the median estimate
in a survey published Jan. 7 by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Banamex unit.
Consumer prices will increase 3.79 percent this year, according
to the median projection in the survey.  Mexico’s inflation-linked bonds declined after the
inflation report, pushing yields to a seven-month high. The
yield on the notes, known as Udibonos, maturing in 2014 rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.22 percent at 11:20
a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso strengthened 0.5 percent today to 12.7430 per U.S.
dollar, extending its gain in 2013 to 0.9 percent. The peso
rallied 8.4 percent last year, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s economy has been slowing since the second quarter
of last year. Growth eased to 3.3 percent in the third quarter
from 4.4 percent in the previous three months as business
investment in the U.S slowed on concern Congress would fail to
avoid $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  Crisis Averted  The U.S. Congress last week reached a compromise that
averted the so-called fiscal cliff. At the same time, a battle
still looms over raising the $16.4 trillion debt limit, and on
automatic spending reductions, known as sequestration, that were
delayed for two months.  “The first thing you’ve got to get out of the way is any
lingering doubts about the U.S. fiscal cliff,” de la Fuente
said.  Growth in Mexico will start rebounding in the second
quarter and the second biggest economy in Latin America will
expand 3.5 percent in 2013, almost double the U.S., according to
median estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Foreign companies are stepping up to take advantage.
 Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , the largest U.S. paint retailer, in
November agreed to acquire closely held Consorcio Comex SA de
CV, Mexico’s largest paint maker, for about $2.34 billion
including debt as housing demand improves.  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV (ABI)  in June agreed to pay $20.1 billion for the half of Grupo
Modelo SAB, Mexico’s largest brewer, that it didn’t already own
to speed up its push into faster-growing developing countries.  Inflation Outlook  Central bank minutes from a Nov. 30 meeting published on
Dec. 14 said that the inflation outlook has improved “at the
margins” and reiterated that policy makers may consider raising
rates if new inflation shocks arise. Most board members said
higher-than-expected prices set by the government could trigger
inflation.  Energy prices climbed 5.62 percent in December from a year
earlier, according to the statistics agency, as the government
reduced subsidies on gasoline prices.  Taxes on vehicles could also spur faster inflation, said
Delia Paredes, an economist Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.
Governments in Mexican states including Chiapas and Sonora have
agreed to implement a local-level car tax to replace a federal
duty that expired in 2011, while Mexico City plans to expand its
own duty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 