-- Finally, the SEC Goes After a Failed Bank’s Auditors
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-01-09T18:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/finally-the-sec-goes-after-a-failed-bank-s-auditors.html
(Corrects second paragraph to reflect that TierOne Corp.
based in Lincoln,  Nebraska , not Omaha.)  The Securities and Exchange
Commission is finally doing something that desperately needed to
be done: Suing the auditors of a failed bank that got caught
cooking its books.  Today the SEC’s enforcement division  accused  two
accountants at  KPMG  LLP of engaging in unprofessional conduct
during their 2008 audit of TierOne Corp., a Lincoln, Nebraska-
based lender that had about $3 billion in assets when it
collapsed in 2010. The agency hasn’t reached settlements with
either of the men, John Aesoph, 40, and Darren Bennett, 35, and
their lawyers didn’t immediately return phone calls.  The SEC’s administrative  order  accuses the pair of
“failing to subject TierOne’s loan loss estimates -- one of the
highest risk areas of the audit -- to appropriate scrutiny.” It
also said they “violated numerous PCAOB audit standards, failed
to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support
their audit conclusions, and failed to exercise due professional
care and appropriate professional skepticism.” (PCAOB stands
for  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board .)  The SEC already  had filed  accounting-fraud claims against
three former TierOne executives, two of whom reached settlements
and paid fines last September. As  I asked  at the time: When will
the SEC finally go after the auditors? At least in these
particular auditors’ instance, the answer is today.  It was TierOne’s regulator, the U.S. Office of Thrift
Supervision, that caught the bank’s accounting manipulations --
not KPMG, which continually blessed TierOne’s financial
statements and resigned as auditor only weeks before the bank
failed in 2010. Last year TierOne’s Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee
sued KPMG, accusing it of negligence and breaches of fiduciary
duty. The SEC didn’t file claims against KPMG itself today.  It has been frustrating to look at the SEC’s  own highlights 
of the lawsuits it has filed in connection with the financial
crisis -- and to see that none of them had been against an
auditor. Now the SEC will have one case to cite, albeit against
a couple of small fries. It also should be stressed that the
agency hasn’t proved any of its allegations against these two
accountants. Surely the SEC can find some bigger targets out
there in the auditing world if it wants to.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the
Ticker .
 