-- Finland’s Recession May Have Extended Into Fourth Quarter
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-01-09T09:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/finland-s-recession-may-have-extended-into-fourth-quarter-1-.html
Finland’s economic contraction
continued in October, signaling the country’s recession may have
extended into the fourth quarter.  Gross domestic product  adjusted for the number of working
days shrank an annual 0.7 percent in October, after a  revised 
1.6 percent drop the month before, Helsinki-based Statistics
Finland said on its  website .  The economy, which relies on exports for a third of its
output, sank into a recession in the second quarter, hurt by a
contraction in the euro area. Manufacturing and construction
shrank an annual 1 percent in October, while service output
remained unchanged from a year ago, the statistics office said.  “We need more jobs and faster economic growth,” Finance
Minister Jutta Urpilainen said, according to an e-mailed copy of
a speech given to her Social Democratic Party today. “Export
industries have a significant role in the Finnish economy.”  Finnish exports to the European Union fell an annual 10
percent in November. The drop was led by a decline in sales of
electronics, iron and steel, the latest data by Finnish Customs
showed Jan. 7.  The Tsunami  Manufacturers, including engineering company  Metso Oyj (MEO1V)  and
papermaker  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V) , are moving production closer to
their customers in  emerging markets  in response to a global
shift in demand. UPM’s Raflatac label-making unit is investing
in  China  and Vietnam, and has opened distribution terminals in
Mexico City and Buenos Aires in the past year.  Metso plans to expand its biomass business in China and
 India  as growing urban populations drive up energy demand, while
European governments cut back support for clean power, Martin
Ridderheim, vice president of Helsinki-based Metso’s power
business, said on Nov. 8.  “Our industry has been challenged by a quiet tsunami over
a longer period,” Urpilainen said. “60,000 industrial jobs
have disappeared in the past four years. We must ensure our
export industries remain competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  