-- Finland Fiscal Talks Set Fate of Best AAA: Nordic Credit
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-01-09T07:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/finland-fiscal-talks-set-fate-of-best-aaa-nordic-credit.html
Finland , whose bonds were the best
performing among AAA rated nations last year, now faces tough
choices on spending and taxes to maintain its pre-eminence.  The government is gearing up for talks that risk revealing
fissures in the six-party coalition over how to balance the
budget and foster growth amid a fifth year of deficits. It must
guard against excessive spending cuts that would kill economic
momentum, said Kim Pessala, chief investment officer at Evli
Bank Oyj.  “Too much growth-busting austerity would be a real
mistake,” Pessala, who helps manage 6.5 billion euros ($8.5
billion) in assets, said by phone. Finland needs “a balanced
solution ensuring the  budget deficit  doesn’t balloon and
economic growth gets the boost it needs.”  A recession that started in the second quarter is cutting
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s room to maneuver as he prepares
for the March spending talks. He has said that retaining the
country’s AAA credit rating and stopping debt growth by 2015 are
the government’s overarching fiscal policy goals. Finnish bonds
are off to a losing start this year, sliding 1.2 percent,
according to Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  The premier, who heads the National Coalition Party, favors
stimulus and spending cuts over higher taxes, while Social
Democratic Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen is pushing to avoid
reducing expenses. Finland’s fiscal challenges didn’t deter
investors last year amid a debt crisis in the euro area, where
the country is one of only four with a top rating.  Best Return  Finnish bonds returned 7.23 percent last year, topping the
4.46 percent gain for German debt and 5.8 percent for Dutch
bonds. Neighboring AAA rated Nordic countries also had lower
returns, with  Sweden  gaining 1.6 percent, Denmark 3.88 percent
and Norway 2.87 percent.  “Finland wants to hold on to its haven status and
investors’ strong faith in its bonds,” Jan von Gerich, chief
analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki, said by phone. “That may
happen at the expense of economic growth.”  Economic growth since 2010 hasn’t been enough to offset the
8.5 percent slump in gross domestic product in 2009. The
government is struggling with  elevated unemployment , lower  tax
revenue  and higher benefit spending. The aging population is
also weighing on fiscal policy leeway as more people quit the
work force than enter. Finland’s recession may have continued in
the fourth quarter, according to trend indicator data published
today that showed a 0.7 percent annual contraction in October,
after a 1.6 percent drop in September.  Forecast Recovery  The economy of 5.4 million people will grow 0.5 percent
this year after an estimated contraction of 0.1 percent in 2012,
the  Finance Ministry  said Dec. 20. The budget will be 1.5
percent in deficit in 2013 and 0.9 percent in 2014.  The yield on Finland’s benchmark 10-year note was little
changed at 1.69 percent as of 8:42 a.m. in Helsinki. That’s
about 19 basis points more than similar-maturity German bunds.
The spread was as narrow as eight basis points in August.  “The yields are so low it’s hard to see them declining
further,” Pessala said. “They may start rising this year if
the  inflation rate  remains at this level as we have negative
real rates and that’s not sustainable in the long run.”  Consumer prices in the euro area rose an annual 2.2 percent
last month even as the 17-nation single currency region suffers
from a recession. Katainen’s government has agreed on 2.3
billion euros of austerity measures for this year, swelling the
amount to 5.9 billion euros by 2016.  More Austerity  The steps include raising value added tax rates by 1
percentage point to 24 percent this month. Another 1 billion
euros of austerity is necessary if policy makers aim to reach
the goal of ending debt growth by 2015, Bank of Finland Governor
Erkki Liikanen said on Dec. 13.  Katainen’s government is seeking ways to make people work
longer, to both starting earlier and retiring later. Finns’
average retirement age was 61.7 years in 2009, compared with the
European Union average of 61.4 years, according to  latest data 
by Eurostat, the union’s statistics office. Swedes retired on
average at the age of 64.3 that year. Even so, Urpilainen has
ruled out raising the pension age before the next general
election.  The government is also working to encourage municipalities
to merge into bigger entities better able to provide services,
such as health care, to the aging population.  “Combining focused stimulus in the short run with some
medium-term reforms would be a sustainable solution,” von
Gerich said. “Structural reforms would need to tackle the
problems caused by the aging population and rising health-care
costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  