-- First Quantum Says It’s Confident Inmet Bid Will Get Support
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-09T21:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/first-quantum-says-it-s-confident-inmet-offer-will-get-support.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , a
producer of copper in  Africa , said it’s confident a C$5.1
billion ($5.2 billion) hostile bid for Inmet Mining Corp. will
succeed after holding talks with shareholders.  First Quantum today took its C$72-a-share offer in cash and
stock straight to Inmet investors as it seeks to gain control of
a copper project in Panama. The offer requires acceptance by
holders of 66 percent of Inmet shares. First Quantum said it’s
been in talks with shareholders since December.  “The feedback from both sides has been very positive,”
 Clive Newall , president of First Quantum, said in an interview
today in London. “They can see the rationale for this
transaction.”  The offer is 36 percent more than Inmet’s closing price on
Nov. 27, the day before Toronto-based Inmet said it rejected two
previous unsolicited proposals from First Quantum. Inmet has to
respond to the offer by Jan. 24 while shareholders have until
Feb. 14 to decide whether to back it, Newall said. First Quantum
has asked Inmet to open up its books, he said.  “We are confident, as confident as you can be, to get the
required support of the shareholders,” Newall said in the
interview. “We believe that sort of price is the price that
will get the two-thirds of shareholders across the line.”  First Quantum dropped 4.4 percent to C$20.59 at the close
in Toronto, while  Inmet (IMN)  was unchanged at C$72.25.  Carefully Evaluate  “The Inmet board will carefully evaluate the terms of
First Quantum’s unsolicited bid,” Chairman David Beatty said in
a statement. Inmet has set up a special committee to review the
offer, he said. It will also examine other strategic options,
some of which pre-date First Quantum’s approach.  Inmet stockholders are being offered First Quantum shares,
cash, or a combination of both resulting in a total mix of about
50 percent in shares and 50 percent in cash. The cash component
of the latest offer will be financed through existing cash
resources, undrawn financing facilities of $1.25 billion and a
$2.5 billion acquisition facility provided by Standard Chartered
Bank, First Quantum said.  Cobre  Panama  is the second-largest copper venture under
construction, after Rio Tinto Group’s Oyu Tolgoi mine in
Mongolia, according to a November presentation posted on Inmet’s
website. The project will cost about $6.2 billion and produce an
average of 266,000 metric tons a year of the metal, which has
more than quadrupled in price in the past 10 years in New York.  Rival Bid  First Quantum doesn’t expect a rival bid for Inmet because
it wouldn’t be possible to reduce the cost of Cobre Panama by
outsourcing most of the work, Newall said. First Quantum builds
as much as 95 percent of its projects with its own staff while
other mining companies employ contractors, he said.  “We don’t really expect any interlopers,” Newall said.
“It does look like Chinese groups are exercising discipline,
they aren’t paying too much.”  Other potential buyers would have little opportunity to cut
costs at the project, he said.  First Quantum will only find out how much it can reduce
costs at Cobre once it’s carried out due diligence.  “We know we can cut the capital by a significant amount,”
Newall said. “But how much we can’t say before the due
diligence.”  First Quantum is developing the Sentinel copper project in
 Zambia  which will produce as much as 300,000 tons of the metal
by the end of 2014 at a cost of about $1.7 billion, the company
said last month. Costs are lower than at Cobre Panama because
First Quantum is mainly using its own staff, Newall said.  Sixth-Biggest  First Quantum operates the Kansanshi copper mine in Zambia,
the Guelb Moghrein copper and gold mine in  Mauritania , the
Ravensthorpe nickel facility in Australia and Kevista in
 Finland . First Quantum is the world’s 13th-largest copper
producer and predicts it will become the sixth-biggest in 2016,
it said last year.  Inmet operates mines in Finland, Spain and  Turkey .  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK)  is its largest shareholder with a 16 percent
stake and Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd.,  Singapore ’s state
investment company, has 11 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  First Quantum made an offer of C$62.50 a share for Inmet on
Oct. 28 and another at C$70 on Nov. 25, before announcing Dec.
16 it would take a sweetened C$72 a share bid straight to Inmet
shareholders.  Inmet said Nov. 28 it adopted a shareholder-rights plan, or
poison pill, to block an unsolicited bid.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Jefferies Group Inc. and RBC
Capital Markets are advising First Quantum. CIBC World Markets
and law firm Torys LLP are advising Inmet. Scotiabank is
financial adviser and Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP is legal
counsel to the special committee of the Inmet Board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  