-- First Quantum Takes C$5.1 Billion Inmet Mining Bid Hostile
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-01-09T09:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/first-quantum-takes-c-5-1-billion-bid-for-inmet-mining-hostile.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , a
producer of copper in Africa, took its C$5.1 billion ($5.17
billion) bid for  Inmet (IMN)  Mining Corp. straight to shareholders as
it seeks control of a project in  Panama .  First Quantum’s C$72-a-share offer in cash and stock is 36
percent more than Inmet’s closing price on Nov. 27, the day
before Toronto-based Inmet said it had rejected two unsolicited
proposals. The bid will expire Feb. 14 and requires acceptance
by holders of 66 percent of Inmet shares, First Quantum said
today in a statement.  “We are taking the significant step of making this
proposal directly to Inmet shareholders and requesting their
support,” Chief Executive Officer Philip Pascall said in the
statement. “First Quantum and Inmet are very complementary in
terms of their copper focus.”  The deal, the biggest hostile bid by a mining company since
BHP Billiton Ltd. withdrew a $40 billion offer for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010, would help First Quantum diversify
geographically and increase its output, President  Clive Newall 
said on a Dec. 17 conference call. The Vancouver-based company
can develop projects more cheaply than its peers and would use
its expertise to cut the cost of building Inmet’s Cobre Panama
project, he said.  First Quantum’s  London  traded shares fell 1.6 percent to
1,330 pence as of 9:15 a.m. local time. The offer isn’t subject
to any financing conditions or approval from First Quantum
shareholders, according to the statement.  ‘Broadly Skeptical’  “We remain broadly skeptical of the rationale for the bid
and believe a major merger and acquisition now distracts from
First Quantum’s already impressive standalone growth platform,”
Nomura International Plc wrote in a note.  Founded in 1996 by Pascall, First Quantum operates the
Kansanshi copper mine in  Zambia , the Guelb Moghrein copper and
gold mine in Mauritania and the Ravensthorpe nickel facility in
 Australia . First Quantum is the world’s 13th-largest copper
producer and predicts it will become the sixth-biggest in 2016,
it said last year.  Cobre Panama is the second-largest copper venture under
construction, after Rio Tinto’s Oyu Tolgoi mine in  Mongolia ,
according to a November presentation posted on Inmet’s website.
The project will cost about $6.2 billion and produce an average
of 266,000 metric tons a year of the metal, which has more than
quadrupled in price in the past 10 years in  New York .  Finland, Spain  Inmet also operates mines in Finland, Spain and Turkey.
 Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  is its largest shareholder with a 16
percent stake and Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd., Singapore’s state
investment company, has 11 percent, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  First Quantum made an offer of C$62.50 a share for Inmet on
Oct. 28 and another at C$70 on Nov. 25, before announcing Dec.
16 it would take a sweetened C$72 a share bid straight to Inmet
shareholders.  The cash component of the latest offer will be financed
through existing cash resources, undrawn financing facilities of
$1.25 billion and a $2.5 billion acquisition facility provided
by Standard Chartered Bank, the company said today.  Inmet said Nov. 28 it adopted a shareholder-rights plan, or
poison pill, to block an unsolicited bid.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Jefferies Group Inc. and  RBC
Capital Markets  are advising First Quantum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  