-- Flu Hitting U.S. Fast as Insurers Brace for Claims
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-09T20:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/flu-hitting-u-s-fast-as-insurers-brace-for-claims.html
The U.S. influenza season is off to a
fast start, which may hurt insurers, hospitals and people lulled
by the milder outbreaks of the recent past.  The number of flu cases began to rise in November and
reached an elevated level in December, a month earlier than
usual, said Michael Jhung, a medical officer with the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s influenza unit.
About 5.6 percent of all doctor visits in the U.S. now are for
influenza, according to the Atlanta-based agency. That compares
with 2.2 percent of visits at the peak of the season last year.  Companies most affected by the early start include insurers
like  Centene (CNC)  Corp.,  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  and  Humana Inc. (HUM) ,
said Michael Manns, a Bloomberg Industries analyst in Princeton,
New Jersey. They have the largest exposure in states such as
Florida, Texas and  Georgia , where the virus is widespread,
indicating their medical costs could rise as a result.  “These companies have a larger percentage of their
enrollment in states with a high incidence of the flu,” Manns
said in a telephone interview. “If we look at those who are
slanted toward older patients, we’ll see an increase in doctor
office visits and hospital outpatient visits. That will probably
drive utilization higher rate than people may have
anticipated.”  Hospital companies including  Health Management Associates
Inc. (HMA)  and  Vanguard Health Systems Inc. (VHS)  are likely to take a hit
from the influenza outbreak because 93 percent of their beds are
in the 25 states reporting elevated flu levels, Manns said. The
spread of the virus will boost emergency room visits by the
uninsured, which cuts revenue rates per patient, he said.  Severe Outbreaks  The most prevalent strain of the virus, known as H3N2, has
been linked to severe flu  outbreaks  in the past. The last time
the season peaked this early was in 2004, when there were 50,000
deaths, said Brad Tebbets, an infectious disease health-care
analyst at GlobalData, a London-based business intelligence
provider. It’s not clear if rates this year are still rising.  “It’s early, there is a lot of influenza activity and it
may occur for some time,” Jhung said in a telephone interview.
“I don’t know if we are at the peak now in the current season,
or if it may be increasing further.”  Google Trends  Flu activity is higher on Google Inc.’s  Flu Trends  function
than it has been any time in the past six years, in addition to
peaking earlier. The chart is an aggregation of search terms
that indicate people are looking for information about the
virus, and is often a leading indicator for higher rates later
reported by the CDC.  In the city of  Boston , Mayor Thomas Menino declared a
public-health emergency. There have been about 700 confirmed
cases of influenza already this year, 10 times more than the 70
seen in all of last year’s flu season in the city.  “This is the worst flu season we’ve seen since 2009, and
people should take the threat of flu seriously,” Menino said in
a  statement . “This is not only a health concern, but also an
economic concern for families.”  The good news, Jhung and Tebbets said, is that the virus is
well matched by the 135 million doses of vaccine produced by
 Sanofi (SAN) ,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN) , GlaxoSmithKline Plc and
 CSL Ltd. (CSL)  More than 100 million Americans have been vaccinated
this year, Jhung said, and there is still time for others.  Get Vaccinated  “If people haven’t been immunized already, they should get
the vaccine,” Jhung said. “It’s perhaps even more important to
be vaccinated, and quickly, because of the high rate of
influenza we are seeing now.”  Most health insurance companies plan for a normal flu
season each year, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst in New York. Those that provide benefits to people with
Medicare, the U.S. government’s health insurance program for the
elderly, may get additional payments to compensate for a sicker
patient pool. Others that cover people enrolled in Medicaid, the
federal-state program for the poor, or that provide employer-
based insurance bear the cost alone, she said.  Centene reduced its 2012 earnings forecast on Dec. 14,
saying on a conference call that it expected higher costs
because of the flu. The St. Louis-based company also said it
expected 2013 expenses caused by the flu season would be higher
than recent years.  Mary Mason, Centene’s chief medical officer, didn’t return
phone calls this week seeking comment.  The flu typically starts picking up in December or January.
The virus attacks for about three months, moving through the
population and leaving fever, muscle aches and malaise so severe
many patients struggle to leave their beds for a week or two.  Complications are more common in the old and young, and
they can be fatal. A combination of influenza and pneumonia was
the eighth-leading cause of death in the U.S. in 2009, killing
53,692 Americans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  