-- Former OCC Chief Counsel Williams Joins Consulting Firm
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-01-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/former-occ-chief-counsel-williams-joins-consulting-firm.html
Julie Williams, a longtime federal
regulator who helped banks argue against state oversight, is
joining Promontory Financial Group LLC, a Washington-based
consulting firm that advises financial-services companies.  Williams stepped down Sept. 30 as chief counsel with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency after 19 years with
the agency including two stints as acting comptroller. She will
become a managing director and director of advisory practice at
Promontory, which is led by former Comptroller of the Currency
Eugene Ludwig.  “Almost 20 years ago, I asked Julie to be Chief Counsel at
the OCC, and it was clearly one of the wisest decisions I made
as Comptroller,” Ludwig said today in a memo to staff. “Julie
has been at the center of virtually every important bank-
regulatory development in the past 20 years, and it is difficult
to overstate her contributions to the agency and its culture.”  While at the OCC, the Treasury Department bureau that
supervises national banks and savings associations, Williams
backed lenders’ arguments that efforts by states to impose
separate oversight were preempted by federal rules.  “Promontory’s role is broader and has more facets to it
than legal interpretation, and that was appealing to me,”
Williams said today in an interview. “The financial services
firms are facing incredible challenges, and so being in a
position at Promontory where I can help provide a holistic
approach to problem-solving was appealing to me.”  Before joining the agency, she worked for the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board, the Office of Thrift Supervision and as a
Washington attorney with a predecessor of law firm Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  