-- Fortescue Leads Junk Miners to Best From Worst: Australia Credit
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-09T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/fortescue-leads-junk-miners-to-best-from-worst-australia-credit.html
Junk bonds  from Australian miners
went to best from worst last month, as  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG)  rallied the most in a year after mining bans in  India  and
improvement in  China’s economy  pushed up iron-ore prices.  The debt handed investors a 4.2 percent return in December,
the best among six nationalities in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Metals & Mining index. The notes gained
2.1 percent in the five months ended Nov. 30, the worst
performance. Fortescue’s notes climbed 4.5 percent last month,
the best performance since January 2012, the data show.  Iron ore ,  Australia ’s biggest export, has rebounded 83 
percent since slumping to a three-year low in September. The 
plunge forced Fortescue to seek $5 billion in new loans to lower
debt costs. Since then,  China  boosted spending on subways, 
sewers and roads and carried out a leadership transition, easing 
fears of a sudden end to the mining boom that helped Australia 
evade recession for more than two decades.  “Sentiment has improved as everyone feels less grief and
concern about the new government in China,”  Tom Price , a
Sydney-based commodity analyst at UBS AG, said by phone. “The
demand side looks stable, there’s no macro constraint. The big
shock on ore trade will probably relate to the supply side --
cyclones are one, India is definitely a factor running at 50
percent normal capacity.”  Indian Ban  India’s  Supreme Court  has banned  iron ore  production at 93
mines in Goa after a probe found that mining had contaminated
ground water and led to illegal logging. The ruling has helped
shore up prices at a time of year when demand typically
strengthens. Exports from Australia’s Pilbara region, where
Fortescue,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group operate iron-
ore mines, are susceptible to disruptions from cyclones, which
typically hit during November to April.  A gauge of China’s manufacturing activity released Jan. 1
showed a third month of expansion, adding to evidence that the
recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy will extend into
the new year. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.6 in
December, while a reading above 50 indicates expansion. The
report reflects increased infrastructure spending that’s helping
drive a rebound from a seven-quarter slowdown as a new
generation of Communist Party leaders takes the nation’s reins.  China Recovery  “The normal seasonal restocking of raw material feeding
into the  steel industry  will become most active from Chinese New
Year though to about the middle of this year,” said Price,
referring to the Lunar New Year holidays around Feb. 10.
“Cyclone season in the Pilbara will have some impact, there
could be shock impacts on the delivery of ore to  Asia . What’s
probably going to have a much bigger impact is India.”  Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology is tracking cyclone
Narelle, which may become a severe tropical cyclone as it moves
towards coastal areas where  Port Hedland , the world’s biggest
 iron-ore  port, is located.  India exported 33.1 million tons in the first 11 months,
for a 4.9 percent market share of China’s imports, down from 11
percent in 2011 and 21 percent in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg  Iron ore for delivery to China’s Tianjin port jumped 31
percent over the past month to $158.50 per metric ton, the
highest level since October 2011, according to The Steel Index
Ltd. The rally has spurred a drop in Australian  government bonds 
and prompted traders to reduce bets that the central bank will
drop  interest rates  to a record this quarter.  Yields Rising  Benchmark 10-year yields rose to a 4 1/2-month high of 3.47
percent on Jan. 7, and were at 3.40 percent yesterday in Sydney,
or 152 basis points higher than similar-dated U.S. Treasuries.  Traders see a 39 percent probability the  Reserve Bank  will
reduce the benchmark rate to 2.75 percent at its next board
meeting on Feb. 5, down from a 59 percent chance on Dec. 31,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond investors are favoring Fortescue’s high-yield bonds
after the miner cut costs with $5 billion in new loans that
helped to extend its maturity profile, with the first debt not
maturing until 2015.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Fortescue’s $1.5
billion of November 2019 notes rather than similar-dated
Treasuries shrank to 552 basis points on Jan. 8, the lowest
since May, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The premium
reached a record 810 on Sept. 6.  Kings Deposit  Australia’s third-biggest iron ore exporter said last month
it’s resuming work on the Kings deposit as commodity prices
rose, after putting the new mine on hold following the September
price plunge. A potential plan to sell part of its rail
infrastructure could fetch more than $4 billion,  Michael Evans ,
a resources analyst with CIMB Securities (Australia) Ltd., said
last month.  “Higher iron ore prices are driving Fortescue’s bond
performance,” Ben Byrne, credit sector specialist at Citigroup
Inc. in Sydney, said by phone. “The other factor is their
secured loan they negotiated in September, which improved their
liquidity. The infrastructure asset sales that they’re looking
at will also potentially improve their liquidity, should they
occur.”  Fortescue and other high-yield mining bond issuers are also
benefiting from investors allocating cash at the start of the
new year.  “In the current credit environment, a lot of cash needs to
be put to work in the new year,” Chris Walter, a Sydney-based
credit research analyst at Westpac Banking Corp., said by phone.
“There is a large number of investors looking to get their
money to work.”  Iron ore’s recovery -- while expected to cool from levels
above $155 a ton to average $120 a ton during the quarter -- has
left producers on surer footing and boosted  earnings forecasts .  “The return to a more-normalized, high-price environment is 
likely to place iron-ore producers on a more positive footing," 
Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts  David Radclyffe  and David Cotterell wrote in a Jan. 7 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  