-- Fortress Finds Bargain in Non-Office Assets and Debt in Japan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-01-09T01:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/fortress-finds-bargain-in-non-office-assets-and-debt-in-japan.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , which
raised $1.65 billion last month for its second  Japan  fund, plans
to buy real estate debt backed by rental apartments, retail
space and business hotels in the nation’s metropolitan areas.  Fortress, which oversees more than $50 billion, has so far
invested 30 billion yen ($344 million) in debt and assets
consisting of more than 300 buildings through its second fund,
said Thomas Pulley, chief investment officer of Fortress Real
Estate ( Asia ) GK in Tokyo. New York-based Fortress sees bargains
in medium to small non-office buildings that range in size from
500 million yen to 5 billion yen, he said.  The manager, which entered the Japanese market in 2009, is
seeking to profit from investing in real estate debt and assets
in a country where the  property market  has been stuck with loans
borrowed prior to the global financial crisis in 2008. A record
700 billion yen of commercial buildings are set to be sold over
the next two years to repay debt, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  “We continue to find attractive investment opportunities
that are created in part because of the deleveraging process
that is occurring after the 2006, 2007 bubble,” Pulley said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “That deleveraging and 
asset-cleansing process has occurred more at the mid-size than 
the larger properties. That’s an area where we see a lot of 
activity.”  Post Lehman  Bonds backed by commercial mortgages linked to everything
from shopping malls to office towers were used to finance $66
billion of property acquisitions in the three years ended 2007,
according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG. The annual
volume dropped about 70 percent in 2008 after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy that year and investors
shunned securities that bundle property debt.  Fortress’s strategy of focusing on smaller assets is in
contrast with other real estate investors, such as  Morgan
Stanley Real Estate (MORUSRI)  funds and K.K. DaVinci Holdings, which
bought larger office properties in Japan, including the
headquarters of Citigroup Inc. and  Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303) , and
Pacific Century Place prior to the 2008 global financial crisis.
In 2010, Fortress bought loans made to Tokyo-based K.K. DaVinci,
which ran Japan’s biggest private real estate fund.  The second Japan Opportunity Fund has made 10 investments
in Japan so far and will be fully invested in two years,
according to Fortress. The first fund, which started in 2009,
provided 34 percent return as of Sept. 30. The second fund
targets an internal rate of return of more than 20 percent and
seeks to buy residential, retail assets and business hotels that
provide stable income, Pulley said.  Higher Yield  “If there was one consistent theme to the assets we’ve
acquired, it is assets with good stability to the  cash flow  in
the future, so therefore can provide a relatively high current
yield to us,” he said.  Offices, which were popular among larger funds prior to the
global financial crisis, returned 2.5 percent on average for the
year ended August 2012, less than half the 5.4 percent return
generated for retail properties and 6.3 percent return for
rental apartments, according to London-based  Investment Property
Databank Ltd.   The office vacancy rate, a measurement of unoccupied space,
rose to a record high in June in Tokyo’s five central wards,
pushing rents to a record low, according to Miki Shoji Co., a
Japanese office brokerage company.  “We are somewhat underweight offices because we think that
the differential between rent in place relative to market rent
is more severe,” said Pulley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  