-- Fracking Pushes U.S. Oil Production to Highest in 20 Years
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2013-01-09T20:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/fracking-pushes-u-s-oil-production-to-highest-level-in-20-years.html
U.S. oil  production  exceeded 7
million barrels a day for the first time since March 1993 as
improved drilling techniques boosted exploration across the
country and reinforced a shift toward energy independence.  The Energy Department reported today that weekly average
output rose to 7.002 million barrels a day in the week ended
Jan. 4, a 1.16 million-barrel increase from the same week last
year. The country met 83 percent of its energy needs in the
first nine months of 2012, on pace to be the highest annual rate
since 1991, department data show.  Production grew by the fastest pace in U.S. history last
year and will accelerate in 2013 as horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, unlocks crude trapped in
formations such as North Dakota’s Bakken shale. The state
boosted production 40 percent last year through October, Energy
Department data show. Texas was up 23 percent, and  Utah  rose 11
percent.  “I don’t think anyone expected the magnitude of the change
in just one year,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC, a Houston-based consulting firm. “It’s
extraordinary.”  Oil declined 5 cents to settle at $93.10 a barrel today the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . The fuel declined 7.1 percent last
year as  stockpiles  swelled by 9.2 percent. Inventories advanced
to 361.3 million barrels last week, the Energy Department said
today.  Surpassing Saudi  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said in
November that U.S. oil production is on track to surpass  Saudi
Arabia ’s by 2020. The Persian Gulf country, the world’s largest
oil exporter, pumped 9.57 million barrels a day in December,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. will  pump  an average 7.32 million barrels a day
this year and 7.92 million in 2014, the department said
yesterday in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook.  North Dakota  overtook  Ecuador , the smallest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, last year and is
closing in on Qatar, the second-smallest, which pumped 750,000
barrels a day in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  state’s  output reached 747,000 barrels a day in
October, Energy Department data show.  Surging Output  The U.S. has churned out more oil for four consecutive
years as drillers perfected a combination of technologies
pioneered by Continental Resources Inc. in the Bakken.  In 2004, the company completed a profitable well by pairing
horizontal drilling, in which the bore travels lengthwise
through the richest slice of rock, with fracking, which directs
a high-pressure jet of sand, water and chemicals underground to
crack open the formation and free oil and gas.  The Environmental Protection Agency in 2011  linked  the
method to groundwater pollution, raising speculation that new
regulations may slow exploration. The method has also pushed
U.S. natural gas production to record levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 