-- France Seeks to Overcome Anti-Business Image, Lure Investment
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-09T16:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/france-seeks-to-overcome-anti-business-image-lure-investment.html
Arnaud Montebourg , the French
industry minister who last year addressed a labor conflict by
saying the world’s largest steel company was not wanted in
France, is laying out the welcome mat for foreign investors.  Seeking to overcome Socialist President  Francois Hollande ’s
government’s anti-business image, Montebourg today said France
is open to foreign companies and a great place to invest.  “I want to put the current mood of pessimism in
perspective,” Montebourg told reporters at a presentation in
Paris. “France remains the No. 1 destination for industrial
investment in  Europe . We haven’t seen any slowdown in foreign
investment. What we’re trying to do here is amplify an already
good phenomenon.”  Hollande’s government, which has sparred with business
leaders over taxes and job cuts, has set a target of attracting
an additional 300 foreign companies a year to invest in France.
Investment is critical as France’s economy is barely growing and
jobless claims are at a 14-year high.  France  has 20,000 foreign companies, with 700 new investment
decisions each year, the government says. It wants to raise new
arrivals to 1,000 by 2017, when Hollande’s first term ends.  Toward that end, Hollande’s government has extended a
research tax credit enacted by his predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
and announced a further 20 billion euros ($26 billion) of tax
credits to reduce payroll charges. Hollande has also said he’ll
streamline administrative procedures and reduce the amount of
time the state takes to pay its bills.  ArcelorMittal  In November, Montebourg created a furor accusing steelmaker
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  of not keeping its word about protecting jobs at
its Florange plant in northeast France and telling newspaper  Les
Echos  that “we don’t want Mittal in France anymore.” He
threatened to nationalize the plant.  ArcelorMittal and the government last month reached an
agreement to keep the plant going.  Laurence Parisot , the head of the French business lobby
Medef, said at the time that Montebourg’s comments threatened to
keep investors away from France.  In a separate meeting with reporters yesterday, Montebourg
said he believes in “fair trade” rather than “free trade,”
and that the world’s companies are welcome in France as long as
they stick to their commitments.  He also said that while labor expenses are higher in France
than in neighboring companies, the total cost of investing in
France is lower.  “There aren’t just labor costs,” Montebourg said today.
“There’s real estate, there’s the cost of energy. There are
many comparative studies that are very favorable to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  