-- FTC, Samsung, Tupras, BitTorrent: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-09T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ftc-samsung-tupras-bittorrent-intellectual-property.html
Banning imports of products based on
their use of patents in industry standards may not be in the
public interest, President  Barack Obama ’s administration said in
a policy paper.  The paper, released yesterday by the  Justice Department  and
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, says that, in some instances,
patent owners shouldn’t be allowed to block sales or imports of
products based on the use of standards that help products from
different manufacturers work together. The U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, which reached a consent agreement with Google Inc.
last week restricting its use of standard-essential patents, has
taken a similar position.  The paper puts added pressure on the U.S. International
Trade Commission, which is considering the issue as part of a
request by Samsung Electronics Co. to halt imports of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
products made in  Asia . A final decision is expected Feb. 6.  The ITC’s approach “will be important to the continued
vitality of the voluntary consensus standards-setting process
and thus to competitive conditions and consumers in the United
States,” the two agencies wrote, without citing specific cases.  The agencies, in a joint policy paper, said that, while
patent owners have the right to exclude others from using their
inventions, the public benefit of allowing that is limited when
it comes to so-called standard-essential patents.  The Washington-based trade commission is investigating
other complaints filed by owners of standard-essential patents,
including one by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit against
Microsoft Corp., an  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  case against Huawei
Technologies Co. and one filed by  Ericsson AB (ERIC)  against Samsung.  Companies participate in groups to establish technical
specifications that can be used across platforms for things like
how video images are transmitted or what type of plug is used
for phone chargers. Those who establish the standards pledge to
license any relevant patents on fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms, or FRAND.  The Justice Department and patent office laid out
guidelines that should be met before an exclusion order is
granted by the trade commission. The agencies said the standard
also should apply in district court lawsuits. Judges in Seattle
and Chicago have already said Motorola Mobility isn’t entitled
to orders halting U.S. sales of products based on the use of
standard-essential patents.  Samsung Reins Apple’s German Design Suits With Trip to Spain  For Germans, a trip to Spain means sunshine. For  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , it’s a tactic to avoid adverse rulings from
German courts on smartphones and tablet computers targeted by
Apple Inc. lawsuits.  Cases covering five Samsung tablet and 10 smartphone models
in Dusseldorf have been delayed for months by Samsung filings at
the European Union Trademark Office in Alicante, Spain, in a bid
to invalidate the  intellectual property  at the center of the
dispute. The German suits over the design of the products are
scheduled to be put on hold until the process in Spain is
completed.  Apple scored one of its biggest victories in  Germany  as
part of the global patent battle between makers of smartphones
and tablet computers that also includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility. A Dusseldorf court last year
issued an EU-wide ban on Samsung’s flagship Galaxy Tab 10.1
computer. While the order was later restricted to Germany, it
allowed Apple to reiterate its claim that Samsung “slavishly”
copies the iPad’s design.  Apple disclosed the tablet injunction on Aug. 9, 2011. On
the same day, Samsung filed invalidity motions against five
design rights the iPad maker had registered for tablets and
smartphones at the EU trademark agency. When Apple filed
additional suits against its rival’s smartphones, including the
Galaxy S Plus and the S II, Samsung added another four cases.
The litigation is listed as pending on the EU Trademark Office’s
website.  Samsung said Dec. 18 that it will unilaterally withdraw its
request for injunctions to block some Apple sales in Germany,
U.K., France, Italy and the Netherlands. On Dec. 21, the
European Union sent Samsung a formal complaint outlining how the
use of the injunctions violates antitrust rules by blocking the
licensing of essential patents to other mobile-phone
manufacturers on fair terms.  Samsung spokeswoman Rhee So-Eui declined to comment on the
German design cases, as did Apple spokesman Alan Hely.  For more patent news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Tupras Claims Iran Oil Import Data Is Trade Secret, Weekly Says  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) ,  Turkey ’s largest
refiner and exporter of crude oil, claims that details of its
imports of oil from Iran are a trade secret, the Turkish Weekly
 reported .  The company asked the Turkish Statistical Institute not to
release data on the imports, according to Turkish Weekly.  In 2012, Turkey decreased imports of Iranian oil by 20
percent over U.S.-led embargoes on the Iranian fuel trade,
according to Turkish Weekly.  Trademark  Nigeria Market Shut Down Over Fake Drug Sales, Daily Trust Says  Government officials shut down a market in Nigeria’s Kano
state as part of efforts to curb the sale of fake and expired
drugs, Nigeria’s Daily Trust  reported .  After the order was issued, 5,000 drug sellers who operated
in the Sabon Gari Market demonstrated in the streets and got a
court order that halted the shutdown, according to the Daily
Trust.  The drug sellers, members of the Nigerian Association of
Patent and Proprietary Medicines, contend that the government
shutdown was the result of misinformation and that the group
went to court only after officials refused to meet with them,
according to the Daily Trust.  Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, Kano’s governor, said the government
is trying to make sure that drugs that are sold in accordance
with professional standards, the Daily Trust reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Colorado Judge Kicks Out Doe Defendants in Copyright Suit  A federal judge in Denver dismissed a lawsuit against more
than 100 unidentified defendants who were accused of infringing
the copyright to an adult film, “Buffy the Vampire Slayer XXX:
A Parody.”  PHE Inc. of Hillsborough, North Carolina, filed the suit
Dec. 27, claiming all of the defendants infringed by using the
BitTorrent file-sharing protocol to download and share copies of
the film without authorization.  In his Jan. 4 order, U.S. District Judge William J.
Martinez said he agreed with other federal courts that have
rejected copyright suits involving multiple defendants and the
BitTorrent protocol. He said the defendants may have varying
defenses to the allegations based on their circumstances.  In other cases, defendants have included elderly
grandparents who didn’t know what BitTorrent is, parents whose
 Internet access  was abused by their children, and people whose
roommates may have used their computers without permission,
Martinez said.  “The fact-intensive nature of these individualized
defenses would require that the court give individualized
attention to each claim against each defendant,” he said in his
ruling.  While the defendants were dismissed collectively, PHE has
the option of filing a separate complaint for each one. PHE is
the parent of Adam & Eve Inc., which sells condoms, sex toys and
adult films on the Internet, according to the company’s  website .  Martinez said he was “troubled” by many aspects of the
so-called swarm joinder model for copyright ligation. “Courts
across the country have observed that the companies involved in
this type of litigation do not seem interested in actually
litigating their copyrights claims,” he said.  He cited another court’s pronouncement that “the federal
courts are not cogs in the plaintiff’s copyright-enforcement
business model.”  The referenced ruling came in the case Malibu Media LLC v.
Does 1-10, 2:12-cv-03623, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California ( Los Angeles ). The PHE case is PHE Inc., v. Does
1-105, 1:12-cv-03342, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado
(Denver).  Chinese National Pleads Guilty to U.S. Software Piracy  A Chinese national pleaded guilty to U.S. charges that he
sold pirated software from American companies including  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A)   Xiang Li, 36, admitted Jan. 7 in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware, to one count each of conspiring to commit
criminal copyright infringement and conspiring to commit  wire
fraud , according to court records. The case was handled by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security
Investigations unit.  Li and his wife, of Chengdu, China, were accused of running
a website called “Crack 99” that sold copies of software for
which “access-control mechanisms” had been circumvented, the
U.S. said in April when a 46-count indictment against them was
unsealed. The pair was charged with distributing more than 500
pirated copyrighted works to more than 300 purchasers in the
U.S. and overseas from April 2008 to June 2011.  Prosecutors said the retail value of the pirated software
products was more than $100 million, according to a Jan. 4 court
filing.  Li faces as long as 25 years in prison at his sentencing,
which is set for May 3 before U.S. District Judge Leonard Stark.  Mingli Chen, a lawyer representing Li, said in a phone
interview that Li already has spent 1 1/2 years incarcerated and
that he will ask the judge to find that his client has served
enough time in prison. He also said the judge may impose a
prison term of five to eight years.  The software includes programs made by Santa Clara,
California-based Agilent and Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based
 Ansys (ANSS)  Inc., according to the indictment.  Xiang Li’s websites listed prices of $20 to $1,200 for
products with retail values of several hundred dollars to $3
million, according to the government.  In connection with the charges, former National Aeronautics
and Space Administration engineer Cosburn Wedderburn pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement.  Government agents said Wedderburn bought more than $1
million in pirated software from the couple’s website.  Wronald Best, a scientist at a Kentucky-based government
contractor, also pleaded guilty to purchasing 10 cracked
software programs worth more than $600,000, according to the
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Li, 10-cr-112, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Sony Releases Only 100 Copies of Early Bob Dylan Recording Set  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Music unit released only 100 copies of a
boxed set of  Bob Dylan’s  music from 1962 and 1963 as “The 50th
Anniversary Collection: the Copyright Extension Collection,”
the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  The set was released as a strategy to keep some of Dylan’s
earliest music from entering the public domain as would have
happened under European copyright law to any recordings not
re-released during the 50 years after they were first made,
according to the Guardian.  Sony has said it wanted to preserve the copyrights so the
music can be re-released sometime in the future, according to
the Guardian.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  