-- Gas Natural Sells 10-Year Bond as Company Issuers Tap Yield Grab
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-09T17:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/gas-natural-sells-10-year-bond-as-company-issuers-tap-yield-grab.html
Spain’s  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  sold 10-
year bonds, joining a rush of borrowers tapping investor demand
for higher-yielding corporate assets.  Gas Natural priced 600 million euros ($785 million) of
notes due 2023, a day after Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF)  sold
similar-maturity securities. Offerings from Bank of Ireland Plc,
 France ’s  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  and HSBC Holdings Plc boosted
today’s issuance to 4.7 billion euros, almost double last year’s
daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies are taking advantage of record-low rates to sell
debt to investors seeking alternatives to the safest  government
securities . Investment-grade corporate bonds yield 1.98 percent
on average, down from 4.3 percent a year earlier, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate index shows.  “Markets are very buoyant at the moment and any corporate
that can, should come to the market now and lock in historically
low coupons and yields,” said Andrew Wilmont, head of European
high yield at Alcentra Ltd. in  London .  Corporate bond yields relative to sovereign debt fell to a
five-year low of 134 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, compared with 301 basis points at the start of
2012. The spread over the benchmark swap rate narrowed to 124
basis points.  Gas Natural  Gas Natural’s bonds were priced to yield 230 basis points
more than swaps, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the
fourth 10-year deal issued by a peripheral corporate issuer
since January 2012, according to Societe Generale SA.  Spanish borrowers including  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA) , Banco Santander SA and Telefonica are leading bond sales
this year as investors hunt higher returns from relatively
riskier assets.  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA marketed three-year notes today,
while builder  Ferrovial SA (FER)  planned a bond roadshow for next
week, said people familiar with the deals who asked not to be
named because they’re not authorized to speak about it.  “Periphery names will take advantage of the fact that a
number of investors are underweight periphery and want to change
that,” said Tatjana Greil Castro, a London-based portfolio
manager at Muzinich & Co. Ltd., which oversees $14 billion of
high-yield assets.  Bank of Ireland  is selling so-called contingent convertible
capital securities that the Irish government acquired in 2011 as
part of a recapitalization of the nation’s lenders. Veolia, the
world’s biggest water company, is marketing subordinated bonds
in euros and pounds.  Bonds of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker,
climbed to a record after the company announced plans to raise
about $3.5 billion from a sale of stock and convertible bonds to
cut debt. Its 4.5 percent 2018 securities rose 1.5 percent as
the cost to insure the company’s debt with credit-default swaps
fell to a 17-month low.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
fell three basis points to 425 basis points. The Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings was
little changed at 103.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  