-- German Industrial Production Rises Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-09T11:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/german-industrial-production-rises-less-than-forecast.html
German industrial production
increased less than economists predicted in November as the euro
area’s recession left its mark on  Europe ’s largest economy.  Production rose 0.2 percent from October, when it fell a
revised 2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
That’s the first increase in four months. Economists had
forecast a gain of 1 percent, according to the median of 23
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier,
production fell 2.9 percent when adjusted for working days.  The Bundesbank predicts the German economy will stagnate in
the first quarter after a marked contraction at the end of last
year. Still, signs are increasing that the economy may recover
soon. Sentiment among German entrepreneurs and investors climbed
more than economists expected in December and economic
confidence in the euro area, the country’s biggest export
market, jumped to the highest level since July.  “The German economy probably experienced the worst growth
performance in the fourth quarter since the first quarter of
2009,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “Looking ahead, however, strengthening external
demand and sound domestic fundamentals should lead the way out
of contractionary territory in the first half of this year.”  Manufacturing output rose 0.4 percent on the month in
November, with investment-goods production up 1.4 percent and
basic-goods output up 0.2 percent, today’s report showed.
Production of  consumer goods  declined 2.2 percent and energy
output dropped 3.3 percent. Construction gained 1 percent from
October.  Euro, Stocks  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.3069 at 12:07 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
rose 0.2 percent to 286.8 and the benchmark DAX index increased
to 7697.96.  In the U.K., the trade deficit remained stable in November
as exports rose. The goods trade gap was at 9.16 billion pounds
($14.7 billion) compared with 9.49 billion pounds in October,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .  In  Germany , “industrial production has stabilized” after
“the weak start into the final quarter of 2012,” the ministry
said in an e-mailed statement. While fourth-quarter output will
remain below third-quarter levels, “the development of orders
and the slight improvement of sentiment indicators speak for a
somewhat more favorable production outlook in the new year.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, said on Dec. 7 it targets higher sales and profit
in 2013, boosted by growth in the U.S. and  China .  Emerging Markets  Germany’s VCI chemical association, which represents 1,650
companies including BASF SE and Lanxess AG, on Dec. 12 forecast
an increase in chemical and pharmaceutical production of 1.5
percent for this year, boosted by demand from  emerging markets .  The Bank of  Thailand  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 2.75 percent today on signs of an improving outlook
for exports and strengthening domestic demand.  Canada may say housing starts were little changed in
December, while the U.S.’s  Mortgage Bankers Association  will
report loan applications for the week ended Jan. 4, after the
index fell for the previous three periods.  The euro area succumbed to recession in the third quarter
and the economy probably contracted another 0.3 percent in the
final three months of the year, according to the median of 22
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Unemployment in the 17-
nation currency bloc rose to a record 11.8 percent in November,
the European Union’s statistics office said yesterday.  Foreign Demand  The Bundesbank cut its 2013 growth forecast for Germany to
0.4 percent from 1.6 percent last month. Exports and factory
orders dropped more than forecast in November amid weak foreign
demand, reports showed yesterday.  Siemens AG said on Dec. 19 it is eliminating 1,100 jobs at
two energy units in Germany, preparing for years of subdued
demand for gas-fired turbines made at its Berlin plant as
competition increases and utilities hesitate to invest.  The economic environment will be more difficult this year
than in 2012, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Dec. 31.
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is “far from over,” though
progress has been made and the “reforms that we’ve agreed on
are starting to take effect.”  There’s “hope that the German economy will expand again at
the start of 2013 after a sharp tumble in the fourth quarter of
2012,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “The order figures in past months and the business
climate suggest that demand in the German industry is
stabilizing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  