-- GM Expects ‘Modest’ U.S. Market Share Gain in 2013: CEO
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-09T21:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/gm-expects-modest-u-s-market-share-gain-in-2013-ceo.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , armed with new
products such as a redesigned Chevrolet Silverado pickup, should
see “modest” U.S. share growth this year after falling to an
88-year low in 2012, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said.  Akerson is introducing 13 new Chevrolet models this year in
the U.S. while fighting to end losses in  Europe  and managing
operations in China, the company’s biggest market, where the
economy is slowing.  “It starts and ends with product, that’s what we’ve been
focused on since bankruptcy,” Akerson told reporters at the
company’s Detroit headquarters. This year and next “will be
good years, not only here domestically but on an international
basis.”  Under Akerson, GM’s U.S. market share last year fell to
17.9 percent, the lowest since 1924, Alfred P. Sloan’s first
full year running the automaker. The company’s share decline
came as some competitors, including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
rebounded from production constraints following natural
disasters in 2011.  “If we don’t grow faster than the market we’re not taking
market share by definition, so I do think we’ll grow faster than
the market,” Akerson said in advance of next week’s North
American International Auto Show. “Certainly that’s our hope
and that’s our expectation.”  GM gained 2 percent to $29.97 in New York, the highest
closing price since July 22, 2011.  While Akerson is optimistic, GM’s share may hold steady
this year compared with 2012, even with the new models,
according to a Bloomberg survey of five analysts.  Product Surge  The company is refreshing 70 percent of its U.S. lineup
over a year and a half, including a redesigned Impala full-sized
sedan and Corvette sports car.  Along with the new product surge, Akerson is pushing GM to
improve operating margins, improve customer service and revamp
the automaker’s corporate structure to align its business around
Chevrolet and Cadillac brands globally and away from regional
operations.  Akerson said he sees GM’s international operations, which
include  China , growing 5 percent this year while its South
America business will be little changed.  Europe, where industry sales have fallen to the lowest in
almost two decades, will continue to be a challenge for GM. The
automaker has struggled to stop losses in the region with its
Opel brand.  “We see the market weakening,” Akerson said. “ Germany 
looks like it could be slipping into recession.”  ‘Biggest Risk’  GM has said it expects to report a loss of $1.5 billion to
$1.8 billion in Europe for 2012 after posting losses in the
region since 1999 totaling $17.3 billion as of Sept. 30. The
automaker said in October that it expects “slightly better”
results this year and intends to end losses by 2015.  “The single biggest risk to GM’s success is the continuing
losses and management distraction at Opel,” Adam Jonas, an
industry analyst with Morgan Stanley, said as the lead author in
a note Jan. 7 to investors.  GM wants to improve European results through an alliance
with Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and shuttering its plant in
Bochum, Germany, in 2016, which would be the first car factory
closing in that country since World War II.  While GM and PSA didn’t reach agreement on developing four
products together as originally intended, Akerson said today
he’s optimistic about the alliance’s progress and expects
logistic, purchasing and development savings by mid-decade.  ‘Net Positive’  “Somebody asked me a question: What if the French  owned 
more of Peugeot?” Akerson said. “Well, you know, if they own
more of Peugeot and they’re still building cars and they want to
be as efficient as possible, our alliance is a net positive in
their progress, just as it’s a net positive for General Motors.
I presume we’ll continue down the same path.”  Even with some down markets, Akerson said, GM’s cash allows
it to continue to invest $8 billion annually in product
development.  By mid-decade, Akerson said he wants all five of GM’s units
to be profitable or breakeven and for margins on adjusted
earnings before interest and taxes to be “competitive” with
the industry’s best.  “We have to be profitable in everything that we do,” he
said. GM posted net income of $9.19 billion in 2011.  GM also is seeking to regain an investment-grade rating
this year, Akerson told reporters.  The automaker currently has  ratings  of BB+ from Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings and Ba1 from Moody’s Investors Service,
the highest non investment-grade ratings from the three
companies.  GM wants to secure an A debt rating by the middle of this
decade and for shares to become “a blue chip investment by mid-
to maybe just after mid-decade,” Akerson said. “I want to see
the best customer retention in the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  