-- Goldman Sachs to Publish Daily Values for Its Mutual Funds
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-09T14:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/goldman-sachs-to-publish-daily-values-for-its-mutual-funds.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
largest U.S. bank by assets, will begin disclosing the daily net
asset value for its U.S. commercial paper  money-market funds  as
regulators are debating an overhaul that would make the vehicles
safer for investors.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management expects to expand the daily
disclosure next week to money funds that invest in municipal and
government debt, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. The values of the funds as of 3 p.m. will be
disclosed the following day, Goldman Sachs said in an investor
update on its website.  “As a leading provider of liquidity solutions, we believe
that more frequent disclosure and greater transparency will
benefit investors,” Goldman Sachs said in the statement. “This
will have no impact to how fund shareholders transact or the way
the funds are managed.”  Regulators led by former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  have worked to impose tighter
restrictions on money funds since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Proposals to make the
funds stronger have included abandoning the $1 fixed share
price, an idea that providers have said would destroy the appeal
of money-market funds.  Money market funds hold short-term debt securities and book
them based on their expected value at maturity. They also round
their share prices to the nearest 1 cent. Those practices
obscure small fluctuations in the funds’ market values.  ‘Shadow’ NAV  Rule changes enacted by the SEC in 2010 required funds to
disclose their market value, or “shadow net-asset value,” on a
monthly basis, with a 60-day lag. Some providers, including
 Fidelity Investments  and Vanguard Group Inc., opposed the
change, saying it could confuse investors.  In the run-up to the rule’s enforcement, some companies,
including Charles Schwab Group Inc. and  T. Rowe Price Group
Inc. (TROW) , injected cash into funds that were carrying small losses,
to boost their market values back to $1 before they were forced
to disclose the shortfalls.  More recently, industry leaders have offered to increase
fund disclosure as part of a proposal made to regulators in
October. That plan would require funds to disclose shadow NAVs
on a weekly basis with a five-day lag.  Goldman Sachs’s asset-management unit manages $856 billion
in client money. It is the eighth-biggest provider of money-
market funds in the U.S, with $133 billion in such assets as of
Nov. 30, according to Crane Data LLC, based in Westborough,
 Massachusetts .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  