-- Goodhart Says Carney to Shift BOE Communication Rather Than Goal
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-09T16:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/goodhart-says-carney-to-shift-boe-communication-rather-than-goal.html
The Bank of England is more likely to
change communication policy than its inflation target once Mark Carney becomes governor in July, said Morgan Stanley economists
including former central banker Charles Goodhart.  While Carney, who now heads the Bank of  Canada , has
discussed the virtues of targeting a nominal level of gross
domestic product, it is more likely the BOE would commit to
keeping interest rates low over a certain timeframe and reduce
them if the economy deteriorates, the economists said in a
report published today.  “We can see some merit in a temporary change in BOE
monetary policy towards a nominal GDP growth target,” they
said. “But it would come with significant risks and does not
have an academic opinion behind it. Much more likely under the
new BOE governor, we think, would be changes in communication.”  Setting a timeframe for low rates would mimic a policy
Carney already employed in Canada. After cutting the benchmark
lending rate to a record low of 0.25 percent in April 2009, he
committed to keep it there for more than a year unless the
inflation outlook shifted. He abandoned the pledge early, citing
faster-than-expected growth and inflation.  Bank of England policy makers will leave the benchmark rate
 unchanged  at 0.5 percent tomorrow, all of the 50 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predict. They will keep the asset-
buying program at 375 billion pounds ($600 billion), according
to a separate survey.  Chances for a rate cut will increase under Carney, said the
Morgan Stanley economists including Goodhart, who is a senior
economic consultant to the New York-based bank and sat on the
BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee from 1997 to 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  