-- Liberty Media Wins 765 Million-Euro Vivendi Judgment
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/liberty-media-wins-765-million-euro-vivendi-judgment.html
Liberty Media Corp. won a judge’s
order for a 765 million euro ($999 million) judgment in its
lawsuit against Vivendi SA with interest starting in December
2001, following a jury award last year.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan approved
the judgment and interest using the average rate of return on
one-year Treasury bills compounded annually, according to a
court filing yesterday.  The case stems from  Vivendi’s (VIV)  2001 purchase of Liberty
Media’s stake in USA Networks Inc. A jury awarded the damages,
agreeing with Liberty Media’s claim that Paris-based Vivendi
misled it about a liquidity crisis at the company, artificially
inflating the value of its shares, which it used to make the
purchase. The verdict is the fourth largest in the U.S. in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vivendi opposed entry of final judgment because a verdict
in a related class action hasn’t been appealed, according to
Scheindlin’s order.  Liberty Media sought judgment in euros converted to dollars
and interest of 9 percent a year, according to the filing.
Scheindlin said the judgment would be in euros without
conversion to U.S. dollars because Englewood, Colorado-based
Liberty Media “bore risk and suffered losses” in euros.  The top U.S. verdict in 2012 was the $1.17 billion award 
to  Carnegie Mellon University  over Marvell Technology Group 
Ltd. Apple Inc.'s $1.05 billion verdict against Samsung 
Electronics Co. was second, followed by Monsanto Co.'s 
$1 billion victory over DuPont Co.  The case is  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  v. Vivendi Universal SA,
03-cv-02175, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  