-- ICE Cut to Neutral by Macquarie as NYSE Deal Lowers Revenue
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-01-09T22:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ice-cut-to-neutral-by-macquarie-as-nyse-deal-reduces-revenues.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , which
agreed to buy NYSE Euronext last month, was downgraded by
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  as revenue growth slows and cost-cutting
and integrating the two companies become a focus until 2014.  ICE was cut to neutral from outperform with its price
target reduced to $146 per share from $166,  Edward Ditmire , a
New York-based analyst for the bank, wrote in a note to clients
today. He said selling pressure on the shares may make the
Atlanta-based company more attractive at lower prices.  “We’re intrigued, but think too early to invest in a ’14-
’15 story,” Ditmire said in the note. “Our prior thesis on ICE
was about sector-leading growth, but going forward, an ICE/NYX
combination will have more modest growth and heavy cost-cutting
as the core of its story, and this won’t come into play until
beyond the close” of the deal, which is expected in the second
half of this year, he said.  Intercontinental, a 12-year-old energy and commodity
futures exchange, agreed on Dec. 20 to  acquire   NYSE Euronext (NYX)  for
cash and stock worth about $8 billion, moving to take control of
the world’s biggest equities market. Merging the owner of the
New York Stock Exchange with the second-largest U.S. futures
market underscores the growing importance of derivatives and the
diminishing influence of the 220-year-old NYSE.  The Big Board, once the benchmark for global free markets,
has seen its share of trading in stocks listed on the exchange
decline to 21 percent from 82 percent.  Regulatory Approval  Ditmire said events that could help the stock price include
ICE’s fourth-quarter 2012 earnings report, expected on Feb. 6,
and the deal receiving regulatory approval.  Intercontinental, which has gained 13.4 percent in the past
year,  rose  0.3 percent to $127.61 today in  New York . NYSE
Euronext has jumped 22 percent from a year ago, which includes a
34 percent rise on the day the acquisition was announced. It was
 little changed  at $32.39 today.  Ditmire said he still expects Intercontinental’s main
business of energy and commodity futures trading to expand. He
forecasts operating income, which is revenue minus operating
costs, at ICE will increase to $1.19 billion in 2015 from $938
million this year. Earlier this month, ICE reported record
volume for 2012 after it converted energy swaps to futures
contracts.  The company traded 847 million contracts last year, a 10
percent rise from 2011, after the change to energy swaps was
made to avoid higher capital and margin charges mandated by the
U.S. Dodd-Frank Act in October. Average daily volume at the
company’s exchanges dropped 1 percent in the fourth quarter
compared with the year-earlier period, it said in a Jan. 3
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 