-- Idenix May Drop Delayed Hepatitis C Drug for New Versions
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-01-09T21:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/identix-falls-on-u-s-fda-review-of-hepatits-c-drug-trial.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , a
developer of hepatitis C drugs, may shelve experimental
treatments currently on hold by U.S. regulators and focus on
different versions, Chief Executive Officer Ron Renaud said.  The Food and Drug Administration is continuing to assess
trials halted last year on two drugs, Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Idenix said today in a  slide presentation  released ahead
of the company’s appearance at the JPMorgan Chase & Co. health-
care conference in San Francisco.  The FDA put a hold on studies of the company’s IDX184 and
IDX19368 after safety issues arose while  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  tested a hepatitis C therapy in the same family of
nucleotide compounds, called guanosines. Bristol-Myers, based in
New York, ended development of its therapy Aug. 23 after it was
linked to the death of one patient and kidney and heart concerns
in others.  “We believe there are significant differences” between
Idenix’s drugs and the Bristol-Myers treatment, Idenix said in
the slides. The company expects a response from the FDA this
quarter, according to the presentation.  Idenix is also developing different versions of
nucleotides, called uridines, and plans proof-of-concept testing
before July, Renaud said in the interview. At the same time,
Idenix will test a therapy in a separate class of drugs, a so-
called NS5A, with compounds from other companies, to gauge its
effectiveness during a 12-week duration.  ‘Semi-Reset’  “We feel very good about our ability to combine the NS5A
in the first half, get that data, and be on track for the fourth
quarter to combine our own nuc with our own NS5A,” he said.
“It’s a semi-reset.”  Idenix fell 5.9 percent to $4.76 at the close in New York,
the time. Idenix  shares  have declined 51 percent over the 12
months.  Renaud said the company will need to hear more about the
FDA’s concerns before going forward with the experimental drugs
on hold -- IDX184 and IDX19368.  “We’ll have to make some business decisions,” Renaud
said. “We have to see what conditions the FDA puts on them. We
haven’t decided.  ‘‘Quite simply, we’ve given all the information to the FDA,
and the FDA just needs more time,” he said. “What we have to
figure out is exactly the FDA’s concerns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  