-- Illinois Lawmakers Fail to Act on Fixing Pension Deficits
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-09T14:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/illinois-lawmakers-fail-to-act-on-fixing-pension-deficits.html
Illinois  lawmakers missed another
chance to restructure the worst-funded state retirement system
in the nation, officially ending their 2012 session yesterday
without acting on measures to shore up pensions.  In failing to deal with a $97 billion unfunded liability
that rises by $17 million each day, Illinois risks more
downgrades from bond-rating companies, which have urged the
state to stem the ballooning deficits. The inability to broker a
solution mirrored a special legislative session that ended
almost five months ago with nothing accomplished.  “It’s confounded Illinois legislatures and governors for
70 years -- there have been 12 governors, 13 Speakers of the
House and 12 presidents of the Senate that have grappled with
this issue,” Democratic Governor Pat Quinn said.  With the streak of frustration preserved, lawmakers begin a
new session today with pledges to try again, albeit with a
heightened sense of concern about a credit-rating cut.  “I think we may learn from  Wall Street  very shortly about
the importance of doing this quickly,” said state Senator
Daniel Biss, a Democrat from Evanston who observed during the
August special session that “We all look like idiots.”  Wider Penalty  Investors already are demanding a higher yield penalty on
the debt of Illinois and its localities, relative to top-rated
securities, than the 18 other states tracked by Bloomberg. The
 spread  widened to 1.40 percentage points yesterday, the data
show. On Dec. 24 the difference was 1.32 percentage points, the
least since February 2011.  Illinois has the weakest state pension system, with just 39
percent of the assets needed to cover projected obligations for
five major groups of public employees, according to the Civic
Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit research group.  The fiscal threat is two-pronged. Pensions are consuming an
increasing portion of annual spending while borrowing costs are
rising. Illinois devoted $5.7 billion to retirement funding this
year and is scheduled to pay $6.7 billion in the next budget
year, squeezing services such as education and health care.  “If the political system isn’t prepared to address it now
and wants to continue to kick the can down the road, it’s going
to cost a hell of a lot more money,” said  Richard Ravitch , a
former lieutenant governor of  New York  and co-author of an
October study that said the Illinois pension funds “appear
destined for insolvency” without changes.  ‘Slow Strangulation’  The state’s underfunded pensions lack “the drama that
would produce action,” Ravitch said. “This is slow
strangulation -- it’s not a bullet through the heart.”  Quinn yesterday offered lawmakers an exit strategy from
prolonged gridlock. He pushed for and obtained House committee
approval of a plan creating a commission to recommend a pension
fix that would take effect later this year, unless majorities of
both chambers rejected it. The governor said the plan recognized
the legislative process is incapable of dealing with the
political and economic complexities of overhauling pensions.  “We need a new mechanism or structure to address this
issue,” Quinn told the Personnel and Pensions Committee in the
 House of Representatives .  Senate President John Cullerton, a Chicago Democrat,
rejected the characterization of an inability to act.  “It’s not dysfunctional at all,” Cullerton said during a
news briefing in the Capitol. “We have a pension system that is
not going bankrupt.”  Teachers Fighting  “It’s a complicated issue,” Cullerton said. “There’s a
bunch of unions that represent teachers and state employees who
are fighting down here in Springfield against these reforms. We
would wish that they would support us.”  Restructuring pensions is challenging because employees
don’t want to pay more for benefits, retirees resist having
their pensions cut and school districts oppose paying a greater
share. Hanging overhead are questions linked to language in the
Illinois constitution that protects retirement benefits.  The accumulating cost of inaction makes any solution
difficult because, as proposed fixes have shown, each requires
someone to pay more or get less -- or both.  “Without reform, huge costs loom for future taxpayers or
would-be beneficiaries of state programs that will be crowded
out,” according the October report on Illinois finances from
Ravitch and former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . “But
the magnitude of the problem also means any solution will
include big benefit reductions or cost shifts, so political
interests differ sharply on how to act.”  2 Percent  Lawmakers remained deadlocked as the session ended. The
House had before it a measure that would have required employees
to pay an extra 2 percent of their salaries into pension funds.
It also would’ve delayed annual cost-of-living increases for
retirees from starting by six years, or until age 67. A group of
unions had pledged a legal challenge, if the changes became law.  The state Senate passed a more limited restructuring last
year that didn’t mandate higher worker contributions, yet the
differences with the House bill couldn’t be reconciled.
Cullerton said it made no sense to force higher payments by
employees when the state  Supreme Court  would reject the step as
unconstitutional.  In the meantime, union representatives testified against
Quinn’s commission proposal.  “It’s a desperate hail Mary pass,” said Michael Carrigan,
president of the Illinois AFL-CIO, which represents almost
900,000 union members in the state, according to its website.  Cinda Klickna, president of the Illinois Education
Association, the state’s largest teachers’ union, said both the
proposed increases in workers’ pension-fund fees and the Quinn
commission were unconstitutional.  Labor’s suggestion: more talk, in the form of a pension
summit, to work out a resolution.  Overhaul ‘Essential’  In whatever form or venue, there will be further debate.
Cullerton said pension restructuring “is essential” and
efforts will begin with today’s start of a new legislative
session. Representative Elaine Nekritz, a Northbrook Democrat
and co-sponsor of the House bill, said a new measure would be
introduced today, intended to attract more support.  Four months ago,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the state’s credit
grade one level to A, sixth highest, citing retiree costs, and
gave it a negative outlook, indicating another reduction may be
made. Only  California , at A-, has a weaker rating among states.  Biss, the Evanston Democrat, said he expects more pressure
from Wall Street, in the form of another downgrade.  “I’m afraid that might happen,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 