-- India Automakers Group Cuts Sales Forecast for Third Time
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-09T06:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/india-automakers-group-cuts-sales-forecast-for-third-time.html
India’s automakers’ association
lowered its full-year domestic car sales forecast for the third
time in six months as  slowing economic growth  and high  interest
rates  continue to keep buyers from showrooms.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  forecast as
little as no change in car sales in the year ending March 31,
Sugato Sen, the deputy director general of the industry group,
said in  New Delhi  today. Car sales increased 0.2 percent in the
year ended March 2009, according to the group. The annual
forecast for growth in local car sales was cut to as low as 1
percent in October after being reduced in July.  The forecast underscores the challenge carmakers from
 Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  to Toyota Motor Corp. will face to win
customers in Asia’s third-biggest auto market. New models and
variants are being introduced and discounts offered as
automakers seek to spur sales as  high gasoline prices  and
borrowing costs discourage buyers.  Local deliveries in December fell 13 percent to 141,083
cars, the second consecutive monthly decline, the group said.  The slowdown in India comes as the European debt crisis
dragged the region’s auto market down to a 19-year low at the
end of November, according to the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. China’s state-backed auto
association will release monthly sales data on Jan. 11.  Bucks Trend   Domestic sales of  Maruti (MSIL) , the local unit of Suzuki, rose
5.9 percent in December, spurred by demand for its hit Ertiga
minivan. Its passenger car sales declined 0.9 percent to 68,729
units.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  said on Jan. 1 its Indian sales last
month fell 9.6 percent to 29,516 vehicles.  Tata Motors (TTMT) , maker of
the world’s cheapest car, the Nano, reported a 51 percent drop
in passenger-vehicle sales for December, while Toyota’s India
sales declined 24 percent.  India has the biggest current-account deficit among the
largest  emerging markets , stoked by the worst export slump since
the 2009 global recession and gold imports that Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said are a “huge drain.” Trade and
budget gaps have increased economic risks, the  Reserve Bank  said
Dec. 28, even as the government tries to lure more foreign
investment and limit subsidies as Asia’s No. 3 economy
struggles.  The Finance Ministry predicts GDP growth of as little as
5.7 percent in the year to March 31, the least in a decade.
India’s central bank raised interest rates a record 13 times
from March 2010 to October 2011 to rein in inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  