-- Indian Rail Raises Fares to Pare Losses From Subsidized Travel
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-09T12:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/indian-rail-raises-fares-to-pare-losses-from-subsidized-travel.html
Indian Railways , losing more than
$4.5 billion annually from passenger services, will raise fares
this month as  Asia ’s oldest network seeks funds to pay for
upgrading facilities.  The fare increase, ranging from 0.02 rupee to 0.10 rupees a
kilometer, will come into effect from Jan. 22 and help the
carrier add 66 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) in revenue a year,
Railway Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal told reporters in New Delhi
today. There is no increase in freight rates, he said.  The railroad operator will still lose 250 billion rupees in
the year ending March 31 from subsidized passenger services,
Bansal said. The  Ministry of Railways  has been relying on
freight charges and debt to purchase wagons and add new lines as
the government eschewed fare increases amid opposition from
political parties.  Dinesh Trivedi, who sought to raise fares in March, quit as
rail minister within days of his decision after his Trinamool
Congress party opposed the move. His successor scrapped some of
the increases. Trinamool later quit Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition government.  The railways carries 23 million passengers every day,
Bansal said. Travel by air-conditioned coaches account for only
0.3 percent of all passenger traffic on the network, he said.  India  has added only an average 180 kilometers (112 miles)
of railroads every year since gaining independence in 1947,
according to the rail ministry. The nation currently has about
65,000 kilometers of track network. By comparison,  China  plans
to expand its network to 120,000 kilometers from 91,000
kilometers in the five years ending 2015.  Indian Railways plans to  borrow  150 billion rupees this
year as it adds more trains and replaces old coaches and wagons,
Vijaya Kanth, head of finance at the rail ministry, said at the
same briefing today.  The rail ministry separately cut its spending plan to 510
billion rupees for this fiscal year, from 601 billion rupees
proposed in the annual rail budget in March, after earnings from
carrying commodities fell short of target, Bansal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  