-- Indian Swap Rates Fall to Six-Month Low as Monetary Easing Seen
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-09T11:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/indian-swap-rates-fall-to-six-month-low-as-monetary-easing-seen.html
India ’s one-year swap rate fell to
the lowest level since July and  government bonds  advanced on
speculation the central bank will reduce borrowing costs.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will lower the repurchase  rate  by
50 basis points to 7.5 percent by the end of March, after
keeping it unchanged since April, according to 11 of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The next policy review is on Jan. 29.
Government data due Jan. 11 will show industrial  output  rose 0.2
percent in November, compared with an 8.2 percent increase in
October, according to a separate Bloomberg News survey.  “Investors are pricing in a 25 basis point cut in the repo
rate,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of money-markets and currency at
 FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  in Mumbai. “The central bank may act to tackle
growth concerns.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell two basis
points to 7.56 percent as in Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That was the lowest level since July 16.  At the last rate review on Dec. 18, Reserve Bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said policy makers’ focus needs to shift toward
supporting the economy from curbing inflation.  Seven of the economists surveyed on the repurchase rate see
a 25 basis point reduction by the end of this quarter. Of the
remaining three, UBS AG expects a 100 basis point cut,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  predicts the rate will be held, while Woori CBV
Securities Corp. sees a quarter of a percentage point increase.  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.90 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That
matched the level on Jan. 7, which was the lowest for a
benchmark 10-year security since Dec. 28, 2010.  India has some room to lower  interest rates  as  inflation 
eases, a central bank adviser said today.  “They have some room to cut rates,” Ashima Goyal, a
member of the Reserve Bank of India’s technical advisory
committee, which makes recommendations to Subbarao, said in an
interview. “They won’t be very aggressive.”  The wholesale  price index  rose 7.24 percent in November,
according to official data, the slowest pace in 10 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  