-- India to Speed Plan to Save $300 Billion Burning Coal Belt
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2013-01-10T11:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/india-said-to-speed-plan-to-save-300-billion-burning-coal-mine.html
India  approved a plan to speed up
the relocation of more than half a million people living atop
mines in the eastern part of the country where $300 billion
worth of coal is burning away.  The cabinet today approved building bigger houses for the
residents of the Jharia coal fields, Panchayati Raj Minister  V.
Kishore Chandra Deo  said in an interview in New Delhi.
Inhabitants of the 110 square mile (280 square kilometer) area,
who make a living from illegal mining of coal, refused earlier
offers to relocate to government-built housing. The main
complaint was the units were too small and the area had no jobs.  Vacating the area is critical to the government’s efforts
to douse the century-old mine fire and use the coal to run
India’s steel mills for the next two decades, and replace
imports from companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  The residents
suffer from respiratory diseases and face the threat of mine
collapse that has swallowed houses.  “The biggest reason why people don’t want to shift is the
lack of employment at the new sites,” said Prashant Kumar,
managing director at the Jharia Rehabilitation Development
Authority, one of the two agencies executing the project.
“Residents have been demanding they be given money and jobs,
instead of houses.”  Bigger Homes  The  revised proposal  will increase the size of the houses
near Jharia in eastern India to 25 square meters (269 square
feet) from 18 square meters, said three people familiar with the
plan, asking not be identified pending an announcement. Larger
homes without work may not be enough.  “On the one hand we are importing more coal and on the
other we are letting our best reserves burn,” said Prasad Baji,
an analyst with Edelweiss Financial Services in Mumbai, who
tracks metals and mining companies. “Saving Jharia can be a
significant step toward building steel projects in India.”  India imports about 80 percent of its coking coal, while an
estimated 1.9 billion metric tons are buried under the Jharia
and Raniganj mines in the adjacent states of Jharkhand and West
Bengal. At the current  spot price  of $160 a ton, the reserves
hold more than $300 billion of coal.  Coal imports climbed 63 percent to 32 million tons, costing
steel mills a record 424.7 billion rupees ($7.8 billion), in the
year ended March 31 as contract prices rose to a record $330 a
ton.  India’s steelmaking capacity is expected to rise 50 percent
to 120 million tons by 2020, said A.S. Firoz, chief economist at
the steel ministry.  “The nation’s steel industry is overly dependent on
imported coking coal, which exposes them to price and supply
volatilities,” Firoz said in a phone interview. “There’s a
genuine demand from steelmakers to save Jharia.”  Divert Tracks  In 2009, the government approved a 97.7 billion rupee
project to relocate the residents and divert railway tracks and
roads passing over the mines. The earlier plan was scheduled for
completion in 2020, a timeline the coal ministry and the state
governments consider unrealistic.  “Given our rudimentary staff, it’s difficult to imagine
we’ll be able to complete the project on time,” JRDA’s Kumar
said.  The rehabilitation will require more than 2,400 hectares
(5,930 acres) of land, which the Jharia Rehabilitation
Development Authority and Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority
have been assigned to buy, he said. Half the funding will come
from the federal government, while the rest will be raised
through a 6 rupee-a-ton tax that  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the state-run
monopoly which owns the fields, collects from customers.  Illegal Trade  People living on the Jharia mines survive by selling the
coal they extract illegally to the depots run by local
politicians, said a coal ministry official, requesting anonymity.  The illicit coal trade, which has spawned an alternate
economy comprising transport services, groceries, garment shops
and food outlets, encourage the residents to brave the health
hazards and the mine accidents.  A bid to forcibly shift the people two years ago led to
police firing on a crowd, killing three people, Kumar said. In
2007, a family of seven was buried in a mine that caved in.  “These people would rather die of the coal fires than from
hunger,” said Satya Bhushan Singh, the editor of a local
newspaper run by his family.  Bigger houses and delays can raise the cost of the project
substantially, considering that the prices of land, raw
materials and machinery have risen since the first estimate was
made three years ago, Kumar said.  Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.  and Eastern Coalfields Ltd., the
two Coal India units that operate the Jharia-Raniganj mining
belt, employ a combined 40 percent of the group’s workforce and
produce 7 percent of its coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  