-- India Condemns ‘Inhuman’ Kashmir Killings in Pakistan Clashes
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-09T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/india-pakistan-trade-charges-over-deadly-kashmir-border-clashes.html
India and  Pakistan  traded
accusations of unprovoked deadly violations of their border
truce in the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir, casting a
shadow over moves to improve ties between the rivals.  India’s army said a Pakistani strike on a patrol Jan. 8
near the Line of Control dividing Kashmir killed two of its
soldiers. In a statement yesterday, the foreign ministry said
the bodies of the two men were “subjected to barbaric and
inhuman mutilation.” The Times of India newspaper reported one
was beheaded. Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid called for an
“appropriate response” from Pakistan, stressing that the
neighbors musn’t allow the situation to escalate.  Pakistan’s military, which earlier had said one of its
soldiers died repelling a Jan. 6 Indian raid along the
mountainous de facto border, and its foreign ministry in
Islamabad denied involvement. A ministry statement yesterday
rejected what it called “baseless and unfounded allegations.”
It offered to invite UN observers to investigate.  While cross-border skirmishes between the two countries,
which resumed their peace talks in 2011 after a three year
snapping of ties over the Mumbai terrorist attack, are not rare,
a truce in place since 2003 has reduced violence. The two
nations have fought three wars since their independence from
British colonial rule in 1947, two of them over claims to
Kashmir.  Peace Process  The border clashes are “a kind of bump on the way but both
countries realize that reversing this peace process would cost
them a lot,” Rashid Khan, a professor of politics and
international relations, said by phone from the University of
Sargodha in central Pakistan. “India is benefiting from almost
zero infiltration of fighters from the Pakistani side of
Kashmir, while Pakistan is overwhelmed by its own internal
issues. Both countries will salvage this cease-fire.”  Independent verification of military action in Kashmir is
difficult given the terrain and intense security presence. The
government in New Delhi says Pakistan continues to aid anti-
India militants seeking to cross into the Indian-held portion of
Kashmir, where an insurgency that erupted in 1989 has since
ebbed.  The two nations, both with nuclear arsenals and key roles
in regional security policy as the Obama administration pulls
its troops out of a decade-old war with the Taliban in nearby
 Afghanistan , gave conflicting accounts of the two recent
reported clashes.  ‘Highly Objectionable’  India’s defense ministry accused Pakistan of “a
provocative action” Jan. 8 in a statement issued in New Delhi.
It said the Pakistani soldiers crossed into Indian territory,
carried out the attack and then retreated across the frontier.  A text message sent to reporters by the media unit of
Pakistan’s army denied Indian allegations of unprovoked firing,
calling them propaganda to divert attention from the death of
the Pakistani soldier two days earlier. India says its forces
responded to Pakistani shelling at the weekend, and troops did
not cross the frontier.  The Jan. 8 strike was a “significant escalation to the
continuing series of cease-fire violations and infiltration
attempts supported by Pakistan army,” the Indian army’s
Northern Command said in a statement. “The fire fight between
Pakistan and our own troops continued for approximately half an
hour after which the intruders retreated toward their side of
LoC.”  Diplomats Summoned  Defense Minister A.K. Antony called the attack “highly
objectionable.”  Both countries have summoned the other’s diplomats to
protest the casualties. Pakistan’s High Commissioner Salman Bashir was called to the Ministry of External Affairs yesterday
where Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai lodged a protest.  Senior military officers from both countries talked
yesterday on a pre-existing hotline, Pakistan’s army said in a
statement, adding that its ground checks and verification found
Indian claims of a cross-border strike were incorrect.  While  India  continues to press Pakistan to pursue the
militants responsible for the raid on its financial capital of
Mumbai in 2008, the two countries have eased visa restrictions
and taken steps to raise cross-border commerce. Sports ties have
also resumed, with Pakistan’s cricket team touring India this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  