-- India Steel Revival as Tata Said to Seek Cheaper Coking Coal
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-10T10:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/indian-steel-revival-as-tata-said-to-seek-cheapest-coking-coal.html
India ’s biggest steel producers,
from  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and  Steel Authority of India Ltd.  to  JSW
Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , are in talks to buy  coking coal  at the lowest price
since 2010, according to three people familiar with the matter.  They expect to contract the steelmaking ingredient at as
low as $160 a metric ton for the first quarter, 32 percent below
year-ago prices, the people said, asking not to be identified as
talks continue. Steelmakers in Korea and  Japan  that set a
benchmark for India have negotiated similar cuts, they said.  Swelling global supply and  Europe ’s slumping demand have
undercut prices, adding to the improving outlook for
steelmakers, which jumped an average 11 percent in December.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh last month unveiled plans to
accelerate infrastructure approvals and to make buying land
easier, all to garner $1 trillion of investments by 2017 in
roads, ports and power plants that will use the metal.  “This quarter will probably be the best in the fiscal year
for all major Indian steel producers in terms of earnings,”
Abhisar Jain, a Mumbai-based analyst at Centrum Broking Ltd.,
said in a phone interview. “Lower coking coal costs coupled
with higher steel prices and an expected surge in demand after a
probable interest rate cut are all good news.”  A predicted cut in benchmark interest rates this month may
fuel car and home sales.  Charudatta Deshpande, a spokesman at Tata Steel, and R.
Jayaraman, spokesman at JSW Steel, didn’t respond to e-mails
seeking comment. Arti Luniya, a spokeswoman at Steel Authority,
declined to comment before the contract prices are finalized.  Share Performance  Tata Steel fell 0.4 percent to 420.50 rupees, while Steel
Authority declined 1.7 percent to 93.85 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. JSW Steel reversed a two-day losing streak, rising 0.6
percent to 849.05 rupees.  Tata Steel has  climbed  5.1 percent in the past month. Steel
Authority, the nation’s second-largest producer, jumped 15
percent and JSW Steel increased 11 percent in the period.  “Stocks of big steel companies have run up on demand
expectations,” said Rakesh Arora, head of research at Macquarie
Capital Securities (India) Pvt. “We think returns may remain
subdued but the downside is limited now because demand will be
better than 2012.”  Coal prices averaged about 28 percent less in 2012 as mines
in  Mozambique , owned by  Vale SA (VALE5)  and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , started
production and on higher output from Mongolia. Quarterly
contracts with miners including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  may be signed by the end of the month, two of the
people said. Prices had surged to a record $330 last fiscal year
as demand rose and supplies were disrupted by heavy rains in
 Australia , the biggest producer.  Japan Prices  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406) , Japan’s third-largest steelmaker, settled
coking coal prices at $165 a ton for the January to March
quarter, compared with $170 a ton in the previous quarter,
Hiroyuki Hashimoto, spokesman at Kobe said in a phone interview
on Jan. 8. It also settled iron ore prices at $103 per ton, down
from $117 a ton in the October quarter, he said.  Eleanor Nichols, a spokeswoman for BHP Billiton, the
world’s biggest exporter of coking coal, said the Melbourne-
based company doesn’t comment on contractual arrangements. Kim
Ji Young, a spokeswoman at  Posco (005490) , South Korea’s biggest steel
producer, declined to comment.  India’s steel ministry forecast demand for the alloy will
quicken this year after the government eased infrastructure
investment rules to revive an economy that’s expanding at the
slowest pace in a decade. Consumption probably will increase 8
percent in the three months to March 31 and in the year from
April 1, Sayan Sen, manager at the ministry’s Joint Plant
Committee, said on Dec. 27.  ‘Economic Pattern’  “Steel essentially follows the economic pattern and now
that things are improving there would be demand for the alloy,”
said Jayant Acharya, director at JSW Steel, in an interview on
Jan. 1.  Demand may also be fueled by a probable cut in interest
rates that will lower borrowing costs. Reserve Bank of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled higher odds on Dec. 18 for a
cut in interest rates this year as he held borrowing costs
unchanged for a fifth policy meeting. Goldman Sachs sees a
“high likelihood” of a 50-basis point reduction in the policy
review due on Jan. 29, Tushar Poddar, the bank’s chief India
economist, wrote in a note to clients.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s largest builder of homes and shopping
malls, will accelerate projects around the nation’s capital in
the next three to four months to benefit from higher demand,
Senior Executive Director Sriram Khattar said on Dec. 21. A
spurt in real estate activity will raise demand for long steel
products that comprise more than half of local consumption.  ‘Higher Growth’  “In terms of demand, we are expecting India’s GDP growth
to be higher so definitely there would be a rub-on effect, plus
reforms should put the investment cycle back on track,”
Macquarie’s Arora said. “Consumption should improve, but so
should the supplies as newer capacities get added.”  China ’s higher self-reliance on coking coal and the
increasing share of imports from Mongolia, which is through
land, have limited gains for sea-borne coking coal prices, said
 David Radclyffe , managing director for equity research at Nomura
international Plc in  London .  “Coking coal prices have recovered considerably from their
lows in September because of anticipation that Chinese steel
mills will expand production but increased supplies from
Australia’s Bowen Basin have capped prices,” he said. “In
other regions, such as Europe and Japan, steel production hasn’t
been very encouraging.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  