-- Iraqi Oil Gushing Spurs Best Bond Rally in 11 Weeks: Arab Credit
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-01-09T12:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/iraqi-oil-gushing-spurs-best-bond-rally-in-11-weeks-arab-credit.html
Iraqi bond yields fell the most in
almost three months last week as a recovery in the oil output of
OPEC’s No. 2 producer outweighs concern that a political impasse
is hardening amid rising violence.  The yield on Iraqi 5.8 percent dollar-denominated
government bonds maturing in January 2028 fell 19 basis points
last week, the most since the five days ending Oct. 19.  Iraq ’s
yield dropped by 250 basis points in the past 12 months and was
6.2 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a decline of 74 basis points in the average yield
on regional debt over the period, the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai  Middle
East  Conventional Sovereign U.S. Dollar Bond Index shows.  Iraq’s self-governed Kurdish region has started to export
oil on its own to overseas markets, while the rest of the
country is boosting output and upgrading energy facilities
hobbled by decades of war and economic sanctions. Production
swelled by 24 percent last year, and Iraq overtook  Iran  in June
to become the biggest producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Iraq’s oil production is so important that investors
aren’t deterred by political or security concerns, as the nation
has one of the world’s highest risk-reward returns,” Sanjay
Motwani, president of Sansar Capital Management LLC, said
yesterday by telephone. “Iraq is an interesting contrarian
market, with one of the fastest economic growth rates in the
world,” said Motwani, who runs Sansar Capital Frontier Fund,
which has invested about $30 million in Iraqi equities.  Spreads Narrow  The  spread  between Iraqi sovereign bonds and U.S.
Treasuries has narrowed by 329 basis points, or 3.29 percentage
points, since peaking at 757 on June 1,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBIG Sovereign Spread Iraq index shows. The spread was 428
basis points yesterday.  Iraq’s oil fields produced 3.3 million barrels a day in
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and
authorities in  Baghdad  expect this year to match the production
record of 3.8 million barrels set in 1979, Oil Minister Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi said on Dec. 9. Iraq wants to boost output to
as much as 10 million barrels a day by 2020, Deputy Prime
Minister for energy affairs Hussain al-Shahristani said Oct. 10.  Increased Spending  BP Plc,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other international
companies are helping to restore output almost a decade after
the U.S.-led invasion that toppled the regime of  Saddam Hussein .
The government is budgeting $118 billion in spending for 2013,
up 18 percent from 2012, buoyed by crude prices that averaged
almost $117 in  London  last year.  The Middle Eastern state’s political ills include daily
street protests by minority  Sunni Muslims , rising tensions with
 Turkey  and the civil war in neighboring  Syria . Acting Defense
Minister Saadun al-Dulaimi warned on Jan. 6 that Iraqi forces
would retaliate for Turkish air raids on Kurdish rebels in
northern Iraq.  Sunnis, Kurds and others have denounced what they call a
power grab by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, a Shiite, and are
calling for him to resign. The Sunni-backed al-Iraqiya coalition
boycotted parliament and Cabinet sessions for several weeks last
year and walked out again yesterday together with Kurdish
ministers.  Violence has escalated since the U.S. withdrew its last
combat troops at the end of 2011, with 4,471 civilians killed in
2012 compared with 4,137 in the previous year, according to the
Iraq Body Count website.  Kurdish Exports  Maliki’s government is also sparring with Iraq’s semi-
autonomous Kurds over oil revenue, and government troops clashed
for the first time with Kurdish forces on Nov. 16, leaving one
person dead.  The Kurds, who halted crude exports through a government-
run pipeline on Dec. 22, have authorized their first shipments
by truck into Turkey from the Taq Taq oil field, Andrew Benbow,
a spokesman for the field’s operator, Genel Energy Plc, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. Genel’s chief
executive officer,  Tony Hayward , said today the company hopes to
export as much as 20,000 barrels a day from the Kurdish field.  The  International Monetary Fund  still forecasts that the
country’s economy will grow 14.7 percent this year, the fastest
pace in the Middle East and North Africa after  Libya . The IMF
projects Iraq to post the region’s quickest growth in the next
four years.  ‘Remarkable Resilience’  “The market as a whole has shown remarkable resilience to
political instability over the last few years, suggesting that
Iraq’s high political risk is understood and priced in,” Liz Martins, a senior economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Dubai, said
in an e-mail yesterday. The rapid increase in Iraq’s oil output
and high crude prices are enough to offset such concerns, she
said. “Ultimately the bond is a play on Iraq’s
creditworthiness, and this looks stable over the medium term.”  The country’s stock exchange could also lure investors
after the Feb. 2 listing of Asiacell Communications PJSC, which
plans to raise $1.3 billion in Middle East’s biggest IPO in more
than four years. “The real value in Iraq these days is found on
the  Iraq Stock Exchange (BBOB) ,” Geoffrey Batt, managing director of
the $39 million Euphrates Iraq Fund, said Jan. 7. Some companies
offer earnings yields of 20 percent, he said.  Iraq’s bonds, meanwhile, total $2.7 billion, or roughly 2.7
percent of its 2012 oil export revenue, Batt said. “Given the
tiny amount of this issue relative to oil revenues, there is
little doubt Iraq can easily service this debt,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  