-- Ireland to Sell at Least Half its Bank of Ireland Notes
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-09T18:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ireland-to-sell-at-least-half-its-bank-of-ireland-notes.html
Ireland’s government said it sold its
entire 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of so-called contingent
convertible capital notes in  Bank of Ireland Plc  as investors
bid for almost five times the amount on offer.  The sale was completed at a 1 percent premium to par value,
and the proceeds will be used to lower the nation’s debt,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  told reporters in Dublin today.
The government received 4.8 billion euros of orders for the
notes, which are a form of fixed-income security that convert
into stock automatically if capital levels fall.  Noonan said the state intends to sell its almost 7 billion
euros of remaining non-equity investments in Irish banks “in
time,” with CoCos in state-controlled  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) 
the next potential offering. The government acquired the CoCos
in Bank of Ireland in July 2011 as part of a 5.2 billion-euro
recapitalization of the nation’s lenders.  “The sale of the Bank of Ireland notes, and indeed the
demand for them, gives comfort that the market’s perception of
risk that Irish banks need further capital is reducing,” said
 Stephen Lyons , an analyst with Davy, a Dublin-based securities
firm.  The CoCos sold today automatically convert into equity if
Bank of Ireland’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, falls below 8.25 percent.  State Control  Ireland has committed 64 billion euros of capital to its
banks over the past four years as their bad loan losses soared
following the collapse of a domestic real-estate bubble. Today’s
sale lowers the bill to 63 billion euros.  Bank of Ireland is the only one of the country’s six
largest lenders to have moved on from state control. The
government sold a 34.9 percent stake in 2011 to five investors,
including Toronto-based  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  and WL
Ross & Co., a New York-based investment firm. The lender remains
15 percent state-owned.  U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross , the chairman and co-founder
of WL Ross, said today’s move is a “major step toward the
complete privatization” of the lender.  “The austerity of recent years has been very difficult for
the Irish people, and reopening the  capital markets  to both the
sovereign and the banks is essential to the ultimate recovery
from the crisis,” Ross said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Ireland is three-quarters of the way through budget cuts
that amount to about a fifth of the size of the economy. The
austerity program is stretched over eight years through 2015.  ‘Good News’  Bank of Ireland’s core Tier 1 ratio was 14.9 percent at the
end of June, according to its  interim report .  Eamonn Hughes of  Goodbody Stockbrokers  said he expects the
ratio to fall as low as about 12 percent this year, based on so-
called Basel capital rules.  Bank of Ireland hired Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and Dublin-
based Davy to manage the secondary placement of the CoCo notes,
which pay a coupon of 10 percent.  “This is good news for Bank of Ireland -- and Ireland,”
said Paul Smillie, a Singapore-based global banking analyst at
Threadneedle Asset Management, which oversees about $45 billion
of fixed-income securities.  Ireland’s National Treasury Management Agency yesterday
sold about 2.5 billion euros of bonds in its first sale through
a banking syndicate in three years. The general government debt
stood at 169.2 billion euros at the end of December, according
to the NTMA.  Bank of Ireland sold its first public debt in two years on
Nov. 13, raising 1 billion euros through the issuance of
residential mortgage-backed bonds. It sold 250 million euros of
subordinated debt in December.  Bank of Ireland shares were unchanged at 13.5 cents at the
5:10 p.m. close of trading in Dublin. They have gained 65
percent over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  