-- Mississippi Barge Traffic Seen Benefiting From St. Louis Storms
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-01-09T19:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/mississippi-barge-traffic-seen-benefiting-from-st-louis-storms.html
Rain will keep water levels high
enough to avert a shutdown of barge traffic along a  Mississippi
River  choke point this month before volumes begin a seasonal
rise in February, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers said.  More than an inch of rain is expected in St. Louis
tomorrow, with further precipitation in four of the following
five days, Bloomberg weather data show. That should improve a
forecast that has the  Mississippi  downriver near Thebes,
 Illinois , falling to levels where barges would face restrictions
by Jan. 22, said Michael Petersen, a Corps spokesman.
Contractors are currently removing rock obstacles from the
riverbed near Thebes to help keep the channel open.  “We’re coming down the home stretch before we get a
natural rise out of the river,” Petersen said today in a phone
interview from  St. Louis .  The Corps may also release water from reservoirs further
north on the Mississippi should rain be less than expected, he
said. Still, the situation will need to be monitored as the
worst U.S. drought since the 1930s, which created the low water
levels, makes historical patterns a less reliable predictor of
future flows, he said.  The Mississippi in a typical January carries as much as
$2.8 billion in cargo, including grain, coal and crude oil,
according to the American Waterways Operators, an Arlington,
Virginia-based industry group.  The Mississippi has dropped to about half its normal level
for early January, according to data from the Corps.  Exports Threatened  Commodity exporters including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  of
Decatur, Illinois, and St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the
largest U.S. coal producer, ship on the river. A disruption
might upend U.S. exports, which the Obama administration is
hoping to double by 2014 from 2009 levels.  “We are not out of the woods, and further assurances are
needed to provide industry with certainty that is needed for
sound business and transportation planning beyond January,” Tom
Allegretti, chief executive officer of the waterways group, said
yesterday in a statement.  Grain tonnage for the week ended Dec. 29 fell 26 percent
from the prior week and 28 percent from the same period a year
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a Jan. 4
report. The U.S. tracked 199 grain barges, down 29 percent from
the prior week, USDA said.  Expedited dredging and rock removal, combined with a
warming trend and anticipated rainfall, will maintain at least a
10-foot river depth needed for navigation near Thebes through
this month, Major General John Peabody, commander of the U.S.
 Army Corps  of Engineers’ Mississippi Valley division, said
earlier this week. He didn’t offer a forecast beyond Jan. 31.  The river is about 11 feet deep at Thebes. Depths less than
9 feet may impede the tow boats that move barges, the operators
have said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Alan Bjerga in Washington
at   abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  