-- Italy’s Election Law Makes Senate Race Tight: Highlights
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-09T13:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/italy-s-election-law-makes-senate-race-tight-highlights.html
Italy ’s election law will make it
difficult for any coalition, including the center-left bloc led
by Democratic Party Secretary Pier Luigi Bersani, leading in all
opinion polls, to win an outright majority in both houses of
parliament.  Under Italy’s “perfect bicameralism” system, majorities
are needed in both houses to survive confidence votes and pass
legislation.  Timing of elections: national election will be held Feb. 24-25
in conjunction with regional votes in Molise, Lombardy and
Lazio.  Voting age: 18 years for the  Chamber of Deputies , 25 years   for
the Senate.  Election eligible age: members of the lower house must be at
least 25 years old, senators 40 years old.  Coalitions:
-- Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party with ally  Northern League  and other smaller center-right
parties
-- Bersani’s Democratic Party with ally Left, Ecology and
Liberty and other smaller parties
-- caretaker premier Mario Monti’s coalition of centrist parties
backing his agenda; comedian Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement
-- former Palermo prosecutor Antonio Ingroia’s Civil Revolution  Election of Chamber of Deputies : the lower house has 630
deputies, the majority is 316. Twelve seats are assigned to
electoral districts outside Italy and one to the small region of
Aosta Valley. The remaining 617 deputies come from 26
constituencies with a proportional system.
-- The party or coalition that wins a relative majority
automatically gets 54 percent of seats in the Chamber of
Deputies. The thresholds to get seats are 10 percent on a
national basis for coalitions, and 2 percent for lists in
coalition; 4 percent for unaligned lists and lists in coalitions
winning less than 10 percent of votes.  Election of  Senate : the upper house has 315 seats, the majority
is 158. Getting an outright majority in the Senate is more
difficult because the seat premium assigned to the winning
coalition is allocated on a regional basis rather than at the
national level, meaning the law tends to reward those parties,
like the Northern League, that have a strong regional base.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  