-- Jacoby & Meyers Wins Round in Nonlawyer-Investor Dispute
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-01-09T21:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/jacoby-meyers-wins-round-in-nonlawyer-investor-dispute.html
Jacoby & Meyers LLP , the discount law
firm with storefront offices across the U.S., won an appeals
court ruling reinstating its legal attack on a New York statute
barring nonlawyers from owning an interest in law firms.  Jacoby & Meyers, which wants capital to expand into
communities with working-class and immigrant families, has asked
federal courts in New Jersey and  Connecticut  as well as New York
to throw out such laws. A judge last year dismissed the New York
case citing jurisdictional grounds.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York today issued an order
modifying a November ruling that reinstated the suit and
returned it to the trial court.  “The Second Circuit clearly said they want the judge to
make a determination on the merits,” Andrew Finkelstein, the
managing partner at Jacoby & Meyers, said in a phone interview.  The firm, which has offices in the three states, wants to
add new legal challenges in its suit, which the appeals court
said it may do. The court didn’t rule on the “interesting
theoretical issues” raised by the case.  Melissa Grace, a spokeswoman for New York Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman, who is defending the lawsuit, declined to
comment on the decision.  Other Challenges?  A ruling in Jacoby & Meyers’ favor might lead to legal
challenges elsewhere and change the nature of the U.S. legal
industry, Finkelstein said. Rules similar to New York’s exist in
every U.S. state.  The District of Columbia permits nonlawyers to join law
firms in limited instances. Australia and  England  allow
nonlawyers to own parts of law firms.  “A final decision down the road would benefit all
consumers in the U.S., giving them access to legal services that
don’t now exist,” Finkelstein said.  Opponents of lifting the ban say they fear that investors
wanting to maximize profit will interfere with lawyers who are
bound by ethical rules that may conflict. The  American Bar
Association  has decided not to consider a proposal that
nonlawyers be allowed to work as law firm partners assisting
lawyers.  Bank Directors  “There was no clamor for it evident within the
profession,” Ted Schneyer, an emeritus law professor at the
 University of Arizona  who serves as co-chairman of the ABA’s
working group, said in a phone interview. “If this is to come
about, it will have to come from litigation like Jacoby & Meyers
is pursuing.”  Three directors of a small New York bank, including one who
also sells new and used Mercedes-Benzes, have expressed interest
in investing in Jacoby & Meyers, the firm said in court papers.
Institutional investors whose names the firm has asked to keep
confidential also seek stakes.  If Jacoby & Meyers ultimately prevails, the investors may
receive a share of anticipated profits in the entity through
which Jacoby & Meyers practices law, the firm said in court
papers. They’ll have no say in legal decisions.  Jacoby & Meyers is seeking to sue on behalf of other law
firms. It claims the bans run afoul of the Commerce Clause of
the U.S. Constitution and the firm’s rights of free speech and
due process.  The cases in New Jersey and Connecticut are pending.  Jacoby & Meyers opened its first office in 1972 in a
storefront in Van Nuys,  California , and was an early advocate of
attorney advertising. It said it has opened branches in shopping
centers, maintained Saturday hours and became the first law firm
to let clients pay with credit cards.  The case is Jacoby & Meyers v. Presiding Judges, 12-1377,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  