-- James M. Buchanan, Nobel Prize-Winning Economist, Dies at 93
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-09T19:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/james-m-buchanan-nobel-prize-winning-economist-dies-at-93.html
James M. Buchanan, the U.S. economist
who won the 1986  Nobel Prize  for applying the principles of
economic self-interest to understand why politicians do what
they do, has died. He was 93.  He died today at LewisGale Hospital at Montgomery in
Blacksburg,  Virginia , according to the  Center for Study of
Public Choice  at  George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia,
where Buchanan was a distinguished professor emeritus of
economics. No cause was given.  “Jim’s importance to our department, the university and
our profession cannot be overstated,” read a message on the
center’s  website .  The  Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences  awarded Buchanan the
Nobel in economics “for his development of the contractual and
constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political
decision-making.”  Buchanan was a pioneer in the field known as public-choice
theory, which views government decisions through the personal
interests of the bureaucrats and elected leaders who want to
advance in their careers and win campaigns.  He summarized public choice as “politics without romance”
and said it helps explain why established bureaucracies “tend
to grow apparently without limit,” why pork-barrel politics
endure and why the tax system is defined by “the increasing
number of special credits, exemptions and loopholes.” At the
time he received the award, his ideas were finding a receptive
audience within the administration of President  Ronald Reagan .  Rethinking Politics  “Buchanan’s contribution is that he has transferred the
concept of gain derived from mutual exchange between individuals
to the realm of political decision-making,” the Nobel committee
wrote. “According to Buchanan, it is often futile to advise
politicians or influence the outcome of specific issues. In a
given system of rules, the outcome is to a large extent
determined by established political constellations.”  As Buchanan put it in “Liberty, Market and the State”
(1986), politics is “a process within which individuals, with
separate and potentially differing interests and values,
interact for the purpose of securing individually valued
benefits of cooperative effort.”  He drew on the work of Knut Wicksell, the Swedish economist
who studied to what degree different forms of parliamentary
government spend money in line with the wishes of taxpayers.  The choice of Buchanan for the Nobel drew some criticism,
in part because his area of study was a step away from
traditional economics in the direction of political science.  Surprised Honoree  Buchanan himself, writing in 1989, said he was surprised to
be honored, “because I held myself, my work, and my
affiliation, to be too far outside the mainstream both of my own
discipline and the American academia.”  James McGill Buchanan was born on Oct. 3, 1919, in
Murfreesboro,  Tennessee . His grandfather, John P. Buchanan, had
been governor of Tennessee from 1891 to 1893.  He earned his undergraduate degree from Middle Tennessee
State University in 1940 and his master’s from the University of
Tennessee in 1941. During World War II he served in the U.S.
Navy on the staff of Admiral  Chester Nimitz , commander of the
Pacific fleet. He earned his Ph.D. from the  University of
Chicago  in 1948.  He taught at the University of Tennessee and  Florida State
University . At the  University of Virginia , where he taught from
1956 to 1968, he led the economics department and helped found
the Thomas Jefferson Center for Studies in Political Economy,
the research institute through which he continued his work on
public-choice theory.  Major Work  His best-known book, “ The Calculus of Consent ,” was
published in 1962. He collaborated on it with his research
institute co-founder, Gordon Tullock.  Among his students at Virginia was John Snow, who would
become chairman and chief executive officer of CSX Corp., an
international freight transportation company based in
Jacksonville,  Florida , and President  George W. Bush ’s second
Treasury secretary.  Buchanan moved to Virginia Polytechnic Institute in 1969
and became director of a new Center for Study of Public Choice.
He moved with the research center to George Mason University in
1983.  Buchanan and his wife, the former Ann Bakke, married in
1945.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  