-- Japan Power Utilities Fall on Report of New Costly Safety Rules
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-01-09T03:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/japan-power-utilities-fall-on-report-of-new-costly-safety-rules.html
Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  led
declines among  Japan ’s utilities after the Nikkei newspaper
reported that new safety requirements for atomic plants will
cost the power companies tens of billions of yen.  Hokkaido Electric fell as much as 6.8 percent to 1,001 yen
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, before trading 1.5 percent lower at
1,058 yen as of the 11:30 a.m. midday break. The 17 member TOPIX
Electric Power & Gas Index slipped 0.5 percent while the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.5 percent.  All but two of Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors are offline as
utilities await instructions on safety standards to be drawn up
by the Nuclear Regulation Authority in July after the 2011
Fukushima disaster shattered public confidence in atomic energy.
The watchdog will require atomic plants to have backup emergency
cooling and a filtered-vent system to remove radioactive
substances in an event of an accident, Nikkei reported today,
citing an NRA draft report.  “The point is whether these planned requirements will be a
condition for restarting idled reactors. If not, some reactors
may be allowed to resume operations soon” after the NRA draws
up new standards, Hidetoshi Shioda, a Tokyo-based analyst at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said by phone.  The NRA will consider allowing utilities to resume reactors
if utilities commit to making the changes to meet new standards
within three years, the Nikkei said, without citing anyone. The
plant operators may have to spend tens of billions of yen per
reactor to meet the new rules, the Nikkei said.  Protests  When the previous government allowed the restart of two
reactors operated by Kansai Electric Power Co. in July last
year, tens of thousands of people took to the streets in  Tokyo 
in weekly protests. Newspaper opinion polls and town hall
meetings drawing in citizens across Japan also showed majorities
in opposition to nuclear power post-Fukushima.  Allowing utilities to restart idled reactors will likely
draw thousands of protesters back onto the streets again, Tomoko
Murakami, a Tokyo-based nuclear analyst at the Institute of
Energy Economics, Japan, said in a phone interview.  “There are many people who oppose restarts, but in reality
not many influential people have come out in support,” she
said.  Those wanting to revive Japan’s economy want early restarts
of idled reactors and the Abe government is in that camp as he
has pledged economy recovery, Murakami said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  