-- Chrysler Group’s Jeep Boosts Global Sales 19% to Record
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-09T12:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/jeep-boosts-global-sales-19-to-record-on-grand-cherokee-demand.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep, the
automaker’s top-selling brand, set a record for global
deliveries in 2012 as demand for models such as the Grand
Cherokee strengthened in the U.S. and almost doubled in  Asia .  Jeep’s worldwide sales last year climbed 19 percent to
701,626 sport-utility vehicles, the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. The brand topped its
previous record of 675,494 set in 1999.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who also leads
Chrysler’s majority owner Fiat SpA, plans to expand Jeep’s
global presence by adding production of its SUVs in  China ,
 Russia  and  Italy . Marchionne, 60, has cited consumer awareness
of Jeep as motivation for positioning its lineup as one of the
main global brands for the Fiat and Chrysler group.  “We’ve strengthened our distribution channels
internationally and we’ve made Jeep the lead global brand for
Chrysler,”  Mike Manley , president of Jeep brand and head of
international operations for Chrysler Group, said by telephone.
“We did some really good product innovations. Grand Cherokee
started it all in terms of the rebirth of the brand.”  Manley, who is also chief operating officer for  Fiat (F)  and
Chrysler in Asia, said he expects to announce a deal early this
year to add local production of Jeep in China to supply buyers
in the world’s largest auto market. Fiat’s joint-venture partner
in China is  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238)   Jeep last year sold 474,131 vehicles in the U.S., up 13
percent from a year earlier and accounting for 68 percent of the
2012 worldwide total. In the U.S., Jeep was the No. 2 selling
brand for Chrysler Group behind Dodge’s 524,989.  Liberty Replacement  Chrysler also plans to introduce a replacement to its
Liberty midsize SUV midway through this year and offer a new
diesel version of the Grand Cherokee.  “That’s a big, big segment,” Manley said of the Liberty’s
replacement. Of all Jeep models, “Liberty has been kind of the
weakest from a mass-market perspective. That will get
corrected.”  Jeep’s Wrangler SUV set a global record of 194,142 last
year, trailing only Grand Cherokee at 223,196. Deliveries of the
Compass compact SUV also rose to a record 103,321. Manley said
Liberty has been in a “niche” position.  Fiat said in December that it will invest more than 1
billion euros ($1.31 billion) to build Jeep- and Fiat-badged
compact SUVs at an Italian factory as part of an initiative to
boost capacity usage and end losses in  Europe . The Turin, Italy-
based carmaker also is finalizing a deal in Russia to introduce
local Jeep output for that market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  