-- JPMorgan Joins Goldman in Giving Daily Money Fund Values
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-09T22:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/jpmorgan-joins-goldman-in-giving-daily-money-fund-values.html
Four of the top 10 U.S. money-market
fund providers said they’ll disclose daily fund values,
pressuring rivals to follow suit as regulators consider banning
the use of a constant $1 share price.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, will
begin revealing daily net asset values for all its U.S. money
funds on Jan. 16.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  began today to
disclose the values for its funds that are eligible to purchase
commercial paper, or prime funds.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  plans to
take that step for all money funds, starting with prime funds on
Jan. 14, and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  will make daily
market values available “going forward.”  “The prime goal here is to diffuse the misperception
that’s been created by regulators that fund share prices are an
accounting fiction,”  Peter Crane , president of research firm
Crane Data LLC, said in an interview. “It’s a pretty good bet
the daily values will show that market-value NAVs don’t float.”  Regulators led by former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  have worked to impose tighter
restrictions on money funds since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Proposals to make the
funds stronger have included abandoning the $1 fixed share
price, an idea providers want to counter because they say it
would destroy the appeal of money funds, which investors use as
an alternative to holding cash.  Money-market funds buy short-term debt securities and book
them based on their expected value at maturity. They also round
their share prices to the nearest 1 cent. Those practices
obscure small fluctuations in the funds’ market values.  SEC ‘Encouraged’  Rule changes enacted by the SEC in 2010 required funds to
disclose their market value, or “shadow net-asset value,” on a
monthly basis, with a 60-day lag. Some providers, including
Fidelity and Vanguard, opposed the change at the time, saying it
could confuse investors.  SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter, who took over from Shapiro
last month, welcomed today’s announcements by the New York-based
fund managers.  “Chairman Walter is encouraged when industry voluntarily
takes steps to provide greater transparency for investors,”
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Fidelity Investments , the biggest U.S. money-fund manager
with $420 billion in such assets, is “considering” daily
disclosure of per-share market values, Stephen Austin, a
spokesman for the Boston-based company, said in an interview.  Vanguard, Fidelity  Nancy Prior, Fidelity’s head of money funds, said in an
October speech in  Washington  the firm would support more
frequent disclosure of market values.  “If regulators believe that providing this information
more often could improve the resiliency of the funds and the
overall stability of the financial system, then we would support
such disclosure,” Prior said in the speech.  Vanguard Group Inc., the fourth-biggest provider, said it
wasn’t planning to increase the frequency of shadow NAV
disclosure.  “We have not seen an increased demand for more frequent
disclosure from our clients, who are primarily retail
investors,”  John Woerth , a spokesman for the  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  Woerth said market-value fluctuations in Vanguard’s largest
money fund, the $123 billion Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund,
has been “de minimus.”  Goldman Sachs’s asset-management unit was the first to
announce a change in a statement today.  Crane said he doubted the practical value of disclosing the
market values.  Rounding Prices  “The shadow NAVs don’t differ materially from the rounded
NAVs unless something blows up, in which case you don’t see it
until after it happens,” he said.  Meghan McAndrew, a spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based
Federated Investors, the second-largest money-market mutual-fund
manager in the U.S., declined to comment on the firm’s plans
regarding NAV disclosure.  In the run-up to the rule’s enforcement, some companies,
including Charles Schwab Corp. and  T. Rowe Price Group (TROW)  Inc.,
injected cash into funds that were carrying small losses to
boost their market values back to $1 before they were forced to
disclose the shortfalls.  Schapiro’s Proposal  More recently, industry leaders offered to increase fund
disclosure as part of a proposal made to regulators in October.
That plan would require funds to reveal shadow NAVs on a weekly
basis with a five-day lag.  Companies made the proposal while continuing to resist
calls from Schapiro, the  Federal Reserve  and Treasury Department
for SEC commissioners to consider approving a floating share
price for funds.  Schapiro, who left the SEC in December, had planned as
recently as August to propose that money funds be forced to
choose to either float their share value or adopt a combination
of capital buffers and withdrawal restrictions to protect
against credit losses and investor runs. She shelved the
proposal when three of her four fellow commissioners signaled
that they would reject it.  A senior panel of regulators, the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, began a process in November by which it can
pressure SEC commissioners to reconsider the elements of
Schapiro’s plan. The panel includes the heads of the SEC and
central bank, and is headed by Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner .  Reserve Primary  “We’re not doing this in anticipation of a floating net-
asset value,” JPMorgan’s Deutsch said. “Our decision was
informed by the extra scrutiny” money funds have come under
since 2008. “The world changed when the  Reserve Fund  broke the
buck and since then we’ve been making details of our holdings
more accessible.”  The Reserve Primary fund fell below $1 a share, or “broke
the buck,” in September 2008 because it held debt issued by
bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Its closing triggered a
wider run on prime money funds that helped freeze global credit
markets.  Goldman Sachs said it would expand the daily disclosure
next week to include money funds that invest in municipal and
government debt. The daily values will be available to investors
on the morning after the previous day’s close.  JPMorgan manages about $233 billion in U.S. money funds,
according to Crane Data, based in Westborough,  Massachusetts .
Goldman Sachs’s asset-management unit manages $856 billion in
client money. It is the eighth-biggest provider of money-market
funds in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  