-- Kamada Said to Seek as Much as $50 Million in Nasdaq Listing
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-09T15:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/kamada-said-to-seek-as-much-as-50-million-in-nasdaq-listing.html
Kamada Ltd. (KMDA) , the Israeli maker of
treatments for hereditary lung diseases, hired Morgan Stanley
and Jefferies Group Inc. to arrange the sale of as much as $50
million in stock in the U.S., according to a person familiar
with the plans.  A prospectus will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission soon, and the proceeds will be used to develop the
business, said the person, who asked not to be named because
they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the sale. The
shares will be traded on  Nasdaq , the person said. Chief
Financial Officer Gil Efron declined to comment when contacted
by telephone. A spokeswoman for Jefferies in  London  declined to
immediately comment. A spokesman for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in London
declined to comment.  Kamada said in December that it was examining a sale of
shares in the U.S., adding that no decision had been made on the
size and timing of the offering. The stock gained 62 percent
last year and 4 percent this year, giving the Nes Ziona-based
company a market value of almost 990 million shekels ($262
million).  “The main idea for Kamada at this point is to get feedback
from a sophisticated market,” said Nir Zonenberg, head of
research at Meitav Investment House, which holds a 4.99 percent
stake in Kamada. “Kamada probably thinks the American market is
better equipped to grasp the significance of its upcoming
results.”  Distribution Deal  The company announced on Aug. 5 an agreement with Chiesi
Farmaceutici SpA for the exclusive distribution of the inhaled
version of its medicine for a genetic condition called Alpha-1
Antitrypsin deficiency that can lead to liver and lung damage.
The inhaled version is in later stages of human testing in
 Europe  and results are expected this year.  Kamada said the Chiesi agreement could bring in $60 million
if regulatory conditions and sales targets are met and estimates
sales potential of “hundreds of millions of dollars.” The
company already sells an intravenous version of the AAT
treatment with  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  