-- NBC’s Jay Leno Withstands New Challenge From ABC’s Kimmel
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-09T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/nbc-s-jay-leno-withstands-new-challenge-from-abc-s-kimmel.html
Jay Leno , host of the most-watched
late-night show, withstood a challenge from ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel,
who aired his first head-to-head program in the 11:30 p.m. time
slot last night.  “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno” on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
averaged 3.27 million viewers last night, versus 3.1 million for
“Jimmy Kimmel Live!” on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, according to
updated Nielsen data supplied by TV networks. “Late Show With
David Letterman,” on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s network, averaged 2.88 million
viewers. Initial figures had Kimmel on top.  With Kimmel’s move, ABC is seeking to close an advertising
gap with NBC and CBS network. Kimmel can draw a fewer viewers
than Leno and still charge more for ads than “Nightline,” the
ABC news program he’s supplanting. Entertainment shows are more
popular with marketers and draw a broader mix of advertisers
than newscasts, according to Peter Gardiner, chief media officer
at Deutsch Inc.  Leno last night featured  Emma Stone , who talked about her
new film “Gangster Squad,” and Josh Gad, star of new NBC
comedy “1600 Penn.” Jennifer Aniston and the band No Doubt
appeared on Kimmel’s program.  “Nightline,” pushed back to 12:35 a.m. because of
Kimmel’s move, averaged more viewers than CBS’s “Late Late Show
with Craig Ferguson” and NBC’s “Late Night with Jimmy
Fallon,” according to the Nielsen ratings. “Nightline” drew
1.72 million viewers, compared with 1.5 million for Fallon and
1.42 million for Ferguson during the half hour the shows
overlapped, ABC said, citing Nielsen data.  Comcast Corp., the biggest U.S. cable system, gained 0.7
percent to $38.42 at the close in New York. The stock advanced
58 percent in 2012, outpacing the 7.3 percent rise in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. Disney, based in Burbank, California,
was little changed at $50.78 and climbed 33 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  