-- NHL Owners Approve Collective Bargaining Deal as Players Wait
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-09T22:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/nhl-owners-approve-collective-bargaining-deal-as-players-wait.html
The National Hockey League’s Board of
Governors approved a new collective bargaining agreement as the
it prepares to begin a lockout-shortened season.  Players are due to vote on the proposal this week.  Details of the 10-year agreement and a specific start date
of the season won’t be revealed until after the players vote.  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman announced the approval during
a press conference in New York today. He told players, fans and
sponsors, “I’m sorry.”  “I know that an explanation or an apology will not erase
the hard feelings that have built up over the past few months
but I owe you an apology nevertheless,” he said.  The world’s top professional hockey league and its players’
union agreed on the contract’s framework Jan. 6, ending the
shutdown that began Sept. 16 and forced the cancellation of 625
games, or 51 percent of the original schedule with each team
playing 82 games.  During the lockout, many of the sport’s top players
competed in European leagues, such as  Russia ’s Kontinental
Hockey League.  The NHL will have a full playoff schedule, with 16 teams
competing in four rounds of best-of-seven-game series for the
Stanley Cup championship.  The NHL, which had $3.3 billion in revenue last season,
gave up about $1 billion to get the 10-year deal that reduced
the players’ share of the earnings to 50 percent, the New York
Times reported without saying where it got the information.  Lockout History  The latest work stoppage was the second time in the last
seven seasons that owners shut down the league following the
expiration of a collective bargaining agreement.  The previous lockout resulted in the loss of the 2004-05
season, the only time an entire schedule of one of North
America’s four major pro sports leagues was wiped out in a labor
dispute. It also was the first year since 1919 that the Stanley
Cup wasn’t awarded.  In the 1994-95 season, a lockout ended Jan. 11 and a 48-
game schedule began on Jan. 20.  The most recent dispute centered on how players and owners
would split revenue that grew 50 percent by last season from
$2.2 billion in 2003-04. Under the previous agreement, players
received 57 percent, or $1.9 billion, of league revenue.  The negotiations also involved length of player contracts
and funding of the union’s pension plan.  The collective bargaining agreement runs through the 2021-
22 season, with both sides having the right to opt out after
eight years, the Associated Press said.  Salary Jump  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million at
the start of the 2005-06 season.  In comparison, the average National Basketball Association
player makes $5.15 million, the highest among North America’s
four major sports leagues, for 2011-12. The average salary for a
National Football League player was $1.9 million, the lowest of
the four leagues, with Major League Baseball’s $3.3 million
average salary ranking second behind the NBA.  The lockout contributed to a 14 percent slump in  Canada ’s
sport, performing art and heritage institution category in
October to the lowest level since the last NHL disruption in
2005. The sector’s output of C$4.91 billion ($4.97 billion) was
the lowest since May 2005 and down from C$5.72 billion a year
earlier. Seven NHL teams are in Canada.  Peter Swinburn, the chief executive officer of  Molson Coors
Brewing Co. (TAP) , the NHL’s official beer sponsor, told the Canadian
Press in November that it may seek compensation from the league
for games lost. The brewer said on Nov. 15 that its sales in
Canada dropped by as much as 9 percent in the first four weeks
of the fourth quarter compared with the same period a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  