-- Nomura Said Poised to Win Underwriter Job for Suntory IPO
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-01-10T00:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/nomura-said-poised-to-win-underwriter-post-for-suntory-unit-ipo.html
Suntory Holdings Ltd. plans to hire
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  as a lead underwriter for the initial
public offering of its non-alcoholic drinks and food business,
said two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Closely held Suntory will submit a listing application for
 Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd.  to the  Tokyo Stock Exchange  as soon
as next month, said the people, who asked not to be identified
before a decision. Suntory will seek to raise between 300
billion yen ($3.4 billion) and 500 billion yen, they said.  The deal would help Nomura recover from mandates lost last
year including a lead role in Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.3 billion
IPO, following revelations that brokerage staff tipped traders
on share sales it managed. Suntory’s offering would be  Japan ’s
biggest IPO since the airline’s sale and come after the Topix
Index jumped more than 20 percent in the past three months.  “It will be a big global offering,” said Kazumi Tanaka,
an IPO analyst at T&C Financial Research Inc. in Tokyo. “Nomura
and other banks will be eager to get involved for fees and
future advisory business as Suntory is keen on acquisitions.”  Shares of Nomura, Japan’s biggest brokerage, rose 2.2
percent to 511 yen as of 9:08 a.m. in Tokyo Stock Exchange
trading. The stock more than doubled last year, compared with an
18 percent gain in the Topix.  Naoko Tsuda, a Suntory spokeswoman in Tokyo, and Kenji Yamashita, a Nomura spokesman, declined to comment.  Acquisition Growth  Yasunori Aiba, who heads Suntory’s liquor business, said
after a briefing yesterday that the parent company may list the
beverage and food unit “around summer.” The listing’s timing
will be decided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, “and we are not in
a position to talk about it,” he said, declining to comment
further on the deal or its underwriters.  Suntory Beverage, with brands including Boss coffee and
Orangina soda, may have a market value of 600 billion yen to 1
trillion yen, similar to beverage makers  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  and
 Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502) , the people said.  The maker of Yamazaki whisky and Premium Malt’s beer
announced its plan to list its food and beverage unit on Dec.
18. It also said the subsidiary would set up a department on
Jan. 1 to explore possible mergers and acquisitions.  Suntory has focused on overseas takeovers of non-alcoholic
beverages, seeking growth abroad as population decline hinders
demand in Japan. The Osaka-based company in 2009 bought France’s
Orangina Schweppes Group for an undisclosed amount and paid 600
million euros ($785 million) the same year for New Zealand’s
Frucor Beverages Group Ltd.  Nomura Redemption  Suntory Beverage, which employs about 15,000 people, is
targeting sales of 2 trillion yen by 2020, its parent said last
month. The unit posted sales of 970.6 billion yen in 2011, while
Suntory had 1.8 trillion yen in total sales, according to a
company statement.  Nomura’s Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai, who took the
post on Aug. 1, has promised to put an insider-trading scandal
to rest that crimped the company’s investment banking business
and prompted his predecessor to resign.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s second-largest
brokerage, last year was hired as global coordinator for Japan
Air’s IPO amid Nomura’s woes. Daiwa reaped 5.5 billion yen of
revenue from the deal, including underwriting fees and retail
broking, Chief Financial Officer Nobuyuki Iwamoto said in
November.  Nomura’s brokerage commissions slid 16 percent to 72.3
billion yen for the three months ended Sept. 30 from a year
earlier. Investment banking fees advanced 24 percent to 17.1
billion yen.  The firm was the top underwriter for Japan equity and
equity-linked transactions last year with 44 share sales,
including  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  