-- Obama’s Default Drama Is No Way to Run a Country
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-01-09T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/obama-s-default-drama-is-no-way-to-run-a-country.html
The  United States of America  isn’t
going to default on its debt, even if Congress doesn’t increase
the  statutory borrowing authority  in the next couple of months.
Everyone in  Washington  knows, or should know, this. Any
assertions to the contrary are tantamount to -- perish the
thought! -- playing politics with the debt ceiling.  This is the second time in less than two years that the
nation finds itself at this juncture, with Republicans in
Congress threatening to hold the debt ceiling hostage. Some
lawmakers are willing to shut down the government in order to
pressure President  Barack Obama  to agree to spending cuts.  A shutdown is certainly possible. A debt default? Not gonna
happen.  Why? Because the income taxes withheld from most of our
paychecks each month exceed the interest the Treasury owes on
its debt outstanding. In November, for example, the Treasury’s
 interest expense  totaled $25 billion. That compares with  tax
receipts  of $161.7 billion. The ratio of receipts to interest
expense varies from month to month, but what comes in more than
covers what goes out in debt service.  Without an increase in the $16.394 trillion debt limit, the
federal government can’t pay all of its bills: It borrows 40
cents of every dollar it spends. Still, “ debt service  would
come first,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson
Icap LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Prioritizing Payments  Wait. The Treasury claims it has no authority to  prioritize
payments , to pay bondholders first.  That’s what it says, yes. Others beg to differ. In response
to a congressional inquiry on the issue in 1985, the  Government
Accountability Office  concluded the following: “We are aware of
no statute or any other basis for concluding that Treasury is
required to pay outstanding obligations in the order in which
they are presented for payment unless it chooses to do so.”  The GAO is equally unaware of any new law that would alter
its  opinion  in any way. So repeat after me: The U.S. isn’t going
to fail to make timely payment of principal and interest on its
sovereign debt. If it can’t issue new debt, it can roll over
maturing debt. Borrowers may very well demand a higher rate of
interest, especially if Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  raise the specter of default, as they did in 2011.  Issuing such a threat is irresponsible and even
counterproductive if it prompts bondholders to dump Treasuries.
That’s what happened initially during the debt-ceiling
negotiations in July and August of 2011, costing the  U.S.
Treasury  an additional $1.3 billion in interest expense,
according to the GAO.  Once  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S.’s AAA rating on credit
watch on July 14,  stocks  went into the tank and Treasuries
ignored the downgrade threat, which became a reality on Aug. 5.  “The  bond market  has its own credit-rating system,”
Crandall said.  I am not suggesting that a failure to raise the debt
ceiling wouldn’t be disruptive or cause undue hardship to those
who rely on government checks. Social Security payments might
not get processed. Medicare and Medicaid providers wouldn’t get
paid. Neither would those serving in the military.  The sad part is that the debt ceiling has nothing to do
with the debt problem. It merely allows Treasury to borrow what
Congress has already spent. It  does not authorize  new spending
commitments.  Options to get around the statutory debt limit, such as
invoking the  14th Amendment  or minting a $1 trillion  platinum
coin , seem like a bad precedent (the former) or a gimmick (the
latter) to circumvent a relic. Neither is likely to be
implemented.  ‘Finished, Over’  The only  solution  is to address the debt ceiling directly.
Obama has made it clear he won’t negotiate with Congress over
the government’s borrowing authority. Republicans have made it
equally clear they aren’t going to give him what he wants
without extracting concessions on spending cuts. Given the
 public’s view  of them as spoilers, Republicans would be better
served by using their leverage in negotiations over the
sequester. As part of the deal to avert the fiscal cliff, the
first installment of the 10-year, $1.2 trillion of not-so-
automatic discretionary-spending cuts was delayed for two
months.  Obama no longer has the leverage he had in the cliff
negotiations: tax increases for all if Congress failed to act.
Republicans, as a rule, oppose cuts in defense spending. So does
the Pentagon. Obama doesn’t want to pare nondefense spending. In
fact, he would like to increase it under the guise of
“investment.” (It sounds so much better.)  Obama has also said that any  deficit-reduction  agreement
must be balanced, by which he means spending cuts only in return
for additional tax increases. Congress just made the Bush-era
tax cuts permanent for all but the top 0.7 percent of earners.
And Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , echoing the view of
his caucus, said the “tax issue is finished, over, completed.”  The lines in the sand have been drawn -- rather sharply, as
it turns out. The negotiations could get interesting if
Republicans pick their battles carefully, addressing  spending
cuts  at a time and place that’s appropriate.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 