-- Obama Green Fleet Shows Ford Loses to Hyundai Hybrids
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/obama-green-fleet-shows-ford-loses-to-hyundai-hybrids.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, which set a goal of buying only alternative-
technology vehicles for its fleet by 2015, cut purchases of
hybrid and electric models by one-third last year and bought
mostly Asian brands.  About 54 percent of the 1,801 alt-fuel vehicles purchased
by U.S. government agencies last year were built by  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and Honda
Motor Co., according to data obtained under a Freedom of
Information request from the U.S. General Services
Administration, which coordinates most vehicle purchases.  The Korean-made hybrid version of the Hyundai Sonata
unseated  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fusion hybrid as the top-selling
alternative-technology vehicle purchased for the federal fleet.
U.S. hybrid purchases in previous years were made almost
exclusively from domestic automakers.  The figures show how fitfully the U.S. -- even the
government -- is moving toward alternative-fuel vehicles. They
also indicate the head start that foreign-owned companies have
in the segment, at least for now.  “The government needs to support a broad base of companies
producing alternative vehicles because if they talk the talk,
they need to walk the walk,” said  Brett Smith , an alternative-
vehicle analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann
Arbor , Michigan. “They want there to be a full range of
options. In the future, there should be more availability of
models built in the U.S.”  Stimulus Purchases  Green-car purchases by the government fell for the third
year in a row. The Obama administration bought about 8,139
alternative technology vehicles in 2009 and 6,467 in 2010, when
economic-stimulus spending fueled $300 million of fuel-efficient
vehicle purchases for the federal fleet. As the stimulus money
expired, purchases fell to 2,645 in fiscal 2011.  GSA purchases of hybrid and electric models fell 32 percent
in fiscal 2012 to about 3.6 percent of the 50,114 vehicles
purchased for federal agencies. The agency, which coordinates
about two thirds of U.S. government vehicle buying, cut total
car and truck purchases by 8.6 percent for fiscal 2012.  The same data showed that  General Motors Co. (GM)  surpassed Ford
in U.S. government sales last year for the first time since
before the 2009 bailouts of GM and the predecessor to Chrysler
Group LLC.  Obama has touted twin goals of buying only alternative-fuel
vehicles for the U.S. fleet by 2015 and getting 1 million
electric vehicles on the country’s roads by that year. Current
forecasts are well short of 1 million by 2015, without including
hybrids.  Penske Connection  RP Automotive, owned by Roger Penske, Jr., the son of
dealership owner and racing legend Roger Penske, sold the GSA
all 996 foreign alternative-technology vehicles purchased last
year, according to the data.  “We try to fill a niche where the domestic models aren’t
able to fill it,” said Roy Durham, corporate fleet director for
RP Automotive in West Covina,  California .  The Obama administration is shrinking the federal vehicle
fleet and puts purchases up for bid every year, said Mafara
Hobson, a GSA spokeswoman.  “This results in changes to which manufacturer provides
the lowest pricing for a particular vehicle class,” she said.  Many domestic hybrid models were less available in 2012
than in the previous year, Durham said in an interview. This is
the third year RP Automotive has sold alternative-technology
vehicles to the U.S. government, he said.  “It’s all the roll of the dice,” Durham said. “In 2013,
they may buy none or they may by 1,000.”  Fusion, Volt  Foreign brands dominate total U.S. sales of alternative
technology vehicles, led by the Toyota Prius liftback model,
according to data compiled by Alan Baum, principal of auto-
industry researcher Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,
 Michigan .  Toyota’s Camry model was the second most popular, followed
by the Prius V and Prius C models, Baum said. The Sonata was
fifth, followed by the Lexus CT200h. The highest-ranking U.S.
model was the Chevrolet Malibu at seventh, followed by the
Fusion.  The government’s purchasing decisions are probably as much
about availability as anything else, Baum said. Ford’s newest
hybrid Fusion and a new C-Max didn’t start selling in volume
until later in the fiscal year, he said.  “The general consumer certainly doesn’t have any
difficulty buying foreign models,” he said.  The GSA purchases in fiscal 2012 included 904 Sonata
hybrids, followed by 372 Fusion hybrids, with General Motors
Co.’s Chevrolet Volt plug-in electric model accounting for 163
purchases. The Sonata purchases represented 5.1 percent of the
hybrid’s model’s U.S. sales for 2012.  Hyundai,  South Korea ’s largest automaker, manufactures the
gasoline version of the Sonata in Montgomery,  Alabama .  Gasoline Use  The GSA purchased about 300 other hybrids from GM and Ford
as well as five Toyota Prius hybrids and three of Mitsubishi’s
i-MiEV electric car. The GSA also reported buying 49 Honda
Civics powered by compressed natural gas that are built in
Greensburg,  Indiana . It’s the only CNG-powered model for  sale  in
the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Total U.S. sales of electric and plug-in vehicles totaled
about 53,172 last year and may reach 200,000 by 2015, Baum said.  Availability of models will improve as the U.S. auto
industry expands its offering of 18 electric and plug-in car and
truck models last year to 28 this year and 56 by 2015, Baum
said. His previous research helped Obama set his 2009 goal of 1
million electric vehicles on the road by 2015, which he now says
looks unlikely.  Hybrid electric models that use a battery to supplement a
gasoline engine in some manner may rise to 680,000 in 2015 from
434,498 last year, he said.  In 2011, the most-recent data available, the U.S.
government’s gasoline use rose to a 26-year high, increasing 2.3
percent to 52.5 trillion British thermal units, according to
data compiled by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Obama has said he wants to reduce U.S. oil imports, saying
promoting greener vehicles is part of that strategy. Gasoline
usage has risen each year of Obama’s presidency, according to
EIA data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  