-- Obama Weighs Keeping No Troops as Karzai Arrives in U.S.
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/obama-weighs-keeping-no-troops-as-karzai-arrives-in-u-s-.html
Afghanistan’s President  Hamid Karzai 
arrived yesterday in a war-weary Washington amid warning signs
that the U.S. may pull out of his country completely after next
year unless differences can be resolved.  Karzai, accompanied by senior members of his
administration, has meetings scheduled tomorrow with Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and on Jan. 11 with President  Barack Obama  at the White House.  The U.S. and Afghanistan are in discussions that will
ultimately determine how many of the 66,000 U.S. troops now in
the country will remain after 2014, when Obama has pledged to
bring most of them home. The talks turn on numerous disputes,
from Afghan demands for more control over aid and detainees to
U.S. insistence on immunity for its troops from local
prosecution and progress by Karzai in reducing corruption.  The Obama administration signaled yesterday on a conference
call with reporters that it’s ready for what Doug Lute, Obama’s
deputy assistant for  South Asia , called “very candid”
discussions with Karzai.  Ben Rhodes , the deputy national
security adviser, underscored that message by saying the U.S. is
prepared to pull out of Afghanistan altogether after 2014 if an
accord can’t be reached.  “I’d say that would be an option we would consider,”
Rhodes said when asked if the Obama administration is
considering withdrawing all troops after 2014. Obama “does not
view these negotiations as having the goal of keeping U.S.
troops in Afghanistan,” he said.  One Brigade  Pentagon officials have proposed keeping some troops in the
country after 2014 to conduct operations against terrorists and
to train Afghan forces. Only one Afghan brigade out of 23 was
ranked as capable of operating independently, even with the help
of allied advisers, as of the end of September, according to a
Pentagon report.  The discussions and Karzai’s visit take place as U.S.
sentiment toward  Afghanistan  has hardened, Omar Samad, the
senior expert in residence on Afghanistan at the U.S. Institute
of Peace in Washington, said in an interview.  “It’s important for the Afghan side to realize they’re
coming to Washington where there’s very little appetite for
continuing engagement as we know it,” said Samad, a former
Afghan ambassador to  France . “There’s very little support for
funding levels we have seen over the years and there’s a loss of
trust and maybe even goodwill in some sectors of the American
public.”  Public Opinion  Six of 10 Americans said U.S. troops should be removed from
Afghanistan as soon as possible, according to an Oct. 18  poll  by
the Pew Research Center. The poll, with a margin of error of
plus-or-minus 2.9 percentage points, found 35 percent said
troops should remain until the situation there has stabilized.  The U.S. is trying to strike a balance between allowing
Afghanistan full sovereignty versus continuing counterterrorism
operations and the training of Afghan forces.  “It is not an objective in and of itself to have a certain
number of troops,” Rhodes said.  The U.S. and Afghanistan are attempting to negotiate a
“status of forces agreement” for an American military
contingent to provide air support, training and other assistance
after 2014.  Among the U.S. demands are immunity for remaining troops
from local prosection. Failure to reach such an accord led to
the removal of U.S. troops from  Iraq  at the end of 2011.  Troop Immunity  While immunity is “of tremendous importance to the U.S.,
we in Afghanistan have certain important issues as well,”
including questions over “detentions and taking of detainees
that directly touch on Afghan sovereignty,” Karzai said Dec. 13
at a news conference in Kabul with Panetta.  The U.S. also will discuss with Karzai “progress on
corruption, on transparency, on accountability,” State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday.  Improvement in those measures would lead to the U.S.
providing more economic assistance through programs run by the
Afghan government, as Karzai wants, rather than through
independent organizations, Nuland said.  Afghanistan was listed among the world’s most corrupt
countries last year, ranked at 174 of 176 nations, according to
 Transparency International , a Berlin-based group that rates how
corrupt the public sector is perceived to be.  The nation also remains a center of drug production and
trafficking. Opium poppy cultivation increased 18 percent in
2012 from the previous year, according to the Afghanistan Opium
Survey cited by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.  ‘Dramatic Change’  Expecting “drastic, dramatic change in how governance is
handled in Afghanistan” may be unrealistic, said Samad, the
former Afghan official. “But it does not hurt to try.”  White House officials said no final agreement on future
U.S. force levels will be reached during this week’s visit.  Predicting the outcome of the talks with Karzai is
difficult because “none of us know the details of what has gone
on in the last couple of months by way of preparation,”  Anthony Cordesman , a defense analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, said in an interview.  At best, the two sides may endorse continuing the
transition that calls for Afghanistan to take on more security
responsibilities, Cordesman said.  The handover has been set back by a rise in so-called
insider attacks by Afghan soldiers on coalition forces.  Karzai Pledge  Adding to the uncertainty is whether Karzai will keep his
pledge to step down from the presidency when his term ends in
2014, according to Cordesman, who said, “So far, there is no
logical  succession plan .”  Most nations in the NATO-led  International Security
Assistance Force  are eager to leave Afghanistan “very, very
quickly,” Cordesman said.  In addition to the U.S., about 47 nations had 37,000 troops
in Afghanistan as of Dec. 31, according to a Jan. 4 report by
the U.S. Congressional Research Service.  Since 2001, the military mission and economic assistance to
Afghanistan have cost U.S. taxpayers about $557 billion,
according to the report. The Obama administration is seeking
$9.7 billion in economic aid and $82 billion in war costs for
the current fiscal year.  In Afghanistan, the uncertain negotiations with the U.S.
have contributed to “a sort of murky, foggy future,” Samad
said.  If Obama and Karzai can agree on a strategic vision of how
both countries view Afghanistan and the region beyond 2014,
“then I’d feel more comfortable,” Samad said. “If the focus
is on immediate issues, then it means it is tied to political
expediency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  