-- Obama Environmental Picks Seen Focusing On Oil Boom
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-01-09T16:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/obama-environmental-picks-seen-focusing-on-oil-boom.html
Four years ago, President  Barack Obama  said his energy and environmental advisers would work to
develop a “new hybrid economy” based on wind, solar, and other
renewable energy sources.  Lisa Jackson  has announced her exit as head of the
Environmental Protection Agency, and Energy Secretary Steven Chu, who faced congressional criticism over green-energy
programs, could follow. Obama may end up assembling a second-
term team for a different task: how to manage the boom in U.S.
production of oil and natural gas.  “When the Obama team came in the first go around, there
was great hope that the president would be transformative and
really try to shift the  energy policy  much more heavily towards
renewables,” Charles Ebinger, an energy policy expert at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington, said in an interview.  Instead, the growth of hydraulic fracturing to drill for
oil and gas in shale rock formations is offering a “unique
opportunity to revitalize the American economy and reinvigorate
American manufacturing,” Ebinger said.  Oil production is at its highest level in 15 years, and
natural gas development is at record levels. That pushed prices
down to a decade low last year, enticing chemical companies that
rely on natural gas to build new factories in the U.S.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  “The whole paradigm has shifted over the last four
years,”  Stephen Brown , a lobbyist for  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , which is
based in  San Antonio ,  Texas , said in an interview. The
administration needs to “figure out how not to get in the way
of this,” he said.  Ebinger said Obama should pick an Energy secretary, who can
explain the benefits offered by natural gas development to a
skeptical public.  “He needs a couple of people at the top who can go out and
sell the message that we really are at a situation now where we
can reduce our oil import dependency if we move to develop these
unconventional resources,” he said. “I think he needs a
salesman or a saleswoman.”  On the other side are environmentalists who want the U.S.
to adopt stricter regulations to protect water resources and
limit air pollution from “fracking.”  The Interior Department is developing the first rules for
the drilling practice on federal lands to address some of those
concerns as it also promotes oil and gas development as a source
of economic growth.  Fracking Study  The EPA, meanwhile, plans to release its multi-year
analysis of the potential risks of fracking in 2014. Margot
Anderson, the executive director of the Energy Project at the
Bipartisan Policy Center, a Washington-based group that says it
promotes legislative consensus, said that study will probably
determine the level of regulatory restrictions on fracking the
administration pursues next term.  The oil industry hopes Obama chooses candidates who “are
well versed in how an agency operates and what the agency is
capable of doing,” Tesoro’s Brown said.  “Hydraulic fracturing regulation done poorly would put the
brakes on development going on here in this country,” he said.  The emphasis for Obama’s new energy and environmental team
appears to be on seasoned insiders who understand the politics
of rulemaking and how to negotiate with diverse constituencies.  Governor Gregoire  Washington Governor  Christine Gregoire , whose term ends
next week, is a candidate to replace Jackson at the EPA,
seattlepi.com reported on its Web site, citing a “very private
prediction from a very senior source in Washington’s
congressional delegation.”  Gregoire won praise from environmental groups such as the
Ocean Conservancy for commissioning a report on the risks of
ocean acidification, a consequence of  climate change , last year.  No offer has been made either formally or informally from
the White House about any administration position, Gregoire’s
spokeswoman Karina Shagren said. “If conversations are
happening, I’m not privy to those conversations,” Shagren said.  Other candidates for the EPA include Bob Perciasepe, the
agency’s No. 2 official;  Gina McCarthy , the assistant
administrator of EPA for air pollution; and Kathleen McGinty,
the former top environmental regulator for  Pennsylvania ,
according to published reports.  Final Rules  The EPA’s new administrator will largely be responsible for
implementing regulations already in the works, including a
series of final or proposed rules that will curb the use of coal
to generate electricity.  With those rules in place “at this point you can’t stop
it,” William Bumpers, a lawyer at Baker Botts LLP in
Washington, said in an interview.  Former Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat, is
reportedly being considered as to replace either Chu or Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar .  Neither Salazar nor Chu has announced his future plans.  Salazar today declined to say if he would remain at
Interior, although he did signal he would like to stay on. “I
have a lot of work to do,” he told reporters, adding that he
had no “personnel announcement” to make.  William Gibbons, an Energy Department spokesman, declined
to comment on Chu’s plans.  Chu’s Legacy  Chu brought “real passion for the Obama’s administration’s
long-term goals for clean energy and high-tech energy and really
attracted top-flight people to come and work for the
department,” said Anderson, who was an adviser at the Energy
Department under Chu.  Chu is a career scientist and co-winner of the  Nobel Prize 
for physics.  Some Republicans in Congress came to view his leadership as
tarnished by the Energy Department’s endorsement in 2009 of
Solyndra LLC’s $535 million U.S. loan guarantee. The solar panel
maker went bankrupt two years later.  Regardless of who is in charge, the energy outlook has
shifted considerably since the start of Obama’s first term in
January 2009 when he sought to implement policies that as a
candidate said could create 5 million green jobs in a decade.  The reality has fallen far short of that goal. The White
House estimated in 2010 that 225,000 green jobs had been
created.  Fiscal constraints will mean fewer resources to promote
wind, solar and other environmentally friendly sources of power
than the $90 billion provided in the 2009 economic stimulus
bill, Ebinger said.  “It’s going to be very difficult for a major program to be
supported fiscally by the Congress,” Ebinger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  