-- Olam Cut to Sell by UBS on Concern Financial Health Deteriorates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-01-09T03:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/olam-cut-to-sell-by-ubs-on-concern-financial-health-deteriorates.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , was cut
to sell from buy by UBS AG amid concern that the company’s
financial health may be deteriorating.  UBS analysts Andreas Bokkenheuser and Anubhav Gupta reduced
Olam’s 12-month  target price  by more than half to S$1.33 from
S$2.95, they said in a report today. Shares of Olam, the world’s
second-largest rice trader, fell 0.9 percent to S$1.59 in
 Singapore  trading at 10:54 a.m. local time.  UBS becomes the fifth brokerage to downgrade Olam since
Block first questioned the company’s accounting methods at a
London conference in November. He later rated it a “strong
sell” in a  report  by his research firm Muddy Waters LLC and
said the company may fail. Singapore-based Olam has refuted
Block’s claims and said last week it’s in the best  financial
health  since its 2005 initial share sale.  A bankruptcy analysis “suggests that Olam’s financial
position has deteriorated to below financial health levels,
although it remains above distress levels,” UBS’s Bokkenheuser
and Gupta wrote in the report.  Olam’s earnings quality has deteriorated as the gap widens
between earnings reported by Olam and earnings adjusted for
items including changes in fair value of biological assets,
negative goodwill, and government grants, according to UBS.
Assumptions in determining fair value put earnings quality at
risk, the analysts said.  Earnings Estimates   UBS cut its earnings-per-share  estimate  for Olam for 2013
by 45 percent, by 41 percent for 2014 and 44 percent for the
year after, according to the report.  Olam said on Nov. 28 it faces no risk of insolvency. The
company is “comfortable” with its debt, it said last week,
adding that it had S$3.42 billion ($2.8 billion) of equity and
S$6.99 billion of net debt as of Sept. 30. It had S$10.71
billion in cash, readily traded assets and undrawn credit lines
as of that date, Olam said.  The commodity trader has provided answers to questions
raised by UBS, Aditya Renjen, Olam’s general manager of  investor
relations , said today by phone from Singapore. The company “has
been very clear” about Olam’s financial health, he said.  Borrowing costs are also an area of concern as the company
may need to refinance its debts in the next two years, the UBS
analysts said. Olam’s current covenants based on reported
earnings are 4.5 times net  debt-to-equity ratio , 1.5 times
interest cover and S$1.2 billion minimum net worth, they said.  The stock lost 27 percent last year, making it the second-
 worst performer  on Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times index.
Ten analysts recommend buying Olam stock, 4 advise selling it
and 6 rate it a hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  