-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Start Debate on Probe Into Leader Leung
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-01-09T08:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/hong-kong-lawmakers-start-debate-on-probe-into-leader-leung.html
Opposition lawmakers introduced a
motion today seeking a probe of  Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying over claims he lied about illegal construction at his
property, stepping up pressure on the Chinese-backed leader.  The motion, introduced by 27 opposition lawmakers on the
city’s 70-seat Legislative Council, would invoke constitutional
powers to form a judge-led investigation into allegations that
Leung gave false statements to the legislature over the
construction.  An uproar over illegal housing additions has sent Leung’s
popularity falling and led opposition lawmakers to demand that
he resign or face possible impeachment hearings. While Leung’s
opponents are unlikely to win support in the legislature, where
they only hold a third of the seats, the campaign has detracted
from his attempts to focus on the city’s economy.  “Leung Chun-ying has acted in dereliction of his
constitutional duty,” Leung Kwok-hung, lawmaker from the League
of Social Democrats, said as he read out the  motion . The
lawmaker said the chief executive had “undermined the
integrity” and betrayed people’s trust.  The motion claims Leung intentionally gave “false
statements and answers” to the legislature when questioned
about the illegal structures found at his house in the city’s
Peak district.  Leung has repeatedly apologized for being “negligent” in
dealing with the unauthorized modifications, which include a
trellis, a basement, and a cover over a parking space. The
basement room existed before he purchased the property, he said
in November.  China Backing  The former property surveyor survived a no-confidence
motion on Dec. 12 over his handling of the controversy over the
structures.  China ’s Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping
gave his backing to Leung during a Beijing visit last month,
saying his team had been “progressive” and “pragmatic” since
taking over on July 1.  “There are a lot of voices in the community saying that
the government and the legislature should not waste valuable
time on this issue,” Carrie Lam, Hong Kong’s chief secretary,
told lawmakers. “Instead, we should focus on important policy
matters and livelihood issues.”  Leung’s main opponent in the Hong Kong leadership race last
year,  Henry Tang , saw his candidacy undone after he admitted he
knew that his wife had built a basement with a wine cellar and
movie theater without government approval.  The Basic Law , Hong Kong’s de facto constitution, allows
the legislature to pass a motion, if supported by a two-third
majority, to impeach the chief executive should an investigation
by the chief justice find evidence the law was broken. The
Chinese government would then decide whether to carry out the
impeachment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  