-- Morgan Stanley Shares May Double, Loeb’s Third Point Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-09T21:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/morgan-stanley-shares-may-double-loeb-s-third-point-says.html
Morgan Stanley shares may double as
brokerage margins improve and management devises a “bold fix”
for the fixed-income trading business,  Daniel Loeb ’s  Third Point 
LLC said as it disclosed a stake in the firm.  The hedge fund bought shares at an average cost of $16.77,
15 percent below yesterday’s close of $19.65, Third Point said
today in a letter to investors. The  stock  will probably rise as
earnings increase and the bank gets a greater percentage of
profit from wealth-management, the fund said.  “We view MS at these prices as a chance to buy a free  call
option  on a promising restructuring,” Third Point said in the
letter, referring to New York-based Morgan Stanley by its stock
ticker. “Although MS has historically failed to capitalize on
its strengths, its  leadership  currently is focused on growing
its good businesses while consolidating and successfully fixing
its previously troubled wealth-management business.”  Third Point didn’t disclose the size of the stake. The
 stock  fell 0.2 percent to $19.62 at 4 p.m. in New York trading.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which pays its directors more than rivals,
should revise its board practices and “upgrade” the members of
its board, the hedge fund said.  ‘Encouraging’ Results  Morgan Stanley has shown “encouraging” results in
improving profitability at its retail brokerage joint venture
with Citigroup Inc., the hedge fund said in the letter. The bank
must do more in 2013 to address its fixed income, currency and
commodities, or FICC,  trading unit , according to the letter.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on Third Point’s letter.  Gorman has already pledged to shrink that group, with plans
to reduce risk-weighted assets in the business 35 percent from
the third quarter of 2011 through the end of 2014. Morgan
Stanley is cutting 1,600 jobs from its investment banking and
trading units and support staff, a person with direct knowledge
of the plans said today.  “Morgan Stanley has a tougher road ahead in dealing with
its FICC businesses, which are limping along with a still-
bloated cost structure and anemic returns due to regulatory
changes stemming from the global financial crisis,” Third Point
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  