-- Pain Pill Makers Get Guidance on Thwarting Drug Addicts
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-09T21:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/pain-pill-makers-get-guidance-on-thwarting-drug-addicts.html
Companies making opioid painkillers
were given a better idea by the U.S. government today of how to
prove their pills are resistant to abuse by recreational users.  The  Food and Drug Administration  proposed a  guideline 
outlining studies drugmakers should conduct to demonstrate abuse
deterrence. The guidance also makes clear to companies what
claims abuse-resistant painkillers can make on the ability to
block the effect of an opioid when manipulated, such as when the
pills are crushed and snorted for a more intense effect.  The FDA isn’t requiring abuse-resistant painkillers, rather
it wants to determine what strategies work best, Douglas Throckmorton, deputy director at the agency’s office that
oversees drug reviews, said on a conference call with reporters.
Regulators plan to be flexible as companies adopt the
technology.  “This draft guidance is an important part of a larger
effort by FDA aimed at preventing prescription drug abuse and
misuse,” Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said in a  statement ,
calling opioid addiction a major public health challenge.  FDA advisers decided Dec. 7 against recommending  Zogenix
Inc. (ZGNX) ’s single-ingredient hydrocodone painkiller Zohydro for
approval after they determined it needed more protections from
abuse. Zogenix is working on an abuse-deterrent formulation that
hasn’t been submitted to the FDA for approval.  Label Claims  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  already makes an extended-
release oxymorphone called Opana that is tamper resistant. The
 Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania-based company took its earlier version
of Opana without the abuse deterrent off the market.  Endo can’t claim the product is abuse-resistant on the
label. The FDA hasn’t approved any labeling that claims an
opioid can reduce abuse, Throckmorton said.  Purdue Pharma, based in  Stamford , Connecticut, is working
on an abuse-resistant formulation of pure hydrocodone, the
company said last month in a statement.  The FDA is asking for public comment on the guideline for
60 days and plans to hold a public meeting, which hasn’t yet
been scheduled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  