-- Pap Smear DNA Analysis May Find More Cancers, Study Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/pap-smear-dna-analysis-may-find-more-cancers-study-shows.html
New versions of the  Pap smear  that
analyze cells in the cervix for cancer may also identify
malignancies of the ovaries and endometrium, a finding that
could broaden the preventive benefits of the test.  In the study published in the journal  Science Translational
Medicine , researchers found genes of cancer mutations in samples
of cervical cells and secretions from Pap smears they tested.
The DNA tests accurately detected all endometrial cancers and 41
percent of ovarian cancers.  No routine screening exists for  endometrial  or  ovarian 
cancers, which were responsible for 47,000 and 22,000 new
illnesses respectively in 2012, according to the  National Cancer
Institute . The Pap smear is administered to women of
reproductive age, and since its introduction has reduced the
incidence and mortality of cervical cancer by 75 percent. The
new study may provide the first steps widening its success to
more reproductive cancers, researchers said.  “Even if tumors were identified at an advanced stage,
detection of presymptomatic ovarian cancers could be of
benefit,” the authors wrote in the study released yesterday.
“The earlier these advanced-stage ovarian cancers are
diagnosed, the lower the overall tumor burden.”  The investigators focused on 12 of the most common types of
ovarian and endometrial cancer mutations. They were able to
identify mutations in the DNA of Pap smear specimens in all 24
of the endometrial cancers surveyed, and 9 of 22 ovarian
cancers.  While more research needs to be done before the test can be
broadly applied in gynecologists’ offices, the authors wrote,
the findings may lead toward more routine testing.  The study’s lead author was Isaac Kinde, a graduate student
at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore. The work
was funded by Across America, The Commonwealth Fund, and the
Hilton-Ludwig Cancer Prevention Initiative, among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  