-- Peugeot Battles Cash Crunch as European Slump Continues
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-10T13:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/peugeot-battles-cash-crunch-as-european-slump-continues.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the carmaker
most exposed to slumping European auto demand, will probably see
its cash cushion shrink in 2013 with industrywide sales in the
region due to contract for the sixth straight year.  Peugeot will run through about 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion) of its 8 billion euros in cash reserves in 2013,
according to estimates by CM-CIC Securities analyst Florent Couvreur. The burn rate may bring the carmaker closer to a
liquidity crunch as its market share erodes further.  “The news flow is not heading in the right direction,”
said Eric Tanguy, director of corporate ratings for Standard &
Poor’s in Paris. The French carmaker’s “full-year sales were
below what we had in mind.”  Peugeot has been harder hit by the sovereign-debt crisis
than other European competitors because it lacks major
international operations to soften the blow at home. The
region’s car market is forecast to drop to 12.3 million vehicles
this year, 23 percent below the pre-crisis peak, according to
IHS Automotive. The Paris-based carmaker’s share is set to slump
to 11.8 percent from 12.8 percent in 2007.  Peugeot’s shares have dropped 46 percent over the past 12
months, the only decliner among the 14 companies in the  Stoxx
600 Automobiles and Parts Index  in that period.  Shares Fall  Peugeot fell as much as 3.7 percent to 6.08 euros today and
was down 3.4 percent as of 1:59 p.m. in Paris trading, valuing
the company at 2.16 billion euros.  The French carmaker,  Europe ’s second-largest, delivered 17
percent fewer vehicles last year, with the drop worsening in the
fourth quarter. Its push abroad with cars like the low-cost
Peugeot 308 sedan failed to insulate the company from what  Fiat
SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  called Europe’s
“Carmageddon.”  Peugeot’s European deliveries, which accounted for 62
percent of its global sales last year, may fall 4 percent to 1.5
million cars this year, according to IHS. The renewed drop will
put a further strain on finances.  Peugeot’s 5.625 percent bonds in euros due 2017 fell 0.1
percent to 103.45 cents on the euro at 12:51 p.m. in  London ,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. That pushed the notes’ yield
to a one-week high of 4.75 percent.  Negative Outlook  Standard & Poor’s defines adequate liquidity as having
funds to cover 120 percent of expected spending, including debt
payments and planned expenditures on factories and vehicle
development, over the coming 12 months. The rating company
estimates Peugeot’s spending at about 6 billion euros, based on
figures from the first half of 2012.  Including credit lines, Peugeot’s  liquidity  stands at about
10 billion euros. That gives the Paris-based carmaker a buffer
of about 2 billion euros before cash falls below  Standard &
Poor’s  threshold. S&P has a BB rating on Peugeot’s long-term
debt, two steps below investment grade, with a negative outlook.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have Peugeot at
three levels below investment grade with a negative outlook.
That situation has weighed on the financial profile of its
banking unit Banque PSA Finance, or BPF, whose rating at Moody’s
is one step above junk.  The bank’s drop to non-investment grade would push up
borrowing costs for buyers of Peugeot vehicles, making the
carmaker less competitive.  State Support  The French government agreed in October to support BPF by
offering 7 billion euros in guarantees for new bonds. As part of
the effort to shore up the bank’s finances, BPF is finalizing
agreements with a pool of about 20 banks on a 11.5 billion-euro
refinancing package, spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mounier said today
by phone.  To boost funding, Peugeot sold assets last year including
its headquarters building, a majority holding in trucking unit
Gefco and a 7 percent stake to  General Motors Co. (GM)  as part of a
partnership. The company is also cutting 550 million euros in
automotive spending and plans to close a factory near Paris.  Still, Peugeot’s plight isn’t as severe as the crisis it
survived in the 1980s, when it slashed about 40 percent of its
workforce to stave off bankruptcy, said Jean-Louis Loubet, a
historian and author of a book on the Peugeot family. The
manufacturer also now has the French government on its side,
which has taken a seat on the company’s supervisory board as
part of the guarantee deal.  “Going bankrupt is not an option,” said Sascha Gommel, an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The French government
will do something in the end.”  Global Challenge  As part of its turnaround effort, Peugeot plans to sell
more cars this year as the global auto market expands 3 percent
to 4 percent this year, Frederic Saint-Geours, the carmaker’s
head of brands, told journalists yesterday.  Peugeot may struggle to win back consumers from  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which have both made inroads in
 France . Peugeot’s sales tumbled 18 percent in its home country,
outpacing the total market’s 14 percent drop. VW slipped 5
percent, while Hyundai’s deliveries surged 28 percent, according
to French trade group CCFA.  Peugeot’s penchant for discounting to keep assembly lines
moving has sullied its reputation, said Arnaud Slamani, a
Citroen dealer in Paris.  When people shop for a Peugeot, they’re “looking at the
price,” while buyers are willing to pay more for a Volkswagen,
said Slamani. “That’s where the German image plays a role.”  Getting Squeezed  That leaves Peugeot squeezed in the crowded mid-market,
without a budget offering to compete with  Renault SA (RNO) ’s Dacia or
a luxury line like Volkswagen’s Audi to generate profits. As a
result, further closures may be needed to raise utilization
rates at European factories to a profitable level, according to
JPMorgan analyst Jose Asumendi.  Peugeot, along with closing the plant in the Paris suburb
of Aulnay, aims to shrink its French automotive operations by
11,200 positions, or 17 percent, over the next two years.
Shrinking its workforce won’t be enough.  “At the moment, it’s difficult to have a perspective for
the business model,” said Commerzbank’s Gommel. “There’s no
example in the past where a mass carmaker was successful by
reducing its capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  