-- Peugeot Quarterly Sales Fall 20% on European Market Drop
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-09T12:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/peugeot-2012-vehicle-sales-drop-17-on-europen-car-market.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest carmaker, delivered 20 percent fewer vehicles in the
fourth quarter as a push abroad failed to protect the company
from a recession in its home region.  Sales of cars, vans and kits of components ready for
assembly fell to about 720,000 vehicles from 902,000 a year
earlier, according to data provided by the Paris-based company.
Deliveries last year dropped 17 percent to 2.97 million, Paris-
based Peugeot said today in a  statement.   “The sales figures look as bad as one would expect,” said
Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG with a reduce
 recommendation  on the shares. “The company is suffering heavily
in Europe, but also in other regions like  Latin America ,” and
losing market share to competitors such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
Hyundai Motor Co.  A European car market that’s the smallest in almost two
decades has led to cash depletion at Peugeot. The company said
yesterday that its banking unit sold 3.1 billion euros ($4
billion) in asset-backed securities in 2012 to bolster finances.
The manufacturer entered a model-development alliance last year
with  General Motors Co. (GM) , and it introduced the Peugeot 301 sedan
in November in  Turkey , part of a strategy to expand in  emerging
markets .  Stock Falls  Peugeot fell as much as 2.8 percent to 6.04 euros and was
trading down 0.7 percent at 1:15 p.m. in Paris. The stock has
plunged 42 percent in the past 12 months.  The carmaker’s financial woes, which included consuming 200
million euros in  cash  monthly as of mid-2012, prompted the
company to sell some non-manufacturing assets and seek 11.5
billion euros in refinancing for the consumer-finance unit,
Banque PSA Finance, including a French government guarantee on
the division’s bond sales.  Disposals have included the Citer vehicle-rental business
and a majority of its Gefco trucking unit. The sale of a stake
in Peugeot’s  Faurecia (EO)  part-making division isn’t planned,
Frederic Saint-Geours, the carmaker’s head of brands, said today
at a Paris press conference. Peugeot and Faurecia shares jumped
two days ago amid speculation about a disposal.  Peugeot plans to sell more cars this year as the global
auto market expands 3 percent to 4 percent this year, including
an increase of 5 percent in  Russia , Saint-Geours said. Peugeot
predicted that industrywide sales in Europe will fall 3 percent
to 5 percent this year. Saint-Geours said  France ’s market alone
will contract at that rate.  Kits Ended  The company no longer supplies component kits to any
partners after halting supplies to  Iran  last year because of
international trade sanctions. Excluding the kits, Peugeot’s
fourth-quarter deliveries declined 6.9 percent to 719,000 cars
and vans, with full-year deliveries on that basis falling 8.8
percent to 2.82 million. European sales in the quarter dropped
15 percent, and Latin American demand fell 7 percent.  Twelve-month sales slid 6.1 percent to 1.56 million
vehicles at the Peugeot brand and 12 percent to 1.27 million
autos at the Citroen marque.  The economy of the 17 nations using the euro entered a
recession in the third quarter, and the  European Central Bank 
forecasts a contraction in the bloc’s gross domestic product of
0.3 percent in 2013. The European Automobile Manufacturers
Association, or ACEA, has predicted that sales in the region
last year would fall to about 12 million cars, the lowest figure
since 1995. The group is scheduled to release registration
numbers for 2012 in mid-January.  Exports’ Role  The proportion of cars that Peugeot sold outside the region
increased to 38 percent last year from 33 percent in 2011, and
“the group confirms its target of generating 50 percent of
sales outside Europe in 2015,” it said.  Industrywide car sales in France  fell  14 percent last year,
according to the country’s automakers’ association. Peugeot’s
deliveries dropped 18 percent, and domestic competitor  Renault
SA (RNO) ’s sales plunged 22 percent. Including light commercial
vehicles, the French market shrank 13 percent, with declines of
17 percent at Peugeot and 20 percent at Renault. The French
carmakers’ sales declines also exceeded the  market’s drop  last
year in  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy.  France’s government agreed in October to guarantee as much
as 7 billion euros in new bonds sold by Banque PSA Finance in
exchange for Peugeot board seats for representatives of workers
and the state.  French authorities notified the European Union about the
guarantee, Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a Peugeot spokesman, said
today by phone, confirming a report in Les Echos newspaper.  Temporary EU authorization for the guarantee, which is
subject to the bloc’s rules limiting state aid to companies,
should be granted in less than two months, with a permanent
clearance to follow, Saint-Geours said at the press conference.
Peugeot’s reorganization “should be in line with the kind of
things the European Union asks for,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  