-- Philippine Bonds Advance as Fitch Says Public Finances Improved
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-01-09T08:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/philippine-bonds-advance-as-fitch-says-public-finances-improved.html
Philippine two-year bonds rose the
most in six weeks on speculation the nation is edging closer to
investment-grade status. The peso strengthened.  Public finances “are no longer considered a weakness” in
the  Philippines ’ credit profile, Philip McNicholas, director of
Asia Pacific Sovereigns at  Fitch Ratings , said on a conference
call yesterday. The Philippines has the highest junk rating from
Fitch, Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s . S&P
raised its outlook to positive on Dec. 20, hours after President
 Benigno Aquino  enacted higher taxes on tobacco and liquor.  “The market is expecting revenue to increase further with
the implementation of the sin tax and with the improvements
we’re seeing, it’s not unreasonable to anticipate an upgrade,”
said Roland Avante, president of Philippine Business Bank in
 Manila . “Less frequent government debt auctions added to signs
that finances have improved. The influx of liquidity is also
helping”  The yield on the 12.25 percent notes due October 2014 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.94 percent,
the lowest since Nov. 23, according to midday fixing prices at
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  Gross domestic product growth last year may have exceeded
the government’s 5 percent to 6 percent forecast, Economic
Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said this week. Expansion
this year may be closer to the top end of a 6 percent to 7
percent official estimate, central bank Deputy Governor Diwa
Guinigundo told state-owned television on Jan. 7.  “More efficient fiscal spending is resulting in stronger
GDP growth outturns and at the same time seeing sustained benign
inflation outcomes that have allowed the central bank to
maintain an accommodative stance,” McNicholas said.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 40.785 per dollar at the close
in Manila, Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, rose five basis points to 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  