-- Pimco Favors 5-7 Year JGBs, Shuns Longer Debt on Abe Policy
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-01-09T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/pimco-favors-5-7-year-jgbs-shuns-longer-debt-on-abe-policy.html
Tomoya Masanao, the head of
 portfolio management  for Japan at Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, comments on the
outlook for Japan’s government bond market, fiscal and monetary
policies. He spoke in an interview in Tokyo on Jan. 7.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is aiming to achieve 3 percent
nominal growth and 2 percent inflation, twice the level of the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  headed by  Masaaki Shirakawa .  Domestic stocks have rallied and the yen has dropped to the
weakest in more than two years against the dollar as speculation
grew the BOJ will join forces with the government to revive the
deflation-ravaged economy. The benchmark 10-year JGB yield
closed at 0.825 percent yesterday.  JGB Investment:  “For now, we take a cautious view on JGBs, especially on
the long and super-long end of the curve.”  “We don’t think the current valuation is sufficient for
the  risk premium  that investors should demand to be compensated
for changing policy risks. We need to be cautious as to how much
government spending will increase.”  “We are overweight on 5-7 years but underweight the
shorter maturity sector as its yields are very low.”  “Over the long-term horizon, our investment strategy for
JGBs remains centered around our belief that  Japan  will not be
able to exit deflation without a structural breakthrough.”  “Japan remains a clean dirty shirt from a credit
standpoint.”  “ Government bonds  in most developed markets are all
unattractive, not just JGBs.”  Yen, BOJ Policy:  “We cannot ignore the moves in currency and equity markets
in the short term.”  “It’s obvious monetary policy in Japan will become
looser.”  “Governor Shirakawa’s BOJ has been treating the currency
as an input or exogenous variable for monetary policy,
responding to the potential economic impacts of currency moves,
but that is poised to change under the new governor.”  “The BOJ will probably place currency as an interim target
for monetary policy in the future.”  Former Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and BOJ Governor
Shirakawa “was probably the best combination that the JGB
market can hope for, in that the government pursued fiscal
austerity with higher tax rates and the central bank tolerated
deflation.”  “That is about to change with the government increasing
spending at least in the short term and the BOJ likely to have
someone in its leadership that will be committed to reflate the
economy.”  “Two percent inflation would be difficult to achieve
unless the yen weakens massively.”  Japan’s economy:  “With the 10-year government yields already at 0.8
percent, there are limits as to how much the BOJ can stimulate
investment and domestic demand by lowering borrowing costs.”  “Japan’s deflation problem is a long-term structural issue
that reflationary policy by the government and the central bank
alone can’t resolve.”  “We need some breakthroughs in structural reform such as
deregulation of the labor market and service sector to end
deflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  