-- Platinum Coin Is Less Silly Than Its Alternatives
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2013-01-09T17:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/platinum-coin-is-less-silly-than-its-alternatives.html
Donald Marron , head of the Brookings-Urban Tax Policy Center and former
director of the  Congressional Budget Office , wrote a  great post yesterday 
arguing for the  platinum coin  as a last resort in the deficit-ceiling standoff.
He says something particularly important about the alternatives to the coin: Analysts have considered a range of other options
for avoiding default, including prioritizing payments, asserting the debt limit
is unconstitutional, and temporarily selling the gold in Fort Knox. All raise
severe practical, legal, and image problems. In this ugly group, the platinum
coin looks relatively shiny. In particular, it would be much less provocative
than President Obama asserting the debt limit is unconstitutional. Nearly everyone (including me) seems to agree that the best solution is for
Congress to take action so that we don't hit the debt ceiling. But if that
doesn't happen, most opponents of the platinum coin seem to prefer either
payment prioritization or invocation of the 14th Amendment as a Plan B. Both of
these options would be way more damaging than the coin. Under prioritization, the federal government would make payments only to the
extent they can be covered by current receipts from channels other than
borrowing, mainly taxes. That means it would be able to pay roughly 60 percent
of its bills. Republican Senators  Pat Toomey  and  John Cornyn  have both advocated this path,
with Toomey  saying , "We Republicans need to be willing to tolerate a temporary,
partial government shutdown." But can the country tolerate it? As the Bipartisan Policy Center lays out in an  essential presentation ,
payment prioritization is hugely problematic in two ways. One is that 40 percent
of  government spending  is a lot, and there is no way to shut down two-fifths of
the government without stopping activities of great importance. The other -- not appreciated by most of prioritzation's proponents -- is that
the federal government's receipts and expenditures are lumpy, and just because
it could afford 60 percent of scheduled spending on average doesn't mean it
could afford that on any given day. It would be impossible to give certainty to people and entities owed money by
the federal government about when and whether they would be paid; they would
have to wait and see how much money the government could come up with on any
given day. For example, it might be possible to pay Social Security recipients
on most days, but not on certain days when few revenues come in or lots of
payments are scheduled to go out. There are even a handful of days each year
when a very large amount of bond interest comes due, so much that it exceeds
that day's receipts. February 15 is expected to be one such day. That means a
prioritization strategy would not necessarily avoid bond default, even if bond
interest was placed first in payment priority. There are other problems with prioritization -- it's probably legal, but we
don't know for sure, and people who don't get paid  would sue ; we also don't know
whether Treasury has the logistical capability to prioritize payments
effectively. But the size and uncertain nature of the spending cuts alone make
it an unworkable debt ceiling option. While conservatives tend to point to prioritization in lieu of the coin,
liberal objectors are more likely to argue that the 14th Amendment's Section 4
makes the  debt ceiling unconstitutional . I think they find this appealing
because "it's unconstitutional" sounds less silly than "let's mint a huge
coin." But as Marron notes, this would actually be a much more radical option than
minting the coin. While the legality of the coin option is  unambiguous , the 14th
Amendment claim would be hotly debated and litigated. The House might well
impeach the president. And unlike the coin, it couldn't be unwound. Any bad precedent set by minting
the coin could be addressed by repealing the president's authority to mint coins
of unlimited denomination. The 14th Amendment route would have the president
assert a major new claim of executive power that would be difficult to
reverse. Minting the coin is not without risk, which is why Congress should pass a
clean repeal of the debt ceiling so that we do not have to do so. But if we hit
the debt ceiling, we will have to compare the coin against other available
options, all of which are less appealing. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .  