-- PNC Increases Provisions for Mortgage-Putback Demands
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-01-09T15:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/pnc-says-mortgage-deals-will-reduce-fourth-quarter-profit.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
the seventh-largest U.S. bank by deposits, recorded a $254
million pretax provision in the fourth quarter for expected
increases in mortgage-repurchase demands from Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac.  The provision boosts the reserve to $614 million as of Dec.
31, according to a regulatory filing today from the Pittsburgh-
based lender. PNC shares dropped as much as 2.1 percent before
rebounding to trade virtually unchanged at 10:14 a.m. in New
York. The shares had risen 3.3 percent this year through
yesterday.  PNC, run by Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, 64, had
previously indicated repurchase demands from the government-
backed enterprises were declining. Chief Financial Officer
Richard Johnson said in November that the bank is seeing a
“trending down” of demands from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
The requests peaked in March of last year, and losses probably
reached their high in May, he said at the time.  “The mortgage putback charge could have been larger than
what some where expecting,” said Terry McEvoy, an analyst for
Oppenheimer & Co., adding that there was no consensus estimate
for that figure.  Last June, PNC increased its mortgage-repurchase reserve by
$350 million to cover demands for refunds on faulty loans. Banks
sell mortgages to investors and government-backed enterprises
with a promise to buy them back if data on borrowers, their
income or the property later turn out to be false.  EPS Effect  PNC said transactions related to mortgage banking and other
activities reduced fourth-quarter earnings 47 cents a share. The
actions include a charge of about $70 million resulting from a
foreclosure agreement with federal regulators, according to the
filing. The bank also recorded a gain of $130 million from the
sale of a portion of its investment in Visa Inc.  U.S. regulators struck a deal with 10 mortgage servicers
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  earlier
this week in which lenders must provide $5.2 billion in mortgage
assistance and $3.3 billion in direct payments to wronged
borrowers.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, said the settlement will result in a $305 million pretax
charge.  PNC said fourth-quarter earnings will exceed the First Call
mean estimate of $1.57 per share. The  average estimate  of 30
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for fourth-quarter per-share
profit of $1.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  