-- Poland Cuts Main Rate for Third Meeting to Spur Flagging Economy
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-01-09T12:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/poland-cuts-main-rate-for-third-meeting-to-spur-flagging-economy.html
Poland lowered borrowing costs for a
third month to spur  economic growth  that the central bank
predicts will dip to the slowest in more than a decade in 2013.  The Narodowy Bank Polski cut the  benchmark seven-day
reference rate  a quarter-point to 4 percent today, meeting the
forecasts of all 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
will comment on its decision at a news conference scheduled for
4 p.m. in Warsaw.  Monetary-policy makers have trimmed borrowing costs by 75
basis points since November as the economy struggles amid the
debt crisis in the euro area, which buys more than half of
Polish exports. Gross domestic product in the European Union’s
biggest eastern economy will expand 1.5 percent this year, the
least since 2002, according to the central bank.  “The economic slowdown is confirmed and inflation
pressures are diminishing, meaning all the conditions to cut
rates are being met,” Wiktor Wojciechowski, an economist at
INVEST-Bank in Warsaw, said yesterday in an e-mailed note.
“Most policy makers support a gradual reduction in borrowing
costs and object to cuts of more than a quarter-point.”  The zloty, last year’s best-performing emerging-market
currency with a 9.3 percent gain against the euro, has declined
0.8 percent this month.  Easing Cycle  Poland was the only EU nation to raise  interest rates  in
2012 as policy makers focused on elevated  inflation . It began
easing in November, a year after the  European Central Bank , five
months after the  Czech Republic  and three months after Hungary.
Romania held borrowing costs unchanged at a record-low 5.25
percent Jan. 7 as the central bank year weighs inflation
pressures against a slowdown in GDP growth.  Polish attention has switched to  economic expansion , which
eased to 1.4 percent from a year earlier in the third quarter,
the slowest pace since 2009, as consumer-spending growth
decelerated to the worst in nine years, new jobs dried up and
inflation outpaced wage increases.  GDP probably rose by 2.2 percent to 2.3 percent last year,
compared with 4.3 percent in 2011, according to official
forecasts. Quarterly growth in the October-December period may
have been less than the 0.4 percent recorded in the previous
three months,  Ludwik Kotecki , chief economist at the  Finance
Ministry , said Dec. 31 in an interview.  Inflation Target  As the economy has lost steam,  inflation , which triggered
last May’s rate increase after exceeding the central bank’s 2.5
percent goal for two years, slowed to a two-year low of 2.8
percent in November. It may have met the regulator’s target in
December for the first time since September 2010 as domestic
demand and fuel prices eased, according to a forecast by
Jaroslaw Janecki, a Warsaw-based economist at  Societe Generale. (GLE)   Derivatives traders predict 102 basis points of interest-
rate cuts this year, based on the spread between 12-month
forward-rate agreements and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.
Three-month FRAs point to 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage
point, of reductions through March, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  While the monetary authorities will probably “leave the
door open to more easing,” the central bank may pause its rate-
cutting cycle in February to digest internal GDP and inflation
projections that are updated every four months,  Maciej Reluga ,
chief economist at  Bank Zachodni WBK (BZW) , said in an e-mailed note
before the decision.  Central bank Governor Marek Belka said he sees “continued
space” for additional rate cuts, according to a December
interview with the Financial Times that was published Jan. 6.
Poland should continue with “conventional monetary policy” and
avoid “ultra-low” interest rates, he told the FT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  