-- Portugal Says Revamp of State Is Crucial for Sustainability
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-09T18:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/portugal-says-revamp-of-state-is-crucial-for-sustainability.html
A revamped Portuguese state including
spending cuts is “crucial” for the country’s sustainability,
said Carlos Moedas, secretary of state to the prime minister.  “We need to build a state that does not weigh as much on
citizens and on the taxes they have to pay,” Moedas told
reporters in Lisbon today.  The government is studying proposals in an International
Monetary Fund report on spending, he said.  Portugal  in November
said it asked the IMF and the  World Bank  for technical support
as it plans to cut  spending  by 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) in
the two years through 2014.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and a deepening recession as he tries to cut trim
state costs and raises taxes to meet the terms of a 78 billion-
euro bailout from the European Union and the IMF. Portugal has
already been given more time to narrow its deficit after  tax
revenue  missed forecasts and the economy heads for a third year
of contraction in 2013.  “The government’s spending reduction target can only be
achieved by focusing on major budget items, particularly the
government wage bill and pension spending,” the IMF said in the
report posted today on the Portuguese government’s  website .  Overtime Pay  “Over-employment is of concern in the education sector,
the security forces, and with respect to workers with little
formal training, while high overtime pay for doctors is of
concern in the health sector,” the report said.  The  Portuguese government  on Nov. 19 said it forecasts debt
will peak at 122.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2014
after reaching 122.2 percent in 2013. It aims for a budget
deficit of 4.5 percent in 2013 and will only narrow the
shortfall below the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014, when it
targets a 2.5 percent gap.  Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar on Oct. 3 said the government
plans to implement an “enormous” increase in taxes on wages
and other income to meet budget deficit targets in 2013.
Economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a year for the
past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  