-- Posen Says Lew’s Challenges Include Global Austerity
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-01-09T22:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/posen-says-lew-s-challenges-include-global-austerity.html
Jack Lew will need to deal with
foreign countries’ currency manipulation and the global effects
of countries cutting their budgets if he becomes the next
Treasury secretary, said  Adam Posen , president of the Peterson
Institute for International Economics.  President  Barack Obama  plans to name Lew, currently White
House chief of staff, tomorrow as his choice to replace  Timothy F. Geithner , a person familiar with the process said.  “The first thing Jack Lew’s going to have to face is that
there is an international side,” Posen told reporters at a
lunch at the  Peterson  headquarters in Washington today. “He’s
not going to be able to ignore it.”  Posen said austerity effects on the global economy and
currency manipulation are the top two international issues for
the new Treasury secretary.  Lew has spent much of his career working in government in
Washington, both on  Capitol Hill  and in the executive branch. He
previously served as Obama’s budget director.  While Lew is “enormously qualified” on the domestic
budget side, he is “obviously someone who’s never worked on the
international side,” said Posen, a former Bank of England
policy maker.  ‘Significantly Undervalued’  The  U.S. Treasury  last year declined to label China a
currency manipulator under U.S. law while saying the  yuan 
remains “significantly undervalued.” The Treasury said in a
Nov. 27 report that “reserve accumulation, an indicator of the
degree of Chinese intervention in the  currency market , has
slowed markedly.”  Switzerland overtook China as the world’s leader of foreign
exchange-rate management in 2012 as the country fought to curb
the appreciation of the franc, which was boosted by demand from
investors seeking alternatives to the European Union’s troubled
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speaking about the relationship between the spending cuts
pursued by national governments and the global economic growth,
Posen mentioned the  International Monetary Fund , which in
October published a study of austerity measures in 28 economies
from Italy to Japan. The study found forecasters systematically
underestimated the role of national governments’ spending cuts
in lowering global economic output.  “The international spillovers when everybody tightens up
in the same time are quite large,” Posen said today. “Can we,
in somewhat coordinated way bid it down a bit, or more
accurately, ideally, spread it over more years?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  