-- Pound Falls Below $1.60 on Bets BOE May Signal Further Stimulus
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-09T16:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/pound-little-changed-against-dollar-before-u-k-trade-report.html
The pound dropped below $1.60 for the
first time in five weeks on speculation  Bank of England 
officials meeting this week will signal they may introduce
additional stimulus as the economy struggles to recover.  The U.K. currency weakened against all except one of its 16
major counterparts after a government report showed the trade
deficit narrowed less in November than economists forecast.
Policy makers, who started a two-day meeting today, will
announce their decision on interest rates and so-called
quantitative easing tomorrow, while minutes of the gathering
will be released Jan. 23. Gilts were little changed.  “There’s been some loose talk with some people thinking
there might be more QE highlighted tomorrow,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in  London . “Subsequently sterling has taken
some heat so cable has had a go through that $1.60 threshold. If
we close below the $1.5995 level that probably suggests we will
see further weakness.”  The pound dropped 0.3 percent to $1.6012 at 4:38 p.m. after
declining to $1.5993, the lowest level since Nov. 30. Sterling
was little changed at 81.52 pence per euro, after depreciating
to 81.62 pence yesterday, the weakest since Dec. 31. Cable
refers to the pound-dollar  exchange rate .  Bank of England policy makers will keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at a  record-low  0.5 percent and the asset-purchase
 target  at 375 billion pounds tomorrow, separate Bloomberg
surveys show.  Risks Persist  Policy makers voted 8-1 to leave their bond-purchase
program on hold in December as immediate dangers from the euro-
area crisis receded and near-term inflation risks persisted,
according to minutes of that meeting released Dec. 19.  Most members of the Monetary Policy Committee “agreed that
developments on the month had done little to alter the balance
of arguments between maintaining and increasing” stimulus,
according to the minutes. The current level of quantitative
easing “seemed appropriate for the present,” it said.  The trade deficit was at 9.16 billion pounds compared with
9.49 billion pounds in October, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 20 economists was 9 billion pounds.  The pound has fallen 0.9 percent in the past week, the
worst performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 0.7
percent and the euro weakened 0.4 percent.  U.K. Gilts  The  10-year gilt  yield was at 2.03 percent after falling as
much as two basis points. The price of the 1.75 percent bond due
in September 2022 was 97.595.  “Investors are unwilling to take major positions ahead of
tomorrow’s BOE meeting,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “We remain bearish about
the medium-term outlook, targeting 2.60 percent for 10-year
yields by year-end.”  The  10-year break-even rate , the difference in yield
between gilts and index-linked securities, narrowed for a third
day amid speculation officials will adjust the way the retail-
 price index  is calculated. The rate shrank less than one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.66 percent.  The U.K. will announce the results tomorrow of a
consultation into amending its RPI calculation to counter a
widening disparity with the consumer-price index, the basis for
the Bank of England’s policy target.  “Likely changes to the measurement of U.K. RPI inflation
would be significantly negative for holders of gilt linkers,”
 Alan James , head of inflation-linked bond research at Barclays
Plc in London, wrote today in a note to clients. “This may
limit international demand for nominal gilts.”  Gilts lost 1.3 percent this month through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds dropped
1.1 percent and Treasuries fell 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  