-- Raiffeisen Quitting Euribor After EBF Warns of Member Exodus
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-09T13:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/raiffeisen-quitting-euribor-after-ebf-warns-of-member-exodus-1-.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  of
 Austria  said it’s leaving the panel of lenders that sets
Euribor, a day after the lobby group that administers the
scandal-hit benchmark warned it risks an exodus of contributors.  Raiffeisen’s interbank lending business has become “less
meaningful” and it no longer makes sense for the Vienna-based
firm to take part, spokeswoman Jacqueline Kaye said in a phone
interview. Its last submission to Euribor will be on Jan. 15.  Euribor-EBF, the Brussels-based lobby group that’s tied to
the  European Banking Federation , said the benchmark for trillion
of euros of lending may face further departures after Rabobank
Groep left the panel on Jan. 3. Membership has become
potentially costly with the risk of litigation, fines and
criminal penalties as authorities around the world conduct
investigations into rate manipulation.  “Banks are asking themselves, do we want to be associated
with something that no-one feels they have 100 percent
confidence in?” said  Christopher Wheeler , a bank analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in  London . “The last thing they want to do is
put their heads above the parapet. The fact that Raiffeisen has
stepped back is indicative of a cautious approach.”  The euro interbank offered rate is derived from a daily
survey of lending quotes conducted for Euribor-EBF by Thomson
Reuters Corp. Three-month Euribor, which tracks bank-loan rates
over that maturity, was little changed at 0.192 percent today,
down from 1.276 percent a year ago.  Manipulation Probes  Global authorities are investigating whether more than a
dozen lenders altered submissions to benchmarks to profit from
bets on derivatives or make their finances seem healthier.  The European Commission sought views last year on how to
overhaul the governance and setting of Euribor, Libor and other
market benchmarks in the wake of the scandal that has engulfed
interbank lending rates.  The Commission, the executive arm of the 27-nation European
Union, will come forward with draft legislation later this year,
said Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief.  “The interbank business, including interbank lending, has
become less significant, or less meaningful, for the bank,”
Raiffeisen’s Kaye said. “It makes less sense for the bank to
contribute. Raiffeisen will remain focused on its customer
business.”  ‘Contagion Risk’  Cedric Quemener, the director of Euribor-EBF, which is
responsible for the benchmark, declined to comment on
Raiffeisen’s exit from the 40-strong panel that sets the  base
rate  for euro loans.  Earlier in the week, Quemener warned of “contagion risk”
after Rabobank left the contributor panel. Rabobank’s departure
followed the exit of  Bayerische Landesbank ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest state-owned lender, which said it withdrew on Jan. 1 for
“business-strategic reasons.”  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Austria’s biggest lender, said it’ll
decide about its Euribor membership once authorities have
finished reviews of the benchmark and clarified future
requirements for contributions.  Raiffeisen is Austria’s third-biggest bank and has a market
capitalization of 6.4 billion euros ($8.4 billion), according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank is rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its sixth-highest investment grade, and an
equivalent A by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Banks have less need for interbank lending since the
 European Central Bank  injected more than 1 trillion euros of
cheap loans into the region’s financial system. The  volume  of
overnight interbank lending was 16 billion euros yesterday
compared with a daily average of 25 billion euros last year and
33 billion euros in 2011, EBF data shows.  “The ECB has essentially replaced some of the  interbank
market ,” said  Simon Adamson , an analyst with CreditSights Ltd.
in London. “There are a number of particularly medium-sized
banks that are probably much less active than they used to be in
the interbank lending market. They’re not in a very strong
position to put bids in reflecting where borrowing costs are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  