-- S. Africa Yields Hit Four-Year Lows on Stimulus; Rand Declines
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-09T14:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/rand-gains-first-day-in-three-as-foreign-investors-buy-bonds.html
South African bonds gained for a
third day, driving yields to a four-year low, on bets developed
economies will extend monetary stimulus, boosting demand for
higher-yielding assets. The rand depreciated.  Yields on 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 dropped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.13 percent as of
3:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, the lowest on a closing basis since
January 2009. The rand traded 0.1 percent weaker at 8.5921 per
dollar, a third day of losses.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said the
next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor should support bold monetary easing.
The U.S. Federal Reserve has pledged to leave  interest rates  low
until the  unemployment rate  eases, while European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and his board meet tomorrow after data
today showed German industrial output rebounded less than
economists’ expectations in November.  “The rally in yields is clearly underpinned by the search
for yield by offshore investors as the driving force in the
local  bond market ,” Deon Kohlmeyer, head of bond trading at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments
today.  Foreign investors  bought  a net 1.17 billion rand ($136
million) of South African debt yesterday, lifting net purchases
this year to 3.9 billion rand after a record 93.5 billion rand
of purchases in 2012, according to Johannesburg Stock Exchange
data. The country had 3.1 billion rand net sales of bonds in the
same period last year.  This year “is off to a much, much stronger and bullish
start than 2012,”  George Glynos , a Johannesburg-based analyst
at ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed comments today. “Considering
the magnitude of stimulus efforts from the Fed and BoJ, and the
potential for a rate cut from the ECB tomorrow, strong capital
flows could continue to hit South Africa.”  South African vehicle sales expanded at the slowest pace in
three years in 2012, the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said today, fueling speculation South Africa’s
central bank may cut borrowing costs this year to boost growth.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , used to lock in borrowing
costs, dropped 1.5 basis points today to 4.97 percent, or 14
basis points below the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  