-- TransCanada Plans $5.1 Billion Pipeline to LNG Terminal
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-09T21:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/transcanada-to-develop-5-1-billion-pipeline-to-lng-terminal.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , builder of the
Keystone XL oil pipeline, was selected to construct and operate
a C$5 billion ($5.1 billion) natural-gas conduit to Petroliam
Nasional Bhd’s planned export terminal in British Columbia.  The Prince Rupert Gas Transmission project has a proposed
initial capacity of 2 billion cubic feet a day from the Montney
region to the planned liquefied natural gas terminal in Port
Edward, British Columbia, TransCanada said today in a statement.
The pipeline may begin operation in 2018, subject to government
and corporate approvals.  Progress Energy  Canada , purchased by Petronas last month
for C$5.2 billion, selected Calgary-based TransCanada to build
the Prince Rupert pipeline, which will be capable of expansion
to 3.6 billion cubic feet a day, according to today’s statement.
The project is TransCanada’s second proposed pipeline to an LNG
export terminal on the West Coast, following its previously
announced Coastal GasLink pipeline.  “From a trading perspective, we view today’s announcement
as an unexpected positive development that should provide
support for TRP’s shares,” Pierre Lacroix, an analyst at
Desjardins Securities Inc., said in a note to clients today.
TransCanada, which trades under the symbol TRP, rose 2.4 percent
to C$48.39 at the close in Toronto, and earlier rose to C$48.40,
its highest intraday since it began trading more than 30 years
ago.  ‘Competitive Process’  Gas producers in British Columbia’s Montney Shale, far from
North American population centers, are seeking Asian markets for
the heating and power-plant fuel. Petroliam Nasional, or
Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s state-owned energy company is known, has
said a final  investment decision  on the terminal, with an
estimated cost C$9 billion to C$11 billion, is expected late
next year.  Progress Energy Canada, purchased by Petronas last month
for C$5.2 billion, selected Calgary-based TransCanada to build
the Prince Rupert pipeline.  Spectra Energy Inc. (SE)  was involved in a “competitive
process” to build a pipeline to the Progress Energy terminal,
Caitlin Currie, a Spectra spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview today. Spectra already is planning a pipeline to serve
a terminal proposed by  BG Group Plc (BG/)  in Prince Rupert.  Winning Contracts  “It looks like TransCanada is going to be the builder of
choice to get gas to the West Coast, with two pipelines running
two separate paths, one to Prince Rupert and one to Kitimat,”
said Steven Paget, an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in
Calgary.  TransCanada was selected in June to build Coastal GasLink,
the C$4 billion supply pipeline for an LNG export terminal
proposed in Kitimat, British Columbia by Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Mitsubishi Corp., Korea Gas Corp. and PetroChina Co. That
pipeline also still requires corporate and government approvals.  TransCanada probably won the contracts because of its
ability to build big gas pipelines and the option it provides
for British Columbia gas producers to sell into North American
gas markets via its existing system, if LNG facilities don’t
require all the supply at any given time, Paget said.  Recoverable gas in western Canada has risen to 400 trillion
cubic feet and reserves could be larger than that, attracting
export opportunities, said TransCanada Chief Executive Officer
 Russ Girling , speaking by phone from Prince George, British
Columbia.  TransCanada, which currently transports 1 to 1.5 billion
cubic feet of gas a day from British Columbia, expects its host
of expansion projects in the region will let it move 2.5 to 3
billion cubic feet a day from the province’s northeast next
year, Girling said.  “That gas has to find a market in advance of the
development of the infrastructure required to move it to export
markets,” he said. TransCanada has spent about C$1 billion
expanding its gas pipeline network in northeastern British
Columbia over the last five years, he said.  Boost Earnings  The Prince Rupert pipeline will help TransCanada boost
earnings later in the decade, after its Keystone XL line, set to
deliver oil-sands production to U.S. Gulf Coast refiners comes
into service, Lacroix said. Taken together, spending on the two
LNG pipelines would amount to C$9 billion, more than the $7.6
billion cost of Keystone XL.  “We’re still hoping Keystone XL gets built, but we were
looking past 2014 to 2015 and without Keystone XL they were just
going to be generating huge amounts of cash and now they have a
place to spend the cash that will help them earn more money,”
said Michael Formuziewich, who helps manage C$2.2 billion at
Leon Frazer and Associates Inc. in Toronto, including shares in
TransCanada.  Mainline Gas  The Prince Rupert line will connect British Columbia gas to
TransCanada’s existing network of gas pipelines including
Canada’s longest conduit, the 8,763-mile (14,101-kilometer)
Mainline, which moves western Canadian gas as far as  Quebec ’s
border with  Vermont . The viability of TransCanada’s Alberta-to-
Quebec Mainline has been threatened in recent years by declining
gas volumes in  Alberta  and competing supply from the U.S.
Northeast that have led to a doubling of tolls on the line.  TransCanada also plans a C$1 billion to C$1.5 billion
extension of its Nova Gas Transmission Ltd. pipeline to reach
additional gas supply in the North Montney region, according to
today’s statement. That pipeline could begin operation in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  