-- Treasuries Gain 4th Day After Weaker-Than-Average 10-Year Sale
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-09T22:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/treasuries-pare-gains-after-21-billion-auction-of-10-year-notes.html
     Jan. 9 (Bloomberg) --Treasuries gained for a fourth day
after weaker-than-average demand at the first 10-year note
auction of the year left yields at levels that boosted the
appeal of the safest assets.  Yields on the benchmark security fell from almost an eight-
month high after the  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, at
the sale of $21 billion in notes was 2.83, compared with an
average of 3 for the previous 10 sales. The percentage bought by
 direct bidders , institutional investors outside of the Fed’s 21
primary dealers, dropped to 14.8 percent from 42.7 percent at
the December auction, the second highest on record.  “People are buying the securities post-auction,” said
 George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at Nomura
Holdings Inc., a primary dealer. “Investors were gun shy
heading into the auction, because of how aggressive and
unpredictable the direct bid has been of late. A lot of
investors thought they would be there, and they weren’t.”  The  yield  on the current 10-year note declined one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.86 percent at 4:59 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent security maturing in November 2022 rose 3/32, or 94
cents per $1,000 face value, to 97 29/32.  The yield last week jumped  20 basis points , touching 1.97
percent on Jan. 4, the highest since April 26, after U.S.
lawmakers reached a budget deal to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff and the Fed in December announced plans to increase its
monthly purchases of government and mortgage debt.  Enthusiasm ‘Abated’  “It came a little weaker than people anticipated -- there
was a pretty decent short-covering bid going into it,” said
Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate Advisors LLC,
a brokerage for institutional investors in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . The recent run-up in Treasury prices, he said,
“may have abated some of the enthusiasm for the auction.”  The drop in demand by direct bidders, a group that includes
pension funds and insurance companies, echoes a similar drop in
August, when participation fell to 5.2 percent from a record
45.4 percent in July.  Yesterday’s three-year note auction saw direct bidders
purchase a record amount for the second straight sale.  “The fluctuations in the direct-bid percentage is a wild
card for the dealer community, and it wasn’t there today,” said
Dan Mulholland, head of U.S. Treasury trading in the capital-
markets unit of BNY Mellon Corp. in New York. “Prior to the
auction, there was quite a bit of buying, which probably had
people covering shorts before the auction. Once that cleared,
buying resumed and we’re starting to see some of the market
absorb some of the duration.”  Yield Curve  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 28.5 percent of the notes today,
compared with an average of 38.1 percent for the past 10 sales.  Ten-year U.S. debt has lost 1.1 percent this year,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, compared
with a 0.6 percent loss in the broader Treasury market. The
notes returned 4.2 percent in 2012, compared with a 2.2 percent
gain by Treasuries overall.  The difference between the yields on two-year notes and 10-
year securities, the so-called yield curve, narrowed to 1.62
percentage points, down from 1.69 percentage points on Jan. 4,
the widest since May.  The yield  curve  typically narrows when investors anticipate
a slow economic recovery because they demand less compensation
for the risk of inflation.  The government is  selling  $66 billion of notes and bonds
this week. It sold $32 billion of three-year securities
yesterday and is due to auction $13 billion of 30-year debt
tomorrow.  The sales this week will raise $24.4 billion of new cash,
as maturing securities held by the public total $41.6 billion,
according to the Treasury.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  