-- Redbox Instant CEO Sees 35 Million Potential Users
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-10T22:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/redbox-instant-targets-35-million-users-ceo-strickland-says-3-.html
Redbox Instant, the online-video
service owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ,
has signed 10,000 users to its public test and sees the
potential for 35 million customers, based on research.  The service, which combines streaming with Redbox kiosk
discs, focuses on movies and intends to draw customers from
competitors that don’t offer DVD rentals, Chief Executive
Officer Shawn Strickland said in an interview today at the
International Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.  “We’re not the Netflix killer,” Strickland said after a
presentation to reporters. “We’re focused on movies. DVDs are
our core, that’s a core differentiator.”  Redbox Instant, at $8 to $9 a month, is counting on price
and convenience to attract customers. Users will get unlimited
streaming plus four DVDs a month from kiosks. The service also
offers on-demand rentals and digital sales of newer titles.
Redbox Instant has 4,200 movies in its streaming library and
2,500 available on VOD.  Films from  Lions Gate (LGF) ,  Paramount Pictures ,  Warner Bros .,
Universal Pictures, Sony Pictures and Relativity Media will be
available for purchase and on-demand rental.  Netflix had 27.5 million U.S. streaming and mail-order DVD
subscribers as of Sept. 30. The company, based in Los Gatos,
California, charges $7.99 a month for unlimited streaming and
the same amount for DVDs sent by mail.  Considering TV  Coinstar’s Redbox unit operates about 42,000 kiosks.  Redbox Instant may add television shows if the company can
offer programs that aren’t available elsewhere, Strickland said.  “Ultimately the strategy for us in the content space has
to be bringing people in, and TV is part of that,” Strickland
said.  Redbox Instant’s business model differs from Netflix and
other streaming services in that it compensates studios based on
the number of subscribers instead of making a large upfront
payment.  Coinstar, based in Bellevue, Washington, fell 1 percent to
$48.59 at the close in New York and have gained 13 percent in
the past 12 months. Verizon declined 0.2 percent to $43. Netflix
fell 1.3 percent to $95.91. The shares have lost 2.3 percent in
the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  