-- Redskins Quarterback Griffin Knee Surgery Recovery May Take Year
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-09T16:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/redskins-quarterback-griffin-knee-surgery-recovery-may-take-year.html
Washington Redskins quarterback
Robert Griffin III may need as long as a year to recover from
surgery on his right knee, according to a sports surgeon who’s
not involved in the rookie’s case.  The Washington Post said Griffin is having surgery today to
repair a torn lateral collateral ligament and possible damage to
the anterior cruciate ligament. Griffin left the team’s 24-14
playoff loss to the  Seattle Seahawks  on Jan. 6 with the injury.  The 22-year-old may return to full form as early as the
middle of the 2013 National Football League season, according to
Alexis Chiang Colvin, an orthopedic surgeon specializing in
sports medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in  New
York City .  A damaged LCL requires more surgery and recovery time than
the more common ACL tears, Colvin said today in a telephone
interview. The ACL can be repaired arthroscopically with small
incisions, while LCL surgery requires a larger incision and more
bone holes.  “The LCL stabilizes the outer part of the leg and if you
don’t repair that, the ACL will fail,” Colvin said. “Any time
you have to make a bigger incision, it takes longer to heal.”  Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan  has scheduled a news
conference for today. Team spokesman Tony Wyllie didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
newspaper report.  Griffin’s initial MRI tests on Jan. 7 were inconclusive due
to prior injuries, according to Shanahan, and he received a
second opinion and more tests from orthopedic surgeon James Andrews the following day.  Andrews’ Diagnosis  Andrews, who was on the Redskins’ sideline for the Seahawks
game, determined that Griffin has torn his LCL and possibly
damaged his ACL, the Post said, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the quarterback’s condition.  This morning on his Twitter account, Griffin thanked his
family, team and fans for their support.  “See you guys next season,” he said.  Injuries in which an LCL is torn are usually accompanied by
a tear to one of the cruciate ligaments, either ACL or
posterior, according to Colvin. She said that while an isolated
ACL tear can take as little as six months recovery, Griffin’s
may take around a year.  Adrian Peterson  of the  Minnesota Vikings  tore his ACL in
December 2011 and returned for the first game of the 2012
season, less than nine months later. He played in every game
this season and led the NFL in rushing, falling nine yards short
of the season record.  Return Unknown  “My guess would be that Griffin could return some time
midseason next year,” Colvin said. “You can say what it is
initially, but you don’t really know until he starts doing
physical therapy and progressing along.”  Griffin led the Redskins this season to their first
National Football Conference East title since 1999. He threw for
20 touchdowns and 3,200 yards, and rushed for 815 yards and
another seven scores.  While it is possible that Griffin may permanently lose some
of the speed or mobility that made him a dual threat, it is more
likely that he returns to full form, according to Colvin. She
said he will benefit from the fact that he is young, in good
shape and has a team of doctors and therapists to aid his
recovery.  Griffin, who wore a brace on his right knee for several
weeks prior to the playoffs, limped through much of the Seahawks
game after hurting the leg in the first quarter. He was assisted
off the field with six minutes remaining after his knee buckled
when he tried to grab a low snap, and didn’t return to action.  Considered Benching  The injury sparked debate around the league as to how long
he should have remained in the game. Shanahan said following the
game that he considered removing Griffin in the first quarter
and decided against it after speaking with the quarterback and
team doctors, including Andrews. The coach affirmed that
judgment in a news conference on Jan. 7.  “You don’t make decisions by yourself, you get a lot of
opinions during the game, especially with a guy like Robert,”
Shanahan said. “Not only talking to him, but talking to the
doctors, and then you go with what you think is right.”  Griffin originally sprained his knee during a Dec. 9 win
against the  Baltimore Ravens  and sat out the following week’s
game in  Cleveland . He has acknowledged that he put himself at
more risk by starting the game against the Seahawks.  “Every time you step on the football field, you’re putting
your life, your career, every single ligament in your body in
jeopardy,” he told reporters. “That’s just the approach I had
to take. My teammates needed me out there, so I was out there
for them.”  Griffin tore his anterior cruciate ligament in the third
game of Baylor University’s 2009 college football season. He
returned to the team the following season and in 2011 won the
Heisman Trophy as the nation’s top college player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  