-- Suntech Leads Solar Gains on State Goals: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-09T21:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/trina-leads-solars-higher-on-state-goals-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar stocks led the  first
advance  in the benchmark index of U.S.-traded shares this week
on prospects domestic demand for alternative energy will rise
after the government increased capacity targets.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rallied 1.2 percent to 100.77 in  New
York , paring a 2.1 percent drop over the previous two days.
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest solar-panel
maker, surged 13 percent, while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the nation’s
third-biggest maker of solar panels, jumped to the highest level
in five months.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981) 
soared after JPMorgan Chase & Co. lifted its price target on the
stock.  China , the world’s biggest supplier of solar power panels,
plans to add 10 gigawatts of solar power capacity this year,
more than double its current level, the National Energy
Administration said in a  statement  on its website on Jan. 8.  LDK
Solar Co. (LDK)  and Trina are the biggest gainers on the China-US
gauge this year, after the government approved subsidies for
rooftop solar installations Jan. 4, and initiated a second round
of assistance to more than 100 solar developers last month.  “China is looking over the long term to move toward
cleaner energy sources and to make their economic growth less
energy dependent,” Charlie Awdry, a portfolio manager for
Henderson Global Investors Ltd.’s 500 million pound ($801
million) China Opportunities Fund, said by phone yesterday from
London. “The Chinese economy appears to be growing a little
more robustly than it was in the middle of 2012 and that has
caused some investors to feel more comfortable in China and put
some money in.”  ETF Rebounds  Henderson’s China fund has returned 4.8 percent over the
past month, when it  beat  89 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s 8.2 percent return over
the past 12 months lagged behind 99 percent of its competitors,
the data show.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.1 percent to $41 in
its first advance in three days. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
climbed 0.3 percent to 1,461.02 amid investor optimism over
fourth-quarter U.S. corporate earnings.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares was little
changed at 2,275.34 yesterday, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.9 percent to 11,817.77, the biggest
gain in a week.  Suntech, based in China’s Jiangsu province, rallied to
$1.87, while  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  jumped 7.4 percent
to $3.05.  ‘More Healthy’  Trina, based in Changzhou, China, gained 12 percent to
$5.81, the highest close since July 19. American depositary
receipts of LDK, the second-largest manufacturer of wafers
globally, based in Xinyu, China, climbed 7.3 percent to $2.21,
the highest close since June 21.  China has approved a plan to provide subsidies to rooftop
solar installations,  China Daily  reported Jan. 4, citing the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development. Subsidies will
range from 7.5  yuan  ($1.20) to 9 yuan per watt, according to the
report. The nation will also make regional adjustments to the
so-called feed-in tariffs, or above-market prices paid for
electricity for renewable energy projects, according to a
government statement on Dec. 19.  “It’s more healthy for China to shift subsidies toward the
demand side from aids to suppliers,” Aaron Chew, a senior
analyst at Maxim Group LLC, said by phone from New York
yesterday. “But China’s capacity increase is still not enough
to offset declines in other markets, and it may take two or
three years for the market to recover and companies to make
profits.”  Semiconductor Upgraded  Semiconductor Manufacturing surged 13 percent to $3.05, the
highest price since September 2011. Its shares added 11 percent
in  Hong Kong  yesterday to HK$0.49. JPMorgan raised its 12-month
price target on the company’s stock to HK$0.53 from HK$0.45,
maintaining an overweight rating, the equivalent of buy. Credit
Suisse Group AG lifted its recommendation to outperform from
neutral on Jan. 7.  The Shanghai-based company said its board is scheduled to
approve fourth-quarter financial results on Feb. 6, according to
a filing yesterday.  Airline Premium  China Eastern Airlines Corp., the nation’s second-biggest
carrier by market value, gained 3.7 percent to $21.5 in New
York, the highest price since November 2011. Its ADRs traded 1.6
percent above shares traded in Hong Kong, the widest  premium 
since Nov. 23. Each ADR represents 50 underlying shares in the
Shanghai-based carrier.  China Eastern  will start daily flights from  Shanghai  to  San
Francisco  on April 26, the Shanghai Daily reported yesterday,
citing the company. The Chinese airline is also seeking talks to
create deeper commercial relationships with Australia’s Qantas
Airways Ltd.,  Australian Financial Review reported Jan. 7,
citing an interview with China Eastern’s General Manager for
Oceania Kathy Zhang.  Fifty-day  volatility  on the China-US gauge rose to 19.2
yesterday, the highest since Nov. 23, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan
strengthened 0.2 percent 6.2965 per dollar yesterday in New
York, the highest level since March 9. The currency weakened
less than 0.1 percent to 6.2262 in Shanghai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  