-- Romanian Leu Trades Near 8-Month High on Foreign, Local Demand
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-09T15:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/romanian-leu-trades-near-8-month-high-on-foreign-local-demand.html
The Romanian leu hovered around an
eight-month high as foreign investors’ demand for Romanian
assets balances local demand for euros.  The currency weakened less than 0.1 percent to 4.4085 per
euro by 5:05 p.m. in Bucharest, after strengthening to its
highest level since May 4 on Jan. 7, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yields on  Romania ’s June 2016 euro-denominated
bonds declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.07 percent.  “Some flows probably pertaining to foreign players failed
to strengthen the leu significantly but added to its firming
bias,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank
Romania SA, wrote in a note today. “However, we see limited
potential for a potential breach of 4.40 per euro psychological
threshold today, something that could happen tomorrow, as we
expect to see high interest from foreign players into the three-
year local bond auction.”  Romania seeks to raise 4.6 billion lei ($1.4 billion) of
domestic debt this month, after borrowing 8.06 billion lei in
December, the most since February after political tension eased.
It sold more debt than planned on Jan. 7, raising 1.09 billion
lei in one-year bills and 1.06 billion lei in two-year bonds as
yields declined.  Romanian companies and citizens are buying the single
currency to benefit from the leu’s appreciation as they seek to
secure funding for their foreign currency needs, including loan
repayments in euros. About 63 percent of private loans are in
foreign currencies, according to central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  