-- Ruble Weakens as Baank Rossii Says Won’t Sell in Evening
-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2013-01-09T22:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ruble-retreats-paring-biggest-gain-to-basket-in-4-months.html
The ruble weakened against the
dollar-euro basket on speculation yesterday’s steepest rally in
four months was overdone. The central bank said it won’t buy or 
sell foreign currency during a new evening trading session.  The ruble depreciated 0.2 percent against the basket to
34.5428 by 11:50 p.m. in Moscow, retracing a 1.1 percent climb
yesterday. Bank Rossii manages the ruble against the basket,
which is made up of about 55 percent dollars and 45 percent
euros, to contain price swings that hurt exporter
competitiveness. The ruble lost 0.5 percent to 30.36 per dollar
and less than 0.1 percent to 39.66 per euro.  The currency of the world’s biggest energy exporter surged
on the first Russian trading day of 2013 as it caught up with a
rally in commodities spurred by U.S. lawmakers agreeing to a
deal to avert automatic spending cuts and tax increases. Oil
closed little changed at $93.10 in  New York .  “Some might be taking profits,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s chief economist in Moscow said by e-
mail today.  While the ruble’s trading hours were extended to 11:50 p.m.
yesterday, policy makers won’t buy and sell foreign currency to
influence its movements beyond 7 p.m., according to an e-mailed
statement from Bank Rossii. The central bank didn’t intervene in
the local market in December as it shifts to targeting inflation
instead of the ruble exchange rate, the regulator said in a
separate statement.  “It’s another sign that they are serious about inflation
targeting,” Osakovskiy said. “Over the past several months the
central bank has never tried to hold any specific levels in the
ruble. Without any explicit or implicit targets for the ruble
its continuous presence on the market is not really required.”  The extra yield investors demand to own  Russia ’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to 151 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.
An index of five-year government bond yields fell 21 basis
points to 6.3364 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  