-- Sainsbury Christmas Sales Growth Weakens as Tesco Attacks
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-09T10:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/sainsbury-holiday-sales-growth-weakens-as-tesco-starts-attack.html
J  Sainsbury (SBRY)  Plc, the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket chain, reported the slowest sales growth in
eight years as Tesco Plc fought to win back customers and others
defected to more upscale chains and discounters.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.9 percent,
excluding revenue from fuel, in the 14 weeks ended Jan. 5,
London-based Sainsbury said today in a statement. That was the
weakest of 32 consecutive quarters of gains, though matched the
median estimate of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth is weakening at Sainsbury as shoppers substitute
branded products for cheaper own-label versions and Tesco starts
to find its feet after two years of faltering sales. The market
leader may tomorrow report its strongest sales performance since
2010, according to analyst estimates. The upscale Waitrose chain
and hard discounter Aldi are also making inroads into the
grocery market as shoppers seek both luxury and low prices.  “It is common sense to suggest that Sainsbury will be
negatively impacted by a recuperating  Tesco (TSCO) ,” said Clive Black,
an analyst at Shore Capital with a hold recommendation on the
shares. The third-quarter sales represented ‘a satisfactory
performance in demonstrably dull market conditions.”  Sainsbury fell as much as 3.7 percent in London trading and
was down 3.5 percent at 327 pence at 9:54 a.m., the  steepest 
drop in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   By Sainsbury  Chief Executive Officer Justin King said he expects the
“challenging economic backdrop” to persist. Customers will
seek to “rebalance their household budget” after Christmas and
will spend “cautiously” in the early months of 2013, he said.  The slowdown in revenue growth was caused by comparison
with a buoyant Christmas a year ago, a reduced contribution from
store extensions and an increase in the proportion of own-label
sales, King said on a conference call with reporters.
Sainsbury’s own-brand range of champagne costs 10 pounds less
per bottle than the leading brands, he said.  The grocer’s strongest performing own-brand label was the
mid-tier By Sainsbury range, which increased sales by about 5
percent as shoppers switched from the leading branded goods,
King said. The retailer didn’t mention its premium Taste the
Difference range, which was the best performer a year ago.  Market Share  The grocer is “very content” with its performance, the
CEO said on a conference call. “We think when the reporting
season is over, that we will emerge clearly as a winner.”  Sainsbury’s share of U.K. grocery spending rose to 17.1
percent in the 12 weeks ended Dec. 23 from 17 percent a year
earlier, Kantar Worldpanel said yesterday, as the retailer added
non-food lines such as clothing and invested in own-brand
ranges. Tesco’s share fell to 30.5 percent from 30.6 percent a
year earlier, though the 0.1 percentage point drop was better
than an average 0.4 point drop for 2012, the researcher said.  Tesco is investing 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to
provide additional staff, new products and brighter stores in
the wake of the failed Big Price Drop campaign and the first
reduction of profit guidance in two decades. It’s also seeking
to woo shoppers with money-off vouchers amid a market that faces
record levels of promotions and rising food-price inflation.  A Tesco revival will “absolutely not” hurt Sainsbury,
King said. “Customers shop around and they’re doing it more
than they ever have done, but we think we have the tools to get
the job done for customers and we’ve been helping them save
money and it’s that that keeps them coming back.”  Succession Speculation  The CEO said he expects Sainsbury to perform well over the
coming quarter, helped by a price-matching promise on branded
goods, competitive prices and targeted promotions.  Asked about speculation over his future at the grocer, King
said he is “here for the long-term,” while adding that the
company has “a very talented top team and we are ensuring we
can cope with any eventualities.”  Group Commercial Director Mike Coupe leads a race to
succeed King as CEO, people familiar with the matter told
 Bloomberg News  last month. Sainsbury may announce as soon as
February that King will step down after about nine years in
charge with the 51-year-old executive likely to stay on until
2014 to ensure a smooth handover, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  