-- Salomon Testifies Against Ex-Citigroup Aide at N.J. Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-09T17:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/salomon-testifies-against-ex-citigroup-aide-at-n-j-trial.html
William Salomon, the 98-year-old
former Wall Street banker, testified he trusted a former
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  assistant facing trial on charges that she stole
$1.3 million from him to support a lavish lifestyle.  Karen Febles, 48, went on trial today in federal court in
 Newark , New Jersey, where she is accused of altering checks that
he signed and depositing them directly into her own account.
Febles, who controlled Salomon’s checkbook, used the money she
stole to pay for cars, real estate, cruises and jewelry, a
prosecutor told jurors in his opening statement.  Salomon told jurors that he worked from 1933 until 1978 at
 Salomon Brothers , the investment firm founded by his father and
uncles. Citigroup, which bought the firm that became Salomon
Smith Barney Holdings Inc., agreed to supply him with an office,
a driver, a secretary and a personal assistant, he told jurors.  “Were you not careful in overseeing Ms. Febles’ check
writing?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Evan Weitz asked Salomon.  “There’s no reason to have a personal secretary if you
can’t trust her,” Salomon said.  Weitz asked if he trusted Febles, who worked for him from
2000 until New York-based Citigroup fired her in September 2011.  “I certainly did,” said Salomon said.  The prosecutor asked if Salomon reviewed bank statements.  “Very seldom,” he said.  Park Avenue  Salomon, who wore a black pinstriped suit, glasses and a
hearing aid, entered the courtroom in a wheelchair and was
helped into the witness stand. He told jurors that he had been
married for 61 years before his wife died, and they shared a
Park Avenue residence in  New York  for more than 50 years.  Weitz asked Salomon about his memory.  “I’m as good as I was 10 years or 20 years ago,” he said.  On cross-examination, Salomon said he paid personal
employees for more than 60 years without withholding taxes.  Outside the courtroom, Salomon was asked if he felt
betrayed by Febles.  “Of course,” he said.  He said he also didn’t expect she would go on trial.  “I was under the impression that she would try to cop a
plea,” Salomon said. “But I’m surprised that she did not.”  Febles, of Palisades Park, New Jersey, is charged with bank
fraud,  wire fraud ,  money laundering  and  tax evasion .  In his opening statement today, Weitz said Salomon had once
paid some of his employee off-the-books, and he is now paying
taxes for them.  Altered Checks  Weitz told jurors that Febles used the money she stole to
buy a Range Rover and a Merceces-Benz, spent $100,000 on
cruises, and paid more than $50,000 in rent one year. Citigroup
paid her between $90,000 and $95,000 a year, the prosecutor
said.  Febles, he said, altered some checks to make them larger
than the ones signed by Salomon.  “He didn’t look at his accounts, he didn’t balance his
checkbook,” Weitz told jurors. “He didn’t do that because he
trusted Ms. Febles. That trust was terribly, terribly
misplaced.”  In his opening statement, defense attorney Edward McQuat
urged jurors to keep an open mind in reviewing the evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Febles, 12-cr-406, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  