-- San Diego Bond Advisor Charged Over School Bribes
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/san-diego-bond-advisor-charged-over-school-bribes.html
A  California  bond underwriter was
charged with plying school officials in San Diego County with
meals and sports tickets worth thousands of dollars to steer
business to his employers.  Gary Allen Cabello, 54, wooed elected board members and
superintendents of the Sweetwater Union High School District and
Southwestern Community College District with campaign
contributions in addition to the meals and tickets, according to
a five-count indictment by a grand jury in state court.  San Diego County prosecutors charged 14 other people, most
of them school officials, in what they described as a “widening
public corruption case” involving three school districts and a
community college district.  “We go where the evidence takes us and in this case it
took us into a much larger, more tangled web of corruption than
we originally uncovered,” San Diego County District Attorney
Bonnie Dumanis said in a statement.  Cabello pleaded not guilty in San Diego County Superior
Court Jan. 7 to charges including conspiracy and bribery. He
worked for two firms during the period outlined in the
indictment, now-defunct Alta Vista Financial Inc. and Cabrera
Capital Markets LLC, based in  Chicago .  Cabello, who denies wrongdoing, has been on leave from
Cabrera since search warrants were served at his home in May,
his lawyer, Heather Boxeth, said by phone from San Diego. She
said that as a broker licensed by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, Cabello is held to higher standards than
school-board members and superintendents.  ‘Different Situation’  “Mr. Cabello is in a completely different situation,”
Boxeth said. “ He’s not an employee or a school-board member.
He’s part of a highly regulated industry. He’s not in a position
to have been involved in a conspiracy or bribery or unauthorized
gifts.”  “He has nothing to hide,” the lawyer said. “He’s done
nothing wrong.”  Cabello has been licensed by Finra, the securities
industry’s self-regulatory body, since 1993, its records show.
He was allowed to resign from Alta Vista Financial in Carlsbad,
California, in 2010, after submitting expense reports not
justified by documentation, according to records on Finra’s
website.  J. Jeffrey Kinsell, president of Alta Vista Financial until
it went defunct at the end of 2011, said regular audits of the
firm’s finances showed nothing amiss with Cabello.  ‘Done Everything’  “We’ve done everything appropriately,” Kinsell said in a
phone interview. “Everything was audited. We didn’t find
anything that would rise to the level” of the criminal
allegations.  Robert Aguilar, chief operating officer of Cabrera Capital
Markets, didn’t respond to two phone messages and an e-mail
seeking comment on Cabello’s activities at the firm.  Alta Vista Financial and UBS Investment Bank AG underwrote
$180 million in bonds issued by the Sweetwater Union High School
District in 2008, according to an official statement. The bonds
had a conventional structure, unlike capital appreciation bonds
elsewhere in San Diego County that carry interest payments as
much as 10 times the principal.  Cabello gave Sweeter’s then-superintendent and board
members baseball tickets, drinks, cigars, meals, dancing and
other entertainment in exchange for “favorable
treatment,”according to the indictment. None of the school
officials reimbursed him for the expenses, according to the
indictment.  Build America  Alta Vista Financial and Piper Jaffray & Co. underwrote
$89.8 million in Build America Bonds and $10.2 million in
general-obligation bonds issued by the Southwestern Community
College District in 2009, according to an official statement.  Cabello treated representatives of the college to a $1,111
steak dinner in 2008, among other things, to help win business
for his firm, according to the indictment.  From 2007 to 2012, Cabello and school officials agreed to
use bribes so he could continue doing business with the school
district, according to the indictment.  “As such,” the school officials “created a ‘pay-for-
play’ environment,” according to the indictment.  Boxeth said the meals were never part of any attempted quid
pro quo with school officials.  “The South Bay of San Diego is very small and Latino,”
she said. “People help each other out. There’s nothing illegal
about that.”  The case is People v. Cabello, SCD235445, California
Superior Court, San Diego County (San Diego).  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  