-- HSBC’s Sale of Ping An Stake Draws Mounting Skepticism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-09T11:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/hsbc-s-sale-of-ping-an-stake-draws-mounting-skepticism.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s proposed sale of
its stake in  Ping An Insurance  (Group) Co. to Thai billionaire
Dhanin Chearavanont is facing speculation that Chinese
regulators may block the $9.4 billion deal.  Current rules from China’s insurance watchdog may bar the
use of external financing for such deals, Esther Chwei, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  Hong Kong , said in a note.  China
Development Bank , a policy lender that had agreed to fund part
of the purchase for Dhanin’s Charoen Pokphand Group Co., has
canceled its loans, Caixin reported yesterday.  CP Group has sought to allay concerns that it’s backed by
other investors, saying last month it used “legal capital” to
buy part of the stake in  China’s second-largest insure r. Dhanin,
73, is making a rare foray into financial services after having
spent 43 years building a family seed business into  Thailand ’s
biggest agricultural company and conglomerate.  “The main issue here isn’t about financing because even if
CDB backs off, there will be other banks that are willing to
offer loans to CP,” said Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-based analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co. “The issue is about how the
regulator views the buyer and the structure of the deal. I don’t
think that’s favorable at the moment.”  The Thai company’s assistant vice president, Suthana
Hongthong, declined to comment, and CDB’s Beijing-based
spokesman Xu Fei didn’t return six calls to his office or mobile
phones.  Strategic Asset  HSBC said Dec. 5 it agreed to sell its 15.6 percent holding
in Ping An to four subsidiaries of CP Group in two phases. The
first stage, comprising shares valued at about HK$15 billion
($1.9 billion), was scheduled for Dec. 7. The sale of the
remaining shares requires approval from the  China  Insurance
Regulatory Commission by Feb. 1, or an extension of the accord.  HSBC’s Hong Kong-based spokesman Gareth Hewett today
declined to comment on the status of the transaction. Two calls
to CIRC’s office in Beijing weren’t returned.  “It’s prudent for regulators to examine large deals
involving key companies and strategic assets,” Sandy Mehta,
chief executive officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd.,
said by telephone today. “It’s difficult to say what conclusion
the regulators will arrive at.”  Shares of Ping An  yesterday declined 4 percent in Hong
Kong, the biggest drop in more than five months, and today rose
0.9 percent to HK$68.75.  HSBC rose  7.7 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 666.9 pence at 11
a.m. in  London , the smallest gain in the six-member FTSE 350
Banks Index.  Chinese Investors  Ping An spokesman Sheng Ruisheng said yesterday that the
deal was in a “normal approval process” and the Shenzhen-based
insurer had no additional information.  Caixin, whose editor in chief Hu Shuli was described by the
New Yorker magazine as “China’s Avenging Angel” for her
investigative journalism, last month said that most of CP
Group’s first payment for the stake came from investors
including Chinese businessman Xiao Jianhua.  Xiao used money from three municipal commercial banks that
he controls to help CP Group finance the purchase of 3.5 percent
of Ping An shares from HSBC, Caixin said on Dec. 22. The funds
were returned to the three lenders within 20 days, the magazine
said, citing sources it didn’t identify.  Xiao said in a Dec. 23 statement that he wasn’t involved in
the transaction, according to Caixin’s report yesterday. Efforts
to contact Xiao in Hong Kong were unsuccessful.  First Investor  CP Group said on Dec. 25 that the acquisition of the shares
was legal and the source of funding was “transparent.”
Dhanin’s net worth was an estimated $6.2 billion on Dec. 7,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Almost 60 percent
of the fortune is from overseas private companies.  The group also pointed to its historical ties to China --
from becoming the first foreign investor after  Deng Xiaoping 
opened the economy in 1979 to its continued management of local
agricultural projects -- and made a pitch for how it can help
develop rural areas through its investment in Ping An.  “CP had cooperated well with the Chinese government,”
according to the e-mailed statement. “CP is confident in the
development of Ping An Insurance and aims to collaborate with
Ping An Insurance to develop every sector in the rural area,
which is in line with the policy of modernizing China’s
agricultural sector.”  Still, CDB’s Hong Kong unit was ordered by officials in
Beijing to cancel HK$44 billion in loans to the Thai group,
Caixin said yesterday. That adds to uncertainty about CP Group’s
ability to buy part of Ping An, said Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  “It wouldn’t be surprising for the CIRC to reject the deal
as currently proposed,” Antos wrote in an e-mail. “What is
surprising is that the vetting process hadn’t been completed
before details of the sale were released to the public.”  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission will likely veto
the deal because funding has not been arranged, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter it did
not name.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  