-- SEC Suits, Sukuk `Lessons’, Volcker Loopholes: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-10T13:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/sec-fraud-suits-sukuk-lessons-volcker-loopholes-compliance.html
(Corrects identification of Japan regulator to Nuclear
Regulation Authority in story on safety rules in Compliance
Policy section of column originally published Jan. 9.)  The U.S.  Supreme Court  signaled it
may tighten the time limits that apply when the Securities and
Exchange Commission and other government agencies seek to impose
fines on people and companies accused of fraud.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, justices across
the court’s ideological divide voiced doubt about the Obama
administration’s position in a case involving market timing, the
practice of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of
other investors.  The issue is whether the five-year window for suits had
expired by the time the SEC sued two Gabelli Funds LLC
officials, saying they secretly allowed market timing by a
client. The Obama administration says the window opens only
after the government has reason to know about a fraud -- an
approach several justices said would reverse hundreds of years
of practice and give federal enforcers too much power.  A federal appeals court in New York said the suit against
Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert could go forward, agreeing with
the Obama administration’s approach.  The case raises issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerns SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  It affects only the power of agencies to seek fines, not
their ability to seek “disgorgement” -- that is, to force
those who engage in fraud to give back the money. The SEC
complaint, filed in 2008, centers on conduct that took place
from 1999 to 2002. At the time of the alleged wrongdoing,
Gabelli was the portfolio manager for the Gabelli Global Growth
Fund and Alpert was chief operating officer of Gabelli Funds.  Both men deny any wrongdoing.  Gabelli and Alpert’s lawyer, Lewis Liman, told the justices
that the issue might be different had the SEC accused his
clients of taking steps to conceal their activities.  “There’s no allegation whatsoever that anything was hidden
from the government,” Liman said.  The case, which the court will decide by June, is Gabelli
v. SEC, 11-1274.  Compliance Policy  Deutsche Bank, DTCC Urge Rejection of Chicago Mercantile Plan  Deutsche Bank, Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. and the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association are urging
a federal agency to reject a proposal by the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange concerning trade data.  The Chicago Mercantile Exchange proposed having data for
trades guaranteed by its clearinghouse sent to its own so-called
swaps-data repository, according to comment letters filed with
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Deutsche Bank said the proposed rule would lead to
“fragmented, weakened and costly swap reporting infrastructure
with few corresponding benefits to market participants or
regulators.”  The Depository Trust said the rule would undermine Dodd-
Frank and decrease transparency.  Intercontinental Exchange  and
the  Commodity Markets Council  support the rule change. They said
the CFTC should approve the Chicago Mercantile Exchange’s
proposed amendment.  The Commodity Markets Council said the rule would foster
“efficient and cost effective reporting of cleared swaps.”  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , when asked about the rule in
November, declined to say if he supports the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange’s proposed policy.  Japan Regulator Drafts Tougher Safety Rules, Nikkei Says  Japan’s  Nuclear Regulation Authority  has proposed new
measures against natural disasters, as well as other events such
as airplane crashes and terror attacks, Nikkei reported.  Exceptions to the new rules will allow some idled reactors
to come back online, according to Nikkei.  The new steps include cooling systems 100 meters from
reactors and a filtered vent system to allow containment vessel
pressure reduction, Nikkei reported.  The regulator is expected to begin discussion of the
proposals Jan. 11, and will publish a framework for the rules
this month. Finalization of the rules is expected in July,
following public discussion, Nikkei said.  Compliance Action  Banks’ $8.5 Billion Deal Kills Review That Never Saw Results  A foreclosure-review system that failed to compensate
mistreated borrowers has been mostly scrapped in an $8.5 billion
agreement with the largest U.S. mortgage servicers.  U.S. regulators’ deal Jan. 7 with 10 mortgage servicers
replaces a case-by-case assessment of flawed foreclosures that
lasted almost two years. The Independent Foreclosure Review
process -- agreed to by 14 servicers in a 2011 settlement -- has
so far cost the servicers more than $1.5 billion in fees to
consultants handling the cases.  Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   Bank of America
Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  must now provide $5.2 billion in
mortgage assistance and $3.3 billion in direct payments to
wronged borrowers, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and the Federal Reserve said in a statement. This largest cash
payout to those harmed by bad foreclosures during the subprime
mortgage crisis is also meant to help people with current home-
loan struggles.  Costs from faulty home loans and foreclosures since 2007
total more than $88 billion for the biggest U.S. home lenders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America, which
ranked No. 1 in mortgages before the 2008 credit crisis, has
borne the biggest burden with at least $45 billion of expenses.  The review process was intended to “fix what was broken,”
said Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry , adding that the
settlement brings a “significant change in direction” and will
meet the original objective faster.  The third-party consultants, including Promontory Financial
Group LLC, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst & Young LLP,
will lose their jobs reviewing the files for the 10 servicers.
Promontory, the Washington-based firm that reviewed files for
Bank of America, Wells Fargo and PNC, said in a statement that
it “is ceasing essentially all review work immediately. We
will, of course, cooperate with regulators and servicers to
ensure a smooth transition to the new remediation approach.”  The agreement drew criticism from Representative  Elijah
Cummings  of Maryland, the top Democrat of the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee, who expressed concerns that the
settlement will allow banks to “sweep past abuses under the
rug.”  The accord is meant to speed up payments to borrowers who
otherwise would have continued to wait under the case-by-case
review.  For more, click here.  UBS in Process of Rooting Out Negative Elements, Orcel Says  UBS AG (UBSN)  is in the process of rooting out “negative
elements” of its corporate culture after Switzerland’s largest
bank was fined $1.5 billion by regulators for trying to rig
global interest rates, said  Andrea Orcel , chief executive
officer of the investment bank.  The UBS settlement is the second in the investigation of
global interest rates after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June agreed to pay
290 million pounds ($466 million). Regulators have sought
information from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the
U.S., Europe and Japan to make their finances appear healthier.
More than $300 trillion of loans, mortgages, financial products
and contracts are linked to Libor.  Orcel said the staff involved in manipulating Libor were
“dismissed, penalized or reprimanded.” About 18 people have
lost their jobs and the bank has “taken action” against 40
people, said  Andrew Williams , global head of compliance at UBS.  Williams also told lawmakers the impact former trader Tom
Hayes, one of two UBS traders charged by prosecutors, had on the
business “is currently being studied” and that he wasn’t
affected by claw-backs because “all his deferred compensation
was forfeited” when he joined Citigroup Inc. He “wouldn’t have
had anything to claw back,” Williams said.  “Clearly his conduct was reprehensible and we are all
disgusted by it,” he said at the hearing.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined Citigroup. He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  UBS, based in Zurich, has received conditional immunity for
cooperating with investigations from U.S., Swiss, and Canadian
authorities.  Finra Fraud Referrals Reached Record in 2012, Ketchum Says  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority referred a
record 692 cases involving potential fraud to law-enforcement
agencies last year, according to  Richard Ketchum , chief
executive officer and chairman of Wall Street’s self-funded
regulator.  Referrals to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
other organizations outpaced 2011, when more than 650 were made,
Finra said in an e-mailed statement. A record 347 involved
insider trading last year, compared with 286 through mid-
December 2011. The increases came as Finra and the SEC focused
on risk-based examinations to pursue fraud and manipulative
activity, Ketchum said in a telephone interview.  Finra and the SEC revamped the way they conduct inspections
in the wake of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, discovered in
2008, and the credit crisis that started the prior year, Ketchum
said. Problems are now addressed more rapidly, he said.  Firms were ordered to repay more money to investors harmed
by brokers’ improper practices last year, though fines fell,
according to the statement. Restitution climbed to $34 million
from $19 million in  2011  and fines declined 5 percent to $68
million.  The number of brokers Finra oversees has  declined  annually
since it was formed in 2007 as smaller firms shut down and the
securities industry contracted. The regulator was responsible in
November for monitoring 4,319 brokers, 14 percent fewer than the
5,005 under its supervision five years earlier.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Primary Global Executive’s Conspiracy Conviction Upheld  Former Primary Global Research LLC executive James
Fleishman’s 2011 conviction for being part of an insider-trading
scheme to help pass confidential information on publicly traded
companies to fund managers was upheld yesterday by a federal
appeals court in Manhattan.  Fleishman, 43, was convicted after trial in federal court
in New York of two separate conspiracy charges for what the U.S.
said was a scheme to obtain and pass along confidential
information from technology company employees who moonlighted as
consultants for Primary Global, a so-called expert-networking
firm.  Fleishman is serving a 2 1/2-year term at the federal
prison in Florence, Colorado.  In their ruling, the appeals court rejected Fleishman’s
argument that his right to testify at trial was “impermissibly
chilled” by a government subpoena that required him to produce
all of his personal diaries if he took the stand in his own
defense.  Fleishman’s lawyer, Benjamin Coleman, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the case.  The lower court case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan) the
appeals case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 12-94, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (Manhattan).  MF Global U.K. Clients May Get Back 60% After Deal With U.S.  Former customers of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s U.K. arm will
get about 60 percent of their money returned from the defunct
brokerage after settling a dispute with the company’s U.S.-based
units.  Unsecured creditors will also receive a payment of around
20 percent of the value of their claims following the agreement
on Dec. 22, the administrators for MF Global’s U.K. arm said.
U.K. customers were previously told they might receive as little
as 26 cents on the dollar.  The deal needs to be approved by U.S. bankruptcy courts.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct.
31, 2011, after getting margin calls and bank demands for money
at its brokerage following its investment in the debt of
troubled European economies. Legal disputes have tied up assets
worth more than $1 billion, hindering repayment of the
brokerage’s clients and creditors.  Two Ex-HBOS Managers Charged in $56 Million Business Loan Fraud  Two former employees of HBOS Plc along with six others were
charged by U.K. prosecutors over business loans made through a
retail bank for around 35 million pounds ($56.2 million).  The pair, described as senior managers for the bank, were
charged yesterday with conspiracy to corrupt, fraudulent trading
and money laundering, according to an e-mailed statement from
the Crown Prosecution Service. The men were given gifts by
financial advisers to administer loans for companies having
difficulties between 2003 and 2010, according to the charges.  HBOS was taken over by Lloyd’s Banking Group Plc in 2009.  Interviews/Speeches  Barofsky Says Volcker Rule Loopholes Need to Be Removed  Neil Barofsky , former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talked about a secretive  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  unit called Multi-Strategy Investing that
wagers about $1 billion of the firm’s own funds on the stocks
and bonds of companies.  Barofsky spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” Bloomberg’s Max
Abelson also speaks.  For the video, click here.  Canada Systemically Important Banks May Need More Common Equity  Canadian banks that are deemed “systemically important”
may be required to carry more capital, the head of regulation at
the country’s banking watchdog said.  Mark Zelmer made the remarks yesterday in a speech in
Toronto on the agency’s priorities.  He said the  Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions  will announce “within a few months” which banks
will receive the designation.  Any bank receiving it “can also expect some additional
prudential requirements, including having to carry more common
equity,” said Zelmer, assistant superintendent in charge of
regulation, according to a transcript of the speech. “The extra
capital requirements will take effect in January 2016.”  Comings and Goings  Hong Kong Taking Sukuk Lessons, Staffing Up, Before New Law  Maybank (MAY)  Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. and  Clifford Chance  LLP are
training Hong Kong staff for the city’s first sukuk sales before
lawmakers review a bill to give the debt equal tax treatment.  Maybank, the world’s third-largest Islamic bond arranger in
2012, has been preparing its investment banking teams in Hong
Kong and China to chase Shariah-compliant deals, Chief Executive
Officer Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz said in a Jan. 4
interview. Clifford Chance, the U.K.’s highest grossing law
firm, has moved a sukuk specialist from Dubai to the city,
Qudeer Latif, the company’s head of global Islamic finance, said
before the bill is first debated by the Legislative Council
tomorrow.  Demand for debt that complies with the Koran’s ban on
interest will triple to  $950 billion  by 2017, Ernst & Young LLP
said in a Dec. 10 report, compared with the $211 billion of the
notes outstanding as of June 2012, Bank Negara Malaysia data
show.  Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury K.C. Chan
will present a bill to the Legislative Council today that will
exempt sukuk sellers from paying tax on the transfer of
underlying assets for four Islamic debt structures, he said in a
Dec. 28  statement . This will pave the way for issuers in China
and the Middle East to tap Shariah-compliant markets via Hong
Kong, and develop the city’s asset-management business by
increasing product variety, he said in the statement.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  has been preparing staff in Dubai
and Malaysia to handle Chinese clients that have expressed a
preference to sell sukuk as soon as the tax changes come into
effect, Sabir Ahmed, regional head of Islamic origination in
Kuala Lumpur, wrote in a Jan. 4 e-mail.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 