-- SEC Claims KPMG Auditors Failed to Scrutinize Nebraska Bank
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-10T00:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/sec-claims-two-kpmg-auditors-failed-to-scrutinize-nebraska-bank.html
Two  KPMG  LLP auditors are facing U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that they failed to
properly scrutinize a Nebraska bank that hid millions of dollars
in loan losses from investors during the credit crisis.  John J. Aesoph, a partner, and Darren M. Bennett, a senior
manager, didn’t get evidence to back up TierOne Bank’s allowance
for loan and lease losses when issuing opinions on the bank’s
2008 financial statements, the SEC said in an administrative
release today. Instead of independently testing TierOne’s value
for collateral, the auditors accepted the bank’s “biased and
inconsistent” estimates, the SEC said.  “Aesoph and Bennett merely rubber-stamped TierOne’s
collateral value estimates and ignored the red flags surrounding
the bank’s troubled real estate loans,” SEC Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “Auditors must
adhere to professional auditing standards and exercise due
diligence rather than merely relying on management’s
representations.”  Lawyers for the auditors, who are contesting the claims,
didn’t respond to phone messages seeking comment.  “Our partner and senior manager look forward to presenting
the facts in support of the work that was performed at
TierOne,” said Tim Connolly, a spokesman for KPMG in Montvale,
 New Jersey .  The SEC previously filed claims against three executives of
TierOne, which filed for bankruptcy amid loan losses stemming
from the financial crisis, the agency said. Two agreed to
settle, and a case is continuing against the third, according to
the SEC.  Virginia Bank  In a separate case today, the SEC sued three former
executives of Virginia-based Bank of the Commonwealth for
understating loan losses by 17 percent to 25 percent from
November 2008 to August 2010, according to a statement. The
Norfolk bank failed in 2011, costing the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation  $268 million.  Edward J. Woodard, the bank’s former chief executive
officer, Cynthia A. Sabol, its former chief financial officer,
and Stephen G. Fields, who was an executive vice president,
either hid problems with deteriorating loans or knew about the
problems while approving misleading investor disclosures. The
former executives are contesting the claims.  “During times of financial stress, it’s more important
than ever for executives to make full and honest disclosure to
the investing public,” Scott W. Friestad, associate director of
the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a statement.
“Commonwealth’s executives did the opposite and hid the
company’s worsening performance from shareholders through
masking practices that understated the losses on its most
troubled loans.”  Separately, Woodard and Fields, as well as Woodard’s son
and another former vice president, face criminal charges
stemming from the bank failure including conspiracy to commit
bank fraud. A criminal trial is scheduled for March 19 in
Norfolk.  Andrew Sacks, an attorney for Woodard in Norfolk,  Virginia ,
said his client hadn’t committed any violations of  securities
law .  “We intend to vigorously oppose their suit and work hard
on behalf of Mr. Woodard to clear him of these accusations,”
Sacks said in a telephone interview.  Solomon L. Wisenberg, a Washington-based attorney for
Fields, said his client will dispute the SEC’s claims in court.  “We are deeply disappointed that the SEC chose to file
this complaint and issue a prejudicial press release on the eve
of a major criminal trial,” Wisenberg said in a phone
interview.  An attorney for Sabol didn’t return a phone message seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  