-- Senator Sanders Renews Push to Remove Bankers From Regional Feds
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-09T19:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/senator-sanders-renews-push-to-remove-bankers-from-regional-feds.html
U.S. Senator  Bernie Sanders  will
reintroduce legislation that would remove banking executives
from the board of directors at each of the 12 Federal Reserve
regional banks.  “Allowing Wall Street CEOs to serve as Federal Reserve
directors and hand-pick its members and staff is a clear example
of the fox guarding the henhouse,” Sanders, an independent from
Vermont who caucuses with Democrats, said in a statement today
in Washington.  Congress created the Fed nearly a century ago with a mix of
public and private features, including regional banks with
private banking executives on their boards of directors. The
structure of the central bank came under scrutiny for its ties
to Wall Street as the Fed bailed out banks during the financial
crisis and last year when  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  was serving on the board at the  New York  Fed
when his bank announced a trading loss.  Dimon’s term as a director at the New York Fed expired on
Dec. 31. A replacement has not yet been named. The trading loss
at JPMorgan is calculated at exceeding $6.2 billion for the
first nine months of last year.  “Dimon was the poster child for why we need to end the
serious conflicts of interest at  the Fed , but he was not
alone,” Sanders said. “Two-thirds of the directors at the New
York Fed are hand-picked by the same bankers that the Fed is in
charge of regulating.”  Sanders first introduced the legislation last year with
Senators Barbara Boxer of California and  Mark Begich  of Alaska
as cosponsors.  Regional Banks  The 12 regional Fed banks each have a nine-member board of
directors. Six of those directors are appointed by banks that
are members of the  Federal Reserve System . The remaining three
are appointed by the central bank’s Board of Governors in
Washington.  By contrast, the Fed’s governors, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , are political appointees, nominated by the president
and confirmed by the Senate.  The legislation would make all nine directors at each Fed
regional bank appointed by the Board of Governors, and employees
of any firm regulated by the Fed would no longer be eligible for
appointment as directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  