-- Shui On Land Spins Off Xintiandi to Focus on Development
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T09:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/shui-on-land-sets-up-xintiandi-unit-as-it-focuses-on-development.html
Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , the Chinese
developer that issued a profit warning this week, said it will
spin off the unit that developed the Xintiandi restaurant and
bar district to focus on development.  “Shui On’s portfolio and coverage is so big and property
market is so competitive,” Chief Executive Officer Freddy Lee
said in  Shanghai  yesterday. “It is very difficult to do both
development and operation. After setting up China Xintiandi, we
hope Shui On could focus more on development. Shui On will also
try to do more smaller projects, so that will give financing a
relief.”  Full-year profit will decline “significantly” because the
company completed fewer properties last year compared with 2011,
Shui On said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange on
Jan. 7. The Shanghai-based developer said in May last year that
it had submitted a proposal for the unit’s initial public
offering to the Hong Kong stock exchange. Shui On has no
timetable for the IPO, which is still in progress, billionaire
Chairman Vincent Lo said yesterday.  “We need to consider what’s best for our shareholders,”
Lo said. “The stock market is volatile and it takes time for
 China  Xintiandi’s IPO, so we are establishing the company first
to let investors see its capability to make profits.”  ‘Further Discount’  Shui On will hold about 50 percent of China Xintiandi and
is looking for strategic investors for the rest, Lo said. China
Xintiandi will start operations on March 1.  Shui On  shares  rose 0.5 percent to HK$3.86 at the close in
Hong Kong, after having the biggest gain in almost two weeks.  “Everyone knows that Shui On wants to spin off the
Xintiandi unit, but it all depends on valuation,” said Alvin Wong, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
in a phone interview. “I don’t see them listing within six to
12 months, because valuations are relatively cheap. There’s
already a discount for Xintiandi and to spin it off they will
need to offer a further discount to investors.”  Shui On  trades  at 4.7 times reported profit, compared with
its five-year average of 5.5 times, based on daily data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Lo will head China Xintiandi, which will buy properties
from the parent. China Xintiandi will hold Xintiandi projects in
Shanghai, Wuhan and Chongqing, and will be a pure commercial
property asset management company focusing on retail, office,
hotels and its entertainment hubs, Lo said.  Heaven, Earth  China Xintiandi will focus on managing, designing, leasing
and marketing premium retail, office, entertainment and hotel
properties in affluent urban areas in China, Shui On said in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Xintiandi, which means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese, is
a residential and commercial complex in Shanghai comprised of
renovated houses from the 19th and 20th centuries. The project
attracted local and international retailers and restaurants,
including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   Shui On subsequently used the concept to build similar
projects in Chinese cities including Chongqing and Wuhan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  