-- Siemens Names Fuenfstueck as First Woman to Run a Division
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-01-09T11:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/siemens-names-fuenfstueck-as-first-woman-to-run-a-division.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  named Britta Fuenfstueck
as head of its clinical-products division, making her the first
woman to run an operating business on that level at  Europe ’s
largest engineering company.  Fuenfstueck, currently head of molecular imaging, will
start on April 1, the Munich-based company said today in an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg. Spokesman Matthias Kraemer
confirmed the appointment via phone, declining to provide
further details. She will report to Hermann Requardt, who runs
the company’s healthcare operations.  Siemens has two women on its 10-member management board,
with Brigitte Ederer running Human Resources and Barbara Kux
being responsible for procurement and sustainability. So far,
all of the about 20 operating divisions are run by men, making
Fuenfstueck, who holds a master’s degree in physics from
Austria’s University of Linz, one of the highest-ranking
executives outside the management board.  The company is severing ties with Kux, who became the the
first female board member in Siemens’ 160-year history when
appointed in 2008, when her contract expires in November.  “Kux has lost her job due to a lack of success so there
will be just one woman on the board,” Kronberg, Germany-based
Fairesearch analyst Heinz Steffen, who has a reduce rating on
Siemens shares, said by phone. “But they have a clear goal of
getting more women onto both the executive and supervisory
boards.”  More Changes  The procurement role came to prominence after an ill-timed
bet on economic expansion and setbacks in projects including
offshore wind parks caused net income to fall by 26 percent in
the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  Norbert Gaus , the current head of the clinical products
division, will run the customer solutions business, while the
current head of that unit, Thomas Miller, leaves the company
“for personal reasons,” according to the memo.  Currently based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , Fuenfstueck
spent two years at Boston Consulting Group Inc. before joining
Siemens as head of the healthcare unit’s electronic business
initiatives in 2000.  Siemens’ health-care operations had sales of 13.6 billion
euros ($17.8 billion) in the 12 months ended Sept. 30,
generating 1.81 billion euros in profit. The clinical products
unit is responsible for x-ray, ultrasound and other devices, and
has more than 8,000 employees in 17 locations globally,
according to a February 2012 presentation.  Fuenfstueck’s successor for the molecular imaging business
will be named at a later stage, according to the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  