-- Singh Helps Tata Revive $850 Million Urea Plan: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-01-09T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/singh-helps-tata-revive-850-million-urea-plan-corporate-india.html
Tata Chemicals Ltd. (TTCH) , the world’s
second-biggest soda ash maker, plans to revive a $850 million
spending proposal to double its urea capacity after the
government said it will guarantee returns on investments.  The company plans to boost its ability to make the
nitrogen-based soil nutrient at its Babrala urea plant in
northern  India  to 2.5 million metric tons in the next three
years, Managing Director R. Mukundan said in an interview. The
Mumbai-based chemicals maker “was waiting for the policy” to
resume plans stalled since 2010, he said. The government will
assure new urea units a profit margin of 12 percent to 20
percent, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said last month.  “It was on hold simply because the policy wasn’t clear,”
Mukundan said in his office in Mumbai. “Now that it has been
clarified, we will come out with a decision shortly.”  Tata Chemicals, which accounted for about 3 percent of Tata
Group’s $100 billion revenue in the year ended March 31, 2012,
is counting on a supply shortage of urea in India as the
government seeks to reduce dependence on imports to boost farm
productivity and feed the world’s second-most populous nation.
The doubling of capacity will add $500 million to the company’s
revenue when the factory turns operational, said Tarun Surana,
an analyst with Mumbai based brokerage Sunidhi Securities &
Finance Ltd.  Shares Rebound  Shares of the company have rebounded 15 percent since the
start of December and reached a 17-month high on Jan. 8, trading
at 374.95 rupees yesterday in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The benchmark BSE Ltd.  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 1.7
percent in the same period.  State incentives will encourage more manufacturers to set
up plants, said Surana, who is among the 16  analysts  rating the
Tata Chemicals stock a buy. Three advise holding it, while one
recommends selling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We see seven to eight new urea plants coming up that were
all under planning,” Surana said. “The final go-ahead was
awaiting the policy.”  Government control on the price of urea and ambiguity over
natural gas feedstock costs have deterred new investments in the
sector for more than 10 years, leading to an increase in imports
and state subsidies. Investments of 500 billion rupees ($9.1
billion) could flow in as state-run enterprises and co-
operatives add 10 million metric tons of capacity, S.C. Sharma,
an officer with the Planning Commission, said last month.  Urea Imports  Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL) , the $4 billion chemicals-to-
telecommunications group owned by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, may consider $1 billion in spending to double its urea
capacity after the new policy was approved, managing director
Rakesh Jain said in an interview in November.  State-run  Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF)  and
 Chambal Fertilizers & Chemicals Ltd. (CHMB)  are the other two companies
that have stalled projects.  India imports a third of the 28 million metric tons of urea
it needs and the supply shortages may widen to 12 million tons
by March 2017 unless new capacities are added, according to a
2011 Planning Commission report.  The government signs purchase agreements with
manufacturers for about eight years, while loan tenures may
extend as long as 12 years, making it difficult for producers to
access debt funding to set up the facilities, Surana said.  “Financial closure still remains challenging,” he said.  Lentils, Salt  Tata Chemicals is also counting on sales of non-commodity
products to boost sales and profit as former chairman Ratan Tata, who retired last month, set a vision of $500 billion
revenue for the group. Mukundan expects the non-commodity
business to account for 50 percent of the revenue in five years,
after its share doubled to 22 percent in the last seven years.  Soda ash, a commodity used for making glass, contributed to
45 percent of Tata Chemicals’s overseas revenue.  The company has been introducing branded consumer products
including packaged lentils, iron-fortified and low-sodium salt,
water purifiers and crop-specific pesticides. It is also setting
up a 300-ton factory in the southern city of Chennai to make
artificial sweeteners and probiotics.  Rising income levels in Asia’s third-biggest economy and
urbanization will fuel demand for these products, said Sachin B. Bobade, a Mumbai-based analyst with Brics Securities Ltd.  “The food segment has been growing in double digits in the
last two to three years,” said Bobade. “No slowdown is
expected here.”  Profit at the company rose 28 percent last financial year
to 8.4 billion rupees on a 25 percent growth in sales to 138
billion rupees, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Still, foreign-
exchange fluctuations and plant shutdowns dragged down profit in
the current year, with net income falling in the three quarters
through Sept. 30.  “The idea is to be more consumer facing,” Mukundan said.
“It will help the company to decommoditize its portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  