-- Skullcandy Turns Takeover Target After 66% Drop: Real M&A
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-01-09T21:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/skullcandy-turns-takeover-target-after-66-drop-real-m-a.html
Skullcandy Inc. (SKUL) , the headphone maker
known for colorful designs, is turning into a takeover target
after falling more than almost every other initial public
offering during the past 18 months.  Down  66 percent  since it began trading in July 2011,
Skullcandy has performed worse than all but seven of the 185
U.S. IPOs completed since its debut, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock sank to a record low of $6.70 last week
after Jefferies Group Inc.  recommended  selling the shares. The
company’s enterprise value of 3.9 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is cheaper than
96 percent of stocks in the Russell 2000 Index, the data show.  While increasing competition for in-ear headphones and the
company’s move into lower-margin designs prompted the Jefferies
downgrade on Jan. 2, Skullcandy  shareholder  Royce & Associates
LLC says its brand may appeal to buyers such as Bose Corp. or
 Sony Corp. (6758)  Even though Skullcandy’s revenue growth has slowed,
the shares have fallen more than is justified and that might
prompt a takeover, Roth Capital Partners LLC said.  “I don’t get the sense that management is wanting or would
look to sell at these levels, but you can’t ignore that as being
a possible outcome when the stock’s trading where it is and the
value being as cheap as it is,”  David King , a  Newport Beach ,
California-based analyst for Roth Capital, said in a telephone
interview.  Alecia Pulman, a spokeswoman for Park City, Utah-based
Skullcandy, didn’t respond to messages requesting comment.
Joanne Berthiaume, a spokeswoman for Bose, said the company
isn’t a potential buyer for Skullcandy. Sony’s Elizabeth Boukis
didn’t answer an e-mail seeking comment.  Apple, Beats  Skullcandy  shares  fetched more than $16 as recently as
August and peaked last year in April at $17.33. They plunged a
record 16 percent on Sept. 13 after Apple Inc., the world’s
largest company by market value, announced new earphones and
Morgan Stanley cut its rating on Skullcandy’s stock. Jay Sole,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report that Beats
Electronics LLC’s Beats by Dr. Dre brand was taking more market
share than anticipated. He also cited the competitive threat
from Apple, which bundles the devices with iPhones.  Losses accelerated for Skullcandy’s stock in November, when
it  slumped  29 percent to $8.62. The company cut its 2012 profit
 forecast  on Nov. 1, citing a shift toward lower-margin products,
“cautiousness” regarding European sales and U.S. promotions.
Then, Skullcandy plunged 13 percent on Jan. 2 following the
Jefferies downgrade, and closed at a record low the next day.  Earnings Multiple  The declines have left Skullcandy trading at one of the
lowest valuations in the Russell 2000 Index, a gauge of smaller
U.S. stocks. Its 3.9 multiple of enterprise  value  to Ebitda
compares with the median of 9.3 among the 1,382 companies with a
figure, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than $360
million has been wiped off the stock’s market value since a 2011
peak of $551 million.  Today, Skullcandy’s shares gained 3.9 percent to $7.14 for
the biggest advance in six weeks.  Growth is slowing at the company. Annual revenue increases,
which ranged from 36 percent to 47 percent in 2009 through 2011,
are forecast to decelerate to 15 percent in 2013 and 3.5 percent
in 2014, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Despite the pressure on Skullcandy’s business, the shares
have fallen too far, and that could spur a deal,  Roth Capital ’s
King said.  Other headphone makers may be interested in buying
Skullcandy, said James Harvey, a New York-based money manager at
Royce, which oversees about $36 billion including Skullcandy
shares.  $350 Headphones  Bose, which produces audio equipment including $350 noise-
canceling headphones, may be drawn to Skullcandy’s brand
recognition and low valuation, Harvey said.  “The company generates  cash flow  and cash flow has been
increasing,” he said in a phone interview. “That’s what we’ve
been attracted to.”  Skullcandy  produced  $21.2 million of free cash flow in
2011, up from $12.1 million in 2009.  Larger electronic companies such as Sony could also see
Skullcandy as a fit, Harvey said. Sony collaborated with TV
personality  Simon Cowell  in September to release X Headphones in
an effort to compete against Beats.  King, the Roth Capital analyst, agreed that an electronics
manufacturer seeking to enter the headphones market, or bolster
an existing business, might show interest in Skullcandy.  Skullcandy is popular among so-called action sports
athletes, including skiers, King said. A traditional apparel
company that already sells to that group may also be interested,
he said.  The Center  “That customer is typically in that demographic that
everyone is going after -- late teens, early 20s -- who spends
more and more time on mobile devices and is consuming a lot of
content on mobile devices,” King said. “Skullcandy is kind of
at the center of that.”  Skullcandy may prefer to remain independent and expand with
help from licensing agreements with other companies, said Sean Naughton, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Still, Skullcandy’s low valuation may convince someone to
acquire the company, Harvey said.  “The answer lies in how the potential acquirer views the
Skullcandy brand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  