-- Snowstorm Heads Toward Middle East After High Wind, Flood Damage
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-09T10:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/snowstorm-heads-toward-middle-east-after-high-wind-flood-damage.html
A heavy storm battering the eastern
Mediterranean for four days has caused death and destruction to
property and crops as well as power outages in many areas.  Two Palestinian women traveling from Tulkarm to Nablus were
found dead as a result of the storm, the Palestinian news agency
Wafathat said, citing a statement carried by the city council of
Anabta. At least 46 people have been injured in 773 road
accidents in  Jordan  in the past two days, the state-run Petra
news agency said today.  Jordan’s Central Bank Governor Ziad Fareez ordered banks to
start work today at 10 a.m. instead of 8 a.m. because of weather
conditions, Petra said.  Several roads in  Israel , Lebanon, Syria and Jordan have
closed while homes, as well as the Zaatari camp for Syrian
refugees in Jordan, were flooded and businesses came to a halt.
Power cuts were reported in Jordan and Lebanon.  Israel’s  Hadera Paper Ltd. (HAP)  said production at its Hadera
site was temporarily stopped because of flooding, according to a
filing today to the  Tel-Aviv  Stock Exchange. The company said it
is working to resume production and is studying the impact of
the damage.  In  Jerusalem , residents braced for possibly as much as 30
centimeters (1 foot) of snow. Jerusalem will close its schools
at noon today and the municipality has advised drivers to stay
off the roads unless absolutely necessary.  “Several roads in the north and center of the country near
streams have closed due to flooding, as has the highway along
the  Dead Sea ,” police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by phone.  Main Highway  Tel Aviv’s main Ayalon highway remained open today after
closing for several hours yesterday due to water overflows.
Military helicopters were used yesterday to rescue people
stranded on rooftops by flooding in three towns in central
Israel, the army said.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will meet today with
Minister of Internal Security Yitzhak Aharonovitch and senior
police officials to discuss arrangements to deal with the severe
weather, his office said in a text message.  Heavy snow fell in Damascus today, according to the state-
run SANA news agency, while a sprinkling of snow briefly covered
cars and streets in the Lebanese capital Beirut.  Lebanon’s Ghadir River burst its banks, flooding into a
nearby Beirut suburb. Lebanese posted pictures on social media
of rainwater submerging cars, leading one policeman to move
around on a jet ski.  Lebanese Economy Minister Nicolas Nahhas said the damage in
the country reflected the government’s failure to deal with the
“weak” infrastructure, the official National News Agency said.
“The government doesn’t have the necessary capabilities to
prevent damage from storms,” he said.  The storm is expected to continue tomorrow, according to
forecasts on Petra and NNA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  