-- Sodexo First-Quarter Revenue Advances on Latin America, Asia
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-01-09T08:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/sodexo-first-quarter-revenue-advances-on-latin-america-asia.html
Sodexo (SW) , the world’s second-biggest
provider of  catering services , said fiscal first-quarter sales
gained, led by advances in  Latin America  and Asia, and
reiterated its outlook for growth this year.  Organic revenue grew 2.1 percent in the quarter through
November, the company said today in a  statement . The measure
excludes acquisitions and disposals, as well as currency
fluctuations. Total  revenue  rose 7.4 percent to 4.95 billion
euros ($6.5 billion).  Sodexo maintained its forecast for “modest” growth in
like-for-like sales and operating profit this year. It plans
cost cuts that will have a positive effect of 130 million euros
to 150 million euros a year from fiscal 2015, the Issy-les-
Moulineaux, France-based company said in November. Organic
revenue grew 6.5 percent in the last fiscal year, when Sodexo
benefited from contracts for the London  Olympic Games  and the
New Zealand  Rugby World Cup .  Organic revenue grew 3.3 percent in the first quarter,
excluding the effect of the Rugby World Cup a year earlier,
Sodexo said.  First-quarter performance was “very much in line with the
trends we saw in the second half” of the fiscal 2012 year,
Chief Executive Officer Michel Landel said today on a conference
call. Organic growth is “likely to be modest given the current
economic environment, particularly in Europe,” he commented in
the statement.  Scaling Down  The  stock  rose 0.8 percent, or 49 cents, to 64.35 euros at
9:27 a.m. in Paris. That gives the company a market value of
10.1 billion euros.  Organic revenue increased 2 percent in continental  Europe ,
the company’s  second-biggest region , it said, even though Sodexo
sees signs of “scaling down” by corporate clients across the
continent.  Revenue growth slowed to 0.6 percent in  North America  after
the company lost a contract with Ascension Health last year. The
company has won “some significant new contracts, particularly
in the U.S.,” which will help to increase its health-care
unit’s growth, it said. North America represented about 39
percent of sales last year. Growth in the Rest of the World,
which includes Latin America,  Africa , the  Middle East  and Asia,
was 8.6 percent “despite some signs of slower economic activity
in several countries,” the caterer said.  “The slow-down of the organic growth rate compared to the
first quarter last year was expected given the omission of a
positive one-off, a challenging base effect in the  emerging
markets  and the current lackluster business environment in
Europe,” Patrick Hasenboehler, a Zurich-based analyst at
Sarasin, wrote in a note.  Landel said today he was “still confident” Sodexo can
increase its revenue by 7 percent a year in the medium term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  