-- South African Police Arrest 20 as Farmworkers Resume Strike
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-01-09T10:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/south-african-police-arrest-20-as-farmworkers-resume-strike.html
South African police arrested 20
people as farmworkers resumed a strike after failing to reach
agreement with employers over boosting minimum wages.  “Seven suspects were arrested in the Tulbach area and 13
in the Ashton area on charges of intimidation related to the
farmworkers’ strike,” Andre Traut, a police spokesman in the
Western Cape Province, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “They will make a court appearance once they have
been charged.”  Thousands of agricultural employees in the Western Cape,
South Africa’s biggest table grape-growing region, went on
strike in November to demand that the minimum wage be increased
to 150 rand ($17) a day from 70 rand. Two people died, and
protesters burned vineyards and sheds, causing damage estimated
at 120 million rand by AgriSA, the main farmers’ organization.  Unions and workers suspended their labor action on Dec. 5,
to allow new minimum wages to be negotiated on a farm-by-farm
basis. The strike was resumed after farmers failed to meet
employee demands.  “There has a been a very good response,” to the renewed
strike call, despite high levels of intimidation of workers by
police and farmers, Nosey Pieterse, president of the Black
Association of the Agriculture Sector union, said in a phone
interview while en route to address workers in De Doorns, about
150 kilometers (94 miles) northeast of Cape Town.  While as many as 300 attended protests in the towns of
Somerset West and Tulbach, there were no immediate reports of
unrest, Traut said.  Harvest Season  The government says it can only legislate new minimum pay
from April when the prevailing rates will have been in place for
12 months. AgriSA says it doesn’t have a mandate from its
members to negotiate wages.  “Our request goes out to government and AgriSA to please
come to the table,” Fambile Keni, provincial organizer for the
Food and Allied Workers Union, said by phone from the town of
Robertson. “We need a solution. We cannot keep having these
strikes.”  The harvest season for table grapes in the Western Cape got
under way this month. South Africa is the continent’s biggest
exporter of the fruit.  “Continuing with the strike is a very irresponsible
thing” to do, Porchia Adams, a spokeswoman for Agri Wes-Cape, a
farmers’ group, said in a phone interview. “Workers will
suffer. It’s simple: no work, no pay. They can strike, they are
allowed to, but there will be consequences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  