-- Spain’s Allure Unsullied by Bond Writedown Clauses: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-01-09T08:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/spain-s-allure-unsullied-by-bond-writedown-clauses-euro-credit.html
Spain’s introduction of clauses that
make debt restructuring easier is doing little to temper a rally
that has pushed borrowing costs to an almost 10-month low.  That’s good news for Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who can
still afford bond-market funding after last month reasserting
his intention to avoid a European Central Bank bailout. Auctions
tomorrow, Spain’s first of the year, include a new 2015 note
with so-called collective-action clauses, which limit investors’
rights to oppose writedowns.  “The market is engaged in a hunt for yield,” said Russel Matthews, a fund manager at BlueBay Asset Management Ltd. in
London, which oversees $47 billion and owns Spanish bonds.
“There may be a lot of investors who are underinvested in risky
assets and are afraid they are going to miss out on the rally. I
don’t think CACs are making a major difference.”  The inclusion of the clauses, which were part of the
 agreement  to establish a permanent rescue fund for the 17-nation
currency union, allows a majority of bondholders to approve a
debt restructuring if the issuing sovereign is at risk of
default, while removing the right for individual investors to
veto a rescheduling for their own holdings.  Euro Defense  Spain’s 10-year  bond  yield has tumbled from a euro-era
record of 7.75 percent since ECB President Mario Draghi’s July
26 pledge to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro, backed
up in September by the announcement of a plan to buy short-dated
securities of nations that request help.  Yields have dropped further since U.S. lawmakers reached an
agreement to avert tax increases and spending cuts, boosting
demand for higher-yielding assets. The 10-year Spanish rate was
at 5.06 percent as of 8:29 a.m.  London  time, after touching 5.01
percent on Jan. 4, the lowest since March 12.  “CACs are a bit in the shadows and investors are ignoring
their inclusion,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in London. “Sentiment is quite strong at the
moment for peripheral markets and investors are shrugging off
the bad news and extrapolating the good news.”  Spanish debt maturing in a year or more gained 1.3 percent
this month through Jan. 8, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Italian bonds returned 1.2 percent, while German
securities lost 1.1 percent.  Future Issues  Spain is also due to sell bonds maturing in 2018 and 2026
tomorrow. The nation plans to cut net bond issuance this year to
59 billion euros ($77.1 billion) from 62.7 billion euros last
year, Treasury chief Inigo Fernandez de Mesa told reporters in
 Madrid  yesterday. The initial target for 2012 net issuance was
35.8 billion euros.  All future new issues with a maturity of more than one year
will includes CACs, Spain’s official gazette said on Jan. 3.  Greece  introduced the provisions retroactively on its bonds
last year to impose losses of 53.5 percent on private investors
who wanted to opt out of the nation’s plan to cut its debt
burden.  “I wonder whether investors would apportion too much
weight to the difference between the CAC and non-CAC universes
in light of that important precedent,” said Richard McGuire, a
senior rates strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“When a sovereign is no longer able to service its debt then
perhaps the existence or not of CACs is something of a moot
point.”  First Sale  In total, 45 percent of European bonds issued this year may
be re-opens of pre-CAC government securities,  Luca Jellinek ,
head of European fixed-income strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank wrote in a Dec. 18 note citing
European Commission figures. That will drop to 35 percent in
2015, 25 percent in 2018 and 5 percent by 2023, he wrote.  While Spain’s  yields  have tumbled in recent months, the
nation’s economic woes are far from solved and its 10-year
yields are still about above their average of 4.8 percent over
the past five years.  Spain’s budget deficit was 9.4 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011, the same as that of Greece. Spanish Deputy
Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said on Dec. 21 her
nation will struggle to meet a 2012 target of 6.3 percent set by
the European Union.  Spanish Regions  Data released last week by the Budget Ministry showed eight
of Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions, responsible for the
nation missing its deficit target in 2011, will probably miss
their own targets for 2012.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
predicts the Spanish economy will contract 1.4 percent this year
after shrinking 1.3 percent last year, according to forecasts
published on Nov. 27. It expects  Europe ’s fourth-largest economy
to grow 0.5 percent in 2014.  “I don’t think CACs will make or break peripheral bond
markets,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based fund manager at
M&G Group Plc, which oversees about $324 billion. “Spain is
insolvent so I refuse to touch it. If Spain could miraculously
return to 3-4 percent nominal growth and run budget surpluses,
then the presence of CACs wouldn’t stop me -- but that won’t
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  