-- St. Jude Medical’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-09T23:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/st-jude-medical-s-fourth-quarter-profit-tops-estimates.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , a maker of
heart rhythm devices, released preliminary fourth-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates on higher-than-
anticipated revenue and greater cost savings.  Profit was 90 cents to 92 cents a share in the quarter
ended Dec. 29, excluding 50 cents to 60 cents a share from one-
time items such as restructuring costs and other charges, the
 St. Paul , Minnesota-based company said today in a statement
before its presentation at the JPMorgan Chase & Co. health
conference in  San Francisco . Earnings topped the average of 87
cents from 25 analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  The company said it expects to report $1.37 billion in
sales for the quarter, a decrease of 1 percent from a year
earlier after adjusting for the negative impact of foreign
currency. St. Jude is scheduled on Jan. 23 to formally report
earnings and provide a 2013 forecast.  “St. Jude Medical’s fourth-quarter revenue fell within or
exceeded all of our previously announced guidance ranges,”
Chief Executive Officer Dan Starks said in the statement. Starks
also cited “implementation of significant cost savings
initiatives in 2012” for higher-than-anticipated earnings.  Sales of products to treat atrial fibrillation were $239
million in the quarter, an increase of 10 percent from a year
earlier, the company said. Sales of pacemakers and
defibrillators, cardiovascular products and neuromodulation
products declined.  St. Jude said Nov. 1 that it would fire 500 more people
than first anticipated as it reorganizes its product divisions
into two new operating units. The company also reduced its 2012
sales forecast in October for three of its units including
cardiac rhythm management, its biggest.  The company’s shares gained less than 1 percent to $37.30
at the close in  New York  and have  increased  4.5 percent in the
past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  