-- Staley, Niederauer, Bowles, Whitehead: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-01-09T16:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/staley-niederauer-bowles-whitehead-scene-last-night.html
At the  Museum of American Finance ’s
gala last night,  Duncan Niederauer  told Jes Staley he was
“feeling good about” the sale of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  to
 IntercontinentalExchange. (ICE)   “It’s the right thing to do,” said Niederauer, who will
be president of the combined firms.  Staley was grinning just hours after he announced his
departure to BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, where he’ll be
managing partner, from  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , where he worked for
more than 34 years.  Change in the financial industry is a constant theme at the
museum, whose exhibitions include a 1792 treasury bond issued to
George Washington as well as information on hedge funds and
electronic trading.  The 25-year-old institution has a $3.6 million budget and
last year had 43,000 visitors. The newest temporary exhibition
lets visitors weigh in on five investments made by Barings Bank,
including the Louisiana Purchase.  “The public needs better education about finance,” said
Muriel Siebert, founder of  Siebert Financial Corp. (SIEB) , who
developed a financial curriculum for high schools. “I respect
the museum because they’re trying.”  Niederauer, who is on the museum’s advisory board, said the
museum is too often perceived as an arm of the New York Stock
Exchange, because it opened down the street around the same time
the NYSE visitor gallery closed.  “I don’t think we’ve done a good job to say to JPMorgan,
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs that this is your museum, too,”
Niederauer said.  The museum is located at 48 Wall St., the site of  Alexander
Hamilton ’s Bank of New York.  Record Raised  “Hamilton would be proud to know all of us were here
tonight,”  James Grant , founder of Grant’s Interest Rate
Observer, said. The event raised a record $750,000 and had
record attendance of 250 guests, including Ina Drew, former
chief investment officer of JPMorgan, David Coulter of Warburg
Pincus LLC, and Daniel Lufkin and William Donaldson, two of the
founders of the defunct Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.  After a meal of asparagus salad and beef, the museum
presented its Whitehead Award for Distinguished Public Service
and Financial Leadership, created by former Goldman Sachs co-
chairman  John Whitehead , who was present and lamented the “lack
of leadership today.”  The recipient of the award was Bill Harrison, who expanded
Chemical Bank and was chief executive of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
when Banc One was acquired, bringing  Jamie Dimon  into the firm
as his successor.  Old Friend  Harrison’s childhood friend, Erskine Bowles, delivered the
award tribute, recounting their days at Virginia Episcopal
School and as fraternity brothers at the University of North
Carolina.  Bowles also explained why he didn’t receive lead billing in
the naming of the Simpson-Bowles Commission, which laid out a
plan to reduce the deficit.  “We called it Simpson-Bowles instead of Bowles-Simpson
because everything in Washington is called by its initials,”
Bowles said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 