-- Stocks Rise as Alcoa Boosts Earnings Optimism; Yen Slips
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 2013-01-09T09:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/stocks-rise-as-alcoa-boosts-earnings-optimism-yen-slips.html
Stocks rose, with the benchmark
equity gauge for Europe snapping a two-day slide, as  Alcoa (AA)  Inc.
began the U.S. earnings season with better-than-estimated sales.
Metals gained, while the yen weakened on expectations the  Bank
of Japan  will expand stimulus.  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 0.2 percent at
9:30 a.m. in London and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.3
percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures added less than 0.1
percent as Alcoa rallied 2.6 percent in German trading. Copper
and aluminum rose. The yen slid at least 0.6 percent against all
its major peers. Ten-year Treasuries fell for the first time in
four days before the U.S. auctions $21 billion of the notes.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, predicted
yesterday global demand growth for the commodity will recover as
 China’s economy  rebounds. Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said the next BOJ governor should support bold
monetary easing. Data today may show German industrial output
rebounded in November, while European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  and his board meet tomorrow.  “I am cautiously optimistic,” said  Tim Schroeders , who
helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“We are at a juncture with the earnings season just kicking off
in  North America . People will want to assess the lay of the
land, in particular any forward-looking comments that companies
make.”  Two shares advanced for every one that declined in the
Stoxx 600, as telecommunications companies and banks climbed.
Delta Lloyd NV jumped 7.5 percent, the biggest gain in six
months, after Aviva Plc sold its 19.4 percent stake in the Dutch
insurer for 433.8 million euros ($568 million).  Alcoa Earnings  The increase in  S&P 500  futures indicated the U.S. gauge
will advance for the first time in three days.  Alcoa reported after the close of trading yesterday that
fourth-quarter sales fell to $5.9 billion from $5.99 billion,
beating the $5.6 billion average of 11 estimates. Profit
excluding one-time items was 6 cents a share, matching the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Demand in China, the
largest aluminum user, will grow 11 percent this year on
stimulus spending announced by the new leadership, Alcoa Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld said.  Fourth-quarter profit at companies in the S&P 500 probably
increased 2.9 percent, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg, which would mark the second-slowest quarterly
growth since 2009.  Copper climbed 0.3 percent and aluminum rose 0.4 percent.
 China  is the biggest buyer of both metals. Brent oil was little
changed at $112.01 a barrel. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities was up less than 0.1 percent, heading for the third
consecutive advance, the longest winning streak since Dec. 3.  Yen Slips  The yen weakened 0.6 percent to 87.61 per dollar, ending a
two-day advance. It declined 0.7 percent per euro. The 17-nation
shared currency was little changed at $1.3087.  Treasury 10-year note yields rose one basis points to 1.88
percent. The rate on similar-maturity German bunds was little
changed at 1.50 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent, snapping
a three-day decline. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  rose 0.9 percent as
automakers advanced. Credit Suisse Group AG recommended buying
shares in China’s carmakers.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index advanced 1.4 percent to the highest
since October. Qatar said yesterday it doubled deposits at
Egypt’s central bank, helping ease a currency crisis. Benchmark
gauges in Hungary, Thailand and the Philippines advanced at
least 0.6 percent, while gauges in Indonesia,  South Korea  and
Turkey slid more than 0.2 percent..  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  