-- Suicidal Teens Plagued by Improper Treatment Strategies
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/suicidal-teens-plagued-by-improper-treatment-strategies.html
Most teenagers who commit suicide or
attempt to do so have received mental health treatment,
according to researchers who suggest these adolescents aren’t
getting the right care to prevent such action.  Almost 1 in 8 teenagers have persistent suicidal thoughts,
4 percent make plans to commit suicide, and another 4 percent
attempt to kill themselves, according to the largest study of
suicidal behaviors in U.S. adolescents published in the journal
 JAMA Psychiatry . Most young people with suicidal behavior have
pre-existing mental disorders, the research found.  Suicide is the  third-highest cause of death  among U.S.
teenagers, after accidents and homicides. It accounted for 11
percent of deaths among U.S. youth ages 12 to 19 in 1999 through
2006, the most recent data available. Teenagers aren’t being
served effectively by the mental health system and need better
prevention strategies, the study authors wrote.  “Mental health professionals are not simply meeting with
adolescents in response to their suicidal thoughts or
behaviors,” the authors said. Although the research doesn’t
show how many suicidal thoughts or behaviors may have been
prevented by adequate therapy provided by mental health
professionals, “it is clear, though, that treatment does not
always succeed.”  The study surveyed 6,483 youth ages 13 to 18. About 9
percent of boys and 15 percent of girls reported having
experienced persistent suicidal thoughts at some point. Among
girls, 5 percent made suicide plans and 6 percent made at least
one attempt to kill themselves.  Study Findings  Among boys, 3 percent made plans to commit suicide and 2
percent carried them out. Boys’ attempts were more fatal than
girls’, because they tended to use more lethal methods, such as
firearms, the study found.  About one-third of teens with thoughts of ending their
lives will develop a suicide plan, according to the study. About
60 percent of those with a plan will attempt suicide, most
within the first year after onset of a mental disorder.  Of all the mental disorders, only major depression and
dysthymia, a type of chronic depression, predicted a suicide
plan. Those two illnesses, as well as attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder, conduct disorder, eating disorders and
intermittent explosive disorder also suggested a higher risk of
suicide attempts.  The authors didn’t say what kind of treatment the teens
received or from whom. The study was  led by Matthew Nock , a
professor of psychology at  Harvard University  in Cambridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  