-- Sweden’s Carried Interest Tax Crusade Jeopardizes Haven Status
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/sweden-s-carried-interest-tax-crusade-jeopardizes-haven-status.html
Private equity companies say a
decision by the Swedish Tax Agency to more than double duties on
their carried interest will jeopardize  Sweden ’s status as an
investment haven and could force advisory firms to fold.  The agency will regard the profit-share set aside for fund
managers, called carried interest, as salary subject to tax of
about 56 percent, rather than as capital income with a rate of
about 25 percent. So far, 39 employees at Nordic Capital, IK
Investment Partners and Segulah, as well as the companies that
advise their funds, face more than 3.3 billion kronor ($500
million) in additional payments, according to documents
outlining the back taxes obtained by Bloomberg from the agency.  Sweden has become Europe’s largest private-equity market
compared with the size of its economy and 30 percent of all
direct foreign investments in the country stem from the
industry, according to  Nordic Capital . If courts uphold the
agency’s view, it would make the country unique and “badly
damage” its reputation as an investment hub, said Joakim Karlsson, managing director at Nordic Capital.  “In the unlikely event that the tax authority were to win
this case, one would assume that politicians will intervene to
create a sensible and competitive tax environment,” Karlsson
said by telephone. “If they don’t, I think we’ll see a gradual
depletion of the industry where firms that are active in Sweden
but who do not need to be here will move somewhere else.”  Retroactive Taxes  The Swedish tax agency is demanding 299 million kronor in
additional and retroactive taxes from Nordic Capital Partner
Robert Andreen, according to the documents. IK Investment
Partners’ Executive Chairman Bjoern Saven was told to pay an
extra 876 million kronor, while the agency wants 45 million
kronor from Segulah Chairman Gabriel Urwitz. Tax records are
public and available on request in Sweden.  “If the tax agency’s ruling were to be upheld through the
administrative courts, I believe the industry would leave Sweden
at short notice and the advisory companies would face de facto
bankruptcy because they don’t have and never possessed the funds
to pay,” Urwitz said by telephone. “This would lead to chaos in
the Swedish private-equity industry.”  The agency on Dec. 20 also decided to charge EQT Partners
AB, which is partly owned by the Wallenberg family’s holding
company  Investor AB (INVEB) , an additional 101 million kronor in taxes
for 2006, mainly because of carried interest.  ’Major Insecurity’  EQT declined to comment for this story. The company said in
an earlier statement the decision was “wrong and unreasonable”
and creates “major insecurity” for EQT’s partners, employees
and also for the companies that are owned by its funds. It will
appeal the charge, the company said.  IK Investment Partners declined to comment on the ruling on
behalf of its employees, which includes Saven. Nordic Capital’s
Karlsson commented on behalf of the company and its partners.  Last year’s U.S. presidential campaign focused attention on
the taxation of private-equity managers as Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney , the former head of Bain Capital LLC, built his
wealth in the industry. Romney’s 2011 tax return showed he paid
a 14.1 percent federal tax rate on $13.7 million of income
because much of this was taxed at preferential rates.  Carried interest is often taxed as  capital gains  in the U.S
with the top rate on long-term gains, now at 15 percent, below
levies on ordinary income. The rate is set to rise to 20 percent
this year.  Lackluster Growth  Some 85 percent of investments in Swedish private-equity
funds are foreign, according to the  Swedish Private Equity &
Venture Capital Association . Many of Sweden’s private-equity
funds have had “world-class” returns in recent years and the
country has become a haven for investors seeking investments in
a  Europe  that is characterized elsewhere by lackluster growth
and concern about the euro’s future, said Marie Reinius, the
association’s head. Any uncertainty about future tax regulation
puts Sweden at a disadvantage, she said.  “You enter 10-year agreements when you invest in a
private-equity fund and it’s important to know what you get,
which is why we need clear long-term tax rules that are
competitive from an international perspective,” she said.
“International investors are crass -- they look at where it will
be best for them to invest.”  If the tax agency wins its case, some private-equity
companies will probably move away from Sweden and new funds are
unlikely to be set up, Reinius said. Swedish companies will lose
out if private equity funding disappears, while the 2,000
lawyers and consultants that sell services for 4.5 billion
kronor annually to the industry will suffer, she said.  ’Monumental Uncertainty’  “Ultimately, we believe the courts will overturn the
ruling, but the dilemma for the industry is that an appeals
process could take five to 10 years, during which time private
equity in Sweden would face monumental uncertainty,” said
Segulah’s Urwitz.  The companies argue that the agency’s stance has no legal
basis and that politicians should decide on rule changes, rather
than have tax authorities make adjustments and then have them
tried in court. NC Advisory, the company that advises Nordic
Capital funds, has seen its 702 million kronor in retroactive
taxes upheld by  Stockholm ’s administrative court, and other
similar cases are pending.  Nordic Capital, which manages some  9 billion euros  ($11.9
billion) in its funds, will appeal the ruling, arguing that
profit in a fund consists of return on invested capital that is
then allocated to the fund’s investors, according to a  statement 
on its website.  Decision Legal  The decision also undermines confidence in Swedish
regulation and hurts the entire investment climate in Sweden,
said Sven-Aake Bergkvist, the Mannheimer Swartling lawyer in
Stockholm who represents NC Advisory in the case.  The agency’s decisions are legal, said Goran Haglund, a tax
accountant at the  authority  and the previous coordinator of the
investigation of private equity firms that started in 2007. The
agency noticed large transactions and that some funds were based
in countries that then were considered  tax havens , such as
Guernsey and  Jersey , he said.  “This indicated that there might be a big risk of tax
errors, which is why we started an investigation that has led to
our stance and decisions,” he said. “There is a difference in
taxation on capital income and work income, but if the pay
relates to work-performance then it should be taxed as work, or
in other words, regarded as a salary.”  Taxes Doubled  If  appeal courts  uphold the ruling, total taxes on carried
interest in Sweden would rise to 67 percent, including social
security contributions, from between 25 percent and 30 percent
today, Nordic Capital’s Karlsson said. The average tax on
carried interest is 25 percent to 35 percent in the rest of
Europe, apart from in  Denmark , where it’s 56 percent, he said.  The buyout industry saw 21 investments valued at 8.48
billion kronor in the third quarter, according to data from the
private equity association, down from 34 transactions worth
about 19 billion kronor a year earlier and roughly on par with
8.29 billion kronor in the second quarter.  Some 7 percent of all employees in the private sector in
Sweden, or about 180,000 people, work at companies owned by
private equity companies, according to the association. The
annual turnover of Swedish companies that are owned by private
equity firms is about 250 billion kronor, which represents 8
percent of the country’s economic output, it said.  Although private equity is unlikely to disappear from
Sweden if the tax agency wins, the country’s popularity among
foreign investors will take a hit, said Karlsson.  “All funds with a Swedish connection are now forced to
talk to their investors and tell them what’s going on and try to
explain this rather Kafkaesque tax situation,” he said. “That
tax authorities after 20 years can change an accepted principle,
retroactively, will confuse many investors a lot and they will
of course draw parallels to other investment alternatives. It’s
impossible to quantify how big the contagion would be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  