-- Swiss Stocks Rise on Watch-Exports Forecast, Alcoa Sales
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-09T16:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/swiss-stocks-advance-as-alcoa-revenue-tops-estimates.html
Swiss stocks advanced, extending a
four-year high, as Vontobel Holding AG boosted its forecast for
watch exports and Alcoa Inc. began the U.S. earnings season with
sales than topped estimates.  Swatch Group AG and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA paced
watchmakers higher, both climbing to a record, as Vontobel
increased its 2013 projection for exports of Swiss timepieces.
Zurich Insurance Group AG rose 1.6 percent after  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  recommended the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 1.1 percent to 7,151.6 at the
close in Zurich, the highest since September 2008. The gauge
rallied 3.5 percent last week, the biggest jump in 13 months, as
U.S. lawmakers approved a compromise budget that avoided most
scheduled deficit-reduction measures. The broader Swiss
Performance Index advanced 1 percent today.  “Swatch is a really first-class opportunity for investors;
there is ample free  cash flow , it’s a product people want to
buy, and it’s a product that’s able to maintain it’s margins,”
 James Bevan , chief investment officer at CCLA Investment
Management Ltd. in  London , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “What I find fascinating about the Far East markets
in particular is how they all want new. There is no interest in
having a second-hand product, or your father’s watch.”  The number of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was more than double the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alcoa Earnings  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, unofficially
kicked off the earnings season late yesterday when it became the
first member of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report. The
company posted fourth-quarter sales of $5.9 billion, beating the
$5.6 billion average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  German  industrial production  gained in November for the
first time in four months, a report from the Economy Ministry in
Berlin showed. Output increased 0.2 percent, after a revised
drop of 2 percent a month earlier. Economists had forecast a
gain of 1 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Swatch rose 1.3 percent to 499.80 Swiss francs, the highest
price since at least 1993. Richemont, the world’s second-largest
luxury-goods company, surged 4.5 percent to 77.65 francs, the
highest since at least 1990.  Vontobel raised its 2013 growth estimate for Swiss watch
exports to 8 percent from 6 percent, citing a November rebound
in Hong Kong watch and jewelry retail sales.  Zurich Gains  Zurich Insurance added 1.6 percent to 253 francs as Credit
Suisse raised the shares to outperform, the equivalent of buy,
from neutral. Switzerland’s biggest insurer is less reliant on
investment returns to drive earnings than Germany’s  Allianz SE ,
giving insulation from “the ongoing low yield environment,”
analysts led by Richard Burden wrote in a report.  UBS AG (UBSN)  soared 4.1 percent to 15.71 francs, the highest
since June 2011, as a gauge of lenders had the second-best
performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Andrea Orcel , chief executive officer of UBS’s investment
bank, appeared before a parliamentary hearing in London today
after lender was fined $1.5 billion for trying to rig global
 interest rates .  Credit Suisse rallied 2.6 percent to 24.96 francs, a nine-
month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  