-- Swiss Banks Show What’s Wrong With Global Capital Rules
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-09T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/swiss-banks-show-what-s-wrong-with-global-capital-rules.html
Swiss banks  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  are among the safest in  Europe , according to the
measures regulators watch most closely. Therein lies a lesson in
how easily we can be deluded into believing banks are secure.  Switzerland  has made laudable efforts to reduce the
systemic threat that comes from having a tiny economy and being
home to two of the world’s 30 largest banks, as Bloomberg
Markets reports in its latest issue. The country has instituted
limits on leverage, and pushed UBS and Credit Suisse to boost
their Tier 1 capital -- regulators’ preferred measure of
financial soundness -- to  20.2 percent  and  18.5 percent  of risk-
weighted assets, respectively. That’s much higher than any of
their European peers.  A  Tier 1 capital  ratio, however, doesn’t provide a complete
picture. Consider, for example, simple equity. Like the down
payment a mortgage borrower makes on a house, it represents the
money a bank’s shareholders put into the enterprise. The ratio
of tangible equity to tangible assets at UBS stood at 3.4
percent as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s up from 1.3 percent on Sept. 30, 2007, but still means
that a 3.4 percent decline in the value of UBS’s tangible assets
-- similar to what occurred in the last crisis -- could be
enough to render the bank insolvent. The ratio at Credit Suisse
(under U.S. accounting standards, not directly comparable to
UBS) was 2.6 percent, up only slightly from 2.3 percent on Sept.
30, 2007.  Risk Weights  Why the difference? The Tier 1 measure allows banks to
boost their  capital ratios  in two ways: by placing lower weights
on assets they consider less risky and by counting as capital
things other than  shareholders’ equity . Credit Suisse has
increased its Tier 1 capital by issuing so-called CoCo bonds,
which can convert into equity in an emergency, a feature that
some economists  think  might actually make the financial system
more vulnerable to panic. UBS focused more on retaining earnings
and cut deeper into risk-weighted assets.  The banks’ moves demonstrate how regulations can create bad
incentives. To the extent that the rules encourage banks to
employ unnecessarily complicated capital instruments, or to
avoid reasonable risks, they do a disservice to the economy. We
want banks to take on risk, and we want their shareholders --
rather than taxpayers -- to be responsible for the outcome. The
equity shareholders provide is not a rainy-day fund. It is the
bedrock capital that gives banks the power to lend and the
strength to survive their managers’ mistakes.  As regulators struggle to put into place the latest
iteration of global bank rules -- known as Basel III -- they
should consider setting much higher requirements for equity. The
banking system and the broader economy would be better off if
they did.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 