-- Syria Begins Prisoner Exchange as More Than 2,000 Freed
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-01-09T14:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/syrian-rebels-set-to-free-48-iranians-today-in-prisoner-exchange.html
Syria ’s government and rebel militias
began the biggest prisoner exchange in the 22-month civil war, a
deal built around the freeing of 48 Iranians including retired
members of the Revolutionary Guard Corps.  The release of the Iranians, captured by opposition
fighters as they arrived for a pilgrimage five months ago, was
followed by the start of the freeing by President Bashar al- Assad’s government of 2,130 civilians, Turkey’s state-run
Anatolia news agency said today. Some are viewed as insurgents
by the government.  The deal was mediated by Turkey and Qatar, Anatolia said.
At least four Turks were among those released, it said.  “It is the largest prisoner swap in Syria so far,” said
Osman Atalay, a senior official of the Turkish Islamic charity
group IHH, which helped negotiate the deal. “The civilians will
be released in groups today and tomorrow; all Iranians have been
set free.” More than 1,000 have left prison so far, Bulent
Yildirim, the group’s head, told Anatolia from Damascus.  Prisoner releases on a much smaller scale have been
reported during the war, with a Syrian rebel group freeing two
of the 11 Lebanese Shiites it abducted last year while demanding
that Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah apologize for his support
of the Assad regime. Human rights groups like London-based
Amnesty International have accused both sides in Syria of
unlawfully killing prisoners.  ‘Group Effort’  The agreement was a “group effort” and did not involve
Syria’s armed forces, Khalaf al-Meftah, Syria’s deputy
information minister, told  Iran ’s state-run Arabic-language Al-
Alam news channel today. Iran is Assad’s closest ally.  The 48 Iranians handed over to the Iranian ambassador in
Damascus are “healthy” and in good shape, Hassan Qashqavi,
Iranian deputy foreign minister, told the state-run Mehr news
agency. Press TV showed them being handed bunches of white
flowers as they entered a Damascus hotel.  IHH said it had sought to free civilians including a
Palestinian journalist, Bashar Fahmi Kadumi, who was working for
the U.S.-funded Iraqi television station al-Hurra, Anatolia
said. Kadumi went missing shortly after crossing into Syria from
Turkey on Aug. 20 to cover the war in the northern city of
Aleppo. Yildirim said by phone that Kadumi’s situation and
whereabouts aren’t yet clear.  Turkey , a former Assad ally, is now backing the mostly
Sunni Muslim rebel groups fighting to oust him. The conflict,
which began in March 2011, has left about 60,000 people dead,
according to the United Nations.  At least 20 people have been killed across Syria today,
including seven in Damascus and its suburbs, the opposition
Local Coordination Committees said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  