-- U.K. Must Focus on Defense Cyber Security, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-k-must-focus-on-defense-cyber-security-lawmakers-say.html
Defense Secretary Philip Hammond
should put a greater focus on the “urgent” cyber-security
threat to the U.K.’s military, a panel of lawmakers said.  Parliament’s cross-party Defense Committee found that the
armed forces are so dependent on communications technology that,
if subject to a cyber attack, “their ability to operate could
be totally compromised.” It asked the government in a report
published in  London  today to set out its contingency plans and,
if it has none, “to urgently create some.”  “It is our view that cyber security is a sufficiently
urgent, significant and complex activity to warrant increased
ministerial attention,” James Arbuthnot, the Conservative
lawmaker who heads the committee, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The government needs to put in place -- as it has not yet done
-- mechanisms, people, education, skills, thinking and policies
which take into account both the opportunities and
vulnerabilities which cyberspace presents.”  The defense ministry said its investment on cyber security
of 650 million pounds ($1 billion) over four years underlined
the importance it attaches to the threats.  The ministry “takes the protection of our systems
extremely seriously and has a range of contingency plans in
place to defend against increasingly sophisticated attacks
although, for reasons of national security, we would not discuss
these in detail,” Defense Minister Andrew Murrison said in an
e-mailed statement.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.’s  Cassidian  unit
manages more than 90 percent of the U.K. defense ministry’s
networks as part of the Atlas consortium, including the
provision of security services that the company says “detect,
isolate and neutralize cyber attacks.”  Cassidian is “completely engaged” with the government
“in ongoing work to refine and improve contingency measures in
the event of a major cyber attack,” Mo Stevens, its U.K. chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. “There needs
to be continued investment in research and government-sponsored
collaboration opportunities to ensure the leading cyber security
players share knowledge and experiences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  