-- U.K. Highlights Possible Scottish Trident Job Losses
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-k-highlights-possible-scottish-trident-job-losses.html
The U.K. government highlighted
possible job losses for more than 8,000 workers in  Scotland  if
the vote on Scottish independence leads to the closing of the
shipyard that services Britain’s Trident nuclear deterrent.  The government published its response today to a report
last October from lawmakers on the U.K. House of Commons cross-
party Scottish Affairs Committee that suggested that Britain
would effectively have unilateral nuclear disarmament for 20
years should Scotland become independent.  The British submarine-based nuclear arsenal is based in the
Firth of Clyde in the west of Scotland, whose nationalist
government is opposed to the Trident weapons system. A
referendum on Scottish independence is due to be held in late
2014, and separation from the rest of the U.K. is opposed by the
Britain’s three largest political parties.  The Clyde naval base “is the largest employment site in
Scotland, with around 6,700 military and civilian jobs, and this
is projected to increase to around 8,200 by 2022,” the
government said in its response, published in London today. “It
is for the Scottish government to explain how this quality and
quantity of employment in the region would be matched if the
enterprise had to be relocated.”  The U.K. government is seeking to emphasize problems
associated with the  Scottish National Party ’s bid for
independence in the hope this will sway Scottish voters
concerned about the potential impact on jobs, their currency and
national defense.  ‘Investment Program’  The Clyde base underwent a “significant investment
program” to prepare it for the introduction of the Vanguard-
class submarines that carry the warheads and Trident missile
system, the British government said. That cost about 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.5 billion) in today’s prices, and “built upon
decades of investment in the base infrastructure and associated
housing.”  Any replication of facilities “would cost at least
that much and probably more,” the government said.  Replying today to the government’s response, the Scottish
Affairs Committee said it accepts that it is up to Scottish
First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s SNP to make the case for change.
Even so, the lawmakers also said that by refusing to “pre-
negotiate the consequences of Scottish independence,” U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is denying information
to voters.  Compensation Question  The government called on the SNP to clarify whether it
proposes to have Trident removed within days or years of
independence, how it intends to compensate for the loss of
existing jobs and how it believes any costs of relocation and
cleaning up would be shared if the base were shut down.  “One of the biggest benefits of an independent Scotland
will be the ability to remove Trident from the Clyde,” the
SNP’s leader in the House of Commons, Angus Robertson, said in
an e-mail. “Scottish public opinion and a majority of the
members of Scotland’s Parliament are strongly opposed to nuclear
weapons being based in Scotland and only a ‘yes’ vote in 2014
can guarantee Trident’s removal.”  Robertson pointed to a  statement  by Defense Equipment
Minister Philip Dunne on Dec. 11 that there is “capacity” at a
base in Devonport, southwest  England  “for further nuclear-
powered submarines.”  The SNP reversed its long-standing opposition to membership
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization last year on condition
that all nuclear weapons currently stationed on Scottish soil
are removed.  An Ipsos Mori opinion poll published in the London-based
Times newspaper Oct. 18 showed the proportion of Scottish voters
wanting to remain in the U.K. increased to 58 percent, while
backing for independence fell to 30 percent of respondents. The
28 percentage-point gap compared with 20 points in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  