-- U.K. Ex-Offenders Will Face Mandatory Supervision
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-k-ex-offenders-will-face-mandatory-supervision.html
Offenders leaving prison in  England 
and  Wales  will face mandatory supervision for the first time to
improve rehabilitation of criminals into society and cut
reoffending, Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said.  Grayling, who starts a consultation process on
rehabilitation today, said mentors will be at the heart of his
approach. All offenders, including those serving less than 12
months, will be subject to monitoring and individual
rehabilitation on release.  “What we do at the moment is send people out of prison
with 46 pounds ($74) in their pocket, and no support at all,”
Grayling said in an e-mailed statement. “No wonder we have such
high levels of reoffending. It is madness to carry on with the
same old system and hope for a different result.”  While the public sector will handle the most dangerous and
high-risk offenders, private and voluntary organizations will be
asked to close what the government calls the “revolving door”
of the criminal justice system by dealing with lower-risk
criminals.  Almost half of all prison-leavers are reconvicted within 12
months, and that figure rises to almost 58 percent for those
serving less than a year, according to the Justice Ministry.
Half a million crimes are committed by convicted criminals each
year. Private providers will only be paid in full if they reduce
reoffending in their area.  To support the proposed changes, the government plans to
set up a nationwide “Justice Data Lab.” Organizations working
to rehabilitate offenders at a local level will have access to
“high-quality reoffending data specific to the group of
offenders they have been working with,” the ministry said.
“This will allow them to focus only on what works, better
demonstrate their effectiveness and ultimately cut crime in
their area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  