-- U.S. Inauguration in Cuba a Precedent for Ailing Chavez
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-01-09T20:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-s-inauguration-in-cuba-a-precedent-for-ailing-chavez.html
What does a constitutional showdown
in  Venezuela  over ailing President  Hugo Chavez ’s month-long
absence have in common with an obscure 19th century U.S. vice
president? Cuba, of course.  Venezuela’s Supreme Court cited  William R. King’s  delayed
swearing in as the 13th vice president of the U.S. in a ruling
today backing the government’s position that Chavez’s
inauguration for a new term, scheduled to take place tomorrow,
can be postponed until he recovers from cancer surgery in Cuba.  King was elected on the Democratic ticket with Franklin Pierce in 1852 and took the oath of office on March 24, 1853 --
20 days after the new government came to power -- while being
treated in Cuba for tuberculosis. Thanks to an act of Congress
he was legally vice president for those three weeks before he
swore in. The parallels with Chavez are thin, as King’s delayed
inauguration on foreign soil was a tribute to a dying man with
little power, said U.S. presidential historian Anthony Bergen.  “The Venezuelans are grasping for whatever straws they can
find,” Bergen, author of the book “Tributes and Trash Talk:
What Our Presidents Said About Each Other,” said by phone from
 St. Louis . “Whatever happens with Chavez’s illness will really
affect that country whereas King wasn’t replaced until the next
term.”  Supreme Court Statement  Supreme Court President Luisa Estella Morales cited the
case of King -- the highest-serving politician from  Alabama  in
American history -- along with other international precedents to
justify the court’s interpretation that the inauguration is 
just a formality. The constitution allows Chavez to remain in 
power even without being sworn in tomorrow for his third,
six-year term, she said.  “In comparative law there have been many cases in which
the swearing in of the president has been stripped of the
ceremony that is sometimes given in these cases,” she said in a
press conference today in Caracas.  Venezuela’s opposition insists that Chavez’s current term
ends Jan. 10, and that his failure to show up for tomorrow’s
inauguration means National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello
must take power on an interim basis until the socialist leader
recovers or an election is held.  The Venezuelan  Supreme Court  hasn’t said where, when or how
Chavez can be sworn in. Otto Reich, a former U.S. Ambassador to
Caracas before Chavez took power in 1999, said that the
government may try to send a Supreme Court delegation to Cuba to
swear in Chavez in his hospital room, according to an interview
with the Newsmax.TV website yesterday.  Venezuelan constitutional experts said such a scenario, 
while illegal, is a possibility after today's ruling.  ``It's absurd, but today's ruling opens the possibility'' 
of Chavez being sworn-in abroad, Jorge Pabon, a constitutional 
lawyer and former dean of the law school at the Central 
University of Venezuela, said today in a telephone interview.  
``The branches of the national government can only exercise 
their authority inside the territory of the republic.''  The finale to King’s unusual inauguration on foreign soil
may not be one that Chavez supporters wish to contemplate: three
weeks after being sworn in and returning to the U.S., he was
dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Caracas at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  