-- Labor Chief Solis Joins Exodus as Holder, Sebelius Remain
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-s-labor-chief-solis-resigns.html
U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis,
the first Hispanic woman to serve in a Cabinet, joined the
exodus from President  Barack Obama ’s administration as he
prepares for a second term.  “I have decided to begin a new future, and return to the
people and places I love and that have inspired and shaped my
life,” Solis, 55, said yesterday in a letter to the more than
17,000 employees in the agency.  Solis, one of eight women among 23 Cabinet-level officials,
follows Secretary of State  Hillary Rodham Clinton  and
Environmental Protection Agency chief  Lisa Jackson  in announcing
their departures. The president plans to name White House Chief
of Staff Jack Lew tomorrow to be  Treasury secretary , replacing
 Timothy F. Geithner , a person familiar with the process said.  Other posts to be filled include Commerce secretary, the
U.S. trade representative and director of the Office of
Management and Budget. Attorney General Eric Holder, Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  and Veterans Affairs
Secretary Eric Shinseki all plan to remain for at least part of
the next term, according to a White House official, who asked
for anonymity because the decisions haven’t been announced.  Solis, a U.S. representative from  California  from 2001 to
2009, as Labor chief focused on expanding job-search services
and skills training to combat mounting U.S. job loses. Since
2009, more than 1.7 million people completed federally funded
job-training programs, she wrote in her letter. Of those, more
than one million have received industry-recognized credentials.  ‘Critical Member’  The agency’s mission is to promote programs to help workers
and retirees, oversee compliance with wage and workplace safety
rules and compile employment statistics.  Obama credited Solis, daughter of a Mexican father who was
a Teamsters shop steward and Nicaraguan mother and assembly-line
worker, with helping to put millions of Americans back to work.  “Secretary Solis has been a critical member of my economic
team as we have worked to recover from the worst economic
downturn since the Great Depression,” Obama said in a
statement. “Her efforts have helped train workers for the jobs
of the future, protect workers’ health and safety and put
millions of Americans back to work.”  The White House statement didn’t identify a successor.
According to published reports, possible candidates include
former Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm, who recently ended
the talk show she was hosting on Current TV, and former
Representative Betty Sutton of  Ohio , who lost her re-election
bid in November. Liz Boyd, a spokeswoman for Granholm, declined
to comment on the speculation.  ‘Create Jobs’  “While Secretary Solis and I often disagreed on the best
way to create jobs and jump start the economy, I wish her the
best as she departs the Obama administration,” Representative
Phil Roe, a Tennessee Republican, said in an e-mail. “My hope
moving forward is that President Obama will find someone for the
position who supports all workers’ rights, promotes economic
growth and is willing to work in a bipartisan way to create
jobs.”  Solis was confirmed by the Senate Feb. 24, 2009, as the
25th labor secretary. Her nomination won bipartisan support
after Republicans ended efforts to delay a vote over questions
about her ties to union groups and tax liens on her husband’s
business. The vote was 80-17.  Assembly Line  Solis’s father, a Mexican immigrant, was a shop steward
with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Her mother,
from  Nicaragua , was an assembly-line worker and a member of the
United Rubber Workers. She has been an opponent of free-trade
agreements, in step with union positions. She voted against
trade accords with Central America nations.  “Secretary Solis has been an exemplary public servant and
a fierce champion for workers’ rights,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an
Iowa Democrat and chairman of the Senate Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions Committee, said in a statement. “She served
as a strong voice at the Department of Labor during a
particularly challenging time for our nation’s economy and for
our middle class.”  During her tenure, U.S.  unemployment  climbed from 8.3
percent when Solis took office in February 2009 to 10 percent in
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was
7.8 percent in December, according to the Labor Department.  AFL-CIO Reaction  “Secretary Solis never lost sight of her own working-class
roots, and she always put the values of working families at the
center of everything she did,” said  Richard Trumka , president
of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor federation, in an e-
mailed statement. “We hope that her successor will continue to
be a powerful voice both within the Obama administration and
across the country for all of America’s workers.”  In her letter to Labor Department staff, Solis cited
department efforts to improve worker safety. In 2001, there were
the fewest-ever U.S. mine fatalities, she wrote. Fatalities in
industry and construction are at “historic lows,” she added.  Solis also highlighted efforts to ensure that people are
paid what they are owed.  “Last year we conducted the largest number of
investigations in recent memory, collecting the most back wages
in our history,” she wrote. “In these recoveries, what may
seem to some as small change makes a huge difference for those
who live paycheck-to-paycheck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  