-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise for Second Day; Bombardier Plans Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-09T21:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-as-alcoa-starts-earnings-season.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
increased for a second day from the lowest level in almost four
months.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.2
basis points to a mid-price of 86.7 basis points at 4:31 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure
has risen from 84.9 on Jan. 7, the least since Sept. 14.  Investors are awaiting corporate earnings for indications
of whether a faltering economy may impair balance sheets and
hinder companies’ ability to repay debt.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest
U.S. aluminum producer, started the earnings season, reporting
fourth-quarter sales of $5.9 billion after the market closed
yesterday, which beat the $5.6 billion average of 11  estimates .  “Investors are going to turn to earnings now, and we’ll
see if they beat expectations,” Scott Carmack, a portfolio
manager at Leader Capital Corp. in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a
telephone interview. “Alcoa was a decent number; that’s going
to make the market feel a lot better. As long as the earnings
season isn’t egregious, I think this market has room to run.”  Bombardier Offering  Fourth-quarter earnings at companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index probably rose 2.9 percent, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was some expectation Alcoa was going to have pretty
decent numbers,” Jon Duensing, head of corporate credit at
Smith Breeden Associates, said in a telephone interview from
Boulder,  Colorado . “The surprise was the outlook for aluminum
demand, and that ties back into  China  and global growth. As we
get into the meat of earnings, maybe that’s a catalyst.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is reviving a sale of high-yield, high-risk
bonds that was delayed after its  credit rating  was cut Nov. 14.
The maker of the Learjet and Challenger aircrafts doubled the
sale to $2 billion, said a person familiar with the deal who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt fell 2 basis
points to 4.83 percentage points today, led by spreads on the
bonds of materials companies, which dropped 6 basis points to
4.55 percentage points, Bloomberg data show. Junk debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
S&P. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ArcelorMittal Swaps  Moody’s trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default
rate declined to 2.6 percent in the last three months of 2012
from 3.2 percent in the third quarter, according to a report by
the ratings company dated yesterday.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 1 basis point to 445 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  fell 34.6 basis points to 345.4 basis points as of
3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The steelmaker plans to raise about $3.5 billion by selling
shares and bonds that automatically become stock to lower its
debt, the Luxembourg-based company said in a statement today.
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  said the sale, along with other initiatives, will
help cut obligations to about $17 billion by the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  