-- U.S. Nuclear Generation Falls on Texas Reactor Transformer Fire
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-01-09T16:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/u-s-nuclear-generation-falls-on-texas-reactor-transformer-fire.html
U.S. nuclear-power generation fell
for the first time in three days after a  Texas  reactor was shut
because of a transformer fire.  Output slid 0.1 percent from yesterday to 93,176 megawatts,
or  91 percent  of capacity, according to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission data compiled by Bloomberg. Output was 3.2 percent
less than a year ago with seven of 104 nuclear reactors offline.  Unit 2 of the South Texas Project Electric Generating
Station declared an unusual event, the lowest-level emergency
category, “due to a main transformer fire” at 4:40 p.m. local
time yesterday, according to the commission’s  event notification 
report today. The reactor tripped offline following the loss of
power, it said.  The on-site fire brigade extinguished the flames, emergency
diesel generators were started and the reactor is stable, the
plant reported. The emergency event notice ended at 7:47 p.m.
local time, it said.  The 1,410-megawatt unit, about 80 miles (129 kilometers)
southwest of Houston, was operating at 48 percent of capacity
early yesterday, NRC data show.  Expected Demand  “We have sufficient generation scheduled to serve expected
demands and maintain our preferred operating reserve margin
today,” Robbie Searcy, a spokeswoman in Austin for the Electric
Reliability Council of Texas, which manages the state’s main
power grid, said in an e-mail today.  A spokesman for the plant didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  has a 44 percent ownership in the station
while municipally-owned CPS Energy has a 40 percent stake and
Austin Energy has 16 percent.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  increased output at the 1,297-megawatt Grand
Gulf 1 reactor in Port Gibson,  Mississippi , to 56 percent of
capacity from 9 percent yesterday. The unit was restarted
yesterday after being shut Jan. 5.  Output in the NRC’s Region 4, which includes Texas,
declined 0.9 percent to 17,239 megawatts, or 72 percent of
capacity. Nuclear generation was little changed elsewhere.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the Nuclear Energy Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  