-- UBS Is Rooting Out Negative Elements, Orcel Tells Panel
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-09T11:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ubs-is-rooting-out-negative-elements-orcel-tells-panel.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is in the process of rooting
out “negative elements” of its corporate culture after
 Switzerland ’s largest bank was fined $1.5 billion by regulators
for trying to rig global  interest rates , said  Andrea Orcel ,
chief executive officer of the investment bank.  “We all got probably too arrogant, too self-convinced the
things were correct the way they were -- I think the industry
has to change,” Orcel, 49, said at a parliamentary hearing on
Libor in London today. “There were certainly elements of our
culture that were negative and that need to be rooted out and
elements of our culture that we didn’t understand.”  The UBS settlement is the second in the investigation of
global interest rates after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June agreed to pay
290 million pounds ($466 million). Regulators have sought
information from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  to make their finances appear healthier.
More than $300 trillion of loans, mortgages, financial products
and contracts are linked to Libor.  UBS rose 2.6 percent to 15.48 Swiss francs at 12:24 pm in
Zurich. The  shares  have gained 45 percent over the past year.  ‘Dismissed, Penalized’  Orcel said the staff involved in manipulating Libor were
“dismissed, penalized or reprimanded.” About 18 people have
lost their jobs and the bank has “taken action” against 40
people, said  Andrew Williams , global head of compliance at UBS.  Williams also told lawmakers the impact former trader Tom Hayes, one of two UBS traders charged by prosecutors, had on the
business “is currently being studied” and that he wasn’t
affected by claw-backs because “all his deferred compensation
was forfeited” when he joined  Citigroup Inc. (C)  He “wouldn’t have
had anything to claw back,” he added.  “Clearly his conduct was reprehensible and we are all
disgusted by it,” he said at the hearing.  Hayes joined UBS in 2006 and worked at the Swiss lender
until 2009, when he joined Citigroup. He was dismissed by
Citigroup less than a year later for involvement in suspected
rate-rigging, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  UBS, based in Zurich received conditional immunity for
cooperating with the U.S. Justice Department’s and Swiss
Competition Commission’s antitrust investigations into
submissions of yen Libor and Euroyen Tokyo interbank offered
rate, or Tibor. The Canadian Competition Bureau also granted the
bank conditional immunity in its investigation into yen Libor,
while the Swiss commission granted immunity on Swiss franc Libor
and certain transactions related to it.  Orcel told lawmakers while the bank has “addressed some
issues,” “I can’t tell you that it won’t happen again.”  “I’m convinced that we made a lot of progress and I’m also
convinced that we need to do more,” Orcel said. “I guess it’s
a journey where the whole executive board are very focused at
recovering the honor and standing the organization had in the
past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  