-- Ultrapar Bets Pizza to Extend Best BRIC Rally: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-01-09T12:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/ultrapar-bets-pizza-to-extend-best-bric-rally-corporate-brazil.html
Ultrapar Participacoes SA (UGPA3)  is
expanding food sales at gas stations to sustain earnings growth
that made the Brazilian fuel distributor the top-performing
stock on a risk-adjusted basis among emerging-market peers.  The Sao Paulo-based company is set to extend last year’s 45
percent gain as it adds more AM/PM convenience stores that sell
sandwiches and pizza and converts newly acquired stations to its
flagship Ipiranga brand, fund managers said. On a risk-adjusted
basis, Ultrapar’s 7.2 percent gain since 2008 tops 54 fuel
distributors in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China , the so-called
BRIC countries, Bloomberg’s Riskless Return Ranking shows.  Ultrapar’s plans to invest 1.44 billion reais ($700
million) this year should support more than 10 percent growth in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, for the company’s fuel distribution unit, Paula Kovarsky, an analyst with  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , said in a
note to clients. The unit accounts for 87 percent of sales.  “It’s one of the best managed companies in Brazil,” said
Eduardo Carlier, head of core equities at Schroder Investment,
which manages about 3 billion reais in shares including
Ultrapar. “The stock isn’t cheap, but it merits the premium
because they always deliver on the promise.”  Ultrapar’s shares have tripled in the past five years,
compared with a 2.5 percent fall for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index. Four of the  11 analysts  who follow Ultrapar rate the
stock a buy, six have a hold recommendation and one says sell.
The shares, which slid 0.7 percent to 46.89 reais at 10:49 a.m.
today, trade at 25.8 times estimated 2013 earnings, compared
with 21 for BRIC peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Targeting Growth  The company is Brazil’s second-largest fuel distributor
after state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , or Petrobras.  Ultrapar  said  Dec. 21 it would increase annual investments
by 13 percent from 1.28 billion reais in 2012. About 61 percent
of the budget is earmarked for Ipiranga, while 19 percent is set
aside for the Oxiteno unit, which makes chemicals used in
detergents, paint and cosmetics. Oxiteno is targeting North
American growth by increasing capacity at chemical plants in
 Pasadena ,  California , and Coatzacoalcos,  Mexico .  Ultrapar would be more attractive without its bottled gas
subsidiary, according to Andre Facury, who helps manage 2
billion reais at Perfin Investimentos including Ultrapar stocks.
The Ultragaz unit, a direct supplier of canisters of cooking
gas, represents about 7.1 percent of total sales.  Bottled Gas  “The Ultragaz business is losing ground to piped gas, but
the controlling family likes it and haven’t shown any interest
in divesting,” Facury said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“I don’t like Ultragaz, and as an investor, I would be much
happier if they got rid of it.”  A press official at Ultrapar, who can’t be named because of
internal policy, declined to comment.  Ultrapar was founded in 1937 by Ernesto Igel, an Austrian
immigrant. Ultra SA Participacoes, which is primarily owned by
the Igel family, is Ultrapar’s  biggest shareholder  with a 24
percent stake.  Ultrapar’s performance has been driven by growing consumer
demand over the past decade, during which government policies
have pulled as many as 40 million Brazilian residents out of
poverty, according to Eric Conrads, a portfolio manager at ING
Investment Management, who owns Ultrapar.  “It has very predictive cash flow,” Conrads said in a
telephone interview from New York. “At the end of the day, you
have a company that as a conglomerate is offering products and
services with very low risk on the regulatory front, low risk on
the global front. Basically the cash flow is going straight to
the bottom line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  