-- Tuna Sold at Record Price Is Overfished, Study Says
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-01-09T04:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/tuna-species-sold-at-record-price-faces-overfishing-study-says.html
The number of Pacific bluefin tuna, a
fish that fetched a record 155.4 million yen ($1.78 million) in
a Tokyo auction last week, dropped 96.4 percent due to decades
of overfishing, the Pew Environment Group said.  The bluefin’s numbers have plummeted because of inadequate
fishing regulations in the species’ western Pacific spawning
area, Amanda Nickson, Pew’s director for global tuna
conservation, said today in a phone interview. The  stock
assessment  by the International Scientific Committee for Tuna
and Tuna-Like Species in the North Pacific Ocean, a joint U.S.-
Japan research group, is “shocking,” said Nickson.  Kiyomura K.K., a Tokyo-based sushi chain, paid the record
price for a 222-kilogram (489-pound) bluefin on Jan. 5 at the
year’s first tuna auction at the Tsukiji fish market. Concerns
about overfishing had prompted some businesses such as  Shangri-
La Asia Ltd. (69)  and Hong Kong and Shanghai Hotels Ltd.’s Peninsula
Hotels to pull bluefin from their menus.  “You have this incredibly valuable, sought-after fish
where the first one of the year can be sold for over $1.7
million, yet it’s been allowed to become depleted to this truly
frightening point,” Nickson said. “That is just not a
situation that can continue.”  The 96.4 percent decline in spawning bluefin is compared
with unfished levels, based on statistical modeling by the
committee. It does not identify when the tuna’s population was
at those levels.  Fishing Guidelines  The  Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission , which governs
fishing along the U.S. coast and other parts of the eastern
Pacific, adopted rules in June limiting the number of fish that
can be taken each season. Last summer’s season ended early when
the limit was reached, Nickson said.  The  Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission , which
covers fisheries from  Alaska  to  Australia , constrains the number
of vessels and other equipment that may operate each season,
while allowing those vessels to catch an unlimited amount of
tuna.  Japanese officials have reviewed the International
Scientific Committee’s report and plan to discuss regulations or
other measures to be implemented in response, Shuya Nakatsuka,
deputy manager of the Japan Fisheries Agency’s international
unit, said by phone today. The population decline would be
discussed when the WCPFC meets in September, he said.  ‘Very Low’  “There have been cases in the past where the population of
bluefin tuna has been low, but have recovered,” Nakatsuka said.
“Still, the results show that the population is very low this
time.”  Stocks declined 83 percent to about 22,600 metric tons in
2010 from about 132,000 in 1960, when they had already begun to
be depleted, said Nickson, citing the report by the committee.
More than 90 percent of bluefin that are caught are juveniles
that have not yet reproduced, she said.  The  Pew Environment Group  is the conservation arm of Pew
Charitable Trusts, a non-profit organization based in the U.S.  In an editorial today, the Nikkei newspaper said that  Japan 
should take leadership in regulating tuna fishing, citing the
record price at the auction and the dwindling tuna population
due to a lack of control over large-scale fishers.  If Japan doesn’t lead the initiative soon, even the cheap
tuna may not reach people’s dinner tables, the editorial said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  