-- Municipal Bonds’ Treatment in Jeopardy With Debt Ceiling: Taxes
-- B y   S t e p h e n   J o y c e
-- 2013-01-09T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/municipal-bonds-treatment-in-jeopardy-with-debt-ceiling-taxes.html
A reprieve the $3.7 trillion
municipal  bond market  received in the U.S. budget agreement last
week may be only temporary.  The deal extended several types of narrowly focused bond-
related activities, such as funding school renovations or paying
for construction projects in New York near the area of Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks. It revised the alternative minimum tax,
and without that, some types of bonds could have been
unattractive to tens of millions of taxpayers. It didn’t
eliminate the  tax exemption  on municipal bond income, an idea
contemplated by lawmakers.  The trouble is, the accord leaves Washington lawmakers in
search of new revenue to resolve longer-term deficits. That has
placed the favorable tax treatment associated with municipal
bonds -- enjoyed by taxpayers since the enactment of the Revenue
Act of 1913 -- in jeopardy, Bloomberg BNA reported.  While presidential candidates from both parties discussed
concepts that would limit  tax deductions , exemptions and
exclusions -- the idea of capping the amount of income not
counted in taxpayers’ gross income was mentioned -- those ideas
were absent from the budget deal that averted the more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts that made up the so-
called fiscal cliff.  Changing the tax treatment of municipal bonds is still a
topic of discussion on  Capitol Hill  and may catch the attention
of lawmakers in the next 60 days because their compromise only
put off a series of spending cuts known as sequestration until
March. The topic also may be part of discussion on how to fund
the government after the March 27 expiration of the resolution
paying federal government bills.  Concerned Market  A key feature of those talks is how to devise a longer-term
strategy to reduce the  federal deficit  by utilizing spending
cuts and targeting methods of raising additional taxes. Many
policy makers have identified the exemption of municipal bond
income from tax as a possible revenue raiser, lawyers and
accountants told BNA.  “The concern is that although there will presumably be
spending reductions, they will also be looking for revenue
raisers,” said Edwin G. Oswald, a partner at Orrick Herrington
& Sutcliffe LLP. “And I think the municipal market is concerned
about their involvement with being a raiser.”  President  Barack Obama  has proposed capping the
deductibility of municipal bonds at a 28 percent rate instead of
the current top level, now 39.6 percent.  Tax Overhaul  The 113th Congress may also pursue an overhaul of the  tax
code , which could also impair municipal issuance.  “There is serious talk on Capitol Hill of undertaking  tax
reform ,” said  Michael Decker , managing director of the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. “It’s
not clear what the schedule for that might be, what the process
for undertaking that debate would be on the Hill.”  “But if and when there is a serious attempt to make
substantial reforms to the tax code, I think that there’s a risk
that the tax exemption could be curtailed or eliminated,” said
Decker, the co-head of SIFMA’s municipal securities activities.  The possibility of municipal-bond income losing its
exemption from tax is as great as any time since 1986, when
major tax reform was ushered into law during the  Reagan
administration , said  George Friedlander , Citigroup Inc. senior
municipal strategist.  Municipal bonds losing their tax favored treatment “is a
very real threat,” said Mike Nicholas, chief executive officer
of the Bond Dealers of America.  Some Good  The law’s revision of the alternative minimum tax means
bonds subject to the AMT will now likely be attractive to tens
of millions of investors on a permanent basis. Without the
change, those investors could suffer adverse tax consequences.
Many qualified private activity bonds are subject to the
alternative minimum tax.  Other parts of the law may be seen as benefiting municipal
and other tax favored bonds. One section extends a housing
allowance exclusion for determining area median gross income for
qualified residential rental project exempt facility bonds.  Another extends the use of qualified zone academy bonds,
instruments that may be used to raise money to renovate schools,
buy equipment, develop curricula and train school personnel.
Those bond proceeds cannot be used to fund new construction.  The law also extends the eligibility to issue  New York 
Liberty Zone bonds, tax-exempt facility bonds. No new issuance
was allowed after Jan. 1, 2005, under the program, though
legislators have continually extended the expiration date.  Longer Term  “The upshot is that this particular bill is not harmful
and I definitely think it has the potential for being beneficial
in the short term” to municipal bonds, said Kimberly C.
Betterton, a partner at Ballard Spahr LLP.  The longer term is another story. The law delayed until
March 1 a list of spending cuts that includes the elimination of
a federal subsidy to state and local government issuers of
taxable bonds, commonly known as direct payment bonds, in
exchange for the subsidy, the amount of which is a percentage of
interest payments on the issued bonds.  Action by Congress to eliminate the subsidy may materially
disrupt municipal markets and increase tax risks associated with
issuing or investing in the bonds, practitioners said.  Reducing or eliminating the federal government payment
would disrupt investors’ tax strategies, and the cuts may
trigger redemption options for issuers, which may be
advantageous for issuers while hurting outcomes for investors.  Just how Congress will deal with direct payment bond
subsidies is still unknown. Already, municipal issuers and their
advocates have stepped up congressional lobbying efforts. A
group known as Municipal Bonds for America, formed Oct. 10, is
contacting federal legislators in an effort to preserve the tax
favored status of municipal bonds.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  