-- Uribe Lawyer Says Colombia Death Squad Investigation Is Baseless
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-09T00:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/uribe-lawyer-says-colombia-death-squad-investigation-is-baseless.html
An investigation into former
Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe  for ties to illegal
paramilitary groups is “deplorable” and “without any
foundation” since the witnesses are prisoners who are lying to
try to get reduced jail sentences, Uribe’s lawyer said.  Uribe was informed Jan. 4 of a preliminary investigation
into whether he had been involved in the creation of illegal so-
called “self-defense” groups in Antioquia province, his
lawyer, Jaime Granados, said in a telephone interview today. The
two witnesses had been jailed by Uribe’s government and are now
being manipulated by congressman Ivan Cepeda, a political
opponent of Uribe’s, Granados said.  Granados said that “with the testimony of two liars he
sent to jail, they decide to reopen a case without any
foundation, motivated by Cepeda, an opponent of his.”  Uribe, who was president from 2002-2010, has weathered a
number of attempts to prove his ties to illegal armed groups
during his time as governor of Antioquia province from 1995-
1997. Since leaving office in 2010, Uribe has become a critic of
President  Juan Manuel Santos , his former defense minister,
attacking his policies in interviews and posts on Twitter.  Cepeda, in a  post  on his website, described the case as
“the most important step Colombian justice has made” in the
“parapolitica” scandal, a series of investigations into links
between lawmakers and illegal armed groups. Cepeda’s office did
not answer a phone call and an e-mail seeking further comment.  One of the witnesses, Pablo Sierra, said that a
paramilitary faction had used a farm in Antioquia province
belonging to the Uribe family as a base for its operations,
according to the post on Cepeda’s site.  In a post on Twitter today, Uribe said the two witnesses
are “manipulated prisoners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  