-- Van Rompuy Sees Increasing Signs EU Will Resume Growth in 2013
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-01-09T19:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/van-rompuy-sees-increasing-signs-eu-will-resume-growth-in-2013.html
European Union PresidentHerman  Van Rompuy  said the euro-area economy is likely to resume growth
this year after slipping into a recession in 2012.  “There are  increasing signs  that 2013 is likely to mark
the end of the recession in the euro area, but unemployment
levels across the union are unacceptably high,” Van Rompuy said
today in the text of a speech in Dublin. “As growth returns, it
also takes time before perceptible effects on employment start
kicking in.”  Economic confidence in the euro area rose to a five-month
high in December, the European Commission in said yesterday, and
the euro has gained 2.7 percent against the dollar in the past
two months on signs European leaders are tackling the sovereign-
debt crisis. Still, the  unemployment rate  is at a record 11.8
percent and the euro-area economy is estimated to have
contracted for a third straight quarter in the October-December
period, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Last year “marked a  turning point  in the crisis: the  euro
zone  is no longer in ‘existential threat’ mode,” Van Rompuy
said. “The gloomiest of expectations are slowly fading, and the
integrity of our monetary union is no longer called into
question, whether by the media or the markets.”  Van Rompuy said European leaders “have made clear their
commitment to step in when necessary, to help countries under
market pressure withstand short-term shocks while they carry out
much-needed reforms.” He pointed to “steadily decreasing”
budget deficits and borrowing costs “going down substantially
in almost all euro-area countries” as positive indications.  Growth Forecast  Still, the  European Central Bank  last month lowered its
growth forecast for the euro area and now predicts a contraction
of 0.3 percent in 2013. Data yesterday showed that 18.8 million
people were unemployed in the currency bloc in November, up
113,000 from the previous month.  “The situation is dramatic and there can be no more
important priority,” Van Rompuy said. “We have to be fully
aware that the economy is reacting with a time-lag: once
stability starts coming back, it takes time before this is
translated into more investment and growth.”   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  