-- Vertex Refocuses Drug Development to Specialty Diseases
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-01-09T21:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/vertex-refocuses-drug-development-to-specialty-diseases.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , maker of
the hepatitis C drug Incivek and cystic fibrosis medicine
Kalydeco, is refocusing development efforts on specialty
diseases, seeking partnerships or alternative sources of funding
for some programs.  “There are some things we’re not going to do,” Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Leiden said in an interview this week
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s annual health-care conference in  San
Francisco . “That’s new for Vertex.”  Vertex, which received regulatory approval for Incivek in
May 2011 and for Kalydeco in January 2012, will seek a
partnership for its VX-509 compound for rheumatoid arthritis,
which is in mid-stage clinical trials. Vertex will consider
collaborations that enable the company to “maintain value long-
term,” Leiden said.  The company will look for outside funding for the flu
molecule VX-787. “It’s not a specialty disease,” Leiden said.
“We’re going to find external funding” for that molecule, and
stop funding it internally, he said.  Vertex’s focus is on hepatitis C, for which it is
developing next-generation therapies to follow Incivek; cystic
fibrosis; and other specialty diseases, such as  Huntington’s
disease  and multiple sclerosis. Incivek drew $950.9 million in
2011 revenue after being approved in May of that year.  Early Approval  Kalydeco, for cystic fibrosis, surprised investors last
year with an approval that came three months ahead of its
expected deadline. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company
said this week it was the first to receive a new Breakthrough
Therapy Designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
for Kalydeco and its combination with another medicine for
cystic fibrosis.  The designation is meant to help speed better therapies for
life-threatening diseases to market. Its implications for
Vertex’s drug development “cannot be determined at this time,”
the company said in a Jan. 6 statement.  “It should have potential upside,” Leiden said in the
interview. “It’s an opportunity to have a different set of
interactions and collaborative discussions” with regulators.  As the company tightens its drug development focus, it will
consider doing deals to bring in new assets, Leiden said.  “Our priority is to develop our medicines,” he said. “If
we see appropriately priced deals, we’d consider them; those
usually end in ’millions,’ not ’billions.’”  Vertex fell less than 1 percent to $48.25 at the close of
 New York  trading. The shares have increased 35 percent in the
past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  