-- Vet Faces Demons, Addictions in Superb ‘Spoonful’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-01-09T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/vet-faces-demons-addictions-in-superb-spoonful-review.html
The central characters in Quiara
Alegria Hudes’s vibrant tapestry of a play, “ Water by the
Spoonful ,” are Elliot (Armando Riesco), an ex-Marine wounded in
 Iraq  and his slightly older cousin Yazmin (Zabryna Guevara), who
teaches music and is just emerging from a failed marriage.  Spirits shadow Elliot. First is the first Iraqi he killed.
The second is the sister who died of neglect when they were
infants and their mother, Odessa (Liza Colon-Zayas), was a crack
addict.  Odessa now runs a chat room (screen name “Haikumom”) for
struggling crack addicts. Her sister, who had subsequently
raised Elliot, will soon die a mundane death-by-junk-food.  So we have two worlds: the Philadelphia story of a Puerto
Rican family riven by crack, not to mention war. And the virtual
world, in which “Haikumom” mediates often heated exchanges
between “Chutes and Ladders” (Frankie Faison), a middle-aged
low-level bureaucrat who’s black and estranged from his son and
grandchildren, and “Orangutan” (Sue Jean Kim), a rootless,
Japanese-born young woman searching for connection and sobriety.  In Denial  The newest visitor to the chat room is “Fountainhead” (Bill
Heck), an internet entrepreneur in denial about his own
addiction.  Staged with unshowy inventiveness by Davis McCallum, “Water
by the Spoonful,” which won the 2012  Pulitzer Prize  for Drama,
eventually brings these disparate stories together.
“Fountainhead” becomes the unlikely link between them.  Set designer Neil Patel in particular has outdone himself,
finding a simple visual way to show the online interactions
without detracting from the human ones. The seven fine actors in
this ensemble (including Ryan Shams in multiple roles) work as
seamlessly as the tales they have to tell.  Elliot’s reward for service is addiction to painkillers and
a job at Subway. Yazmin’s lectures on John Coltrane and free
jazz aren’t nearly as off-topic as they at first seem. But it’s
the love between them -- inarguably a love supreme -- that gives
this play its great power. If you want evidence that American
playwriting is in very good hands, you need look no further.  Through Jan. 27 at Second Stage Theatre, 305 W. 43rd St.
Information: +1-212-246-4422;  http://www.2st.com .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants, and hot
 art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 