-- Vietnamese Musicians Jailed Amid Crackdown on Dissent
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-09T12:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/vietnamese-musicians-jailed-amid-crackdown-on-dissent.html
Vietnam convicted 14 activists who
participated in anti- China  protests of subverting the
government, drawing criticism from the U.S. as the Communist
nation continues a crackdown on dissent.  The activists, mostly in their 20s and 30s, took part in
demonstrations against Chinese territorial encroachment,
according to  Viet Tan , an exile group based in  California  that
is pushing for democracy in Vietnam. Prison sentences ranged
from 3 to 13 years.  “By persecuting these individuals for their peaceful
expression and political advocacy, the Hanoi regime has shown
once again its fear of civil society,” Viet Tan said in a
 statement  posted on its website. The group said hundreds of
uniformed and plainclothes police officers attacked and detained
supporters who showed up to witness the trial.  Vietnam  has jailed bloggers, journalists and activists it
accuses of spreading anti-government propaganda as a fragile
banking system, inefficient state-owned firms and corruption
weigh on  economic growth . The convictions threaten closer
military and economic ties with the U.S. as Vietnam resists
Chinese moves to assert territorial claims off its coast.  The convictions “are part of a disturbing human-rights
trend in Vietnam,” the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi said in a
 statement  today. “We call on the government to release these
individuals and all other prisoners of conscience immediately.”  Lawyer, Musicians  The U.S. cited the detention of human-rights lawyer Le Quoc
Quan since Dec. 27 and sentencing of three other bloggers. In
October, Vietnam jailed two musicians for spreading anti-state
propaganda with songs that highlighted the growing wealth gap in
the nation and urged citizens to “rise up” against invaders
and “cowards who sell the country,” a reference to the dispute
with China over maritime claims.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung on Sept. 13 ordered a
crackdown on blogs that have attacked his leadership, fueling
speculation that political tensions were intensifying as
economic growth slowed. Vietnam has more bloggers and Internet
dissidents in detention than any other country except China and
 Iran , according to Reporters Without Borders.  Last year, U.S. Senators  Joseph Lieberman  and  John McCain 
said Vietnam would need to make progress on human rights before
lawmakers can lift a ban on the sale of lethal weapons under a
1984 arms embargo.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  