-- ViroPharma Suit Against FDA Over Generic Vancocin Tossed
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-09T19:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/viropharma-suit-against-fda-over-generic-vancocin-dismissed-1-.html
ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) ’s lawsuit against the
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration  over generic forms of its
antibiotic Vancocin was dismissed by a federal judge.  The company failed to produce new evidence following
rejection in April of its request for a court order to block FDA
approval of three generic versions of Vancocin, U.S. District
Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in Washington said today in her
ruling.  “ViroPharma all but admits that it has presented no
substantially new arguments, but rather relies on additional
elaboration, none of which persuades the court to reverse
itself,” Huvelle said.  Huvelle upheld the FDA’s rejection of ViroPharma’s request
for three years of market exclusivity for Vancocin on the
strength of a labeling change.  The new label pertained only to previously approved
conditions of use and thus “was excluded from exclusivity,”
Huvelle said.  Vancocin, which ViroPharma markets for  Clostridium
difficile  and other gastrointestinal infections, accounted for
about $289 million in sales in 2011, about half of the
drugmaker’s revenue.  Kristina Broadbelt, a spokeswoman for the Exton,
Pennsylvania-based company, said Huvelle’s decision wasn’t a
surprise and that ViroPharma hasn’t decided whether to appeal
it.  ‘Moving Forward’  “We’ve been moving forward without counting on the revenue
from Vancocin,” Broadbelt said in a phone interview.  ViroPharma has expanded its business in  Europe  and
developed a focus on rare diseases, including hereditary
angioedema, or HAE, an immune system deficiency, for which the
company markets Cinryze in the U.S., Broadbelt said.  ViroPharma sued the FDA and the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services on April 13, three days after  Akorn Inc. (AKRX)  and
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  disclosed that they had won
regulators’ approval to market generic forms of Vancocin.  ViroPharma sought injunctive relief and an order assigning
it market exclusivity for Vancocin through Dec. 15, 2014.  Vancocin, which is taken orally, is known generically as
vancomycin.  The case is ViroPharma Inc. v. Hamburg, 12-cv-00584, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  