-- Vodafone Africa Becomes Profit Machine via Banking
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-09T14:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/vodafone-africa-becomes-profit-machine.html
Almost two decades after  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  entered  Africa , the region -- where most people earn
less than $2 a day and mobile phone towers run on diesel -- is
turning into one of the company’s biggest profit generators.  The rising powerhouse is helping make up for  Europe ’s
slowdown after Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  last year
had to write down $9.5 billion on the value of Vodafone’s
Spanish and Italian units.  Vodafone’s biggest African business, Johannesburg-based
 Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , surpassed the company’s U.K. unit in 2010 by
profit, and it outpaced the Spanish division the following year.
With earnings expanding at 50 percent annually in some
countries, profit from Africa could overtake that from all of
southern Europe in as little as three years, said Nick Read, the
executive who heads the region.  “There’s a massive opportunity in penetration that we need
to drive forward on,” said Read, who has run Vodafone’s
operations in Asia and the Middle East since 2008 and took on
Africa in 2010. “Everyone in Africa wants to be on Facebook.
They want e-mail. They want social networks.”  Africa will be the mobile phone industry’s fastest-growing
region by subscribers over the next five years as companies
build advanced networks and customers switch to broadband,
according to consultant AT Kearney Inc. While Europe has more
mobile-phone accounts than people, there’s ample room for
handset ownership in Africa to grow, from about 73 percent of
the population last year to 85 percent in 2015, reaching 900
million users, Kearney predicts.  Congo, Tanzania  In addition to Vodacom, which has customers in South
Africa, the  Democratic Republic of Congo , Mozambique, Tanzania
and Lesotho, Vodafone has a 70 percent stake in Vodafone Ghana
and a 40 percent holding in  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM)  in  Kenya . Vodafone
also co-owns an operator in  Egypt  with the country’s fixed-line
monopoly,  Telecom Egypt. (ETEL)   Vodafone reported 939 million pounds ($1.5 billion) in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
from its 65 percent share in Vodacom in the six months ended in
September. That was an increase of 15 percent from a year
earlier excluding the effect of acquisitions and currency
swings. The profit margin at Vodacom increased to 34.2 percent
of sales from 33.7 percent from a year earlier, while Italy’s
margins dropped 1.9 percentage points and  Spain  fell 5.5
percentage points.  Hospital Bills  “The potential in Africa is enormous, I could see it
becoming a second China in terms of growth,” said Ralph Szymczak, a telecom analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart,  Germany . “Vodafone definitely stands to benefit.”  Vodafone and its rivals have found that building a modern
network from scratch in countries with high growth rates and
little infrastructure has given them the chance to become banks
and  Internet providers  as well as phone companies.  In sub-Saharan Africa, where just a quarter of adults have
a bank account, 16 percent of people say they’ve used a mobile
phone to pay bills or receive money, according to the  World
Bank . About 70 percent of sub-Saharan African adults live on
less than $2 a day, the World Bank estimates.  M-Pesa, Vodafone’s mobile payment system, is used by 15
million people in Kenya and moves the equivalent of 31 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product through its system,
according to Safaricom Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore.  “You can pay hospital bills; you can pay taxi bills; you
can pay your satellite” TV bill, Collymore said. M-Pesa takes a
fee for each transaction it processes, ranging from 3 shillings
(3 cents) for small payments to 100 shillings for bigger
transfers, up to 70,000 shillings.  Apartheid’s End  M-Pesa is in eight countries and has begun offering  savings
accounts  and other banking services in some markets. The system
is more successful than traditional banks because it gives
people an efficient way of sending small sums and doesn’t
require a bank account, Collymore said.  Vodafone entered Africa in 1994, the year  South Africa 
ended Apartheid, as one of the founding partners of Vodacom
Group. Fixed-line provider Telkom South Africa sold its stake in
Vodacom to Vodafone in 2008. A year later the company floated
its shares in Johannesburg. They have more than doubled since
the initial public offering through yesterday, compared with a
27 percent increase for Vodafone.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s
largest wireless carrier and the No. 2 operator in South Africa,
has gained 58 percent over that time period.  ‘Intense Competition’  Vodafone rose as much as 1.8 percent to the highest level
in two months, trading up 1.5 percent at 164.75 pence as of 2:27
p.m. in London. The company has a market value of $129 billion.
Vodacom slipped 3 percent to 122.92 rand on the Johannesburg
exchange, after reaching a  record  129.6 rand on Jan. 4. MTN
slipped 0.4 percent to 179.70 rand.  While Africa is a priority for Vodafone and rivals such as
 France Telecom SA (FTE) , they must grapple with limited
infrastructure. Vodafone also faces a growing challenge from
MTN, which has 183 million subscribers in 22 African and Middle
Eastern markets. “Intense competition” has forced Vodacom to
cut rates for mobile broadband in order to take market share,
Co-CEO Shameel Joosub said on a conference call in November.  Vodacom’s average revenue per megabyte in the six months
ending in September fell 24 percent from a year earlier in South
Africa as average monthly usage on smartphones grew 46 percent.  Shifting regulatory environments and corruption have been
“a constant struggle” for Vodafone in some markets, Read said.
And last year, Vodafone’s unit in the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo was ordered to pay $21 million to settle a dispute with a
contractor.  Network Costs  The network investment needed on the continent will be on
the order of tens of billions of dollars, predicts Issam Darwish, CEO of African wireless tower company IHS, which has
operations in Nigeria, Ghana and Sudan. Much of the cost comes
from the need to include backup generators and batteries to
guard signals against power failures -- not something carriers
in the U.S. and Europe have to worry about, he said.  “In Africa, it’s a totally different game -- you have to
install your power supply in most cases,” Darwish said. “It’s
a massive, massive capital expenditure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  